29 October 2021||New Delhi,||India will stress ‘climate justice’ at global summit, says Minister||India will emphasise climate justice and exhort developed countries to transfer the finance and technology necessary to deal with the fallout of global warming, Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav told The Hindu on the eve of his departure to Glasgow to participate in the 26th edition of the United Nations Conference of Parties (COP). “In the forthcoming COP, the assistance that developing countries such as India need for mitigating carbon emissions, adapting to a warming world, and insisting on a firm, transparent framework that lays out how this can be met, will be the points of discussion,” Mr. Yadav said in an interview on Thursday. Mr. Yadav said the world had publicly acknowledged India’s commitment to install 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030 as “ambitious”. There was also similar acknowledgement of India’s electric vehicle policy, its commitment to increase forest cover as well as the national hydrogen policy, he said. These steps by India, which were in line with achieving the target of the 2015 Paris Agreement, would be raised at the conference, the Minister added. The COP26 is expected to be fractious with many developed countries, led by the United States, likely to push for a deadline by which all countries agree to cease net carbon dioxide emissions. India is among the major emitters, the third largest in the world, to not have indicated any deadline or even a tentative pathway towards such a “net zero”' goal. China and the United States, the other two major polluters have indicated 2060 and 2050 as potential deadlines for capping net emissions. India has on several fora resisted being forced to commit to such a deadline on the grounds that it violates agreed-upon principles of climate justice that require countries to have “differential responsibilities” to addressing the climate crisis. Reiterating this, Mr. Yadav, however, told The Hindu in response to a query that “all options were open”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-will-stress-climate-justice-at-global-summit-says-minister/article37224014.ece
29 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||More autonomy for PSUs: Minister||Minister for Industries, Law, and Coir P. Rajeeve has said that the government is planned to grant functional and financial autonomy to public sector undertakings (PSU). However, such freedom will hinge on accountability. On the steps being taken to equip PSUs to compete with private players, Mr. Rajeeve informed the House on Thursday that a committee chaired by Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) chairman Paul Antony and comprising former executive director of BPCL-Kochi Refinery Prasad K. Panicker and Travancore Cochin Chemicals managing director K. Harikumar has been constituted for the purpose. The procurement policies of PSUs will be overhauled to reform outdated norms and prevent delays in purchase. Mr. Rajeeve said companies in the public sector currently adhered to the State Purchase Manual which required procurements above Rs. 10 crore to be approved by a panel chaired by the Chief Secretary. Because of the long-drawn process, PSUs acquired outdated technologies. The government would encourage private industrial parks and ease the existing criteria for the purpose. The existing norms which mandated not less than 25 acres in villages and 15 acres in urban areas found no takers owing to paucity of space. New company A new company, Kerala Paper Products Ltd., will soon be floated to replace Hindustan Newsprint Ltd. that was acquired from the Central government. With newsprint witnessing dwindling demand in the market, the government has chalked out a strategy to switch into paper products sale through a four-phased project. A special officer appointed for the purpose has submitted a detailed project report. The Minister also informed the House that four industrial parks operated by Kinfra figured among 15 such facilities that were adjudged best in the country by a recent study undertaken by UN Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO), World Bank and German technical agency Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ).  The Government will encourage private industrial parks and existing criteria for them will be eased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-autonomy-for-psus-minister/article37224494.ece
29 October 2021||GUNTUR,||Cabinet gives nod for caste-based census||The State government has given its nod to take up caste-based census of the Backward Classes. The census of BCs will be the first of its kind since Independence, as the last such exercise was held in the year 1931. The State Cabinet took the decision on Thursday and authorised the Minister for BC Welfare to place a resolution in the State Assembly requesting the Union government to take up caste census of Backward Classes while conducting the General Census of 2021. The Cabinet also gave its approved to amend the Cinematography Act 1965 and allow online ticketing platforms to be managed by the AP State Film, Television and Theater Development Corporation for issuance of cinema tickets. These are among the several key decisions taken by the Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Briefing the media, Minister for I&PR Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) said the other major decision was the approval for sanctioning 4,035 new posts in the Medical and Health Department, including 1,285 posts in YSR Urban Health Clinics, 560 pharmacist posts and 2,190 posts of teaching faculty, staff nurses and pharmacist in the Department of Medical Education. The government had also sanctioned 41,308 new posts in the Department of Health and Family Planning and had so far filled 26,917 posts during the last two and a half years, the Minister said. The Cabinet resolved to make 75% attendance mandatory for students to be eligible for the benefits of Amma Vodi scheme. The scheme would be implemented from June 2022, instead of January 2022 and payments would be released in December and June to the beneficiaries. The Minister said the Cabinet approved the formation of the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) Welfare Department to implement welfare schemes for upper caste poor people, and the Jain Welfare Corporation and Sikh Welfare Corporation. The Cabinet gave the green signal to conduct YSR Life Time Achievement and YSR Achievement Awards function on November 1 every year. It extended the ban on Maoist and other similar organisations for one more year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-gives-nod-for-caste-based-census/article37224017.ece
29 October 2021||Mumbai,||Aryan Khan, two others get bail 25 days after NCB arrest||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, was on Thursday granted bail by the Bombay High Court, 25 days after his arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau in the case of seizure of banned drugs aboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month. The drugs bust has triggered a series of controversies and put the Central agency and its officials under the spotlight. However, Aryan Khan is not likely to walk out of the Arthur Road jail, where he is under judicial custody, immediately as the court is yet to give its operative order on the bail conditions. A Single Bench of Justice N.W. Sambre also granted bail to Aryan’s co-accused — Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha. Hearing on the bail applications started on Tuesday. The HC’s order granting bail to Aryan Khan was hailed by several film personalities, while a huge group of fans gathered outside Mr Shah Rukh Khan’s sea-facing bungalow ‘Mannat’ in suburban Bandra in show of solidarity and to celebrate end of his son’s incarceration. Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik, who has been targeting the NCB, especially its zonal director in Mumbai Sameer Wankhede, over the cruise drugs bust episode, posted a cryptic message after the bail order and continued his tirade against the IRS officer. Tweeting in Hindi, Mr. Malik, who in the past had termed the drugs case as ‘bogus’, said, “ Picture abhi baaki hai (The picture is not over yet).”  “All three applications are allowed. I will pass detailed orders by tomorrow evening,” Justice Sambre said even as Aryan Khan’s counsel Mukul Rohatgi was putting forth his arguments. Aryan Khan’s advocates then sought permission to submit cash bail to which the court refused and said surety is to be given.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aryan-khan-two-others-get-bail-25-days-after-ncb-arrest/article37224024.ece
29 October 2021||Vijayawada,||‘Abuse’ of judges: HC summons CBI SP||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court consisting of Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and Justice Kanneganti Lalitha directed the Superintendent of Police of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to appear before it on October 29 and explain what action has so far been taken against those who posted derogatory messages against High Court Judges and the judiciary through social media last year. Hearing fresh arguments on the posting of contemptuous speeches, interviews and messages against the Judges by several individuals, who included some YSR Congress Party leaders, on Thursday, the court sought to know apart from filing a few periodical reports, what concrete steps were taken by the CBI to bring the culprits to book and get the malicious content removed by YouTube, WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter etc. ever since the State CID handed over the investigation to it almost a year ago. The Judges observed that they need not tell the country’s premier investigating agency how to go about the probe as it had experienced officers and the technological wherewithal to crack such cases. But, it did not discharge its duties properly, which was evident from many accused being still at large and some of them hiding overseas. The Judges made a specific reference to the vicious campaign that was unleashed by ‘Punch Prabhakar’, who is yet to be arrested, and others. Appearing for Facebook and WhatsApp respectively, senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Kapil Sibal said there were certain technical constraints, like those related to the URL (Uniform Resource Locator) in curbing the menace but admitted that a way had to be found out to prevent the recurrence of such incidents. Representing the Union of India, Assistant Solicitor-General N. Harinath said an interim application seeking directions to the petitioners concerned or the investigating agency to furnish the URL details was filed in August 2020 and the same was pending. Advocate P. Subhash presented arguments on the CBI’s behalf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/judges-abuse-case-hc-summons-cbi-sp/article37224015.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||30-ft-high Ram Mandir for ‘Dilli ki Diwali’||The Delhi Government has started building a replica of Ram Mandir — the one under construction in Ayodhya — at the Thyagaraj Stadium Complex as part of its ‘Dilli ki Diwali’ celebrations. The 30-foot-high and 80-foot-wide replica is a part of the stage where the Deepavali puja  will be performed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on November 4, the day of the festival, an official source told The Hindu . The total height of the stage, including the lights, will be around 60 feet. “The construction work is being done as per the directions from the Deputy Chief Minister’s (Manish Sisodia) office. An event management company was selected and a work order has been issued,” the source said. There have been several references to Lord Ram by Mr. Kejriwal since the Aam Aadmi Party came back to power in Delhi last year. Eye on U.P. polls AAP will contest the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, which is due early next year, and several senior party leaders, including Mr. Kejriwal, have visited Ayodhya in the past two months. The ‘Dilli ki Diwali’ programme was started in 2019 when the Government organised a four-day cultural event at Connaught Place. The event was organised with the aim to encourage people to not burst crackers and attend the event instead on Deepavali evening. In 2020, a “grand puja” was performed by the Chief Minister, the Deputy Chief Minister and other AAP leaders at Akshardham Temple on November 14, the day of Deepavali, and it was telecast live on TV channels. This year, the Government is preparing to organise a live telecast of the Deepavali celebrations at the Thyagaraj Stadium. On Thursday afternoon, workers were busy at the Thyagaraj Stadium, making a frame of metal pipes for the replica. “The Ram Mandir will be a part of the stage. It will be built on a metal frame and will have plywood over it. The exterior of the temple will be made of thermocol,” a worker said. Work on the temple replica began on Tuesday and is expected to be completed by Sunday. One of the football goalposts at the ground has been removed and training halted, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/30-ft-high-ram-mandir-for-dilli-ki-diwali/article37224379.ece
29 October 2021||Hong Kong,||New border law won’t affect boundary treaties: China||China on Thursday rejected concerns expressed by India over a proposed new land border law. Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said it “hopes relevant countries will abide by norms of international relations and refrain from wanton speculations on China’s normal domestic legislation.” He stressed that the “main purpose of formulating and promulgating this law is to further coordinate, regulate and strengthen boundary management and advance international cooperation in relevant fields.” Mr. Wang said, “It will not affect China’s compliance with existing treaties related to national land boundary affairs China has already signed or change China’s current mode of boundary management and cooperation with countries sharing a land boundary with it. Nor will it alter China’s position and proposition on relevant boundary issues.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-border-law-wont-affect-boundary-treaties-china/article37224047.ece
29 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||Efforts are on to teach engg. in Kannada, says CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that steps are being taken to impart engineering education in Kannada. Addressing a gathering after launching the Maatad Maatad Mallige programme organised as part of Rajyotsava celebrations in Hubballi on Thursday, he said that 15 engineering colleges have already come forward to design engineering education in Kannada as it will help in children’s education. “Kannada is one among the oldest and richest languages in the world. Kannada has a rich cultural heritage. The responsibility of giving it a bright future is on us. One has to keep using Kannada keeping in mind that if Kannada survives, we will also survive,” he said. The Chief Minister said that Kannada language will be there as long as there will be the Sun and the Moon. “Under the National Education Policy, mother tongues have been given prominence and learning Kannada has been made mandatory not only in primary, secondary and high school levels but also at the degree level. And, a legal fight is on in this issue,” he said. Mr. Bommai emphasised the need for asserting oneself as Kannadiga. He said that the language which had its roots strong could not be neglected. The growth of any language depended on the language users and if they discharged their responsibilities properly, then, it will be easy to pass on the rich language to the next generation, he said. The Chief Minister also emphasised the need for teaching Kannada “with love” to the people coming from other States and also take active part in the week-long Kannada campaign. As part of the State-level programme, three popular songs Baarisu Kannada Dindimava by Kuvempu, Jogada Siri Belakinalli by K.S. Nissar Ahmed and Huttidare Kannada Naadalli Huttabeku by Hamsalekha were sung in chorus. Mr. Basavaraj Bommai, Member of Legislative Assembly Raju Gowda (Narasimha Naik), the former MP I.G. Sanadi and others also sang the songs along with the participants. Earlier, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil administered a pledge to preserve the rich cultural heritage of Kannada and Kannadigas. Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal, office-bearers of pro-Kannada organisationns, students of schools and colleges took part in the programme. As part of the State-level programme, scores of students and people from different walks of life took part in the Maatad Maatad Mallige programme at different venues and sung the popular songs in chorus.  ‘Kannada is one among the oldest and richest languages in the world. Kannada has a rich cultural heritage and the responsibility of giving it a bright future is on us; one has to keep using Kannada keeping in mind that if Kannada survives, we will also survive’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/efforts-are-on-to-teach-engg-in-kannada-says-bommai/article37224293.ece
29 October 2021||Pune,||‘Independent witness’ arrested in cheating case||The Pune police on Thursday arrested Kiran Gosavi, a controversial ‘independent witness’ of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and a self-styled private investigator, in the Mumbai cruise drugs case, in connection with a 2018 cheating case. Gosavi was later produced before a local court which remanded him in a week-long police custody till November 5. Earlier, a team of policemen from the anti-extortion cell of the Pune Crime Branch took the absconding Gosavi into custody from a lodge in the city’s Katraj area at around 3 a.m. The Pune police began searching for him in earnest and formed several teams to nab him after his pictures with the young Khan went viral.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/independent-witness-arrested-in-cheating-case/article37224025.ece
29 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Stick to water level set by panel for now: SC tells T.N., Kerala||The Kerala Government has objected in the Supreme Court to the Supervisory Committee’s view that the Mullaperiyar dam will hold at 142 feet of water level, saying the 126-year-old structure held together by lime-surkhi in a seismically active zone amidst torrential blasts of rains is vulnerable and poses a catastrophic risk to the lives and property of 30 lakh people across the State. The State, in a note filed in the court, said there was a prediction of heavy rainfall till October 31. It had asked for a reduction in the dam’s maximum level to 139.99 feet rather than the court-approved 142 feet. The Supervisory Committee and Tamil Nadu’s member believe there is no danger or threat to the dam. They have said the dam is safe both seismically, structurally and hydrologically. But Kerala argued that a flood routing exercise saw the water level rising above 142 feet for more than 50 hours. The note stated, “This means that Mullaperiyar dam may not be able to sustain the water pressure for such a duration, jeopardising the safety of the dam and squarely undermining the directions of Supreme Court to limit the level at 142 feet”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stick-to-water-level-set-by-panel-for-now-sc-tells-tn-kerala/article37224099.ece
29 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Sensex slumps 1,159 points||Benchmark stock indices plunged almost 2% on Thursday amid concerns about the impact of inflation on economies worldwide, prompting analysts to flag the possibility of a further slide in the coming days. Sensex nosedived 1,158.63 points, or 1.89%, to 59,984.70. Selling pressure was witnessed across the board and the fall was led by banking stocks. Nifty 50 index plunged 353.70 points, or 1.94%, to 17,857.25 amid all-round profit booking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sensex-slumps-1159-points/article37224048.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||SC clears way for declaration of NEET-UG results||The Supreme Court on Thursday cleared the way for the National Testing Agency to declare the results of the NEET-UG 2021 by staying a Bombay High Court decision to conduct fresh exams for two aspirants. The High Court had passed the order on a plea by the two students that they were handed question papers and answer sheets with different serial numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-clears-way-for-declaration-of-neet-ug-results/article37224049.ece
29 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||RSS national executive begins||The Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal Baithak, a three-day national executive meeting of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), which is being attended by over 350 delegates from across the country, began on the Rashtrotthana Vidya Kendra premises at Garag near Dharwad on Thursday. Deliberations on the first day began with the RSS Sarasanghachalak Mohan Bhagwat chairing the session. General Secretary Dattatreya Hosbale and others were present. The meeting began by offering floral tributes to Bharat Mata and rendition of the RSS song. A two-minute silence to pay tributes to eminent personalities, including Sanskar Bharati Organising Secretary Amir Chand, Kannada writers G. Venkatasubbaiah, H.S. Doreswamy, poet Siddalingaiah, RSS volunteers, journalists, politicians Oscar Fernandes and Kalyan Singh, social activists, among others, who breathed their last during the year, was observed. The RSS Sarasanghachalak is scheduled to address the media on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rss-national-executive-begins/article37224281.ece
29 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Dharani portal completes one year today||Dharani portal, the first of its kind one-stop solution for land-related issues introduced by the Telangana Government, has completed registration of over one million (10,00,973) properties since its launch on this day last year. Over 10.45 lakh slots were booked for sale transactions in excess of 5.02 lakh. The government was able to resolve 5.17 lakh disputes through the portal which saw registration of 1.58 lakh gift deeds and issuance of succession rights to 72,085 beneficiaries.. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao launched the portal on October 29 last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dharani-portal-completes-one-year/article37224303.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Age-old tradition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/age-old-tradition/article37224523.ece
29 October 2021||TIRUCHI,||Govt. to fund Tiruchi boy’s IIT dream||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Thursday that his government would pay the fees for P. Arunkumar, a student of the Government Higher Secondary School at Sevalpatti in Tiruchi, who has been admitted to the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad. Arunkumar, who resides at Karadipatti in Marungapuri, secured the all India rank of 12,175 in JEE (Advanced), and has been admitted to chemical engineering. Collector S. Sivarasu on October 24 handed over a cheque for Rs. 85,000 to the student and his parents towards the first- year fees. On information, Mr. Stalin invited him to Chennai where the student met him at his office. In a statement, Mr. Stalin said the government would pay the cost of the full course. Arunkumar decided to sit for the test, encouraged by his teachers. His father, N. Ponnazhagan, is a daily wage labourer and his mother is a home-maker. He attended the coaching classes organised by IGNITTE — a teaching club of the National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi — and attributes his success to the trainers at the club. IGNITTE president Dinesh Kumar said, “We trained him and gave him the learning material, but all the efforts are his alone.” Despite the family’s financial constraints amid the COVID-19 lockdown, he dedicated his time to the preparation. “Not once did he say he had to leave the class early or ask for rest,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-fund-tiruchi-boys-iit-dream/article37224148.ece
29 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi to meet Pope on his way to COP26||Ahead of his visit to the U.K. to attend the COP26 World Leaders Summit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet Pope Francis on Saturday morning in the Vatican City, where he will also participate in the first in-person G20 summit since the beginning of the pandemic. “Over the next few days, I will be in Rome, the Vatican City and Glasgow to attend important multilateral gatherings like the G20 and COP26,” Mr. Modi said. The PM will also hold meetings with Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi and U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-to-meet-pope-on-his-way-to-cop26/article37224022.ece
29 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Half of eligible population vaccinated: Veena||Over half of the population in the State (50.02%) eligible for COVID-19 vaccination has been fully vaccinated, Health Minister Veena George said in a statement here on Thursday. She said it was an important milestone for the State when the fight against COVID-19 was still on. The proportion who has received at least one dose of the vaccine has crossed 94% (94.58%), which is much higher than the national average. At the national level, the coverage of first dose has reached 77.37% and that of both doses, 33.99%. The vaccination in the State is nearing target and in three districts — Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta, and Wayanad — the proportion of the fully vaccinated has reached almost 100%, with very few left to take the first dose. Many were delaying the second dose, Ms. George said appealing to people to complete the vaccination as soon the second dose is due as both doses are necessary to afford protection against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/half-of-eligible-population-vaccinated-veena/article37224495.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Analyse water contamination at Pachchanady landfill: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) to conduct tests of water samples from various locations in the limits of Mangaluru City Corporation and at the entry and exist points at Maravoor dam to ascertain the level of contamination caused due to mixing of leachate from the Pachchanady landfill site. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the interim order as the city corporation in Mangaluru and the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) differed in their claims on contamination of water. The Bench was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority on what the authority said the failure of the city corporation to implement the provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules2016 and also, failure to protect people from the ill-effects of the Pachchanady landfill site. Thecounsel for KSPCB said that the results of tests carried out in August showed that water samples taken from various locations showed contamination as leachate from the landfill flowing through the storm-water drain was getting mixed with drinking water sources, including the Phalguni. However, counsel for the city corporation said that water analysis carried out recently by KSPCB found no such contamination of drinking water. The Bench directed the IISC director to set up a team to visit Mangaluru within 15 days to collect water samples from various locations and submit the test results to the court by the next hearing on November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/analyse-water-contamination-at-pachchanady-landfill-hc/article37224073.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,||New students in govt. schools denied textbooks||Thousands of students who shifted out of private schools and enrolled in government schools this academic year have still not got their textbooks and uniforms, while some are not even getting their midday meals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-students-in-govt-schools-denied-textbooks/article37224051.ece
29 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||J&K students roughed up outside Agra court||Three Kashmiri students, who were arrested in Agra for allegedly celebrating the Pakistan cricket team’s victory over India in a T20 World Cup match, were on Thursday roughed up by a group of men outside a court in Agra while being produced before a magistrate. The men also raised slogans against Pakistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jk-students-roughed-up-outside-agra-court/article37224195.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||30-ft-high Ram Mandir for ‘Dilli ki Diwali’||The Delhi Government has started building a replica of Ram Mandir — the one under construction in Ayodhya — at the Thyagaraj Stadium Complex as part of its ‘Dilli ki Diwali’ celebrations. The 30-foot-high and 80-foot-wide replica is a part of the stage where the Deepavali puja will be performed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on November 4, the day of the festival, an official source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/30-ft-high-ram-mandir-for-dilli-ki-diwali/article37224197.ece
29 October 2021||KALABURAGI,||‘Did Siddaramaiah join Cong. for livelihood?’||Hitting back at Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, who had reportedly said that Dalit leaders had quit the Congress and joined the BJP for securing their livelihood, State Vice-President of BJP’s Scheduled Castes Morcha Ambaraya Ashtagi said that the remarks were insulting to Dalit community and their political leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/did-siddaramaiah-join-cong-for-livelihood/article37224285.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||HC warns of action against U.P. Police||The Delhi High Court on Thursday warned that it will take action against Uttar Pradesh Police for arresting and taking away two persons — the brother and father of a boy who got married to a girl against her family’s wishes — from the Capital without informing Delhi Police. Justice Mukta Gupta said that such illegal acts are not permissible and will not be tolerated here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-warns-of-action-against-up-police/article37224380.ece
29 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||NEET-UG results can be declared, says SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday cleared the way for the National Testing Agency to declare the results of the NEET-UG 2021 by staying a Bombay High Court decision to conduct fresh exams for two aspirants. The students said that they were handed question papers and answer sheets with different serial numbers in the exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/neet-ug-results-can-be-declared-says-sc/article37224381.ece
29 October 2021||Madurai,||Former CPI(M) MLA Nanmaran passes away||Former CPI(M) MLA N. Nanmaran passed away in Madurai on Thursday at 74. Nanmaran represented the Madurai East constituency in 2001 and 2006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-cpim-mla-nanmaran-passes-away/article37224098.ece
29 October 2021||Chennai,||Petrochemical cluster planned in Nagapattinam||The Tamil Nadu Government is exploring the possibility of establishing a petrochemical cluster in Nagapattinam in the Cauvery delta region. It is aiming to capitalise on the construction of a 9-million metric tonne per annum refinery by CPCL, along with IOCL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/petrochemical-cluster-planned-in-nagapattinam/article37224097.ece
29 October 2021||MADURAI/CHENNAI,||Former CPI(M) MLA Nanmaran passes away||Former CPI(M) MLA N. Nanmaran passed away in Madurai on Thursday. He was 74. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Nanmaran represented the Madurai East Assembly constituency in 2001 and 2006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-cpim-mla-nanmaran-passes-away/article37224244.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||Centre releases final tranche of GST recompense loans||The Union Government released Rs. 44,000 crore to the States and the Union Territories on Thursday as back-to-back loans in lieu of their GST compensation dues, thus completing the transfer of an estimated compensation shortfall of Rs. 1.59 lakh crore through this mechanism this financial year. The early disbursal of GST compensation dues this year, with five months still remaining in the financial year, will help the States manage their finances better than in 2020-21 when Rs. 1.1 lakh crore was transferred to them in smaller instalments till the latter half of the year. This year’s estimated GST compensation shortfall has been released in three tranches — Rs. 75,000 crore on July 15, Rs. 40,000 crore on October 7 and the latest payout of Rs. 44,000 crore. The Finance Ministry said the Rs. 1.59 lakh crore would be over and above the compensation in excess of Rs. 1 lakh crore, estimated to be released to the States and the Union Territories during this financial year, based on actual cess collections. Those funds accruing as “normal GST compensation” are released every two months. “The sum total of Rs. 2.59 lakh crore is expected to exceed the amount of GST compensation accruing in FY 2021-22,” it added, indicating this may make up for some of the compensation shortfall still pending for 2020-21. Expenditure planning “It is expected that this release will help the States and Union Territories in planning their public expenditure among other things, for improving health infrastructure and taking up infrastructure projects,” the Ministry said, emphasising that the release of funds was “frontloaded” as States have a very important role to play in effectively managing the COVID-19 pandemic and stepping up capital expenditure. ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar said the early release of the GST compensation loans will help States avoid a bunching up of spending plans towards the end of the year and should help to compress the size of the State Development loan auctions in the immediate term leading to a modest cooling of bond yields. “One-third of the loan amount has been provided to just four States, namely Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Punjab. This highlights the looming structural shock faced by those states with a high dependence on GST compensation, after the original transition and compensation period of five years ends,” Ms. Nayar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-releases-final-tranche-of-gst-recompense-loans/article37223595.ece
29 October 2021||HONG KONG,||China rejects concerns over border law||A day after India expressed strong concerns over a new land border law to be passed by China, Beijing on Thursday said it hoped “relevant countries” would not make “wanton speculation over normal legislation”. India said on Wednesday the new Chinese land boundary law, to come into effect on January 1, should not be used to justify Beijing's actions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and expressed “concern” over the law. The law, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said, also should not be used as a “pretext” to formalise any of the Chinese military’s recent moves, from amassing thousands of troops in forward areas to carrying out multiple transgressions in violation of past border agreements. The MEA said China’s “unilateral decision to bring about a legislation which can have implications on our existing bilateral arrangements... is of concern to us.” Development projects The border law designates various responsibilities for the Chinese military and local authorities in frontier areas, calling on the military to carry out drills and for local governments to step up border development projects. Among those projects are construction of civilian settlements called frontier villages in disputed areas along the India and Bhutan borders. Responding to India’s concerns, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said on Thursday it “hopes relevant countries will abide by norms of international relations and refrain from wanton speculations on China’s normal domestic legislation.” Its spokesperson Wang Wenbin stated, “The National Land Boundary Law was adopted at the 31st Session of the Standing Committee of the Thirteenth National People's Congress of China on October 23. On the same day, President Xi Jinping signed Order No. 99 of the President of the People's Republic of China and issued the document, which is proclaimed to be enforced from January 1, 2022.” Boundary management “This law consists of seven chapters and 62 articles. It stipulates clearly the leadership system and division of duties among different departments as well as between military and civilian authorities. It also offers clear provisions regarding delineation and demarcation of national land boundaries, defense and management of national land boundaries and borders, and international cooperation in national land boundary affairs,” he added. He stressed that the “main purpose for formulating and promulgating this law is to further coordinate, regulate and strengthen boundary management and advance international cooperation in relevant fields.” Mr. Wang added, “It will not affect China’s compliance with existing treaties related to national land boundary affairs China has already signed or change China’s current mode of boundary management and cooperation with countries sharing a land boundary with it. Nor will it alter China’s position and proposition on relevant boundary issues.” MEA response The MEA on Wednesday noted that “unilateral moves” would have “no bearing” on agreements reached previously by the two sides. Many of those agreements are, however, under strain in the wake of the Chinese military’s moves along the LAC last year, with the crisis in eastern Ladakh as yet unresolved after multiple rounds of talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-rejects-concerns-over-border-law/article37223603.ece
29 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||NEET-UG results can be declared, says SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday cleared the way for the National Testing Agency (NTA) to declare the results of the NEET-UG 2021 by staying a Bombay High Court decision to conduct fresh exams for two aspirants. The High Court passed the order on a plea by the two students that they were handed question papers and answer sheets with different serial numbers in the examination. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao froze the High Court order, allowing the NEET results to be declared. The Bench said it would consider the two students’ case, including what could be done for them, in detail later. The NTA had approached the top court in appeal against the High Court order. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the NTA, stated that the confusion had happened in the case of total six students, of which only two had come to court. “The remaining four wrote the exam and got good marks,” he submitted. The court reiterated that there was no reason to withhold the results because of a complaint made by two students. The future of lakhs of students was at stake. Justice Rao observed, “There are 16 lakhs students who are eagerly waiting for the results. We will see what we can do for these two students… The NTA is ready to rectify… Please announce the results”. The court scheduled the case again on November 12 to examine in detail on what relief could possibly be granted for the two students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-says-neet-ug-results-can-be-declared/article37223620.ece
29 October 2021||Bhadarwah/Jammu,||11 killed as mini-bus falls into deep gorge in Doda||Eleven people travelling on a mini-bus were killed and 14 injured when the vehicle skidded off the road and rolled down into a deep gorge on the Batote-Kishtwar highway in Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, officials said. The mini-bus, which was on its way from Thathri to Doda, fell into the gorge near Soi-Gwari, they added. The driver, who was also among the dead, reportedly lost control of the vehicle and it fell downhill on the banks of the Chenab river early in the morning, the officials said. Police, Army and State Disaster Response Force personnel, assisted by local people, launched the rescue operation. The injured were rushed to the GMC hospital in Doda, where doctors declared nine of them “brought dead”, and two died of injuries subsequently. Union Minister Jitendra Singh conveyed his condolences to the bereaved families. The Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir said that the administration will ensure the treatment of those injured in the tragic road accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/11-killed-as-mini-bus-falls-into-deep-gorge-in-doda/article37223587.ece
29 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||BJP to contest all 117 Punjab seats||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday sounded the poll bugle by announcing that it would contest all 117 seats in Punjab in the 2022 Assembly election, a day after former Chief Minister and Congress leader Amarinder Singh declared he would float his political party and hinted at a “seat arrangement” with the BJP, if the ongoing farmers’ protest was resolved. In the run-up to the polls, the BJP, at an event here, announced its plan to reach the people in the State with the slogan ‘ Nawan Punjab – BJP de naal ’ (New Punjab with BJP). Even as the BJP kicked off its campaign and its leaders asserted that the Government at the Centre was open for talks with farmers on the farm laws, the focus of the party seems to be on issues revolving around the Sikh community and national security. Sikh interests As it has been facing farmers’ backlash on the controversial farm laws, the BJP’s apparent strategy for now looks to garner the support of the Sikh community by presenting itself as the party, which during the past seven years at the Centre, has worked towards their interests — be it the initiative to start the Kartarpur corridor, which connects the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara in Pakistan with Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district, waiving of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) from ‘langar’ (community kitchen) or granting Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) registration to Gurdwara Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple), enabling it to receive foreign donations. The “national security” issue is all set to get prominence during the party’s campaign amid recent incidents of drug smuggling and drones carrying weapons from across the International Border. The party has made it clear that the Centre’s decision of extending the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15 km to 50 km along the border was taken as “national security” can’t be compromised. Launching the campaign, Union Minister and election in-charge of Punjab Gajendra Singh Shekhawat asserted that the party would create history by forming the next government in the State. Mr. Shekhawat said the BJP will give due political recognition to every segment of society and hit out at the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party accusing them of ignoring the State and its people’s interests over the years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-to-contest-all-117-punjab-seats/article37223608.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘We will discuss access to technology and finance at COP26’||Ahead of his departure to Glasgow, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav outlined India’s key concerns at the COP negotiations, and said his Ministry’s policy was to balance the challenges posed by infrastructure development in forests. Edited excerpts:  You have been Union Environment Minister for three months. What do you think are two or three of the most important environmental challenges you will like to solve, or at least address, on priority? We are all working to realise Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision. In the past seven years, forest cover has increased by 13,000 sq.km, 14 tiger reserves have got world accreditation, our lakes have been included in the Ramsar convention, 10 beaches have got a Blue Flag accreditation. Challenges such as stubble burning in Delhi, or addressing the challenges in the Western Ghats, we have done well. We are working in a way to ensure development as well as giving importance to the rights of tribals as well as protecting the forest. In your experiences as a lawyer and public figure — and you have authored a book on Forest conservation — do you feel that environmental laws may impede people from getting access to basic services, basic education and jobs? Could you relate a few instances? As a lawyer, I have been involved in environmental litigation and written on forest laws. Following the advent of PM Modi, our thrust has been to increase transparency and accountability. The biggest example of this is the Parivesh portal (which allows files on the progress of an industrial project requiring environmental clearance to be tracked) that increases transparency. The Environment Ministry is the trustee of the environment and that brings in both responsibilities and obligations. To bring consonance between both in a balanced way. The Environment Ministry is working on modifying legislation, such as the Forest Conservation Act, that seems to make it more convenient for industries and industrial projects to use forest land for non-forestry purposes. On the other hand, we continue to see agitation in Chhattisgarh, especially around coal mining blocks in Hasdeo Arand forests because people don’t want to give up their land for mining. On whose side is the Environment Ministry? The Environment Ministry no longer uses the word “penalty or fine” but “environmental compensation” When we come out with a draft, it is to solicit the opinion of the people. That’s not a bad thing, right? So we have not yet actually made any legislation. But consider this: Say a tribal with some land wants to make a provision for drinking water, do you want him to come all the way to Delhi for permission? But it’s the tribals themselves who are agitating for their land? As far as private mining is concerned; we have not made any concessions. The existing laws apply. But for providing basic amenities to tribals, or helping infrastructure projects of organisations such as the Railways the policy is restricted to such purposes. There is no change in the Act. This follows from the demands of several States, tribal communities. We will first have several rounds of consultations with States, follow parliamentary process and we have even given notices in vernacular languages and have given a month. This is your first experience as a Minister who will be leading some crucial negotiations in Glasgow.... I am grateful to PM Modi for entrusting me with this responsibility. He has authored a book as well as developed a climate division in his days as Chief Minister. The Paris Agreement of 2015 has important aspects of climate justice that follow from his vision. Globally, climate shouldn’t be just about negotiations but also action. That is why we have the International Solar Alliance, International Disaster Resilience Forum that the PM led. India is progressing well on achieving its Nationally Determined Contributions. We have an ambitious target of installing 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030. In the coming COP 26, to implement the adaption and mitigation measures from increased global temperatures, we will be discussing access to technology and finance with the developed countries. We demand a transparent framework and all this will be part of our discussions. India’s challenge in COP discussions has always been that while we are not responsible for the climate crisis, we are the victims of it and we are already seeing intense heatwaves and unseasonal torrential rain. Is there a case, that at least for our own sake, we should be doing much more, and much faster in transitioning to non-fossil fuel sources? Having a 450 GW renewable energy target, an electric vehicle policy, increasing the forest cover, having an International Solar Alliance, a national mission for hydrogen are all part of our steps and these are the points that we are consistently raising and discussing. You are also one of the BJP’s key election strategists. What will be your party’s approach to the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls? Also why is your party against a caste census? We have done good work in Uttar Pradesh particularly in vaccination. We have delivered consistent development and we shall ask for votes in the name of consistency and continuity and U.P. is at this point with the BJP. One of our most avowed aims is working towards an egalitarian society. All sections of society must benefit. The amount of work that this Government has done for the OBC (Other Backward Classes) no one else has. Whether it was admissions for students in Kendriya Vidyalayas, an Act for University Professors, Reservations for OBC students in NEET examinations. We desire development for all under Constitutional provisions. The e-Shram portal for unorganised workers that was launched in August has about 5 crore registrations so far. Are you satisfied with the pace and how long do you think it will take to cover all the unorganised sector workers in the country? We have received good support from people in two months already. We are about to increase the number of trades recorded in the portal from about 160 to 400. I believe what we had thought initially that we will create the largest-ever database of unorganised workers, we will achieve it. Earlier, our registrations were 10 lakh per day. We have increased the capacity to 25 lakh per day. We are working on taking this forward. Is there a timeline? No, it is a continuous and evolving process. Slowly, it will be updated and upgraded. The number of migrant workers is very large. Updates will continue in order to increase the capacity in the future and to connect the data with planning. It is an ongoing process. From the data seen so far, we can see that women workers make up about 50%. Caste data has also come out. What can be learnt from the data so far? We haven’t asked for castes; we have asked for trade and occupation. Along with this, there are two other employment surveys of the government that are underway — the institution-based survey in the non-agricultural sector and the area-based. There is also a survey of unorganised sector. These tell us that compared to data from Economic Census 2013-2014, in all sectors, apart from trade and manufacturing, there has been an increase. These surveys will also be done quarterly now. In the four new labour codes, we have focused on social security. We are working on giving benefits of this to the unorganised sector. Since we are talking of extending social security to a large section of workers, we are working on capacity-building of ESIC and EPFO. What is the reason for the labour codes, which were passed in 2019 and 2020, not being implemented so far? Different States are in the process of making the rules. The work is complete in about 90% of the States and the consensus is being built. Such major codes need infrastructure also. I have already said that a very large section of unorganised sector is being given the benefits of social security. But, what about a timeline for the implementation? The government will complete it in the appropriate time. It was announced last year that Rs. 1,000 crore would be given for migrant welfare from the PM CARES fund. How has it been used? A lot of work has been done. The Pradhan Mantri Rozgar Yojana is under Atmanirbhar Yojana. Work has been done to increase the employment opportunities for workers. The most important is that ESIC has come up with two schemes — to give life-long pension to the families of those ESIC beneficiaries who died of COVID-19 and aid to those who lost their jobs for 90 days.  The Environment Ministry is trustee of the environment; that brings both responsibilities and obligations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-will-discuss-access-to-technology-and-finance-at-cop26/article37223618.ece
29 October 2021||Washington DC,||Key U.S. lawmakers bat for CAATSA sanctions waiver||Key lawmakers continue to voice their support for a sanctions waiver for India for its purchase of the S-400 missile defence system from Russia. India is likely to begin taking delivery of the S-400 in November, potentially activating U.S. sanctions under a 2017 law, Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). Senate India Caucus Co-Chair John Cornyn and Mike Waltz, a member on the House Armed Services Committee and vice-chair of the Congressional India Caucus, were among the lawmakers who have addressed the issue this week. Their comments were made on Wednesday evening at a virtually held event, organised by the U.S. India Business Council and the U.S. India Friendship Council. Congressman Brad Sherman, a California Democrat and Co-Chair of the Congressional India Caucus, also spoke of the strength of India-U.S. ties. History of procurement Mr. Waltz said he cognized New Delhi’s history of procurement (from Russia) and India’s desire to have diversity in its weapons systems, noting that the situation is difficult. He said the U.S. Congress was working through “what the next steps are” — in terms of dealing with CAATSA in the Indian context and that he did not want a Turkey-type situation. “So I don’t want to get ahead of that. But I’ll tell you what I want to avoid is the situation where we are with Turkey right now,“ he said suggesting that India and the U.S. keep the dialogue open — either at the Congressional level or at the 2+2 level (the next meeting between the Foreign and Defence Ministers will be held in early December in Washington). Turkey, a NATO ally, was expelled from the American F-35 programme (a consortium to build the aircraft) after it began accepting S-400 shipments in 2019. President Joe Biden said in July Turkey will face further sanctions if it bought major equipment from Moscow. “I don't think we’re anywhere close to that yet. But I do think we need to find some off-ramps and find some ways to move in a more positive direction,” Mr. Waltz said. The congressman co-authored, with U.S Ambassador to the U.N. Nikki Haley, an op-ed in Foreign Policy earlier this week suggesting that the U.S. enter into a formal alliance with India. Ms. Haley, an Indian American, is considered a possible 2024 GOP candidate for the White House. The op-ed argued that India could help keep “a watchful eye on Afghanistan” and “keep track of China’s southern flank”. The authors also suggested that a formal alliance with India would enable the U.S. to access Afghanistan via India’s Farkhor Air Base in Tajikistan. India has not publicly expressed interest in a formal security alliance with the U.S. or any other country. Also on Wednesday, Mr. Cornyn, a Texas Republican, said the possibility of sanctions remained “one of the biggest threats” to the bilateral relationship. He pointed out that India had taken “significant steps” to reduce its reliance on Russian military equipment and had shown an interest in purchasing more arms from the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/key-us-lawmakers-bat-for-caatsa-sanctions-waiver/article37223590.ece
29 October 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Tushar Gandhi challenges Sabarmati Ashram revamp||Mahatma Gandhi’s great-grandson Tushar Gandhi has moved the Gujarat High Court against the State Government’s Rs. 1,200-crore plan to redevelop Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad. In a PIL plea, Mr. Gandhi has challenged the proposal, under which the Government has started the redevelopment process that involves extending its area from five to 55 acres by relocating residents to nearby areas. He claimed that the project proposed was ‘diametrically opposed’ to the personal wishes of Mahatma Gandhi, who set up the ashram and lived there from 1917 to 1930. Mr. Gandhi has contended that going ahead with the project would lead to the reduction of the shrine and memorial of the Freedom movement and turn the ashram into a commercial tourist attraction spot. It would be managed by the Government and private firms instead of the trust that managed it now. He sought the cancellation of the resolution of March 5 issued by the Industries and Mines Department forming a governing council and an executive council, comprising entirely Government functionaries, for the development of the memorial and its premises. He contended that if the court did not stay or stop the Government’s indulgence, “the entire complex would be ruined and would be turned into a commercial entertainment complex.” The Government, however, has maintained that it would not change or alter any building on the ashram. All heritage buildings would be restored as per Gandhian ethos, it stated and asserted that the proposal was not aimed at a takeover but to redevelop it by expanding the areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tushar-gandhi-challenges-sabarmati-ashram-revamp/article37223624.ece
29 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Pegasus sold only to governments’||Accusing Iran of ‘destabilising’ the West Asian region, the Israeli Ambassador to India said the newly announced India-Israel-UAE-U.S. quadrilateral was an outcome of the “Abraham Accords” that saw Israel and the UAE establish diplomatic ties, which were the result of “common concerns” about Iran’s role in the region. Ambassador Naor Gilon told the media here that during his visit to Israel, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar had also put forward India’s interests in Iran, as a neighbour and a country that facilitates Indian connectivity to Central Asia and Afghanistan, but that all four countries shared ‘similar’ evaluation of events. A day after the Supreme Court asked an expert committee to enquire into allegations of hacking using an Israeli software Pegasus, the Ambassador also emphasised that the software could only have been sold to a Government, but wouldn’t comment on which Government or whether the Indian Government has contacted the Embassy or the Israeli Government to enquire into the sale of the software. “The Abraham Accords have a huge potential for Israel and the region, and in a way, I believe Iran has a lot to do with this, with the fear and the sentiment in the region about its role,” Mr. Gilon said to a specific question about the road map ahead of the new quadrilateral arrangement. “We are very much aware that India has its own interests on Afghanistan and Iran. They were put forward by [EAM Jaishankar],” Mr. Gilon said. “I think in discussions between countries, each country has its own interest and then you see how it all settles down in time. Israel was very clear about Iran, and [India] spoke about India’s interests… As I said before, many of the evaluations, of what’s happening are similar,” he stressed. Military issues ‘Mr. Gilon, however, denied that there were any discussions about military issues during the hybrid conference between Mr. Jaishankar, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and the Foreign Ministers of Israel and the UAE held on October 18, and that the quadrilateral cooperation was ‘positive’ and not aimed at any country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pegasus-sold-only-to-governments/article37223592.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||Action against MPs on RS ruckus pending||More than two months after eight Ministers, at a joint press conference, accused the Opposition of assaulting security officials on the last day of the monsoon session of Parliament, there has been no disciplinary action against anyone. The Rajya Sabha Secretariat reached a stalemate after the Congress and a few other parties refused to be part of a probe committee. Sources indicated that there was unlikely to be any action against the “errant” MPs ahead of the winter session from November 29. The issue will be taken up during the customary all-party meeting ahead of the session. On August 11, during the passage of the contentious Insurance Bill, which 22 Opposition parties had demanded be sent to a select committee for further scrutiny, there was a physical tussle between the Opposition members and the security staff. The very next day, the eight Ministers accused the Opposition of “bringing anarchy from the streets to Parliament”. Cabinet Ministers Piyush Goyal, Dharmendra Pradhan, Pralhad Joshi, Bhupendra Yadav, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Anurag Thakur and Ministers of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal and V. Muraleedharan sought the “strongest possible action against those who broke the rules”. The Rajya Sabha Secretariat has already completed its internal examination and studied the precedents of action taken in similar cases. House Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu wanted to constitute a special committee with members from all parties to investigate the August 11 events. But Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, on behalf of the Congress, declined to join such a committee. In a letter addressed to Mr. Naidu on September 9, he said such a committee seemed to be designed to intimidate the MPs into silence. Since then, the probe has come to a grinding halt and Mr. Naidu’s office is left exploring the next course of action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/action-against-mps-pending-in-rs-ruckus/article37223601.ece
29 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Truck hits women at farmers’ protest site, 3 die||Three women were killed and two suffered injuries when a speeding truck hit them on Jhajjar road near the farmers’ protest site at Tikri border in Haryana’s Bahadurgarh on October 28 morning. The women, all aged around 60, were waiting for a vehicle to take them to the railway station. The erring truck driver, Mangal, fled the spot after the accident, but was later arrested. Haryana State committee of the All-India Kisan Sabha demanded an investigation into the accident. It claimed that eye-witnesses had seen the vehicle parked close to the spot before it came speeding at the victims. However, police have ruled out foul play. “The truck driver was coming from the direction of Badli. He told police during interrogation that he had not had enough sleep the previous night and had dozed off,” said Inspector Nar Singh, SHO, Sector -6 Bahadurgarh. The deceased have been identified as Gurmail Kaur, Amarjeet Kaur and Sukhvinder, all belonging to Punjab’s Mansa district. The injured women were Gurmail and Harmeet. Gurmail was injured on the leg and was referred to the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences at Rohtak. Harmeet’s injuries were minor, said Mr. Singh. He said the women were returning to their home town after staying at the protest site for around 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/truck-hits-women-at-farmers-protest-site-3-die/article37224384.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Aryan Khan, 2 others get bail 25 days after arrest||“All three applications are allowed. I will pass detailed orders by tomorrow evening,” Justice Sambre said even as Aryan Khan’s counsel Mukul Rohatgi was putting forth his arguments. Aryan Khan’s advocates then sought permission to submit cash bail to which the court refused and said surety is to be given. “I could have given the order tomorrow also. But I gave it today,” Justice Sambre said. The legal team of the 23-year-old Aryan Khan will now try to complete the formalities for his release by Friday or Saturday. Justice Sambre said he would pass a detailed order assigning reasons later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aryan-khan-2-others-get-bail-25-days-after-arrest/article37223588.ece
29 October 2021||Pune,||Vinod Rai apologises to Sanjay Nirupam||Seven years after he alleged that Congress leader and former MP Sanjay Nirupam had pressured him in connection with the 2G spectrum allocation case, former Comptroller and Auditor-General (CAG) Vinod Rai has tendered an “unconditional apology” to Mr. Nirupam. In 2014, Mr. Rai, in the course of interviews to the media, named Mr. Nirupam as one of the MPs who reportedly pressured him to keep former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s name out of his report on the 2G spectrum allocation case. The interviews were broadcast and published at the time of the release of Mr. Rai’s 2014 book, Not Just an Accountant: The Diary of the Nation’s Conscience Keeper.  In a video statement, Mr. Nirupam, commenting on Mr. Rai’s unconditional apology, remarked that it was a “golden day”. He said, “I had urged the former CAG to retract his wrong statements at the time but he refused to do so. I accordingly filed a defamation case against Mr. Rai in the Metropolitan Court in New Delhi’s Patiala House.” He termed Mr. Rai’s report on the coal block and 2G spectrum allocation cases “utterly fake”. In the affidavit (notarised on October 23), Mr. Rai said he made certain statements against Mr. Nirupam in September 2014 in media interviews aired on Times Now news channel, and published in media publications, including The Times of India and The Indian Express , subsequent to his book’s launch. ‘Wrongly mentioned name’ In the affidavit, Mr. Rai said: “I have realised that in answers to questions posed to me by the interviewers, I had inadvertently and wrongly mentioned the name of Shri Sanjay Nirupam as one of the MPs, who pressurised me to keep the then Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh’s name out of the CAG report on the 2G spectrum allocation during the meetings in the PAC (Public Accounts Committee) or the sidelines of the JPC (Joint Parliamentary Committee) etc.” He said the statements televised and published were “factually incorrect”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vinod-rai-apologises-to-sanjay-nirupam/article37223593.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Modi to meet Pope on his way to COP26||The October 29-31 meetings in Italy will be followed by the Prime Minister’s participation at the COP26 summit in Glasgow, where he will hold several bilateral meetings apart from working towards a “balanced outcome” in the climate talks. Saturday’s meeting with the Pope will last for half an hour. “It is obvious that this is a very important meeting,” said Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, briefing the media in a special interaction on Thursday afternoon. The Prime Minister will hold several bilateral meetings in Rome and Glasgow, Mr. Shringla said, including those with the Crown Prince Bin Salman of Saudi Arabia and Indonesian President Joko Widodo, who will host the G20 in Bali in 2022. At the G20 summit, India will highlight the need for better international financial management. “As the co-chair of the G20 anti-corruption working group, India has worked very closely with all G20 members to come out with some strong and tangible outcomes, including G20 high-level principles on preventing and combating corruption,” said Mr. Shringla, stating that G20 members have partnered India’s drive against money laundering. India has used the G20 platform for dealing with tax evasion and corruption, said Mr. Shringla. Sustainable development, international financial management, and the situation in Afghanistan and fuel transition, are some of the issues that are expected to dominate Mr. Modi’s interactions in Rome and Glasgow. Mr. Shringla mentioned that the G20 is deliberating on creating a mechanism to counter pandemics in the future, and highlighted the issue of the origin of the COVID-19 virus. “The issue of the origin of the COVID virus has been a subject of a fair amount of discussion in the international fora, and as you know, this is being dealt with by the WHO, and this will continue to be addressed in the appropriate forums,” said Mr. Shringla. The Foreign Secretary also said that India is “alive” to the intensifying humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan and emphasised a solution will have to be found within the framework of the UNSC Resolution 2593. “On the issue of humanitarian assistance, we have been forthcoming,” said Mr. Shringla, seeking unhindered and unimpeded access to the Afghan people who need humanitarian assistance urgently. Mr. Shringla highlighted India’s commitment to solar power and limiting the rise in global temperature, and in clean technology. Mr. Modi will deliver the “national statement” at the World Leaders Summit on November 1 at COP26. The summit in Glasgow will also witness the launch of the global Green Grids Initiative. Mr. Modi, alongside the U.K. and Australian Prime Ministers, will also launch the Infrastructure for Resilient Island States (IRIS) initiative aimed at island nations and developing countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-to-meet-pope-on-his-way-to-cop26/article37223596.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Independent witness’ arrested for cheating||“We have taken him into custody from the outskirts of Pune. Our case is regarding a cheating case in which Gosavi was absconding,” said Pune Commissioner of Police Amitabh Gupta, adding that the accused would be produced later in court. “He had promised jobs to some people and a charge sheet was filed in this regard in 2019. As per the record, he was ‘missing’ in this case for two years. We are completing the pre-arrest procedures and medical tests of the accused,” Mr. Gupta added. Neither the Mumbai police nor the NCB had yet sought Gosavi’s custody from the Pune police, Mr. Gupta said. “We will first finish pending investigations, if any… In case some other agency wishes Gosavi’s remand, then we will certainly discuss the matter with the Director General of Police and coordinate at the State level,” he said. Mr. Gupta said that Gosavi, prior to his detention, had been to several places including Lucknow, Fatehpur, Telangana, Jabalpur, Lonavala, Mumbai and Panvel in Maharashtra. “In Lucknow, Gosavi was apparently using the alias of ‘Sachin Patil’. He also claims to have been working for an NGO ‘Stop Crime’. We are verifying these details…Gosavi has claimed that he is in the business of export-import and job placements,” said the Pune Police Commissioner. Mr. Gupta said after Gosavi’s recent pictures (in the Mumbai cruise drug case) went viral, the Pune police began searching for him in earnest and formed several teams to nab him. The Commissioner said it was likely that there were more victims who fell prey to the swindling schemes of the accused, and that if they approached the Pune police, more cases would be lodged against Gosavi. Earlier, Gosavi had said he wanted to surrender to the Uttar Pradesh police as he apparently felt “threatened” in Maharashtra. However, on Wednesday, he travelled to Pune and told a news channel that he would be appearing before NCB authorities who are conducting an internal inquiry against Sameer Wankhede (the NCB’s Mumbai zonal director) in Mumbai. Gosavi claimed that following his Mumbai appearance before the NCB, he planned to surrender to the Pune Police. Sources in the city police’s Crime Branch said that they detained him before he could go travel to Mumbai. The city police had kept Gosavi under intense surveillance and were reportedly tracking a dozen possible locations as to where the absconder might be. A look out circular (LOC) against him had been issued by the Pune police on October 13 in order to prevent Gosavi fleeing the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/independent-witness-arrested-for-cheating/article37223597.ece
29 October 2021||SRINAGAR,||Militant killed, arms recovered in Baramulla||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Thursday said it killed a “hybrid” militant in a gunfight when he was on his way to kill a shopkeeper in Baramulla of north Kashmir. The term “hybrid militant” is used by the police here for those youth who are not listed as militants and mix with the local population after carrying out an attack. “During the intervening night of October 27 and 28, terrorists fired upon an area domination patrol party (ADP) of the police and the Army’s 46 Rashtriya Rifles in the Cherdari area of Baramulla. The alert joint party retaliated effectively and in the brief shoot-out, one terrorist got killed,” a police spokesman said. The police identified the slain militant as Javed Ahmad Wani, a resident of Kulgam. “As per the police records, the killed terrorist was part of a group involved in killing of two non-local people in the Wanpoh area of Kulgam along with the terrorist Gulzar, who was neutralised on October 20,” the police said. Incriminating materials and arms and ammunition, including a pistol, a loaded magazine and a Pakistan-branded grenade, were recovered from the slain terrorist, the police added. On the basis of a preliminary investigation, the slain terrorist was a “hybrid type” and was on a mission to target one shopkeeper in Baramulla, Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/militant-killed-arms-recovered-in-baramulla/article37223598.ece
29 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India-EU trade talks to resume by December||After an eight-year hiatus, India and the European Union (EU) are set to resume negotiations for a Bilateral Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA) by December, according to a Government official. Another official termed the India-EU connectivity partnership, announced in May, as a “counterfoil” to other such initiatives in an indirect reference to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). “India-EU trade talks are set to start anytime by end of the year... We have prioritised and discussions will now go forward. It will be comprehensive talks,” the official said on the sidelines of a report launch on Thursday. He was speaking at the launch of the report ‘India-EU Connectivity: Partnership for Development, Demand and Democracy’ organised by the think tank Research and Information System (RIS) for Developing Countries. “Emphasis on our values, inclusiveness and transparency, local environment, avoiding debt trap... These may not find mention in the partnership but they were part of our discussions and we have been careful to infuse elements of it…,” said Sandeep Chakravorty, Joint Secretary (EW), Ministry of External Affairs, in an indirect reference to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) which has come under criticism for creating debt traps on smaller countries. Negotiations for a similar pact with U.K. are expected to kick off from November 1, with both sides looking forward to firming up offers for an early harvest pact by the end of this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-eu-trade-talks-to-resume-by-december/article37224007.ece
29 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre proposes stricter regulations for CWC||Individuals who receive foreign aid in their personal capacity or as members of an organisation will not be eligible for the membership of Child Welfare Committees (CWCs), the Centre has proposed. The Ministry of Women and Child Development on Thursday invited comments from stakeholders to the draft amendments to Juvenile Justice Model Rules, 2016. This follows the passage of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) (JJ) Amendment Bill, 2021, in Parliament earlier this year to empower District Magistrates (DMs) to issue adoption orders which would ensure speedy disposal of cases. The draft rules also empower the central adoption agency CARA to issue No Objection Certificates (NOC) for adoptions by NRIs and OCIs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-proposes-stricter-regulations-for-cwc/article37223604.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Bhakti leads to mukti||The Bhagavata Mahatmya captures the spirit of Kali Yuga whose evil effects are felt by all. People have distanced themselves from God, and though He resides as antaryami in all, He is not recognised. The real value of penance, dhyana, yoga, etc, is slowly eroded by the entrenchment of false views and practices. In a discourse, Sri Dushyanth Sridhar drew attention to the power of bhakti that can easily lead people to mukti in Kali Yuga. This is explained through an allegory. Bhakti is personified as a young woman and she along with her children jnana and vairagya, after wandering over many regions, has come to the banks of the Yamuna. The children jnana and vairagya are lying unconscious beside her and she tries to revive them. Through Divine Will, Narada comes that way. She entreats him to alleviate her distress. She explains that she is Bhakti and the two men are her children jnana and vairagya. It is symbolic of the fact that in the earlier Krita, Treta and Dwapara yugas, people attained mukti through jnana and vairagya. But in Kali Yuga only bhakti can enable one to achieve mukti. She praises Narada for his extraordinary bhakti and piety. Did he not instruct Prahlada and Dhruva into the path of devotion? Prahlada listened to his advice and overcame the Maya Shakti and Dhruva attained an exalted position. Kali Yuga is a combination of good and evil, that is, in this Yuga there is the chance to reap great spiritual benefits even as there are plenty of opportunities to incur its damaging effects. The results which cannot be achieved through penance, yoga, and meditation can easily be earned purely through the devotion to the Supreme Lord in the times of Kali. Bhakti enables one to attain Sayujya with the Lord.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhakti-leads-to-mukti/article37223609.ece
29 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Cong. braces up for bypolls in northeast||The Congress’s bid to bounce back after reverses would be put to test across the nine Assembly seats in three northeastern States where byelections would be held on October 30. The campaign for the constituencies ended on Wednesday evening. The Congress is the only political party contesting all nine seats — five in Assam, three in Meghalaya and one in Nagaland. The party received a setback in Assam after its Mariani MLA and his Thowra counterpart quit to join the BJP. They are now the BJP candidates for these constituencies. In Meghalaya, the Congress hopes to retain its two seats and add the third to its tally of 17 in the 60-member House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-braces-up-for-bypolls-in-northeast/article37223599.ece
29 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal CM visits troops along border||Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu and top State officials visited the troops along India’s border with Tibet, including Yangtse, where Chinese troops reportedly infiltrated a few days ago. A Government spokesperson said the Chief Minister trekked to the remote outposts in Tawang district primarily to boost the morale of the soldiers and thank them for forcing the People’s Liberation Army personnel to withdraw from Indian territory. A face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers was reported at the Yangtse border post recently. Yangtse was the first post the Chief Minister visited after starting his three-day trip on October 24. He touched Tse Chu, Mago and Thingbu villages along the border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arunachal-cm-visits-troops-along-border/article37223606.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||Plea seeks internal polls in parties||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Election Commission to respond to a petition seeking to formulate and notify a model procedure for internal elections of all political parties. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked the poll panel to submit its response before the next date of hearing on December 23. The High Court order came on a petition filed by C. Rajashekaran, a lawyer himself. The petition has urged the Election Commission to make internal polls mandatory for all parties who wish to register themselves under Section 29-A of the Representation of the People Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-seeks-internal-polls-in-parties/article37223612.ece
29 October 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC quashes cheating proceedings initiated against Amazon India head||The Bombay High Court on Thursday quashed a criminal complaint and summons issued to Amazon India’s head Amit Agarwal by a Magistrate’s court, following a complaint of cheating filed by a city-based lawyer. The Magistrate’s court had issued the process following a complaint filed by lawyer Amritpal Singh Khalsa, who had placed an order for a hard drive on Amazon’s official website in December 2019, but never received it. Mr. Khalsa then lodged a complaint with the local police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-quashes-cheating-proceedings-initiated-against-amazon-india-head/article37224385.ece
29 October 2021||Gurugram,||Three held guilty for gang-rape of Rewari teenager three years ago||Three persons, including an Army constable, were held guilty by a trial court in Narnaul on Thursday on charges of gang-rape of a teenage girl three years ago. Five of the accused in the case were acquitted. Pronouncing the verdict, Mona Singh, Additional District and Sessions Judge, Special Court for Crime Against Women, held the prime accused in the case — Pankaj, Manish and Nishu — guilty on charges of gang-rape, causing hurt by means of poison, and abduction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-held-guilty-for-gang-rape-of-rewari-teenager-three-years-ago/article37223582.ece
29 October 2021||Srinagar,||Employee sacked for ‘celebrating Pakistan win’ in Rajouri||A government employee was terminated from her service in the Pir Panjal valley’s Rajouri in Jammu division on Thursday after her WhatsApp status allegedly celebrated “Pakistan’s victory in T20 cricket”. In an order issued by Dr. Brij Mohan, Principal of the Government Medical College, Rajouri, operation theatre technician Safiya Majeed was terminated from service for “a viral video seems to have posted her WhatsApp status showing celebration of defeat of the Indian Cricket Team against Pakistan in T-20 World Cup 2021, the activity which seems to be disloyalty towards nation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/employee-sacked-for-celebrating-pakistan-win-in-rajouri/article37223611.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||Law Ministry elevates 7 advocates as HC judges||The Law Ministry on Thursday notified the appointment of five new judges to the Punjab and Haryana High Court and two new judges to the Rajasthan High Court. The seven new appointees were advocates before being elevated as judges, according to a release by the Department of Justice in the Law Ministry. Those appointed as Additional Judges to Punjab and Haryana High Court include advocates Vikas Suri, Sandeep Moudgil, Vinod Sharma (Bhardwaj), Pankaj Jain and Jasjit Singh Bedi. Advocates Kumari Rekha Borana and Sameer Jain have been elevated to the Rajasthan HC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/law-ministry-elevates-7-advocates-as-hc-judges/article37223581.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||CBI gets permission to collect voice sample of Moin Qureshi||The CBI has been given permission by a city court to collect the voice sample of meat exporter Moin Qureshi as part of the probe into corruption allegations against him and others. In February 2017, the CBI had registered the case against Mr. Qureshi, along with his childhood friend and the agency's former chief, A.P. Singh, for allegedly accepting money to get favours from public servants holding key posts in government agencies. The case was made on the basis of information provided by the Enforcement Directorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-gets-permission-to-collect-voice-sample-of-moin-qureshi/article37223583.ece
29 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||J&K students roughed up at Agra court||Three Kashmiri students who were arrested for allegedly hailing the Pakistan cricket team’s victory over India in the T20 World Cup 2021 match, were on Thursday roughed up and heckled by a group of men outside a court in Agra when they were being produced before a magistrate. A woman Government employee was terminated from service for “disloyalty towards nation” at Rajouri in the Pir Panjal valley of Jammu on Thursday after her WhatsApp status allegedly celebrated the Pakistan team’s victory. An FIR had been lodged against Arsheed Yousuf, Inayat Altaf Sheikh and Showkat Ahmed Ganai for allegedly posting a WhatsApp status message praising Pakistan after India’s defeat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-students-roughed-up-at-agra-court/article37224006.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||Internet shutdowns in Rajasthan caused Rs. 800 crore losses in a month: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday hit out against the Congress government in Rajasthan over Internet shutdowns in the State, saying four shutdowns in the past month caused a loss of Rs. 800 crore. At a press conference here, BJP spokesperson Rajyavardhan Rathore cited a tweet by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in 2019 that said the Centre had no right to shutdown the Internet, in the context of J&K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/internet-shutdowns-in-rajasthan-caused-rs-800-crore-losses-in-a-month-bjp/article37223585.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||Kanpur businessman’s death: SC agrees to urgently list plea||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to urgently list for hearing a plea made by the wife of Kanpur businessman Manish Gupta, who died from injuries sustained after being allegedly thrashed by the police in his Gorakhpur hotel room. In an urgent mentioning made before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, Meenakshi Gupta’s lawyer said the Uttar Pradesh Government had recommended the case for investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). However, the agency was yet to take over the probe. “The lady is running from pillar-to-post,” the lawyer submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kanpur-businessmans-death-sc-agrees-to-urgently-list-plea/article37223616.ece
29 October 2021||Srinagar,||J&K govt. transfers 65.5 acres to CRPF||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Thursday transferred over 524 kanals (65.5 acres) of land for CRPF personnel and their families stationed in the Valley. A government spokesman said the Administrative Council (AC), headed by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, has approved the proposal of transfer of 524 kanal and 11 marla of land in favour of the CRPF “for establishing battalion camping sites”. “The land will be transferred against the payment as per the Stamp Duty Rates notified for the year, 2021. It will provide for safe and proper accommodation to CRPF personnel and their families,” a spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-govt-transfers-655-acres-to-crpf/article37223610.ece
29 October 2021||Srinagar,||Islamabad protests death of Pak. civilian prisoner in Poonch||Pakistan on Thursday registered a protest with the Indian Foreign Office in Islamabad over the killing of Zia Mustafa, a Pakistani civilian prisoner, in the Pir Panjal valley’s Poonch Sector. “The Indian Charge d’Affaires was summoned to the (Pakistan) Foreign Office today and a strong protest was lodged on the reported killing of a Pakistani civilian prisoner Mustafa, who was in Indian custody since 2003,” a Pakistan government spokesman said. He said Islamabad urged the Indian government to undertake a transparent investigation and hold the perpetrators to account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/islamabad-protests-death-of-pak-civilian-prisoner-in-poonch/article37224008.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Reprieve for online gaming operators||The State Government on Thursday assured the High Court of Karnataka that no precipitative action would be taken for now against online gaming operators who have questioned the legality of the new law that prohibited as well as criminalised the playing of online games, including games of skill, by risking money or otherwise. Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi made this statement before Justice Krishna S. Dixit during the hearing of petitions filed by All-India Gaming Federation and individual online gaming operators, who have challenged the legality of the Karnataka Police (Amendment) Act, 2021. Following this assurance, the court adjourned further hearing on the petitions till November 11. Interestingly, the Advocate-General on Wednesday had told the court that the Government could not offer a blanket protection from initiation of criminal proceedings under the new law while claiming that there were several contentious issues about difference between the games of skills offered in the physical and the online formats. The primary contention of the petitioners was that the games of skill could not be banned in their online format when the same games, in their physical format, were treated to be legal in the statue book in view of the apex court’s interpretation of laws on gambling and betting. It was also argued on behalf of the petitioners that the State legislature had no power to ban the games of skill as they did not fall within the ambit of “wagering and betting” as held by the apex court in several judgments decided several decades ago. The federation pointed out that several of its members, who were depending on information technology service provided by companies from Bengaluru would also be affected across the country owing to the ban imposed by the Karnataka Government though no such ban existed in other States. In T.N., Kerala The petitioners also pointed out that the High Court of Madras and the High Court of Kerala had recently struck down similar laws banning online gaming in Tamil Nadu and Kerala respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reprieve-for-online-gaming-operators/article37223629.ece
29 October 2021||BENGALURU,TAMIL NADU||‘No question of protecting anybody in bitcoin scam’||The Congress on Thursday upped the ante on the alleged bitcoin scam involving two high-profile politicians of the State and demanded a judicial probe as they “do not have faith in any investigating agency” given the attempts at a “cover-up”. The former Home Minister Ramalinga Reddy said there was a suspicion of Rs. 10,000 crore worth transactions in bitcoins that involve hacker Sri Krishna, arrested by the city police in November 2020. “Fingers are being pointed at several political leaders. There have been attempts to close the case. We hear the Prime Minister’s Office has sought details of the case,” Mr. Reddy said. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah had first flagged the issue on Wednesday on Twitter. The Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru city police had arrested Sri Krishna, 25, in a narcotics case, where he was accused of procuring narcotics from the dark web in November 2020. During his interrogation, the CCB claimed to have uncovered his involvement in several cybercrimes, including ransomware attacks on gaming and other websites and swindling money from several websites, including those of the Government of Karnataka. The CCB had recovered 31 bitcoins worth Rs. 9 crore from him. However, allegations have now surfaced that Rs. 10,000 crore worth transactions in bitcoins were covered up and this involved two high-profile politicians. Reacting to the allegations at Hubballi, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who was Home Minister when Sri Krishna was arrested, said the scam was already probed at the State level and later referred to the Enforcement Directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation. “The investigation will continue and there is no scope for anyone interfering in the probe,” he said. On involvement of prominent politicians, he said if anyone had information, they should spell out the names. Investigation under way Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, at a press conference in the city, said there was no question of saving anyone and investigation was still under way into the case by the Criminal Investigation Department. “I cannot say anything at this moment as that would affect the investigation. But I want to make it clear that whether they are politicians or non-politicians, they will be brought to book. There is no question of sparing anyone,” he said.  The investigation will continue and there is no scope for anyone interfering in the probe. Basavaraj Bommai,Chief Minister   I want to make it clear that whether they are politicians or non-politicians, they will be brought to book. Araga Jnanendra,Home Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-question-of-protecting-anybody-in-bitcoin-scam/article37223635.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Bineesh Kodiyeri gets bail in money laundering case||The High Court of Karnataka has granted bail to Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of former Kerala State secretary of CPI(M) Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case related to alleged financing of illegal drug trade. Justice M.G. Uma passed the order while allowing a petition filed by Bineesh Kodiyeri in March this year after a special court had on February 22, 2021 declined to grant bail to him. “The petition is allowed subject to conditions,” the judge said while pronouncing the order on the petition. It was the case of the ED that Bineesh Kodiyeri is involved in financing the drug business of Mohammed Anoop, the prime accused, and others involved in the crime. The Enforcement Directorate had stated that Bineesh Kodiyeri, arraigned as accused number 4 in the case, had ‘active connivance’ in the offence and was bringing profit from the illegal drug dealings business into the mainstream financial system to evade law enforcement agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bineesh-kodiyeri-gets-bail-in-money-laundering-case/article37223633.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minnagam centre, a hit with consumers||The centralised complaint centre of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco), in its new avatar as Minnagam call centre, is betting on redress of all grievances of the electricity consumers in the city. The call centre has been getting positive feedback from the public. The 24-hour centralised number, 1912, will soon be merged and unified with the Minnagam number 9498794987. In the centralised call centre 1912, which was toll-free, complaints were registered only for power failures that too within the city. However, in the Minnagam centre, which was inaugurated by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in June, all grievances with regard to electricity can be registered and the complainants receive prompt feedback from the call centre. V. Rajagopal, a residents welfare activist of Anna Nagar West Extension, said for any complaint made to the Minnagam Call centre, there is a swift response. However, he fears that the Fuse Off Call (FOC) functioning for three to four section offices should be operating simultaneously, as there is speculation that the FOC will be closed once Minnagam becomes a permanent feature. With Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji also stressing the importance of Minnagam call centre for rectifying routine electricity problems of low voltage, irregular power supply, and delay caused in giving power connections, the electricity officials from top to the bottom of the Operation and Maintenance department of Tangedco in the city are on their toes to solve the complaints received at Minnagam centre promptly. A senior official of Tangedco said the Minister had been reviewing regularly the complaints received at the Minnagam call centre and had been pulling up the local officials in case of any repeated complaints from a particular area. Recently, Tangedco suspended two section officials of north and south regions but the suspension was revoked after the electricity unions took up the matter with the Chairman and Managing Director Rajesh Lakhoni. A section of electricity officials in the city are not happy about the prominence given to Minnagam centre and the pressure put on the officials for rectifying the complaints immediately. An office-bearer of an engineers’ union said officials were under pressure to give priority for complaints received through the Minnagam call centre. Before the Minnagam centre was launched, complaints were received at the centralised number 1912 and were rectified promptly. The section officials were aggrieved by the complaint calls being forwarded to them even at night although a night team in the FOC functioned and previously complaint calls were automatically routed to the FOC offices. The forwarding of these calls at night increased the workload on section officials, he rued. However, the senior electricity official denied that any additional workload was being put on the operation and maintenance officials through the Minnagam complaint centre. The grievances were routed to local officials so that they were aware of these issues and steps were taken to prevent any recurrence of the complaints. The centre operates round the clock at the headquarters and has a minimum of 65 call operators working per shift. The centre operated in three shifts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minnagam-centre-a-hit-with-consumers/article37224116.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Defects in plastering work at K.P. Park tenements: report||The Centre for Urbanisation, Building and Environment (CUBE), which was engaged to assess the quality of the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB) tenements at Kesava Pillai (K.P.) Park at Pulianthope here, has found “unacceptable workmanship” and “extensive defects” in cement plastering work. Importantly, the report raised concerns over the quality of concrete in structural elements in one of the four blocks that were assessed. The report suggested a reanalysis of the structural adequacy of this block. In two other blocks, the quality of a few of the total samples did not meet the required standards. The report recommended repair and refitment work to address these concerns. According to the executive summary of the report made public by TNUHDB on Thursday, CUBE had assessed the quality of 864 apartment units in four blocks in one of the two clusters at K.P. Park. The other cluster, which has a total of 1,056 units, was not included in the assessment. CUBE assessed the quality in three broad categories — concrete structural elements, non-structural and fit out materials, and workmanship. On non-structural and fit out materials, the report said that no major physical defects were observed except for “extensive defects in cement plaster”. In nearly 70% of the samples collected from ceilings, lofts, beams, walls and columns, the cement content was significantly lower than the required specifications It said that “unacceptable workmanship of plastering” was one of the major and most critical defects observed in most of the tenements. The report said that shortcomings observed in tiling works and improper sealing of closets and floor taps were contributing to the widespread seepages observed in the buildings. This has in turn led to dampness, blistering of wall papers, and peeling off of paints. Pointing out that unauthorised modifications to toilets and plumbing lines by some of the allottees of the houses have further complicated the seepage issues, the report said that such modifications should be stopped. While ill fitting windows and grills posed safety and security concerns, shortcomings in many aspects of electrical work posed major hazards. The committee was constituted after allottees raised concern over the quality. Sources at TNUHDB said that P.S.T. Engineering Construction has already begun the repair works suggested by the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/defects-in-plastering-work-at-kp-park-tenements-report/article37224135.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man undergoes bilateral lung transplant||A 34-year-old man from Chandigarh, with a low body mass index, recently underwent lung transplant surgery at a city hospital here. The farmer from Punjab had a rare familial interstitial lung disease. ILD is a group of disorders that progressively scars lung tissue. It is believed to occur in one in one lakh population. The challenges for the surgeons was his low body mass index, which was 15 (transplant is taken up only in patients with 18-32 BMI). His small chest cavity and multiple chest tube insertions on the sides of the lungs added to the complication. He had been on oxygen support for two years and was registered with National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation for donor lungs. “He came to us six months ago and soon his oxygen requirement rose to 12 litres a day from 2 litres a day,” said Govini Balasubramani, head, CTVS, Heart and Lung Transplant, Fortis Hospital, Vadapalani. “He wasn’t able to step out of his home without oxygen support. Generally for his age his BMI should have been 25. Identifying the correct size of lungs as he had a small chest cavity was a tedious task,” Dr. Subramani said. Ahead of transplant, special attention was paid to his diet, physiotherapy and medication. Finally, on October 8, in a seven-hour surgery, the transplant was done. On Thursday, the patient, who was presented at the hospital to the media, said in a feeble voice in Hindi, “I am feeling good.” Dr. Subramani said within days of transplant his condition improved as he did not require oxygen support. He would be reviewed in two months. The patient’s two sisters had similarly suffered and one of them died despite surgery. “His father had also suffered from breathlessness and had died without treatment,” Dr. Subramani said. According to him, except for Israel and to some extent in the United States screening for the condition is not done anywhere in the world. The patient’s community in his home town had borne the cost of the surgery and hospitalisation, he said. The hospital’s zonal director Sanjay Pandey attributed the feat to the multidisciplinary approach that included surgeons, doctors, anaesthetists and pulmonologists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-undergoes-bilateral-lung-transplant/article37224131.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. seeks Rs. 950 crore for 19 new headquarters hospitals||Tamil Nadu has sought approval for establishing 19 district government headquarters hospitals and an allocation of Rs. 950 crore — Rs. 50 crore for each hospital — from the Union Health Ministry, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Wednesday. The Minister, who attended a national review meeting on the COVID-19 vaccination in New Delhi, earlier met Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and submitted a petition comprising 11 demands of the State. At the meeting, the need to complete the administration of the first dose of vaccines across the country by November-end was discussed. A list of persons due for the second dose was also discussed. Mr. Subramanian told reporters that he pointed out that 12 lakh persons were waiting for the second dose of Covaxin in the State and urged the Union Minister to provide at least 10 lakh doses at the earliest. As for the admission to the 11 new government medical colleges, he said the admission of 850 students had already been approved, while the State urged the Union Health Ministry to grant approval for the remaining 800 seats. He was confident of getting the approval for all seats and starting the admissions this year. Expediting the construction work for the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Madurai, a new AIIMS in Coimbatore and the establishment of 25 new primary health centres were among the demands. The Minister added that the government’s stand on vaccinating persons aged below 18 was sought. A demand to exempt Tamil Nadu from the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test was also put forward. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine T.S. Selvavinayagam and Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-seeks-rs-950-crore-for-19-new-headquarters-hospitals/article37224169.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 1,061 cases, 12 deaths||Tamil Nadu logged 1,061 fresh COVID-19 cases and 12 deaths on Thursday. Of the 38 districts, 32 saw no deaths due to the infection. As many as 23 districts recorded fewer than 20 cases each. Of these, 10 districts clocked under 10 infections each. Theni reported just one case, while there were two each in Mayiladuthurai and Tenkasi. Chennai continued to top the table with 135 cases, followed by Coimbatore with 123. In Chengalpattu, 86 people tested positive. Erode saw 77 cases, while Tiruppur and Salem recorded 65 and 62 cases respectively. The State’s case tally touched 26,99,554. Twelve more people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 36,072. Chennai and Coimbatore accounted for three deaths each, while Nagapattinam and Tiruchi logged two each. Two persons in their 30s were among the deceased — a 36-year-old man from Coimbatore and a 38-year-old woman from Tiruppur, both with co-morbidities. Another 1,286 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,51,431. As many as 12,051 people are under treatment for COVID-19 at present. A total of 1,22,835 samples were tested. As many as 1,37,594 people were vaccinated, taking the coverage in government centres to 5,46,34,915. Among those inoculated were 81,084 people aged 18 to 44 and 40,859 people in the 45-59 age group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-1061-cases-12-deaths/article37224142.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Expert calls for dedicated hypertension clinics||Often people who are brought to hospital for stroke or heart attack are found to have high blood pressure. Such adverse situations could be prevented if their BP had been checked prior to the attack. “A person waking up with a stroke or heart attack is a common scenario in today’s life. These problems of heart attack and paralysis of one side are mainly due to high blood pressure, which is a silent killer,” according to A. Muruganathan, who prefers the term hypertensionologist to define what he does. World Stroke Day will be observed on Friday. According to him, in India over 21 crore people have high blood pressure and less than a third of them know about it. “Among those who take treatment, only a third are under control. More than 57% of strokes and 24% of heart attacks are due to high BP,” he said. He said there was a need to set up dedicated hypertension clinics that is run by a physician with 10 years’ experience in managing the condition. Such clinics would improve hypertension screening and treatment to reduce the burden of complications. “When a person walks into a clinic, the first thing a physician should do is check the BP. Experienced physicians with proper clinical examination and history will get a clue for diagnosing secondary hypertension,” Dr. Muruganathan added. He called for popularising home BP monitoring to optimise the management of hypertension patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expert-calls-for-dedicated-hypertension-clinics/article37224133.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Will Sasikala factor impact AIADMK organisational polls?||The ongoing debate within the AIADMK on the readmission of its former interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala has raised a question whether this will come in the way of the party holding organisational elections and conducting the general council. A cross-section of leaders and functionaries of the party is emphatic in saying that the present developments will not have any impact on the commitments to be fulfilled by the party. At present, the membership drive has been completed. D. Jayakumar and R.M. Babu Murugavel, members of the legal team, separately explain that the party is getting ready for holding elections at the level of the rural hamlet. After that, elections at the level of panchayat unions, town panchayats/municipalities/municipal corporations and districts will be covered. Once the motion is set in, the entire exercise can be completed in a few months, they say. The party has already taken from the Election Commission several rounds of extension for the organisational polls and the last is getting lapsed in December. It was on January 9 that the general council met last. Ordinarily, the next meeting has to be held within a year. A senior leader from the western belt, who has identified himself with the camp of Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, is confident that the two leaders — Mr. Palaniswami and coordinator O. Panneerselvam — will “sort out all their issues among themselves.” The leadership has to find a suitable candidate for the post of chairman of the party’s presidium, which is vacant following the death of E. Madhusudhanan. Names of different leaders have been doing rounds and they include Mr. Jayakumar, former Fisheries Minister, and J.C.D. Prabhakar, former Villivakkam legislator. Even though the post is largely ceremonial, the occupant gets limelight at the time of meetings of the general council and the executive. Meanwhile, Mr.Jayakumar reiterated the position being pursued by the camp of Mr. Palaniswami that Ms. Sasikala could not be accommodated in the AIADMK. In another development, a release issued by the coordinator and co-coordinator announced the expulsion of J.M. Basheer, deputy secretary of the minorities wing, for his reported remarks against Mr. Palaniswami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-sasikala-factor-impact-aiadmk-organisational-polls/article37224126.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs govt. to assess number of lay offs due to COVID-19||Observing that “employers cannot be allowed to make a fortune out of a misfortune,”, the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Tamil Nadu government to conduct a comprehensive assessment of the number of employees laid off by industrial establishments without following the norms during peak COVID-19, but not reinstated after the situation improved considerably.  ‘Hold consultations’ Justice M.S. Ramesh directed the Labour Welfare Secretary to assess the situation by holding consultations with the Labour Commissioner regarding the conditions of service and the increase in unemployment rate by comparing figures between the period immediately before the onset of the pandemic and after considerable relaxation of lockdown. “As an illustration and for the sake of convenience, the number of workers on the rolls of any industrial establishment as on January 1, 2019 could be compared with the numbers that exists as on October 27, 2021 in a particular industrial establishment together with explanation of that establishment for the reduced number of workers/employees, if any,” the judge clarified in his interim order. He also called for a preliminary report from the government by November 29. The orders were passed on a writ petition filed by Labour Liberation Front, a trade union, against Mercury Precision Products Private Limited. One of the issues raised in the petition was the company’s failure to reinstate some workers even after relaxation of the lockdown. “The COVID-19 pandemic and the consequential lockdown imposed by the government had resulted in loss of income to many workers/employees owing to non-employment. Equally, the employers were also facing huge monetary losses. It is true that COVID-19 had created a disaster, particularly in industries, factories and other establishments, to which the labour and industrial laws apply,” the judge wrote. He observed, “However, post relaxation of the lockdown , this court has been witnessing many cases where the workers,laid off during the lockdown period, have not been reinstated even though business had resumed. In other words, some of the employers seem to have exploited this unprecedented situation.” Finding that many employers had retrenched some of their workers without adhering to the labour laws, the judge lamented that the government too has not done anything to address the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-govt-to-assess-number-of-lay-offs-due-to-covid-19/article37224158.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Getting medical attention within 4.5 hours crucial in case of stroke’||Doctors at Kauvery Hospitals stressed on the need for getting immediate medical attention at the comprehensive stroke care centre (CSCC) within 4.5 hours of first symptoms of a stroke. Addressing a webinar organised by The Hindu as part of its wellness series in association with Kauvery Hospitals on Thursday, G. Jos Jasper, head, Department of Brain and Spine Surgery, Kauvery Hospital, Tiruchi, said as treatment options were limited for stroke, it was important for patients to be taken to CSCC within the golden period of 4.5 hours. “In Tamil Nadu, fortunately, such facilities are becoming available in smaller cities as well. With good connectivity, it is possible to take people to nearest centre,” he said and added that even many government hospitals were equipped with such facilities. Prithika Chary, senior consultant, neurologist and neurosurgeon and chief neurologist at Kauvery Hospital in Chennai, said it was important to remember the acronym FAST, which expanded to facial dropping, arm weakness, speech difficulties, and time. While the first three letters stood for symptoms of stroke, the last letter that stood for time referred to the importance of rushing to the hospital. Highlighting that there was increasing prevalence of stroke even among younger population, she said that in one in three cases there will be warning signals at least a year before the stroke. Unlike a full blown stroke, such warning signals can resolve automatically within a few minutes, she said. It was important to not ignore such signals. Both the doctors stressed on the need for leading a healthy lifestyle to prevent stroke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/getting-medical-attention-within-45-hours-crucial-in-case-of-stroke/article37224128.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Order on medical, dental fee irks parents||A government order from the Higher Education Department has upset parents of wards studying in Annamalai University’s medical and dental colleges. The G.O., signed by the department’s Secretary D. Karthikeyan and issued on Tuesday, has provided the details of fees fixed for MBBS and post-graduate programmes in the Government Medical College and Government Dental College, Cuddalore district for students admitted in 2016-17 onwards. The order states that students on the university’s roll during the academic year 2020-21 had approached the government and sought to re-fix the fee for PG and UG courses. Accordingly the department has given a break-up of fees fixed for students admitted since 2016-17. For instance, MBBS students currently doing their Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship (CRRI) will pay Rs. 5.44 lakh for the first year and subsequently Rs. 4 lakh/year. The same rule applies for students admitted in 2017-18. For those admitted from 2018-19 to 2020-21, the fee has been fixed at Rs. 4 lakh/year “on a par with self-financing college fees for the entire duration of their study” the order reads. A similar break-up has been given for dental college students and for PG students. Any excess fee would be refunded to outgoing students or suitably adjusted for junior year students towards fee to be paid in the coming years. In case of CRRIs, if the stipend was paid then it would be recovered as in self-financing colleges no stipend is paid to CRRIs, the G.O. explains. “The government took over the colleges in 2013, but the fee collected was much higher than even that collected by SF colleges. We, the parents of students from the 2013-14 batch, have been fighting for refund. “When the fee for self-financing colleges was Rs. 2.3 lakh to Rs. 2.8 lakh, we paid Rs. 4.5 lakh and Rs. 5.04 lakh as per the (fee fixation) committee’s order, which too we have challenged,” said S. Viswanathan, a parent, who led the legal fight against the higher fees fixed by the committee. He added that the order had been issued at a time when case was pending with the Madras High Court. G.R. Ravindranath, general secretary of Doctors’ Association for Social Equality, said the fee fixed by the government is 30 times higher than what is paid at government colleges and three times more than that fixed for SF colleges. He has urged the government to issue an order that the fee for the students admitted in PG for 2021-24 be on a par with that charged by government colleges only. Similar move is necessary for MBBS students admitted from 2021-22, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/order-on-medical-dental-fee-irks-parents/article37224132.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Weather system to bring significant rainfall in State till weekend||With the rain-bearing weather system moving closer to the Tamil Nadu coast, the State is expected to get significant rainfall in several areas till the weekend. This follows the onset of the northeast monsoon earlier this week. According to the Meteorological Department, the low-pressure area has moved westward and now lies over southwest Bay of Bengal off the Sri Lankan coast. It may continue to move further westwards towards the Tamil Nadu coast and influence fairly widespread rain till Sunday. The Department has maintained its orange alert for southern Tamil Nadu and north coastal districts for Friday and for the delta districts and southern parts on Saturday and Sunday, as very heavy rain, up to an intensity of 24.4 cm, may strike in one or two places. In the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday, Kadambur in Thoothukudi district recorded 9 cm — the highest in the State for the day. Several weather stations and rain gauges in the State, including Udhagamandalam, Nagercoil, Puzhal and Valparai, recorded light rain during the day till 5.30 p.m. Intensity of rain Officials of the Meteorological Department said four districts — Ramanathapuram, Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi — would receive scattered heavy rain, and the intensity may increase in one or two places on Friday. Ten districts, including Madurai, Tiruvallur, Chennai and Sivaganga, may get heavy rain in a few places. A similar weather pattern may continue till the weekend and heavy rain may be restricted to one or two places in the coastal parts on Monday. S. Balachandran, deputy director general of Meteorology, Chennai, said the slow-moving system would be more intense in the southern part of the State. A trough extending from the weather system and aligning along the coast may bring moderate rain at many places. The rain spell may last till the month-end. Some areas of Chennai are likely to receive heavy rain on Friday, he said.  Ramanathapuram, Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi will receive scattered heavy rain, and the intensity may increase in one or two places on Friday Meteorological Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weather-system-to-bring-significant-rainfall-in-state-till-weekend/article37224140.ece
29 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Stalin allays apprehensions over ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’||Allaying apprehensions over the ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ scheme launched by the State government, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday said volunteers would be continuously monitored. “Only those who abide by the government’s guidelines will be allowed to continue as volunteers,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. Volunteers will be imparted special training, he said. Those who have registered to volunteer for the scheme will be shortlisted by a school management committee based on multiple parameters, such as educational qualifications, place of residence and experience, among others, the Chief Minister said. Headmasters, teachers, parents and representatives from local bodies will be part of the committee. So far, 86,550 people, including 67,961 women, 18,557 men and 32 transpersons, have registered to volunteer under the scheme. The scheme is being implemented to address the learning gap among students due to the closure of schools during the COVID-19 lockdown and to assist teachers in this regard, Mr. Stalin said. “The scheme is also aimed at ensuring that children from every household in the State, in the school-going age, are enrolled in schools. Moreover, the scheme will be implemented with a target to enroll at least a lakh students in government schools in the upcoming academic year,” he said. Reiterating the State’s opposition to the National Education Policy, Mr. Stalin said a committee of educationists would be constituted at the earliest to frame a State Education Policy. “Volunteers will act as goodwill ambassadors for government schools and function as a bridge between teachers, schools and society,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-allays-apprehensions-over-illam-thedi-kalvi/article37224145.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||49,000 fined for not wearing masks||The city police and the Greater Chennai Corporation intensified a special drive to ensure mask compliance among Deepavali shoppers. Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal and Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi inspected the public places on Saturday and gave several instructions to the personnel for effectively monitoring the situation. Police said 49,326 people were levied fines for not wearing masks during Deepavali shopping and a total fine of Rs. 98.65 lakh collected from the violators during the special drive since last Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/49000-fined-for-not-wearing-masks/article37224104.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||7 arrested for murder of VCK functionary||Seven persons have been arrested in connection with the murder of a functionary of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) who was hacked to death by a gang of eight men in Chetpet police station limits on Monday night. K. Elangovan, 50, of Chetpet who was running a tea shop on Mayor Chittibabu Street, was hacked to death by a gang around 8.30 p.m. Monday while he was talking to his friend at the shop. The police arrested seven persons, including Sanjay Prabu, 38, of Maduravoyal. Investigation revealed that Prabu and Elangovan had enmity. The police seized knives and bikes from the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7-arrested-for-murder-of-vck-functionary/article37224117.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New norms may hit infrastructure work||Tangedco, facing a huge revenue deficit of around Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 2,000 crore a month, recently revised the financial powers of electricity officials to ensure prudence. However, the officials said the new tender powers would create problems and delay in executing electricity infrastructure projects in the city. Tangedco recently issued a circular drastically revising the financial powers for taking up work at substations, installing transformers and procuring materials and services. A senior official said the tender powers for the various levels of officials had been revised, including the Chief Engineer of Chennai regions, to Rs. 1 crore and Superintending Engineers to Rs. 5 lakh. A senior official of the Operation and Maintenance department of Chennai region said the revision of the tender rates for CEs to Rs. 1 crore from Rs. 3 crore for works contract and SEs to Rs. 5 lakh from Rs. 50 lakh would seriously affect and delay the execution of distribution improvement work. Although it was understandable that the revision was done taking into consideration the poor financial condition of the department, at least for Chennai region exceptions should be made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-norms-may-hit-infrastructure-work/article37224122.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||25 suggestion boxes installed at RGGGH||To know the needs of patients and the difficulties faced by them, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) has installed 25 suggestion boxes, including at the emergency and trauma ward, intensive care units (ICU) and intermediate care units, and diagnostic units. The move to get the feedback from patients through the suggestion boxes would help keep a check on corruption or malpractices, according to hospital authorities. “As of now, we have put up the suggestion boxes at 25 places. This includes the emergency and trauma ward, surgical ICUs, high dependency unit, near outpatient area, laboratory, X-rays and CT scan centres. We have kept forms near these boxes on which the patients can write their suggestions. This will help us know the needs of patients and the difficulties faced by them so that it can be addressed and rectified,” E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH, said. He said one patient, for instance, had sought provision of hot water following which arrangements were made for the same. “Suggestions are welcome. We are asking patients to give their feedback while being discharged from the hospital,” he added. An Assistant Residential Medical Officer (ARMO) has been put in-charge of the suggestion boxes. The officer would collect the slips from the boxes every Saturday, make entries, and take action accordingly. As per government norms, a vigilance committee was constituted with two assistant professors — a woman and a man — and the ARMO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-suggestion-boxes-installed-at-rgggh/article37224119.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A-G withdraws orders refusing nod for contempt proceedings against Gurumurthy||Advocate General (A-G) R. Shunmugasundaram has recalled an order passed by his predecessor Vijay Narayan on March 31, refusing to give consent for initiating criminal contempt of court proceedings against Tamil magazine Thuglak ’s editor S. Gurumurthy for his comments on the judiciary during the magazine’s annual meet with its readers on January 14. The A-G agreed with Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) leader S. Doraisamy’s counsel V. Elangovan that his plea for consent was dismissed by mistake and hence the order must be withdrawn. He decided to reconsider the plea for grant of consent, along with a similar plea made by advocate S. Kumaradevan on November 12. According to Mr. Elangovan, the previous A-G had, on March 26, granted time till March 31 for Mr. Gurumoorthy’s counsel to file an English translation of the Tamil speech since the A-G could not read the Tamil text. The translation was submitted before the A-G’s office on March 31. A copy of the translation was also given to Mr. Doraisamy. But even before the petitioner could get back, the order rejecting the consent was passed, the counsel said. “The filing of physical copy on March 31 probablises the version of Mr. Elangovan that the translation was asked for as the then A-G was not able to read Tamil,” the incumbent A-G said. His withdrawal order went on to read: “S. Ravi argued for the respondent [Mr. Gurumurthy]. He admitted to having filed the rough transcription of the questions and answers [between the editor and the readers] and the English translation. As per the official seal, the copy was received on March 31… Therefore, the submission that the order of dismissal was passed by mistake cannot be brushed aside.” The comments by Mr. Gurumurthy were made while answering a query from one of the readers on judicial delay in deciding corruption cases. He had said even Supreme Court judges got appointed by politicians and that the appointments were obtained only by beseeching one person or the other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-g-withdraws-orders-refusing-nod-for-contempt-proceedings-against-gurumurthy/article37224172.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Melting of temple jewellery not now: HC||The Madras High Court on Thursday permitted Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department to take inventory of jewellery and other valuables which form part of offerings made by devotees to various temples in the State. However, it ordered that a decision on melting the gold jewellery must be taken only after appointment of trustees. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu passed the interim orders on a batch of public interest litigation petitions filed by Indic Collective Trust. The petitioner had challenged the department's decision to melt unwanted gold jewellery and articles at a Mumbai based mint facility owned by the Centre, convert them into bars and earn interest by pledging them in banks. The litigants contended that any decision on melting valuables donated to temples must be taken only by the trustees concerned and not by the HR&CE department officials who exercise only supervisory jurisdiction. They brought it to the notice of the court that trustees had not been appointed in many temples for long. On the other hand, advocate-general R. Shunmugasundaram said the process of constituting district-level committees for appointment of trustees had begun and that the committees were expected to be in place within a month. He said the process of melting gold jewellery and articles donated to temples was not new. According to the A-G, the HR&CE department had earned roughly Rs. 11.5 crore by way of interest from gold bars deposited in banks and that the money had been utilised to renovate many temples. However, in the last 10 years, the valuables dropped in temple hundials (donation boxes) had not even been inventorised, he said. The State government had created three panels headed by one retired Supreme Court judge and two former judges of the Madras High Court to oversee the work of melting the gold jewellery and other articles. These panels would continue to take inventory but a decision on melting would be taken only after the appointment of trustees, he said. After recording his submission and passing an order on similar lines, the judges directed the court Registry to list the cases on December 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/melting-of-temple-jewellery-not-now-hc/article37224106.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Export panel reconstituted||The government on Wednesday reconstituted the State Export Promotion Committee (SEPC) under the Chief Secretary to review all trade-related issues, including those concerning logistics, agriculture and service exports. The panel has representatives from associations of seven ‘champion sectors’. A. Saktivel, president, Federation of Indian Export Organisations; Raja Shanmugham, president, Tiruppur Exporters’ Association; Shuba Kumar, regional chairperson, Automotive Component Manufacturers’ Association; Satyakam Arya, vice-chairman, CII Tamil Nadu; Mohammed Mohibullah Kottai, managing director, Mohib Shoes; Josh Foulger, country head, Foxconn International Holding India Private Limited, and K.V.V. Mohanan, regional president, Seafood Exporters’ Association of India (SEAI), are the representatives from ‘champion sectors’. Besides the Chief Secretary, who is the chairperson of the panel, the Secretaries of Industries, Finance, Fisheries, Textiles, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and Agriculture departments are the ex-officio members of the panel. Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer of Guidance Tamil Nadu would be its convener and Additional Director General of Foreign Trade of Southern Zone in Chennai would be the co-convener. The SEPC would meet at least once every six months to review the progress in implementation of the export strategy. It would also provide regular coordination between the Union Department of Commerce and the State government. The SEPC was constituted in November 2019. In September this year, orders were issued for implementing Tamil Nadu Export Promotion Strategy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/export-panel-reconstituted/article37224171.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nod for 150 seats in four new medical colleges||The Union Health Ministry has granted approval for 150 seats each at the new government medical colleges at Krishnagiri, Dindigul, Nagapattinam and Ariyalur. With 850 seats already approved, this would take the total number of seats approved in the 11 new government medical colleges to 1,450, according to Health Minister Ma. Subramanian. Presently, Tamil Nadu has 26 government medical colleges with an intake of 3,750 students, 16 self-financing medical colleges with a total of 2,350 seats and nine deemed universities with 1,550 seats. The 1,450 seats in the 11 colleges would take the total number of medical seats in the State to 9,100, the Minister told reporters on Thursday. Earlier, permission was granted for an intake of 150 each in the new medical colleges at Virudhunagar, Kallakurichi and the Nilgiris. The medical colleges at Ramanathapuram, Namakkal, Tiruvallur and Tiruppur were permitted to admit 100 students each, with another 50 seats each pending for approval. During inspections, the team had pointed out minor deficiencies such as furniture and books for library. The deficiencies were rectified and the Director of Medical Education visited Delhi three times in the last 15 days, he said. The Minister said he, along with officials, met the Union Health Minister in Delhi and stressed the need to grant approval for the remaining seats in this academic year. “Now, we have received the nod for 150 seats each at the new medical colleges at Krishnagiri, Dindigul, Nagapattinam and Ariyalur. Already, 850 seats were approved, and now 600 seats have been approved, taking the total number of seats to 1,450. The State government has sought another 100 seats at Coimbatore Medical College, which presently has an intake of 150 seats. This is under consideration and the chances are high to get the nod this year,” he said. The Minister noted that it was doubtful if the pending seats at Ramanathapuram, Namakkal, Tiruvallur and Tiruppur medical colleges would be approved this year but the State government would continue its efforts to get the nod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nod-for-150-seats-each-in-four-new-medical-colleges-minister/article37224152.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic constable saves elderly woman as her sari catches fire||A traffic police constable acted swiftly to rescue an octogenarian woman, whose sari caught fire while she was praying at the entrance of a temple on Paper Mills Road, Perambur, recently. The CCTV footage has since gone viral. The incident occurred around 9 a.m. on Saturday, in front of Krishna temple between SRP Koil Street and Paper Mills Road. The elderly woman, Hamsa, 80, was offering prayers near the entrance, when her sari fell on a lighted lamp and caught fire. P. Senthilkumar, a constable with the Sembium Traffic Police, saw the flames and immediately rushed to her rescue. He rolled her down the road and pulled out the burning part of her sari. A flower vendor in the vicinity was asked to check whether Ms. Hamsa had sustained any burns, but fortunately, she was fine. Members of the public got her a sari from the temple. Police said Ms. Hamsa of Kolathur had a hearing problem. Mr. Senthilkumar sustained burns on his hands and was treated at a government hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-constable-saves-elderly-woman-as-her-sari-catches-fire/article37224102.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three jailed for violating bond terms||Disha Mittal, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Mylapore, has ordered the imprisonment of three persons for breaching conditions of a security bond they executed for keeping good behaviour and continuing their criminal activities. According to police, S. Murugesan, 62, of Nochi Nagar and his sons — Murugan, 31, and Karthik, 23 — had criminal cases against them. Last August, they executed a security bond for good behaviour for a year and promised to lead a reformed life. However, they were caught with country bombs and knives while travelling by an autorickshaw and motorbikes on Wednesday night. They were produced before the Deputy Commissioner of Police, who passed an order to detain them in prison for the rest of the period of the bond.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-jailed-for-violating-bond-terms/article37224103.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M’s ‘Sampark’ goes online this year||Sampark, a workshop for college students by students of the Indian Institute of Technology Madras, will be held online over two weekends this year. The four-day workshop will be conducted on October 30 and 31 and November 6 and 7. There will be five workshops on topics, including python for computational physics, 3D modelling, circuit simulation, web development and machine learning. At the end of each day, there will be quizzes. Sampark has been held for over 10 years as part of the institute’s technical festival Shaastra and aims to provide college students a platform to showcase their scientific and engineering talent. For more details, contact sampark@shaastra.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-ms-sampark-goes-online-this-year/article37224107.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New rules for family cards to destitute women||The State government has revised the procedure to issue family cards to destitute women and those who have left their homes. So far, on submission of a request to remove their names from the family card, they had to get the consent from the head of their family, who will then get an OTP and the name would be deleted. “However, this is not possible in many cases since the women might have stepped out under adverse situations. We have directed fair price shops to accept an undertaking from women along with details and we would remove the name from their original cards and issue fresh cards,” said an official source. The ration of 5 kg rice, 500 g sugar, a pack of palm oil and one kg of tur dal would be removed from that card and added to the new one,” the source added. An order in this respect was issued recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-rules-for-family-cards-to-destitute-women/article37224124.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anbumani shocked over toxic gas emissions||PMK youth wing leader and Rajya Sabha MP Anbumani Ramadoss on Thursday expressed shock over a report that people in Tamil Nadu are suffering high levels of pollution because of the toxic gases emitted by thermal power plants. In a statement, he condemned the thermal plants for not following norms to retrofit all coal-based plants with the Flue Gas Desulfuriser and said posing risks to human lives was not acceptable. Dr. Anbumani said the State government should explore options of shifting to alternative sources such as wind and solar energy, and revise its energy-producing policy. Except for the thermal plants under construction, the State government should announce that no new thermal power projects would be implemented, he urged. Instead, the government should pursue a shift towards hybrid generation of wind and solar power and also take measures to convert coal-based plants to gas-based plants, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anbumani-shocked-over-toxic-gas-emissions/article37224153.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.S. Srinivasan Knowledge Conclave starts||Vladimir Hachinski, creator of the Hachinski ischemic score for vascular dementia, and a pioneer in the stroke-dementia interface, will deliver the 41st T.S. Srinivasan endowment oration on Saturday. Mr. Hachinski is a professor in the University of Western Ontario, Canada. The T.S. Srinivasan Knowledge Conclave is being held for three days from Thursday. Among the speakers are Prof. Jeffrey Cummings of the University of Nevada, Los Angeles, and John Morris, Friedman distinguished professor of neurology, Washington University. It is sponsored by the T.S. Srinivasan Charitable Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ts-srinivasan-knowledge-conclave/article37224129.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. plans petrochemical cluster in Nagapattinam||The Tamil Nadu Government is exploring the possibility of establishing a petrochemical cluster in Nagapattinam in the Cauvery delta region. It is attempting to capitalise on the construction of a 9-million metric tonne per annum refinery there by Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (CPCL), along with Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL). The construction started last month, and is planned to be completed in 45 months. The MSME Trade and Investment Promotion Bureau (M-TIPB) has called for bids for preparation of a detailed project report. The estimated investment in the CPCL-IOCL project, which will also have a petrochemical complex, is Rs. 31,580 crore. A tender document referred to the project and noted, “An ecosystem in the form of a petrochemical cluster will facilitate micro, small and medium enterprises in the region to act as ancillary units to this plant as well as to the larger enterprises in the ecosystem.” A senior official told The Hindu that the plan was to establish the cluster by the time the construction of the plant would be completed. Asked whether the cluster would be possible since Nagapattinam is listed in the First Schedule of the Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Development Act, 2020, the official said petrochemicals was not in the list of new projects or activity specified in the Second Schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrochemical-cluster-planned-in-nagapattinam/article37224154.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajinikanth admitted to Kauvery Hospital in Chennai||Actor Rajinikanth was admitted to Kauvery Hospital on Thursday. Hospital sources said he was stable. Sources close to the actor said he was at the hospital for a routine check up and that they were unclear as to whether the actor would be staying overnight at the hospital. The hospital is expected to issue a bulletin on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajinikanth-admitted-to-kauvery-hospital-in-chennai/article37224100.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates new buildings||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday virtually inaugurated new buildings constructed at a cost of Rs. 102.94 crore in multiple locations for educational institutions, under the control of the Higher Education Department. They have been constructed in the districts of Chengalpattu, Chennai, Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Dharmapuri, Dindigul, Kancheepuram, Kanniyakumari, Krishnagiri, Perambalur, Madurai, Salem, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, Thanjavur, Theni, the Nilgiris, Tiruchi, Tirunelveli, Tiruppur, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram and Virudhunagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-new-buildings/article37224155.ece
29 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gowthaman named chairperson of TNFDC||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday named N. Gowthaman chairperson of the Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation (TNFDC) Ltd. An official release said that Mr. Gowthaman, a native of Akkaraipettai in Nagapatinam district, has been instrumental in resolving issues concerning fishermen for the past 25 years. He has been part of the panel that visited Sri Lanka and held talks for resolving fishermen issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gowthaman-named-chairperson-of-tnfdc/article37224120.ece
29 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Doctors call for increased awareness on stroke, stress early intervention||‘Minutes can save lives’, the theme of World Stroke Day 2021 rightly conveys the importance of admitting a person with symptoms of stroke to a stroke-ready hospital at the earliest. Doctors simply put stroke as the equivalent of heart attack in the brain. It occurs when a blood vessel taking blood and oxygen to the brain gets blocked (ischemic stroke) or ruptured (haemorrhagic stroke). According to them, a majority of strokes are ischemic which presents as a sudden onset of weakness or numbness involving a portion of your body. Though it might easily be neglected, it can also present as difficulty in speaking, blurring of vision or fainting attacks, they say. “These attacks can sometimes be short-lasting (minutes to hours) and recover spontaneously wherein they are called transient ischemic attacks (TIA) or minor form of stroke. However they might be warning signs of future stroke,” says Sriram Vardharaj, Lead Consultant Stroke and Neuro Imaging at Kovai Medical Center and Hospital (KMCH). Bleeding inside the brain can present with onset of severe headache and vomiting. The management of both differs. However in both, brain cells do not get the blood required. Deprived of oxygen, nerve cells stop working and die within minutes. “Evacuation of bleed and control of hypertension are the mainstay of haemorrhagic stroke treatment. Further investigations are needed to find cause of bleeding,” says Mathew Cherian, Director of Interventional Radiology at KMCH. He says that the impact of stroke is such that every minute, the brain ages by 3.1 weeks and if the treatment is delayed by an hour, 120 million neurons die and brain ages by nearly 3.6 years. “As per ICMR estimates, persons suffers from stroke every three seconds and death is reported every three minutes in India. Globally one in four adults over the age of 25 will have a stroke in their lifetime. In India, 1.5 million suffer from stroke every year and 3,000 to 4,000 are affected each day. Nearly one-fifth of patients with first-ever stroke admitted has been estimated to be aged 40 years or less,” says Dr. Cherian, highlighting the need of public awareness about stroke and its symptoms. Ramakrishnan T.C.R., Stroke Specialist at KG Hospital, says that the symptoms of stroke can be easily recognized through ‘BEFAST’ (B- loss of balance, E - loss of vision, F – one side of face drooping, A- arm weakness, S-slurring of speech, T- time to call an ambulance). “Thrombolytic therapy, either thrombolysis (dissolving of blood clot using drug) or thrombectomy (removal of blood clot), is beneficial if done at the earliest after stroke. Hypertension (61%), diabetes (36%) and tobacco use (32%) are the major risk factors for stroke,” he says. R. Balakrishnan, Head of the Department of Neurology at PSG Hospital, stroke is a medical emergency and it is the third leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. “This year’s theme means that every second after the patient develops stroke is very important. Patient has to reach the stroke ready hospital within 4.5 hours. Main treatment of acute ischemic stroke is thrombolysis which lyses the clot through injection that has to be given within 4.5 hours to have great benefit. Other form of therapy in acute ischemic stroke after 4.5 hours is thrombectomy in selected patients where the clot will be removed using a device”, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-call-for-increased-awareness-on-stroke-stress-early-intervention/article37224181.ece
29 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||SEC tells officials to get ready for urban local body polls||State Election Commissioner (SEC) V. Palanikumar on Thursday instructed the officials from Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode and the Nilgiris to ensure adherence to COVID-19 safety protocols during the conduct of the urban local body elections in the districts. Addressing the top officials from the four districts on Thursday, he said that the officials must wear masks, maintain personal distancing and utilise PPE kits effectively as per the directions of the State government. To ensure maintenance of law and order, the police officers must ensure round-the-clock vigil in the four districts, Mr. Palanikumar said, according to a press release. Preparatory works for setting up of polling stations must be carried out as the electoral roll will be released on November 1, he said. All polling stations should have adequate CCTV cameras installed. Adherence to Model Code of Conduct following the announcement of the election date and attending the training programmes for the election officials must be ensured, Mr. Palanikumar added. District Collectors G.S. Sameeran (Coimbatore), S. Vineeth (Tiruppur) and H. Krishnanunni (Erode), District Revenue Officer for the Nilgiris district R. Keerthy Priyadharshini, Superintendents of Police S. Selvanagarathinam (Coimbatore) and Ashish Rawat (the Nilgiris) and Corporation Commissioners Raja Gopal Sunkara (Coimbatore) and Kranti Kumar Pati (Tiruppur) were among the officials who participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sec-tells-officials-to-get-ready-for-urban-local-body-polls/article37224176.ece
29 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Four boys drown near Sulur||Three boys drowned in a small pond near Sulur in Coimbatore district on Thursday. The tragedy occurred when they ventured into the pond to take bath. The police have identified the deceased as A. Sathishkumar (14), S. Sabarivasan (12) and A. Boopathi (14), all residents of Muthalipalayam. According to the police, Sathishkumar studied up to seventh standard and Sabarivasan and Boopathi were students of class VI and VIII of Government School, Arasur. The police said that the boys went to the pond in the locality named ‘Kinathukattu kuttai’ around 10 a.m. Sulur inspector R. Mathaiyan said that the boys did not know swimming and drowned while playing in the water. In a separate incident, an eight-year-old boy from Kurumbapalayam near Sulur drowned in a small pond on Thursday. The police said that A. Hariharan, a resident of Mariamman Koil Street at Kurumbapalayam, drowned in a pond close to his residence. Though the boy was rushed to a private hospital at Neelambur, doctors declared him brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-boys-drown-near-sulur/article37224184.ece
29 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tamilisai Soundararajan defends T.N. Governor||Governor of Telangana and Lieutenant-Governor of Puducherry, Tamilisai Soundararajan, on Thursday disapproved of the criticism from some political parties of Tamil Nadu Governor R.N. Ravi seeking details from the State government on various schemes. She was surprised that everything was being politicised in the State. “I have collected details from the ruling party in Telangana [as the Governor] and in Puducherry as the Lieutenant-Governor from the Chief Ministers and even from the secretaries of some departments,” she told journalists in Coimbatore. A conference of Governors and Lieutenant-Governors is scheduled to be held in New Delhi on November 11, at which the implementation of various schemes in the respective States and Union Territories would be discussed, Mr. Soundararajan said, adding that Mr. Ravi might have sought details for this purpose. On criticisms regarding the maintenance of law and order in Puducherry, she said the law and order situation was under control and that the police had stepped up security. The local body elections would be held in Puducherry after ensuring reservation of seats for candidates from the backward classes, she said. Commending the efforts of the Central government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in achieving the milestone of administering 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses, she requested the public to not let their guard down and adhere to the safety protocols even after being fully vaccinated. Ms. Soundararajan interacted with volunteers who served the public during the COVID-19 pandemic in Coimbatore and commended their efforts. Earlier in the day, she visited a temple at Perumanallur near Tiruppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamilisai-soundararajan-defends-tn-governor/article37224167.ece
29 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Missing elephant tusks found abandoned in reserve forest||The Forest Department on Thursday recovered a pair of tusks which went missing from the skeleton of a wild elephant in Boluvampatti forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division recently. According to the Forest Department, the tusks were found in thorny bushes, around 430 metres away from the place where the skeleton of a male elephant was found on Sunday. The skeleton of a male elephant, aged between 25 and 28, was found in a reserve forest area of Ponndi south beat of Vellapathy section of Boluvampatty forest range. The Forest Veterinary Officer who examined the carcass opined that the elephant could have died at least 45 days ago and the tusks were removed from the skeleton about two weeks after its death. The department had formed five teams to trace the missing tusks. According to District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar, the tusks were found inside the forest by one of the teams on Thursday noon. The department will conduct a DNA analysis to confirm whether the tusks found in the forest belonged to the elephant, carcass of which was spotted on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/missing-elephant-tusks-found-abandoned-in-reserve-forest/article37224183.ece
29 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||FSSAI plea to sweet manufacturers||The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has appealed to manufacturers and sellers of sweets and savouries to follow safe and hygienic practices during Deepavaliseason. The food regulator has instructed sweet manufacturers and sellers to keep their facilities hygienic, use quality raw materials and avoid adulterantss. K. Tamilselvan, Designated Officer of FSSAI, Coimbatore district, also instructed manufacturers and traders not to use newspapers and single use polythene bags for packing sweets. A fine of Rs. 2,000 will be imposed on violators. All packaged products should have proper labelling.Manufacturers should avoid use of reheated oil. Oil once used was being collected under the Repurpose Used Cooking Oil scheme. Sweets manufacturers in corporation limits can contactrecocoimbatore@ gmail.com, 90877-90877 or 94455-17187 to inform about the stock of used cooking oil for collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fssai-plea-to-sweet-manufacturers/article37224185.ece
29 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Check excess fare collection in buses, says consumer organisation||The State government must crackdown on excess fare collection by stage carriage buses, particularly those operated by the government, urged consumer rights organisation Coimbatore Consumer Cause (CCC). In a letter to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, CCC secretary K. Kathirmathiyon said that the Transport Department cracks down on omni buses during festival season such as Deepavali for collection of excess fares. However, these omni buses are plying as contract carriages, for which there is no provision for fixation of fares by the government, he noted. “Most unfortunately, the [State government] failed to stop the illegal excess fare collected continuously by the stage carriage buses,” he said. The Collector, who is the Regional Transport Authority, fixes the fares for the stage carriage buses and collection of fares in excess of the approved fare is illegal, he said. As many government-run stage carriage buses allegedly charge excess fares without facing any serious action, private stage carriage buses have also been collecting excess fares, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/check-excess-fare-collection-in-buses-says-consumer-organisation/article37224173.ece
29 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elected||Senior lawyer from Coimbatore N. Sundaravadivelu was recently elected as the District Governor (2024 - 25) of Rotary International District 3021. It includes Coimbatore district besides Palakkad, Thrissur, Ernakulam and Idukki districts in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elected/article37224164.ece
29 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Railway station master redeployed||Following the lack of passenger train services via Kinathukadavu railway station in Coimbatore district for nearly 19 months, the Southern Railway has recently redeployed its station master to Pollachi railway station. Sources in Southern Railway told The Hindu on Thursday that the media reports claiming that the Kinathukadavu railway station has been closed were false and that the redeployment is only a routine procedure. The railway station, which remained as one of the main stoppages for several passenger trains till March 2020 prior to the COVID-19 lockdown, has been seeing only the stoppage of goods train services since the passenger train services were yet to be resumed. Kinathukadavu station has currently a full-time pointsman and the station master will occasionally visit the station to oversee the stoppages of goods trains, according to the sources. Both Kinathukadavu and Pollachi railway stations fall under the Palakkad Division of Southern Railway. Sources added that the passenger train services via Kinathukadavu will be resumed soon following the relaxations in the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-station-master-redeployed/article37224175.ece
29 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Automobile scrap shop gutted||An automobile scrap shop on Nanjundapuram Road here was gutted in fire on Thursday. The Fire and Rescue Services said that the fire was reported in the shop at Sripathy Nagar around 1.45 p.m. Coimbatore south fire station received a call at 1.50 p.m. and two fire tenders were sent to the location. According to the Fire and Rescue Services, the scrap dealership had parts of old cars stored in an area of about an acre. A portion of the scrap caught fire and think smoke spread in the locality. The fire was fully extinguished after two more fire tenders from Peelamedu and Ganpathy fire stations were brought to the location. District Fire Officer Annadurai and Coimbatore south station officer S. Velusamy led the firefighting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/automobile-scrap-shop-gutted/article37224178.ece
29 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Travel sector on recovery path’||Coimbatore has seen 68% month-on-month increase in demand for travel since June 2021, according to a report by Thomas Cook, an integrated travel service company. The upcoming festivals and winter season with Expo 2020 Dubai are seeing encouraging recovery of travel sector, both domestic and international. Some of the favoured outbound destinations for Coimbatore customers include Maldives, Switzerland, France, Turkey, Egypt, Russia and Dubai. Thomas Cook India has observed increased uptick from the wedding and honeymoon segment and trade associations from Coimbatore have evinced interest in international holidays, it said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/travel-sector-on-recovery-path/article37224186.ece
29 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||28octcbmsp_Briefly||The regional office of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation, Coimbatore, will observe vigilance awareness week till November 1. Officials and staff took a pledge on Tuesday. A release said, apart from the internet-based mechanism to receive and redress grievances and complaints, a drop box is also kept at the regional office to receive complaints.    Spark EV Showroom in Pollachi recently organised an awareness programme on road safety and green vehicles. Minister R. Chakrapani inaugurated the programme and said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has taken efforts for development of industries in the State. The company also introduced new models of electric vehicles, a release said.   Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International School of Textiles and Management is organising an exhibition-cum-sale to coincide with Deepavali to exhibit the products of indigenous textiles and handicrafts on the institute premises from October 29 to November 2. The aim is to promote sale of local handloom and handicraft products. Exhibits include sarees, fashion accessories, home textile and products made from banana fibre. The exhibition will be on between 11 a.m. and 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/28octcbmspbriefly/article37224174.ece
29 October 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore logs 20 cases||Cuddalore district recorded nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Thursday. As many as 20 persons tested positive for the infection, taking the district’s tally to 64,032. In Villupuram district, 11 persons tested positive, while Kallakurichi district reported nine new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-logs-20-cases/article37224513.ece
29 October 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||DPCs’ style of functioning irks farmers||Some employees of the direct purchase centre (DPC) at Ramarajapuram in Nilakottai taluk demanded money to weigh paddy, said farmers at the monthly farmers’ grievance meeting held here by on Thursday. A group of farmers from the block raised objections and alleged that the employees demanded money from them to weigh their produce. Failure on their part to give money resulted in rejection of the paddy under some grounds, they charged. Collector S. Visakan said he would monitor the DPCs directly. He pulled up some officials for not discharging their duties. Some other farmers said that the non-availability of staff at the DPCs forced them to sell it to private merchants at paltry price. Though the government had relaxed the moisture content in paddy and directed the DPC staff to purchase it, they continue to reject it, according to farmers. Some farmers said that the loan applications submitted by them seeking advance for purchase of seed were rejected by the officials at the Primary Agriculture Cooperative Bank. Besides there was no word about the return of gold pledged with the cooperative banks. Bank officials maintain that they had not received any direction and insisted on repayment to redeem the jewels. About 500 applications seeking power connections from the Tangedco for agriculture purpose were pending with the officials for a long period. The farmers said that they were unable to carry out their activities in their farms and urged the Collector to intervene and get them the electricity connections on priority so that they may dig borewell and use water for irrigation. The Collector said he would take it up with the Tangedco authorities. When farmers wanted to know the status of the project to bring the surplus Cauvery water to the tanks through pipeline to Vedasandur, Mr. Visakan said Rs. 50 lakh was earmarked for the study and it was under way and it would benefit around 380 tanks in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dpcs-style-of-functioning-irks-farmers/article37224250.ece
29 October 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘No effort to check prices of essentials’||The Union government had not taken any tangible step to check rise in the prices of essential commodities, said All India Congress Committee secretary Srivella Prasad, in-charge of TNCC, here on Thursday. Speaking to reporters, he said that in the last nine months, the price of petrol/diesel had risen 36 times and the common man had been suffering a lot. As a sequel, prices of all the essential goods had touched a new high. The BJP government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had chosen to ignore the views and suggestions of the opposition parties, he lamented. In the current scenario, the economy appeared to be very much in danger. The democratic institutions had been destroyed. The farmers were on the roads agitating for months together. The youth were jobless. The COVID 19 had pushed many out of employment. Not bothered about the situation, the Union government continued to praise their leadership and governance. The BJP, he charged, was interested in selling the assets of the public institutions, which were acquired over the last 50 years by the Congress. These were going into the hands of some private people, which was terribly dangerous to the democratic fabric, Mr Prasad said. With elections fast approaching, at least from now onwards the Union government should stop selling the assets of the PSUs and concentrate on the welfare of the people. The AICC secretary was here to hold indoor meeting with Congress workers as the local body elections were under way. Similarly, the membership drive would begin from November 1 and a formal announcement would be made by the TNCC president K S Alagiri, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-effort-to-check-rise-in-prices-of-essentials/article37224246.ece
29 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Arrival of cattle, traders to weekly shandy drops due to monsoon||With the onset of northeast monsoon, arrival of cattle and traders to the weekly shandy at Karungalpalayam dropped on Thursday. On an average, farmers from various districts bring 900 to 1,000 cattle to the shandy that are purchased by traders from Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra and from other States. Due to the monsoon, farmers brought 400 cows, 150 buffalos and 50 calves to the shandy. But, traders from other States failed to turn up while less than 50% cattle were purchased by traders from other districts. The farmers said due to rain last week, transactions were affected and the intense monsoon would further affect the business in the shandy. They said the shandy would not function on account of Deepavali next week and based on the intensity of the monsoon in the coming weeks, the traders would arrive from other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrival-of-cattle-traders-to-weekly-shandy-drops-due-to-monsoon/article37224270.ece
29 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Refresher course for children in Gundri Hills||With the Special Training Centres (STCs) under the National Child Labour Project scheduled to re-open on November 1 after a gap of 18 months, a three-day refresher course was conducted for the children in Gundri Hills here. Rescued child workers and school dropouts in the district are enrolled in the STCs that are run by various Non-Governmental Organisations where children, depending on their age, undergo training till Class VIII after which they are admitted to regular schools. These centres function under the Child Labour Division of the Ministry of Labour and Employment. A total of 294 rescued child workers were enrolled in the 15 STCs in the district that function in the hill areas of Gundri, Talavadi, Bargur and Vilankombai and a few other tribal settlements. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the centres remained closed from March 2020. The refresher course from October 24 to 28 was organised by Nila Palli and Kaliman Viralgal at the STC in Gundri in which children were taught origami, mask preparation, drawing and painting, and art and craft work with shells. Spoken English class, traditional folk dances, thappattam , oyilattam and silambam were taught to the children. During evening hours, the teams comprising Thamaraiselvan, Ezhil and programme coordinator C. Sathish and teacher Periyasamy performed street plays. NCLP Project Director C. Subramaniyam was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/refresher-course-for-children-in-gundri-hills/article37224278.ece
29 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for cheating||Police arrested a 38-year-old man who made his wife act as lover for an unmarried man and cheated him of Rs. 12 lakh. Raja of Kollampalayam was married to Nithya (34). Raja befriended a 35-year-old man of Kumarapalayam in Namakkal district. Learning that he was unmarried and had money, the couple decided to cheat him. Nithya introduced herself as Sathya, pursuing medical course, and started speaking to him. Soon she expressed her love for him and obtained Rs. 12 lakh from him for her studies. Recently, the man became suspicious of her activities and wanted to meet her. Since she refused, he held inquiries and came to know the truth. He lodged a complaint with the District Crime Branch police who registered a case against Raja and Nithya. While Raja was arrested, Nithya obtained anticipatory bail. Police said Nithya had cheated a man of Periyavalasu of Rs. 4 lakh in the same manner and an inquiry is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-cheating/article37224279.ece
29 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers told to insure paddy crops under PM’s scheme||The district administration has asked the farmers in the district to insure paddy crops under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme) so that they can get relief for crop loss due to natural calamities, pest attack or disease outbreak in the current samba season. Collector H. Krishnanunni in a release said that paddy crop is cultivated in 28 firkas in the district and villagers in these firkas can get their crop insured for a premium of Rs. 528 per acre. Farmers who wish to apply for insurance can visit commercial banks, cooperative societies and common service centres in their area for registration. Necessary land documents including chitta, adangal, seed sowing certification, photocopy of bank pass book and Aadhaar card should be submitted for registration, he added. The release said that the last date for registration is November 15 and to avoid last-minute rush and to prevent applications from being left out, farmers should register at the earliest and pay the premium accordingly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-told-to-insure-paddy-crops-under-pms-scheme/article37224264.ece
29 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Follow COVID-19 norms to ensure safe Deepavali’||With Deepavali around the corner and people thronging the market areas for shopping, students of Kongu Kalvi Nilayam Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Rangampalayam conducted an awareness programme asking the public to follow COVID-19 norms for the safety of all. The students said the SARS-CoV-2 virus was still active in society as cases continue to be reported across the State. With less than a week for Deepavali, shoppers thronged market areas, bus stands, commercial areas and public places in large numbers. But, many failed to wear masks or maintain personal distance. “By following the norms, safety of all people will be ensured,” they said. They said safe Deepavali celebration could only be ensured if COVID-19 norms were followed during the shopping. Earlier, school chairman M. Chinnasamy and secretary K. Selvaraj inaugurated the campaign. Students took part in the campaign by wearing masks and maintaining personal distance on Chennimalai Main Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/follow-covid-19-norms-to-ensure-safe-deepavali/article37224280.ece
29 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Ration shops to function from 8 a.m.||All the ration shops in the district will function from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. from November 1 to 3 to enable card holders purchase essentials for Deepavali. In a release, Collector H. Krishnanunni said that to enable distribution of essentials for November, all the 1,134 shops in the district would function for three days. The shops would function as usual from November 8. People should adhere to COVID-19 norms while at the shop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ration-shops-to-function-from-8-am/article37224265.ece
29 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Heirs of sanitary workers encouraged to become entrepreneurs||Heirs of sanitary workers were encouraged to get loans under various schemes of the Central and State governments and become entrepreneurs. An entrepreneurship training for the heirs of sanitary workers was organised by Rights Education and Development Centre, an NGO in Sathyamangalam, here in which 75 persons participated. While its director R. Karuppasamy explained the activities undertaken by the NGO, Jeyanthi, Manager of Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar Housing and Development Corporation Limited, said the government had introduced online application system for availing loans under various schemes. G. Thirumurugan, Manager, District Industries Centre, said DIC had targeted to provide loans to 440 entrepreneurs this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heirs-of-sanitary-workers-encouraged-to-become-entrepreneurs/article37224276.ece
29 October 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||For Hosur flower growers, prices look up for the first time since pandemic||For the first time, the flower growers of Hosur are seeing a demand unseen since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. The demand, albeit just four days old, is anticipated to go up and help reverse losses faced by the greenhouse farmers, say flower growers. There was a brief spell of demand during Deepavali last year, but states like Kerala had banned flowers from Tamil Nadu followed by varied degrees of lockdowns in different states. However, this time, things are slowly looking up, says Harish Babu, a greenhouse farmer in Bagalur. “Until October 20, there was not a spec of demand because of pithru paksham , falling at the same time in almost all Hindu calendars across the country,” says Babu. No auspicious event is planned in that period. The preceding months witnessed severe lockdown followed by Aadi and Puratasi , when there is generally no demand for flowers, he says. The demand this week has come from Andhra Pradesh and Kerala with farmers busy dispatching roses, gerbera, and carnations. Weddings are being conducted in both these states, while in Tamil Nadu, the wedding season will start after Deepavali, says Babu. This week, for the first time since the pandemic, prices of flowers have gone up to Rs. 150 to Rs. 200 per bunch of 20. “Before October 20, there were no takers at Rs. 20 per bunch, which was Rs. 1 for a stem,” he says. The demand inside Tamil Nadu is expected to increase after Deepavali and Amavashya , with the start of valarpiral muhurtam , says Mr. Babu. There are pending marriages stalled due to the pandemic and the big events are being rushed now, he says. The demand for flowers will only go up now till December 10, making up for the months of low to zero demand, says a small farmer in Hosur. Also, many greenhouses wound up operations or scaled down production unable to sustain the maintenance costs which, according to the farmers, was Rs. 1 lakh per acre. With the fall in production and the resultant supply, the sudden rise in demand will push up prices, the growers expect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-hosur-flower-growers-prices-look-up-for-the-first-time-since-pandemic/article37224267.ece
29 October 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Online betting racket busted||The Kallakurichi police busted an online betting racket and arrested nine persons from a house in Krishna Nagar on Wednesday. The police said following a tip-off, a special team, led by Kallakurichi Deputy Superintendent of Police Rajalakshmi, conducted searches on the premises. M. Manikandan, 27, of Sellampattu in Chinna Salem taluk, G. Chandrasekhar, 27, A. Krishnamoorthy, 27, R. Gokulraj, 24, K. Manivel, 27, K. Aravind, 24, A. Prakash, 24, R. Manikandan, 24 and R. Balaji, 23 were found accepting betting money online, through the ‘One X Bet’ app. The police said Manikandan, the kingpin behind the racket, was operating from the house in Krishna Nagar. The accused allegedly lured customers to the betting app, and reportedly cheated them of huge sums of money. Secret code The app was programmed by the accused with a secret code and therefore the customers lost all their money. The police team seized nine CPUs, six monitors, one LED TV, five modems, a fingerprint scanner, 30 mobile phones, 400 SIM cards, a motorbike and one SUV from them. They were produced before a local court and remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-betting-racket-busted-in-kallakurichi-nine-held/article37224505.ece
29 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Two detained under Goondas Act||Two persons were booked under the Goondas Act here on Thursday. Vellian alias C. Loganathan (24) of Kanakamutlu in Krishnagiri and Ellapppa (38) of Mathigiri in Hosur were arrested by the police for bootlegging. The accused as habitual offenders were detained under the provisions of the Goondas Act, a statement from the office of Superintendent of Police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-detained-under-goondas-act/article37224268.ece
29 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Pass must for vehicles bound for Pasumpon||Vehicles proceeding to Pasumpon to pay respects to freedom fighter Muthuramalinga Thevar have been asked to take the permitted route while going from/through Madurai district. Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said that only those vehicles that have passes will be allowed to proceed to Pasumpon. The police have put up special checkposts at Viraganoor junction and Melur to verify the passes and vehicle registration. Officials from the Regional Transport Office will verify the registration number to ensure that only personal vehicles and not hired vehicles go to Pasumpon. CCTV cameras had been installed at the checkposts, Mr. Baskaran added. Permitted routes  The SP said that vehicles would be allowed only through the permitted routes. Vehicles coming from Theni and Dindigul should go through Inner Ring Road and take the Ramanathapuram highway. Vehicles coming from Tiruchi should go through Melur, Othakadai, Inner Ring Road and Ramanathapuram highway or through Sivaganga Road from Melur. Vehicles from Virudhunagar district should go through Aruppukottai, Reddiyarpatti and those from Thoothukudi should take Sayalkudi, Kovilankulam to reach Pasumpon or through Aruppukottai and Reddiyarpatti. Vehicles from Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari should go through Aruppukottai and Reddiyarpatti or through Soorangudi and Sayalkudi. Banned routes  Vehicles that go from/through Madurai district should not go through Varichiyur, Poovanthi, Old Silaiman Road and Nedungulam as these are banned routes. Similarly, vehicles would not be allowed through Melur and Tiruvadavur. The SP said that 2,500 police personnel would be deployed in the district.  2,500 police personnel will be deployed in Madurai district V. Baskaran Superintendent of Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pass-must-for-vehicles-bound-for-pasumpon/article37224421.ece
29 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||6,660 loans to the tune of Rs. 362.65 crore sanctioned||A total of 6,660 loans to the tune of Rs. 362.65 crore were sanctioned at the Customer Reach Programme held here on Wednesday. Different banks had put up their stalls at the MADITSSIA auditiorium where they had put out information about their different products. The loans were distributed under various schemes for agriculture, micro, small and medium enterprises, Mudra, educational loans and housing loans. State Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan inaugurated the programme and along with Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan and Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan, he distributed the loan sanction orders to the beneficiaries. The loans sanctioned were: Rs. 46.43 crore for agriculture; Rs. 105.24 crore for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) and Rs. 210.98 crore for retail loans. District Rural Development Agency Project Director Abitha Hanif, General Manager of Canara Bank D. Surendran, its regional head Sujit Kumar Sahoo and Lead District Manager D. Anil were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-36265-crore-loans-sanctioned-at-customer-outreach-programme/article37224414.ece
29 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Israel ready to help India, says its Consul-General||Several key learnings from the COVID-19 pandemic experience were exchanged between diplomats from Israel on a visit to Madurai’s Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre and local COVID warriors. As part of a knowledge sharing event held on Thursday, Consul-General of Israel to South India Jonathan Zadka said that several peoples’ organisations and non-governmental organisations in his country were ready to assist India where the threat of a third wave was looming large. “Both countries share strong bilateral ties and sharing the expertise is an extension of the friendship,” he told mediapersons and clarified that his presence was not in his official capacity but more as an Israeli citizen trying to connect organisations on both sides that were working for the masses. When knowledge about COVID-19 was less and many parts of the world were reeling under the first wave, Israel received the first assistance from India with consignments of N95 masks reaching their shores. Given the landmass and population size, the two countries were not comparable. But with Israel having effectively battled its fourth wave and also becoming the world’s first country to go through the fastest vaccination drive for its people, it could help India with equipment and other long-term collaborative measures in managing disasters, he said. Mr. Zadka saidthat many NGOs in his country had committed to manufacturing ventilators, oximeters, providing ambulances and volunteers besides offering financial aid to help India. Accompanied by the Deputy Consul General of Israel to South India Limor Bletter, four medical experts and representatives of some leading NGOs such as Brit Olam, Topaz and Israeli Medicinbe on the Equator, he said during testing times, nothing worked better than mutual support of people. MMHRC’s medical director Ramesh Ardhanari, medical administrator B. Kannan and general manager (operations) J. Adel talked about the hospital’s protocol and plan for treatment and management of COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/third-wave-threat-israel-ready-to-help-india-says-its-consul-general/article37224417.ece
29 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Special covers on GI-tagged products released||The Department of Posts has added four new special covers on GI-tagged products of Tamil Nadu. One of them is Chettinad kottaan , the hand-woven palm leaf baskets made by the women of Chettiar community. The environment-friendly colourful baskets with stunning weave patterns and designs got GI status in 2013, and are used in rituals and as gifts. K. Raveendran, Director, Postal Services, Southern Region, Madurai, released the special cover at a function in Karaikudi on Wednesday. On Thursday, he released two more special covers on 2008 GI-tagged products: Malabar pepper , grown in Bodimettu in Theni district, which is unique for its flavour and aroma; and Alleppey Green Cardamom grown in the Western Ghats.  Kodaikanal Malai Poondu, known for its medicinal and anti-microbial properties with longer shelf-life, is grown in Kodaikanal hills. The special cover on this 2018 GI-tagged product was released by T. Sahayaraju, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Dindigul Division, in Dindigul. All the special covers are part of initiatives under Government of India’s Make My India and Atmanirbhar Bharat. Earlier this year, the Southern Region, Madurai, had released special covers on Nagercoil temple jewellery, Madurai sungudi saris, Karaikudi kandangi saris, Pattamadai mat, Eathamozhi tall coconut, Srivilliputtur milk khoa, Kovilpatti kadalai mittai, Sirumalai hill banana, Virupakshi hill banana and Dindigul locks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-covers-on-gi-tagged-products-released/article37224256.ece
29 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Amma Unavagam staff not paid salary since June, says MLA||The State government should immediately release salary arrears due to the staff working in Amma Unavagams, said AIADMK MLA R. B. Udayakumar here on Thursday. In a letter to the Collector, he said that there were 12 Amma Unavagams in Madurai. The staff, all women, who were working from 5 a.m. till 5 p.m., have complained that they were not paid salaries since June. The women, who had formed self-help groups, worked with dedication and served the needy and the poorest of the poor with quality food daily. Such yeomen services should be appreciated by the government and the administrators. There should not be any politics behind such projects, which were launched purely with a welfare objective. Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa launched the Amma Unavagams on February 2013 across the State and there were 700 eateries functioning since then. Every day, a little over a million people benefited through them. The Amma Unavagams came in handy during the COVID-19 pandemic as private restaurants were ordered to be closed during the lockdowns. Thousands of commoners relied on Amma Unavagams, he said and added that the government should only spread the concept and not give an impression that it attempted to demoralise the establishment for political reasons. On seeing its success, administrators from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Odisha visited Tamil Nadu and saw for themselves the functioning of the Amma Unavagams, Mr. Udayakumar pointed out and appealed to the State government to ensure that the women staff were paid their salaries immediately in the larger public interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amma-unavagam-staff-not-paid-since-june-says-udayakumar/article37224420.ece
29 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court grants bail||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has granted bail to an accused in the financial fraud case involving the ‘Helicopter Brothers’ of Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district. Justice B. Pugalendhi granted bail to the accused, S. Sivam. The accused is said to be a friend of the ‘Helicopter Brothers,’ M. R. Ganesh and M. R. Swaminathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-grants-bail/article37224418.ece
29 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Awareness of insurance goes up after pandemic’||DHAN Foundation had facilitated 50 lakh insurance policies emerging from poor families at the national level in association with LIC of India, and Madurai division alone had covered 90% of the total member families insured under Other Group Insurance. Speakers at the 10th edition of the five-day biennial conference, ‘Madurai Symposium,’ recalled the efforts to reach out to the poorest of the poor in different parts of the country through its network. Lauding the role of the LIC, they said that the coverage was mutually beneficial. The awareness of insurance had risen in the recent days, especially after the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020. With LIC’s theme ‘Changing world: unchanged promises,’ the timely response in claim settlement despite pandemic difficulties was highly valued by the policy holders across the nation reflected the Corporation’s commitment. L. Chendurnathan, Senior Divisional Manager, Madurai Division, LIC of India, in his address acknowledged the significant attempts of People Mutuals, a wing of DHAN Foundation in insuring the lives of the economically weaker section at the national level. He assured to support their new initiatives in association with the LIC. Divisional Manager (Pension and Group Scheme) Narayanan said that social security was the fundamental right of each citizen. The death rate of the policy holders belonging to DHAN programmes was less than the national average. In his key note address, M. P. Vasimalai, executive director, DHAN Foundation, stressed the importance of social capital, viability and sustainability of deepening mutual insurance products. Risk management and risk reduction were possible when the community became more resilient, he added. Leaders from Kalanjiam, Vayalagam and Neithal Movements from 14 States attended the convention through virtual mode and shared their experience of social security facilitated by DHAN People Mutuals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-of-insurance-goes-up-after-pandemic/article37224257.ece
29 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Submit report on stability of school building’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State government to submit a report on the stability of a government school building at Thinaikulam in Ramanathapuram district. In 2018, the High Court took suo motu cognisance of media reports that the school building was unsafe for students. The court directed experts to inspect the building, take necessary steps to repair it and file a report on its condition. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar directed the State to get the report from the experts after conducting another inspection of the building and submit it. The court adjourned the hearing till November 24. During the course of the hearing, advocate T.S. Mohammed Mohideen, representing the High Court Registrar, submitted that he inspected the school building earlier this week, and its condition had not improved. The toilet was in a dilapidated condition. He submitted a few photographs in this regard to the court. However, Additional Advocate General Veera Kathiravan objected to the report. He submitted that the experts inspected and repaired the school building. The structural engineers who had inspected the building found it to have good stability, he submitted. Since there were conflicting reports on the condition of school building, the court sought the experts’ report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-experts-report-on-stability-of-school-building/article37224251.ece
29 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID probe sought into ‘honour killing’||A government school teacher from Pudukkottai district filed a petition before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday seeking a CB-CID probe into the death of a 20-year-old caste Hindu woman. The school teacher alleged that it was a case of honour killing. The petitioner, R. Selvam of Kottaikadu, a member of Periyar Ambedkar Makkal Kazhagam, said A. Sivajothi was in a relationship with a Scheduled Caste youth, P. Sivagurunathan, 21. The woman’s parents opposed the relationship and separated them. The family members of Sivajothi threatened the family members of Mr. Sivagurunathan and confined Sivajothi to their house. Due to threats from the woman’s family, Mr. Sivagurunathan went to Chennai, the petitioner said. On July 2, Sivajothi died under mysterious circumstances. Her family members cremated the body without giving any explanation with regard to her death, the petitioner said. Later, they maintained that it was a case of suicide. Police registered a case only after a protest was staged seeking justice for Sivajothi. But, no action had been taken in the case, he added. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought response from the State government and adjourned the case till November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-probe-sought-into-honour-killing/article37224228.ece
29 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai couple held for duping woman||A young couple from Chennai have been arrested in connection with a cyber crime, in which a woman from Usilampatti was duped of Rs. 2.56 lakh. The police identified the accused as V. Santhosh Raja of Thiruvottiyur and his wife Chithra. The police said the woman befriended Santhosh Raja, who had posed as a popular television actor on Facebook. Later, she shared her mobile number and both of them chatted over the phone. The man then sought money from the woman on the pretext that he had to meet an emergency need, and took up to Rs. 2.56 lakh from her. Only after the man switched off his mobile phone did the victim realise that she had been cheated. Based on her complaint, Madurai District Cyber Police registered a case on August 30. On the instruction of Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran, a special team led by Additional SP Mani, and Inspector Charming S. Wiselin, traced the accused to Chennai. Since the money was credited to Chithra’s bank account, she was arraigned as his accomplice in the crime. The couple were arrested on Tuesday and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-couple-held-for-duping-woman/article37224415.ece
29 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Police nab five burglars||A special team of Madurai city police on Wednesday nabbed five persons who were involved in a series of night burglary cases. The police nabbed Soniraja alias Soni of Allinagaram, Periyaramu alias Arjunan of Vadipatti, Sulaiman of Thenparankundram, Alagarsamy of Kinnimangalam and Rajkumar of Pompi Naickenpatti. The police team recovered gold jewels reportedly worth Rs. 24 lakh, silver articles weighing 250 grams and two two-wheelers from the accused. They were nabbed with the help of footage from CCTV camera installed in various places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-nab-five-burglars/article37224412.ece
29 October 2021||Madurai/Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Former CPI(M) MLA Nanmaran passes away||Former CPI(M) MLA N. Nanmaran passed away in Madurai on Thursday. He was 74. He is survived by his wife Shanmugavalli and two sons. Nanmaran, who represented the Madurai East Assembly constituency in 2001 and 2006, was unwell for some time. He was rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital and admitted to the intensive care unit on Wednesday night after he complained of respiratory problem. He suffered cardiac arrest in the morning, and his end came at 4 p.m., Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan said. Nanmaran was attracted to Marxism and joined the Socialist Youth Front in the 1960s. He had served as its State president. “In this world of consumerism, he chose to remain a simple man all his life. For him, any position was only a responsibility. He never compromised on Marxism,” the MP said. He took Marxism to the nook and corner of the State with his rustic language, CPI(M) Madurai urban district secretary M. Vijayarajan said. Mr. Nanmaran, who lived in a rented house, had submitted a petition to the Madurai Collector in February this year for a house under the Prime Minister’s Housing Scheme. His body has been kept at the CPI(M) office at Mehaboobpalayam for members of the public to pay homage. The last rites will be conducted on Friday evening.  He took Marxism to the nook and corner of the State with his rustic language||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-cpim-mla-nanmaran-passes-away/article37224147.ece
29 October 2021||MYSURU,TAMIL NADU||Alarming rise in attempts to dupe bank customers||After noticing an alarming rise in the efforts by fraudsters to dupe the general public with loan offers, the manager of the lead bank of Kodagu district has sought to caution the public against falling prey to cyber criminals. A lead bank is assigned the role of co-ordinating disbursal of loans to priority sectors identified by the government. The lead bank works in co-ordination with the district administration. In Kodagu, the lead bank is Union Bank of India. Kodagu district lead bank manager R.K. Balachandra has, in a statement, said that the number of phone calls received by customers from online fraudsters had increased sharply after a credit outreach programme was held across Kodagu district on October 22 to create awareness about loans and other schemes offered by banks. Fraudsters claiming to be representatives of various banks, which had been enlisted by the government to disburse loans, were calling customers and asking them to share copies of their documents, viz. PAN card, Aadhaar card, ration card, electricity bills, bank pass book and two passport-size photographs through WhatsApp. “The documents they seek are more or less the same that any bank does,” he said. As part of their modus operandi, they ask people to deposit an amount ranging from Rs. 3,500 to Rs. 10,000 to process their loan application. In most cases, the fraudsters ask their victims to make the payment to digital or e-wallets. Mr. Balachandra said the fraudsters are misusing the credit awareness camps organised by public and private sector banks in various districts as part of the Government of India’s credit outreach programme to help people hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. The first phase of the programme, which began in Karnataka on October 11, will end on October 30. He cautioned the public against entertaining calls from persons claiming to be part of the credit outreach programme. He also warned against parting with either One Time Password (OTP) sent to their mobile phones, CVV number on the back of the debit or credit card, Personal Identification Number (PIN), or their internet banking password. Among other things, fraudsters have started calling customers and claiming that funds will be credited to their Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan account if they share the OTP. “Once the OTP is shared, they will remove all the money in your bank account,” he warned. Some of the mobile phone numbers, which were used to make fraudulent calls, had been shared with the Cyber Crime, Economic offences and Narcotics (CEN) police station in Madikeri. However, officials at the CEN police station said a case can be registered and an investigation can be taken up only if victims of fraud lodge a formal complaint.  What they do Fraudsters claiming to be representatives of various banks, enlisted by the government, call up customers and ask them to share copies of their documents. They then ask people to deposit an amount ranging from Rs. 3,500 to Rs. 10,000 to process their loan application. In most cases, they ask their victims to make the payment to digital or e-wallets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alarming-rise-in-attempts-to-dupe-bank-customers/article37223627.ece
29 October 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Supreme Court grants bail to Kerala student Thwaha Fasal||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted bail to journalism student Thaha Fasal, accused under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) of having Maoist links. A Bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and A.S. Oka also rejected an appeal filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) challenging the bail granted to Alan Shuhaib, third-year law student and Fasal’s co-accused in the case. The court said the youth from Kerala were arrested in November last. While a trial court granted them bail, the Kerala High Court cancelled Fasal’s bail while not interfering with Shuhaib’s. The judgment read out by Justice Oka set aside the High Court decision concerning Fasal and restored the order of the Special Court, which had enlarged him on bail. A charge sheet filed by the NIA accused the youth of harbouring and associating with a banned Maoist outfit. Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju, for the NIA, had argued that the youth, by inference, were “members” of the banned organisation. Members, if found guilty, were sentenced up to life in prison under the UAPA. In contrast, association or support to a banned organisation attracts either a fine or a few years in prison under the Act. Mr. Raju said the NIA would apply for sanction under Section 20 of the UAPA, which deals with punishment for being a member of a terrorist organisation. However, the court made it clear that it would examine the two petitions regarding bail with the charges arraigned in the charge sheet. “You can do whatever you want, but we have to go with what is provided to us,” Justice Rastogi had said before the case was reserved for judgment. Senior advocate R. Basant and advocate Raghenth Basant had countered the NIA’s dismissal of Shuhaib’s plea that he had psychiatric issues. Mr. Raju had even questioned the truth behind the plea, saying Shuhaib was attending college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/supreme-court-grants-bail-to-kerala-student-thwaha-fasal/article37223644.ece
29 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Dip in water quality in urban areas||The quality of drinking water in several urban pockets of Puducherry has deteriorated further in the last two to three years, residents claim. Marguerita Helene, 70, a resident of Rainbow Nagar, said drinking water quality is poor in her locality. “The quality of drinking water started deteriorating 10 or 12 years ago. At a point of time, we could not consume water supplied by the municipality. The water turned completely saline from 2010. Then, we opted for RO. After repeated complaints, the municipal authorities said the Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) in the water had crossed 2,000 parts per million (ppm) and the authorities said they have started mixing water from other localities to bring down the TDS level before supplying it to Rainbow Nagar,” Ms. Helene said. In the last two to three years, the water has become even more hard and salty, said V. Ramakanthan, a resident of Krishna Nagar, adding that food, especially rice, cooked in the water tastes different. “Food also does not get cooked properly. Many of my family members complain of hair loss and doctors have said substandard water used for bathing could result in hair loss and skin diseases,” he said. The officials of the Public Works Department said the quality of water sourced from around 200 borewells in Puducherry and Oulgaret Municipality limits and supplied to households through around 35 main overhead tanks has started deteriorating. The findings of a study conducted by the Public Health Lab of PWD in 2019 indicated alarming rise in TDS level. The study showed TDS level going up to 5,800 ppm (a measurement to find the amount of minerals and gases dissolved in water) in Rainbow Nagar. In 2015, test results of water sample collected from Rainbow Nagar, showed TDS levels in the range of 3,000 ppm. The result implies that deterioration in water quality was taking place at a rapid pace, said an official. The 2019-study showed, TDS level between 3,000 ppm to 4,000 ppm in places, such as Muthialpet, Krishna Nagar, Venketa Nagar, Sundanthirapon Vizha Nagar and above 2,000 ppm in many other places. Permissible limit The acceptable range of TDS for drinking water is 500 ppm, the official said. Even in places where acute water shortage was reported, the permissible limit was only 2,000 ppm. “Anything beyond 2,000 ppm is not consumable. There could be health risk if consumed for a long time,” said an official in the PH division. The deterioration in quality of drinking water, said P. Sivakumar, a resident of Vaithikuppam, was a serious issue. Mr. Sivakumar, who has got a TDS meter installed in his flat, said the test conducted on Thursday showed a TDS level of 3,100 ppm. “When we moved to Puducherry in late 1990s, the quality of water was good. Now, it has gone down gradually. Water is available and that has to be made consumable for people. Personally, I feel the issue has to be taken up by experts and a thorough study has to be done on how to address the issue. It has to be taken more seriously by the government,” he said. A senior official said the government was seized of the matter. “Now what we do is, we mix the water from a borewell having very high TDS level with water drawn from another borewell having very low TDS level. But that is not a long term solution,” he said. The government is working on a plan to dig new borewells in far off rural areas, probably in the beds of Malattar, Guduvayar and Pannayar. “A new proposal has been sent to the government. We plan to dig 84 new borewells and bring water to the town for piped water supply. Once the new borewells become functional, all the existing wells near the coastal area will become defunct, he said. The French Development Agency had agreed to provide a loan assistance of Rs. 454 crore for the project, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dip-in-water-quality-in-urban-areas/article37224509.ece
29 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 45 new COVID-19 cases||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory while 45 new cases were detected on Thursday. Puducherry accounted for 34 new cases, which were confirmed from 3,614 tests, followed by Karaikal (7) and Mahe (4). No new case was reported from Yanam. The test positivity rate, case fatality rate and recovery rate were 1.25%, 1.45% and 98.19%. With 35 recoveries in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 453. The cumulative toll stood at 1,857, with Puducherry logging 1,453, Karaikal 250, Yanam 107 and Mahe 47. The UT has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,27,891 cases against 1,25,581 patients recovered. Of an estimated 19.07 lakh tests carried out thus far, over 16.10 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 3,843 people took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-45-new-covid-19-cases/article37224504.ece
29 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Student innovators pitch ideas at boot camp||Student innovators pitched over 30 imaginative ideas at a boot camp organised recently by the Atal Incubation Centre - Pondicherry Engineering College Foundation and CII-Young Indians, Puducherry. The three-day boot camp hosted top 30 teams from 200 plus applications received for a three-stage innovation contest of the PEC and CII to bring out the entrepreneurial talent of the student community. Experts mentor the young innovators by supporting them and hand holding their ideas through the process of formulating a sustainable business model from the drawing-board. As an event that aimed at identifying and nurturing aspiring entrepreneurship, the boot camp held at Puducherry Technological University campus, focused on providing basic knowledge about the start-up world and tools required to mould the fledgling innovators into real world entrepreneurs, a press note from the organisers said. 100 participants Over 100 student innovators across various institutes from Puducherry attended the camp and as many as 30 ideas were documented on the occasion. The workshop, included special lecture sessions from renowned start-up ecosystem mentors and speakers that helped the young innovators to empower their idea by giving them real time exposure through action-based ideation workshops, business model development using lean canvas and idea-pitching sessions. The shortlisted applicants will be able to pitch for offers by incubators on the basis of their performance throughout the innovation programme. The winning pitch will be awarded cash prize and incubation opportunity. The CII Puducherry Innovation Contest will conclude with a grand finale during the CII Puducherry Startup Summit scheduled to be held in the last week of November.  The camp focused on providing basic knowledge about the start-up world and tools required to mould the fledgling innovators into real world entrepreneurs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-innovators-pitch-ideas-at-boot-camp/article37224510.ece
29 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G nod for proposal to reopen schools in U.T.||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has accorded approval for the proposal of the Education Department to reopen schools for Classes I to VIII from November 8 in Puducherry, Karaikal and Yanam regions of the Union Territory of Puducherry. Other proposals cleared by the Lt. Governor included the Chief Minister’s Diwali gift of 10 kg rice and 2 kg sugar to all the ration cardholders and the release of Central share of Rs. 16.86 lakh to Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department for the execution of the project to construct 83 houses in Karaikal region (Phase IV), under Beneficiary Led Construction component of Pradan Manthri Awaz Yojana, for SC/ST category. Ms. Soundararajan also sanctioned Rs. 2.75 crore towards issue of cash instead of free rice for three months from June to August 2021 to the Persons with Disabilities in the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-nod-for-proposal-to-reopen-schools-in-ut/article37224511.ece
29 October 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||45 new COVID-19 cases||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory, while 45 new cases were detected on Thursday. Puducherry accounted for 34 new cases, which were confirmed from 3,614 tests, followed by Karaikal (7) and Mahe (4). No new case was reported from Yanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/45-new-covid-19-cases/article37224550.ece
29 October 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||From organic farming to sweets making for Deepavali||The Pudukottai Organic Farmer Producers Organisation (FPO) is utilising grains grown by their own members to make and sell a variety of sweets and snacks for Deepavali. A total of 22 items are being made this year, with orders pouring in from across the State and abroad. The Pudukottai Organic FPO, going by the brand name Pudugai Organics, began making sweets and snacks since 2014. A total of 1,000 farmers came together as shareholders in the FPO and had their produce procured and sold. As a way to further their business, around 25 members came together to make sweets and snacks. They purchased the grains from the farmers, including organic nattu sakkarai ,  and also extracted groundnut oil for the process. This year, 22 items, including around seven varieties of laddoos , dry snacks, murukku and adhirasam , are being made. Grains such as foxtail millet, kavuni arisi and varagu are among the common ingredients. “If we sell varagu murukku , it will be the main ingredient. We will not mix maida , or wheat flour or any other ingredient,” says Akila Bharathi, Chief Executive Officer, Pudugai Organics. Contrary to popular understanding, one does not need to alter recipes to make healthier versions of snacks and sweets, she adds. “For instance, if one is making murukku , instead of using ordinary rice flour, flour made from varagu arisi or kavuni arisi is used. The ratio of all other ingredients remain the same,” she points out. This year, the FPO has received orders from as far as Singapore and the U.S. too. “We do not sell to any stores there. They are families that we directly ship to,” she saysid. In India, many organic stores stock their products. They also make customised combo packs with a variety of snacks and sweets in each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/from-organic-farming-to-sweets-making-for-deepavali/article37224231.ece
29 October 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||MP reviews Central schemes||Tiruchi Lok Sabha MP Su. Thirunavukkarasar reviewed various Central schemes being implemented in Pudukottai district at the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) meeting held here on Thursday. A total of 38 central schemes in the district were taken up for review during the meeting in which Collector Kavitha Ramu and officials from various departments participated. The allocation of funds under each scheme, the ongoing works and the progress made in them besides those that were completed were reviewed at the meeting. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Thirunavukkarasar, who is the chairperson of DISHA, said officials were advised to explain about the schemes to the people for their understanding and ensure that the schemes reached the poorer sections. The schemes should be executed all over the district so that it benefited people from different places, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-reviews-central-schemes/article37224232.ece
29 October 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Tight security for Thevar guru puja||Elaborate security arrangements, with the deployment of 8,500 police personnel, have been made at Pasumpon in Ramanathapuram district, where Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and leaders of various political parties will pay their respects at the memorial of freedom fighter Muthuramalinga Thevar, on the occasion of his guru puja on October 30. Time slots In a statement, Ramanathapuram Superintendent of Police, E. Karthik, appealed to all political party leaders and representatives of organisations to stick to the time slots allotted to them and follow COVID-19 precautionary measures. Only those leaders who have got permission from the district Collector, would be allowed to enter the memorial from October 28 to 30. Stating that 186 routes have been banned for vehicles coming to the guru puja, the SP said that vehicles would not be allowed on those routes. Besides, iron barricades would be put up at 148 places identified as sensitive. A total of 8,500 police personnel would be deployed for bandobust duty on those days.  Videographing of vehicles and persons who violate promulgation orders would be done at 80 places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tight-security-for-thevar-guru-puja/article37224170.ece
29 October 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Ranipet police ask residents to share ideas to tackle crime||In an effort to tackle crime and social problems, the Ranipet District Police has launched a helpline number (7845457095) and an email id (sprptcamp@gmail.com) for the public to share their ideas. People can share their views on issues including traffic congestion, accidents, burglaries, exploitation of women and children, addiction and gambling. Those who come up with such novel ideas will be honoured with a memento and a certificate. Termed ‘Think & Shine’, the initiative aims to encourage the general public to think about the social problems they face and come up with solutions. It provides a platform to the residents to recognise their social commitment. The ideas should be practical and feasible. “A school student too will have an idea about traffic chaos on the way to her school. Likewise, an experienced police constable may have practical ideas for various petty crime but may hesitate to share them with seniors. The initiative aims to promote such ideas,” Deepa Satyan, Superintendent of Police (SP), Ranipet, told The Hindu . A special panel of officers comprising Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Deputy SP and inspectors were formed at the District Police headquarters in Ranipet to process the ideas. Residents can give their ideas to the help desk that has been set up at the SP Office between 10 a.m and 5 p.m on all days including Sundays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ranipet-police-ask-residents-to-share-ideas-to-tackle-crime/article37224557.ece
29 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Be prepared for urban local body polls’||State Election Commissioner V. Palanikumar asked election officials to be prepared for conducting the urban local body elections within four months as directed by Supreme Court. Chairing a zonal level meeting and training programme with Collectors and Superintendents of Police from seven districts at the Collectorate here on Thursday, he said of the 6.25 crore population in the State, three crore people, which was 50% of the population, lived in urban areas. “Hence, we have to conduct the elections in the best way,” he added. He said the training programme would enable officials to know the latest information provided by the Election Commission of India and also update their skills. He asked officials to be thorough with the booklets on election rules and asked them to explain it clearly to representatives of political parties. Mr. Palanikumar said CCTV cameras were used in the recently held local body elections and added that cameras would also be used in the urban body elections. “Guidelines issued by the court should be followed,” he added. Collectors and SP’s from Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Namakkal, Karur, Tirupattur and Kallakurichi participated. Salem Corporation Commissioner and other officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/be-prepared-for-urban-local-body-polls/article37224274.ece
29 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Petrol price will cross Rs. 150 a litre’||Former Petroleum Minister Mani Shankar Aiyar has predicted that the retail price of petrol will cross Rs. 150 per litre before the next general election. Talking to reporters at Thathuvancheri near Kumbakonam on Thursday, Mr. Aiyar said the fuel prices remained low when he was minister. They skyrocketed after the BJP came to power at the Centre and consumers shelled out Rs. 110 for a litre of petrol and more than Rs. 100 for diesel. Stating that retail prices of petroleum products, including LPG, remained high despite the low price of crude oil at the international level, he blamed the BJP government for the current situation. He predicted that the retail price of petrol and diesel might cross Rs. 150 per litre before the next general election. Earlier, he laid the foundation e for construction of a memorial for freedom fighter and former MLA R. Ramamirtha Thondaiman at Thathuvancheri. Thiruvidaimaruthur MLA Govi. Chezhian and Kumbakonam MLA G. Anbalagan were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrol-price-will-cross-rs-150-a-litre/article37224229.ece
29 October 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Mullaperiyar dam level reaches 138 feet, second warning issued||Public Works Department (PWD) officials have issued the second warning at the Mullaperiyar dam after the water level reached 138 feet at 3 a.m. on Thursday. Members of the public have been asked to stay away from the river in many parts of Theni district as officials have planned to step up the discharge. However, K.M. Abbas, the president of a farmers’ association, and Anwar Balasingam, the coordinator, have expressed their reservations. Speaking to reporters at Cumbum, the association representatives said the Supreme Court had in 2014 ordered storage up to 142 feet, after ascertaining the dam’s safety and security. Hence, the PWD should give warnings (the first, second and third) when the level reached 140, 141 and 142 feet respectively. “What was the necessity for the engineers to give a warning at this level,” they asked. Instead of increasing the discharge, the engineers should store the water which would help the farmers carry out their second crop work in the region, Mr. Abbas said. The State government should take proactive measures in the larger public interest. Only four times Since 2014, only four times had the level reached the 142-foot mark, and with good rainfall in the Western Ghats now, the engineers should store the water, the farmers said. With 8,000 cusecs flowing into the reservoir, the level had risen from 125 feet to 135 feet in a few days. Over the last two to three days, many parts in and around Theni district, too, had been experiencing rain. Moola Vaigai, Suruli river, Kottakudi river and Varahanadhi, among others, had witnessed an increase in flow, they said. The PWD should lower the discharge from the present 2,150 cusecs, they said. The authorities should issue a warning only when the level reached 140 feet, and it was unnecessary to issue warnings at this stage. With the level nearing 139 feet during the day, Kerala Minister for Irrigation, Water Supply and Sanitation Roshy Augustine inspected the dam at Thekkadi in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mullaperiyar-dam-level-reaches-138-feet-second-warning-issued/article37224144.ece
29 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Check sale of spurious fertilizer, pesticides’||Farmers complained that they were battling acute shortage of Di-Ammonimum-Phosphate (DAP). Raising this issue in the grievances meet here on Thursday, O.A. Narayanasamy of Thamizh Vivasaayigal Sangam said DAP bags were being sold at inflated price due to acute shortage in the district. The farmers were being compelled to buy complex fertilizer and neem cake along with the DAP bags being sold at inflated price. Besides spending more for buying the DAP bags, they had to buy the fertilizers not required for their work. Fertilizer depots should be raided to check sale of spurious fertilizer and pesticides. All farmers supported him vociferously to confirm the acute DAP shortage. Admitting shortage of DAP, Joint Director of Agriculture S.I. Mohideen attributed it to halt in production by a few units following sharp rise in price of of raw materials. “Instead of DAP, the farmers can use 20 : 20 complex fertilizer,” he said. Collector K. Senthil Raj said the fertilizer sellers should display the price prescribed by the Department of Agriculture, stock in their shop and the mobile phone numbers of officials to enable them register complaint, if any, regarding sale of fertilizers at inflated price. Mr. Narayanasamy said the farmers who had cultivated onion in Vilaathikulam and Vembar areas suffered extensive damage during the last north-east monsoon. However, the crop insurance scheme records had been updated in such a way that these areas were ‘no crop damage zones’ so that the onion farmers could not get the insurance benefits. Dr. Senthil Raj replied that the issue would be rectified. Farmer Jothimani of Aththimarappatti, while thanking the Collector for desilting the Uppar Odai, asked him to take steps to remove all encroachments inside the stream. Farmer Nangamuthu of Vallanaadu said the 9th sluice of Marudhur Keezhakkaal, which remained plugged for the past 60 years, should be opened for the benefit of more farmers. The Collector said that the district administration had planned to create more farm ponds to increase area of cultivation and production. Since the district had gone in for advance ‘kar’ paddy cultivation during this season and harvest of this paddy had commenced in several places, paddy direct procurement centres had been opened at 8 places to save the farmers from getting cheated by the private buyers. Dr. Senthil Raj, after narrating the water storage position in the reservoirs, urged the farmers to get vaccinated against COVID-19. Homage paid  As the meeting started, Nakkeeran of MDMK appealed to the Collector to observe a minute silence to pay homage to the farmers killed in Uttar Pradesh by a speeding car. Though the appeal was initially turned down, the homage was paid after all the farmers backed the appeal. District Revenue Officer Kannabiraan participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/check-sale-of-spurious-fertilizer-pesticides/article37224555.ece
29 October 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||BSNL to hold camps on Oct. 29, 30||The BSNL will conduct customer grievance redressal camp in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi on October 29 and 30 respectively. A press release said a camp will be held on Friday on the campus of Customer Service Centre, BSNL, Vannarpettai, and at CSC, BSNL, WGC Road, Thoothukudi. BSNL has enhanced the validity of ‘Plan 1999’ for 30 days and the total validity is 395 days instead of 365 days. Customer can enjoy unlimited voice and data with 100 free SMS everyday for a period of 395 days as festival offer. Similarly for ‘STV 247’, the validity is extended to 35 days from 30 days with unlimited free calls, 100 free SMS per day and 50 GB data. Validity of ‘STV398’ is also extended to 35 days from 30 days with unlimited free calls, free 100 SMS per day and unlimited data without any speed restriction. The above offers are available up to November 6. New broadband connection through fiber (FTTH), reconnection of closed landline broadband connection through FTTH and forwarding of incoming calls of the landline to new telephone connection through fiber are given during this period, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bsnl-to-hold-camps-on-oct-29-30/article37224552.ece
29 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Harassment of coach Santhi: notice issued to magazine, sports official||The South Regional Representative to the National Council for Transgender Persons (NCTP), a statutory authority under the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Gopi Shankar, based in Madurai, has taken suo moto cognizance of continuous harassment of athlete and coach Santhi Soundarajan on the grounds of her gender identity/ expression by the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDATN) coach Abraham Rajan. Gopi Shankar has issued a notice to the publisher of the Tamil magazine Kumudam in connection with a ‘defamatory’ story recently published in the magazine against Santhi Soundarajan and raising ‘false allegations’ concerning her gender identity. A notice has been issued separately to the Member Secretary, Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu urging the body to take departmental action against coach Abraham Rajan for making ‘false comments and complaints’ against the gender identity of Santhi. In the notice issued to the Tamil magazine, Gopi Shankar sought an apology from the Kumudam publishing house for publishing ‘false allegations’ in the form of an article that had appeared in the magazine without knowing Santhi’s side of the story. The rights of Santhi are protected under the Constitution of India and the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, the notice further said and wanted the magazine to publish an interview of Santhi so that a clear story could be reached to the readers. Gopi Shankar said that formal proceedings would be initiated against the publishing group if it did not take any action concerning the ‘defamatory’ article which was published. Gopi Shankar in the notice to the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu said formal proceedings would be initiated against Abraham Rajan in case the department did not take any action on him. Gopi Shankar said over phone on Wednesday that the notices were issued a few days ago in the wake of continuous harassment of Santhi. The Commission had received an on-record complaint from Santhi recently in this regard. ‘We are not treating this as an isolated case but seeing this as an attack on female athletes with diverse sex characteristics,’ said Gopi Shankar. The Commission would look into workplace inclusive policies in government institutions with respect to LGBT community and how the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 is being implemented in Tamil Nadu. Santhi, who belongs to the Scheduled Caste community and a native of Pudukottai district, had filed separate harassment complaints earlier with the National Commission for the Scheduled Castes, National Human Rights Commission and the National Commission for Women, said Gopi Shankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/harassment-of-coach-santhi-notice-issued-to-magazine-sports-official/article37224263.ece
29 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Festive crowds at retail showrooms raise new fears||The lack of emergency exits in most of the commercial establishments in the city has raised safety concerns among the people. Until recently, business establishments and showrooms, including textile, utensils, jewelry and furniture, were operated on small premises. It was rare to find showrooms measuring more than 1,000 sq. ft in Tiruchi. Thanks to the growing purchase power of the people, some of the leading traders began to expand the size of their showrooms by buying neighbouring shops and business establishments. Now, there are showrooms that are more than 10,000 sq ft in size. Some of them are multi-storeyed buildings. Major commercial streets such as NSB Road, Singarathope, Big Bazaar Street, Nandi Kovil Street and Chinnakadai Street are teeming with hundreds of festive shoppers since the first week of October. The crowds continue to surge as the day nears for the Deepavali. Except for furniture showrooms, all other showrooms witness huge crowds all through the day. Lack of windows They spend many hours in the showrooms as most of them have centralised air conditioner facilities. Of concern is the absence of sufficient emergency exit points in the showrooms. Many do not have windows as they have air conditioners. There are showrooms that have fire extinguishers and first aid boxes. But they are not visible to many. Civic activists, who express serious concern over the lack of emergency exits, point out that several showrooms, small or big, have scant regard for fire safety norms. Also, they fail to adhere to the rules and regulations on safety standards while expanding their showrooms. “Most showrooms have only one way to go to upper floors and climb down. The space is insufficient to handle customers if any untoward incident happens. The shops have hardly emergency exits,” says H. Ghouse Baig, a civic activist in the city. N. Jamaludeen, another activist, says that while giving plan approval for construction or expansion of showrooms, officials fail to ensure the fire safety protocols. It is a serious issue. It is important to put in place all fire safety measures well in advance rather than waiting for untoward incidents. Surprise inspection K. Anushuya, District Fire Officer, told The Hindu that surprise inspections would be conducted to check whether the commercial establishments had fire safety infrastructure or not. It was important that they should have emergency exits. The traders would be sensitised to the need for safety features on their premises, she said. Heavy crowds were seen in markets ahead of the festival. Fire safety mock drills had been planned in crowded areas, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festive-crowds-at-retail-showrooms-raise-new-fears/article37224242.ece
29 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Significant dip in cases in central districts||The central region reported 162 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. The number of cases continued to reflect a dip prevalent across most districts in the region. Five deaths of the viral infection were registered, two each in Tiruchi and Nagapattinam, and one in Tiruvarur district. Thanjavur continued to report a dip in the number of cases. On Wednesday, 44 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Tiruchi, meanwhile, registered 42 fresh cases. The other seven districts in central Tamil Nadu reported less than 25 COVID-19 cases each. In Tiruvarur, 24 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Karur registered 19 fresh cases, and Nagapattinam, 11. Pudukottai district registered nine cases and Ariyalur, seven. In Perambalur, four patients tested positive, while Mayiladuthurai reported two fresh cases, the least in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/significant-dip-in-cases-in-central-districts/article37224236.ece
29 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Licence granted for 59 cracker shops||Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan on Thursday granted licence to 59 people to set up fire cracker shops temporarily for Deepavali. At a meeting with applicants at the city police office here, he said firefighting equipment must be kept in a state of readiness at the shops and smoking must not be allowed near the outlets. The shop owners must ensure that customers wore masks and maintained personal distancing. Further, the shops should not face each other and the distance between each outlet should be three metres. They should also desist from putting up outlets on roadside. The shop owners were also advised not to stock fire crackers beyond the permitted quantity. Vehicles should not be parked in front of their shops. Temporary licence would be withdrawn without any notice in case of violation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/licence-granted-for-59-cracker-shops/article37224238.ece
29 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized from air passengers||Officials of the Customs Air Intelligence Unit seized 1.5 kg of gold of 24 karat purity worth Rs. 76.80 lakh from two passengers at the international airport here on Wednesday. Both passengers arrived from Sharjah by an Air India Express flight. A press release said the officials intercepted the two passengers at the exit gate based on intelligence. On search of the passengers, gold in paste form in bundles were found concealed in their rectum. Both were arrested under the Customs Act, 1962.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized-from-air-passengers/article37224549.ece
29 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Youth found dead near Manapparai||A 20-year-old youth reportedly ended his life a few metres away from his house at Thathagoundampatti village in Manapparai police station limits late on Wednesday. Police identified the deceased as A. Balasubramani, who worked as a two-wheeler mechanic. Police seized a unlicenced broken country gun from his house. Police sources said there was a tiff between Balasubramani and his father Alagar after the youth brought a country gun from his friend a few days ago. The presence of the country gun in their house was not liked by Alagar, who reportedly asked his son to return it to the person from whom he had brought. Police sources said a tiff arose once again between the father and the son on the issue on Wednesday night and Balasubramani reportedly under the influence of alcohol argued with his father. Upset over the tiff, Alagar left home. Balasubramani in the meantime left home and reportedly took the country gun along with him to a place a few metres away from his house and ended his life. Balasubramnian’s elder brother went in search of his younger brother and found him lying on the ground with injury on the neck. The sources said the body was brought home and the police came to know of the entire incident after being alerted by a local. The body was thereafter sent for post mortem to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital at Tiruchi. Police said Balasubramani's death was by suicide. Manapparai Police registered a case under section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpline 104 and Sneha's suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-found-dead-near-manapparai/article37224239.ece
29 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized||Officials of the Customs Air Intelligence Unit seized 1.5 kg of gold of 24 karat purity worth Rs. 76.80 lakh from two passengers at the international airport here on Wednesday. Both passengers arrived from Sharjah by an Air India Express flight, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized/article37224234.ece
29 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||More students to be admitted in ITIs||The Department of Labour Welfare and Skill Development has planned to increase the number of admissions in the 90 government industrial training institutes (ITIs) across Tamil Nadu to 50,000. Speaking to reporters at Radhapuram on Thursday after inspecting the Government ITI there, Minister for Labour Welfare and Skill Development S.V. Ganesan said student strength in government ITIs, which stood at 40,000, had fallen to 25,000 in the past 10 years as no specialised courses based on the present industrial needs were introduced. Besides introducing new courses based on demand, new ITIs would be started in places where they were needed. The buildings and the training equipment at the ITIs were being inspected and remedial measures taken. While old buildings would be renovated or built afresh, educational equipment would be installed based on the new courses to be introduced. Accepting an appeal from Speaker M. Appavu to increase the student intake at the Government ITI in Radhapuram and introduce new courses, he said student intake at the ITI, which now had 206 students, would be increased to 480 by introducing new courses like marine engineering, plumbing, civil draughtsman and computer programmer since this institution was situated close to the coastal area housing a large number of fishermen population and Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project (KKNPP), which was recruiting candidates with ITI trade certificates. “Since the government was keen on creating more employment opportunities in Tamil Nadu, the need-based trades being offered at the government ITIs will equip the students to grab those jobs in all industries,” he said. He was taken around the ITI in the battery car designed by its students. Mr. Appavu, Tirunelveli MP S. Gnanathiraviam, Collector V. Vishnu and Director of Employment and Training Veeraraghava Rao were present. The Minister inspected the Government Women’s ITI at Veppamoodu and the Government ITI at Konam in Nagercoil in the presence of Collector M. Aravind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-students-to-be-admitted-in-itis/article37224259.ece
29 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Food Park coming up||A Food Park is coming up at Gangaikondan SIPCOT Industrial Complex near here on an outlay of Rs. 77.93 crore on 50 acres in which the investors can establish their food processing units for exporting their products. As the Union government is promoting Food Parks across the country to encourage new business ventures in the field of food processing and export, the facility coming up through the Department of Agro Business. Each plot will be of 1 acre in which the investors can establish their business ventures with the subsidy being extended by the Central and the State Governments. The Food Park with a compound wall will have basic infrastructure such as road, drinking water, power connection, drainage channels, weigh bridge etc. It will have the common facilities like cold storage, packaging bay and laboratory. To ascertain the needs and expectations of the potential investors, a stakeholders’ meet was organised on Thursday. Commissioner for Agro Business M. Vallalar told reporters the district administration had put in place single window clearance for ensuring seamless approval of the proposals from the investors for starting their business here. The common facilities to be established here would minimize the production cost and encourage export. “We are in the process of establishing 10 mega parks across Tamil Nadu with a range of facilities before March 2022,” he said. On the response from the stakeholders, he said they were very enthusiastic as they were keen utilizing this opportunity in a big way. As a series of meetings would be conducted by the Collector, the aspiring investors’ efforts would get facilitated instantly. Collector V. Vishnu exhorted the investors to have their unit in the upcoming Food Park which would play a vital role in encouraging agricultural production besides creating good number of employment opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-park-coming-up/article37224260.ece
29 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||2 hunters detained under Goondas Act||Two persons, who were arrested recently for allegedly poaching wild animals with the fruits stuffed with explosives, have been detained under the Goondas Act. Sources in the forest department said a special patrol team was rushed to the reserve forest near Karuppasamy Temple in Sivagiri Forest Range on September 29 last following information about poaching of wild animals by a team of hunters. When the team, led by Forest Range Officer T. Suresh, reached the spot, they nabbed four of the 7 hunters and seized their car as they had poached 3 spotted deer and a wild boar with the fruits stuffed with explosives. They were identified as A. Madhan Raj, 23, K. Mahesh, 19, and Guruvaiah, 35, all hailing from Sundararajapuram in Rajapalayam taluk in Virudhunagar district, and Murugesan, 62 of Viswanathaperi near Sivagiri in Tenkasi district. They were remanded in judicial custody on being produced in the court. As Madhan Raj and Mahesh were allegedly involved in a few more hunting cases in the past, Mr. Suresh recommended their detention under the Goondas Act. Subsequently, Collector S. Gopala Sundararaj ordered for their detention.   The hunt is on to nab the remaining 3 persons, who have also been identified as habitual offenders and hunters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-hunters-detained-under-goondas-act/article37224553.ece
29 October 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Training for panchayat presidents||Training for the 204 village panchayat presidents elected in the recently held rural civic polls was held here on Thursday. Chairing the training session, Collector V. Vishnu urged the village panchayat heads to understand clearly their duties and discharge it in scrupulous manner to ensure better administration in the grassroots level. “Since the village panchayat presidents alone can take the government’s welfare schemes and other development projects to the doorsteps of the people living in the remote corners of the district, they should clearly understand their functioning and about their powers. They should ensure transparent and upright administration so that every resident of the villages under their jurisdiction will get benefited by the administration,” said Mr. Vishnu who honoured 90-year-old Sivanthipatti village panchayat president Perumaththal with a shawl. Project Director of District Rural Development Agency A. Palani was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-programme/article37224247.ece
29 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Common cuckoos, found in Europe and Asia, spotted in Avinashi||Birdwatchers have sighted four common cuckoos ( Cuculus canorus ), a bird which usually breeds in Europe and Central and East Asia and winters in Africa, at Avinashi in Tiruppur district. According to Sathish Senniyappan, a wildlife photographer and member of Coimbatore Nature Society (CNS) who photographed the birds on Monday, two out of the four birds were found to be a male and female based on their external appearances, while the remaining two appeared to be juvenile. The birds were found on his own land near his residence in Rakkiyapalayam in Avinashi. “As these birds winter in Africa, they usually halt for a short period of time before resuming their migration,” he said, adding that these cuckoos could be passage migrants. P.B. Balaji, a core committee member of CNS, said that common cuckoos are being repeatedly sighted in and around Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts for around four years despite these locations not being a part of its regular migratory route towards Africa. “These might be establishing a new migratory route,” he said, adding that extensive studies are required to ascertain this. Male and female cuckoos being sighted together is also a rarity as male and female birds usually migrate separately, he said. The male cuckoos have a grey plumage and generally have no barrings (lines on plumage) on its head, while the female birds will have a brownish plumage with barrings extending up to the throat area, Mr. Balaji said. The name ‘common cuckoo’ was likely given by the British as these are found widespread in Europe, he said. Being a brood parasite (a bird that lays its eggs in the nests of other birds), common cuckoos are also adept at visual mimicry, where it mimics a bird of prey while flying overhead to scare away other bird species such as warblers from their nests, Mr. Balaji noted. Mr. Senniyappan pointed out that another unusual characteristic of these birds is its diet, which consists of mostly caterpillars and winged termites ( easal in Tamil) that other bird species generally do not consume.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/common-cuckoos-found-in-europe-and-asia-spotted-in-avinashi/article37224166.ece
29 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Noon meal organiser suspended||Days after a Corporation school in Tiruppur reportedly distributed rotten eggs to the students, Tiruppur District Collector S. Vineeth placed a noon meal organiser under suspension on Thursday. The controversy began on Tuesday when reports of rotten eggs being distributed to the students of Corporation Primary School in Vavipalayam went viral on social media platforms. Sources in the district administration said an inquiry was launched into the allegation at the Vavipalayam school. It revealed that the noon meal organiser of the school, S. Maheswari, had found that 300 eggs, meant for distribution, were rotten and she had disposed them in a garbage bin outside the school. However, she did not maintain proper records on the number of eggs distributed, sources said. Following this, Ms. Maheswari was placed under suspension by the Collector on charges of bringing disrepute to the district administration. The 61 students of the school, who did not receive eggs amidst this controversy, received their share of fresh eggs on Thursday, according to the sources. Mr. Vineeth clarified to The Hindu that these eggs were never distributed to the children and denied media reports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/noon-meal-organiser-suspended/article37224156.ece
29 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Madras Regiment, INS Mysore exchange mementos||Mementos were exchanged between the Madras Regiment and Indian Naval ship, INS Mysore, at the Sri Nagesh Barracks of the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) in Wellington here on Thursday. The affiliation between INS Mysore and the Madras Regiment is 18-years-old, dating back to November 17, 2003, when a charter of affiliation was signed for this historic relationship that provided greater synergy among all ranks, and fostered a sense of camaraderie. The mementos were exchanged between Rear Admiral Samir Saxena, Assistant Chief of Naval Staff (Policy and Plan) and Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, Commandant of the MRC. Many serving officers, their families and veterans were present, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-regiment-ins-mysore-exchange-mementos/article37224160.ece
29 October 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Kodanad case: five days police custody granted to find more evidence||The district sessions court in Udhagamandalam granted the police five days custody of C. Dhanapal, who was arrested in connection with the Kodanad heist-cum-murder case recently. Mr. Dhanapal from Edappadi in Salem is the brother of one of the prime accused in the case C. Kanagaraj, who died in an accident at Attur in Salem shortly after the incident, where a group of 11 men broke into the bungalow of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa in Kodanad and made off with valuables. Dhanapal was arrested along with another of Kanagaraj’s associates, R. Ramesh from Attur. Lawyers following the case said the police had arrested the two men after raids conducted against the chairman of the Tamil Nadu State Apex Co-operative Bank, R. Elangovan, had unearthed fresh clues in the case. It has been alleged that both Ramesh and Dhanapal had destroyed by burning, a mobile phone that belonged to Kanagaraj. The police sought ten days custody of Dhanapal to retrieve the evidence, but district judge-cum-chief judicial magistrate, Udhagamandalam, C. Sanjai Baba, granted them five days custody. The police are expected to seek the custody of Mr. Ramesh in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kodanad-case-five-days-police-custody-granted-to-find-more-evidence/article37224168.ece
29 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects SL Tamils’ camp ahead of CM’s visit||Ahead of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s visit on November 3, District Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian and a team of oficials inspected the rehabilitation camp for the Sri Lankan Tamils in Abdullapuram in Vellore on Thursday. The Chief Minister will launch the scheme for the construction of 3,510 houses at a cost of Rs. 108 crore for the Sri Lankan Tamil refugees in the State. The programme will be launched at the Government Industrial Training Institute campus. The camp has 3,500 persons, who are mainly Sri Lankan Tamils from Mannar of the Northern Province and Trincomalee in the Eastern Province "We have inspected the camp and its surrounding areas as part of preparatory work for the Chief Minister's visit to the district next week. We will work out the security aspects for the visit," Mr. Pandian said. Minister visits camp The Minister for Minorities’ Welfare and Non-Resident Tamils’ Welfare, Gingee K. S. Masthan, the Minister for Handlooms And Textiles, R Gandhi, the Commissioner of Rehabilitation and Welfare of Non-Resident Tamils, Jacintha Lazarus, and the District Superintendent of Police, S. Selvakumar accompanied Mr. Pandian. Speaking to the refugees and enquiring their demands, Mr. Pandian also received petitions from them to prepare a list of requirements ahead of the Chief Minister's visit. The Training Institute was also inspected. At present, the Central and State governments provide cash assistance for the head of every refugee family and a separate aid for every additional member, aged 12 and above, and for children up to 12 years. They are also covered under all welfare schemes of the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-sl-tamils-camp-ahead-of-cms-visit/article37224559.ece
29 October 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||3,024 bottles of IMFL seized in Koliyanur||The Koliyanur police have seized 3,024 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) smuggled from Puducherry, and arrested one person in this connection. The arrested was identified as G. Vinothkumar, 26, of Thattanchavadi in Puducherry. Acting on a tip-off, a team was conducting vehicle checks at the Koliyanur check-post on Thursday. Around 5.30 a.m., when a pick-up van did not stop despite being signalled to do so, the police intercepted the vehicle, after a chase. Police said that about 63 carton boxes containing 3,024 bottles of IMFL brought from Puducherry were found concealed in the vehicle. The driver was arrested and remanded to custody. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3024-bottles-of-imfl-seized-in-koliyanur/article37224512.ece
29 October 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Collector visits marooned colony||Collector J. Meghanath Reddy on Thursday inspected Kambikudi panchayat where a residential colony of nomadic community was marooned in the recent torrential rain. He said that revenue officials, firemen and police swung into action immediately after the residential colony was flooded. Rainwater entered the houses of some 50 families and they were safely evacuated and provided accommodation at the Manthiriodai Government school. They were provided food and water. He promised to provide a causeway for a stream running closer to the colony. Besides, road facility and electricity would be provided there and efforts would be made for housing facility. A total of 24 children would be admitted in residential school. He distributed relief materials including rice, pulses, vegetables, groceries and mats. District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, Thilagavathi, Revenue Divisional Officer (Aruppukottai), Kalyankumar, Kariyapatti Tahsildar, Dhanakumar, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-visits-marooned-colony/article37224248.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||77 new cases reported in Erode district||Erode district reported 77 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 1,04,094. While 83 persons were discharged, 859 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 62 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 99,709. While 61 persons were discharged, 604 persons continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 47 cases, taking the tally to 52,112. While 52 persons were discharged, 515 continue to be under treatment. A total of 123 persons tested positive in Coimbatore district. The Health Department said 145 persons recovered from the disease on Thursday and the district had 1,330 active cases. Three more persons died of COVID-19 in Coimbatore district, taking the toll to 2,410.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/77-new-cases-reported-in-erode-district/article37224272.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stick to water level set by panel for now: SC tells Tamil Nadu, Kerala||The Bench deferred the hearing after Kerala requested time to file a detailed affidavit in response to the Supervisory Committee’s views, especially with regard to the ‘rule curve’, which means the level maintainable in reservoir on different days. The court directed Kerala to file its affidavit on or before November 8. Appearing for Kerala, senior advocate Jaideep Gupta said the northeast monsoon was about to begin and the level in the reservoir was expected to rise. “After that, it will be dangerous,” Mr. Gupta said at a physical hearing. Senior advocate Shekhar Naphade, for Tamil Nadu, countered that it was an annual ploy on the part of Kerala to bring the level down from 142 feet, a height allowed by the Supreme Court in its judgments. “Every year, Kerala attempts to bring it down from 142 feet.” Earlier in the day, Kerala submitted a note in the court raising objections to the Supervisory Committee’s recommendations on the rule curves. The committee was against any drastic changes in the water level. The State said a 126-year-old structure held together by lime-surkhi and situated in a seismically active zone amid torrential rain was vulnerable. The structure and the danger of the high upper rule levels posed a catastrophic risk to the lives and property of lakhs of people downstream. The State said in a note that heavy rainfall was predicted till October 31. Kerala asked for a reduction in the maximum level to 139 feet rather than the Supreme Court-approved 142 feet. Kerala argued that a flood routing exercise had seen water level rising above 142 ft for more than 50 hours. "The Mullaperiyar Dam is a 126-year-old composite gravity dam situated at an altitude of 2890 feet above MSL on the Western Ghats The hearting of the dam, which accounts for more than 60% of the volume of the dam, was constructed with lime-surkhi concrete. Quite understandably, seismic forces were not considered in its design. Presently the dam is in deteriorating condition due to its age. There would be an exponential increase in the water pressure and uplift pressure acting on the dam when the level was raised from 136 feet to 142 feet (i.e., from 859.167 to 936.648 tonnes per metre length of the dam),” Kerala said in the note. Kerala said Tamil Nadu could take measures to keep the water in the reservoir at a safe level without reducing the availability of water to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stick-to-water-level-set-by-panel-for-now-sc-tells-tamil-nadu-kerala/article37224149.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||He would stick to subject||Whenever he visited the Assembly canteen while being an MLA, N. Nanmaran would be seen facing the wall after having a cup of tea. It was to prevent others from seeing him smoking ‘beedi’. Whether in public platforms or in the Assembly, Nanmaran would never deviate from the subject he had taken up, and was appreciated by the late Chief Minister, Jayalalithaa, on the floor of the House. His speeches were peppered with humour and before one could realise the meaning of his barbs, he would switch to other subjects. Once he shared the dais with actress Revathi in Chennai. After listening to him, a spellbound Revathi said, “It was a clear case of appearance belies.” A long time ago, when the DMK objected to an AIADMK platform speaker for his uncharitable comments on party leader M. Karunanidhi, Nanmaran said he would share the sentiments of the DMK leaders, but they were not speaking like great Tamil scholar Thiru.Vi.Ka. His speeches were recorded and played at the party meetings, and one of his famous speeches was on world peace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/he-would-stick-to-subject/article37224150.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 123 new cases||A total of 123 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Thursday. The Health Department said that 145 persons recovered from the disease on Thursday and the district had 1,330 active cases. Three more persons died of COVID-19 in Coimbatore district, taking the death toll to 2,410. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 1.4 % on Wednesday when it reported 125 positive cases of the disease. Tiruppur district reported 65 fresh cases, which took the tally to 95,195 cases. The overall toll touched 978 following the reporting of one death by the Health Department. The district had 706 active cases and 82 patients from the district recovered from COVID-19 on Thursday. Positivity rate of Tiruppur district based on Wednesday’s data was 1.6%. In the Nilgiris, 17 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 33,511.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-123-new-cases/article37224180.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Safety first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safety-first/article37224189.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||29-10-2021-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA Rasika Ranjani Sabha (Regd.) Mylapore, Chennai - 600004. Today NAVARATHRI NRTYOTSAVA at 05.30 pm Sheela Unnikrishnan's Sri Devi Nrithyalaya & Disciples. 07.00 pm Padmashri Meenakshi Chitharanjan. Ph. No: 8610357987. Watch on www.rrsabha.org. Entry as per Govt. Covid SOP Guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/29-10-2021-city-cinema/article37224108.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Nehru Institute of Technology: MoU signing ceremony with 20 organisations, NIT campus, Kaliyapuram, 10 a.m.  Hindusthan Institute of Technology: Barnstromz 2k12 National-level technical syposium. Othakkalmandapam, 9.30 a.m.  VLB Janakiammal College of Arts and Science: Inauguration of IT and Computer Technology Association Cybervox, 10 a.m.  Coimbatore Management Association: “Journey of CFOs - Insights and best practices”, 6 p.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College for Arts and Science for Women: Seminar on Vigilance Awareness, 11 a.m.  KGISL Institute of Information Management: Inaugural ceremony of 2021 batch, 11 a.m.  KPRCAS - School of Computing Science: Triad inauguration, 10 a.m.  The Firebird Institute of Research in Management: Firebird Biz-Flare 2K21 one-day inter-collegiate business symposium, Chettipalayam, 9.30 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Online Elocution Contest, 2.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37224177.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Sathyamangalam: International visiting faculty engagement on Customer Relations in Service Marketing, Balasubramanian Kandappan of Taylor’s University, Malaysia, resource person, virtual mode, 9 a.m.  Builders Engineering College, Kangayam: First year B.E. and M.B.A. induction programme, M. Chinnasamy, Managing Director, Agni Steels Private Limited, chief guest, 10 a.m.  Nandha College of Physiotherapy: Department of Neurology, World Stroke Day, rally, S. Somasundaram, Deputy Director of Health Services, flags off, Collectorate premises, 10 a.m.  RD National College of Arts and Science: Inauguration of Youth Red Cross, Thomas V John, Secretary, Youth Red Cross, chief guest, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article37224275.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lakhs assemble to sing Kannada songs||Mass singing of three popular Kannada songs was organised on Thursday by the State Government in the run-up to Kannada Rajyotsava on November 1. About 18 lakh people participated in them across Karnataka. On the footsteps of the Vidhana Soudha, government employees of all cadre gathered to sing the chosen songs, while similar events were held in other cities and towns. In Bengaluru, mass singing events were held in front of Ravindra Kalakshetra and the BBMP office. The songs chosen were Baarisu Kannada Dindimava , Jogada Siri Belakinalli, and Huttidare Kannada Naadali Huttabeku , which highlight the Kannada language and the culture of Karnataka. The programme was part of the ‘Kannadakkagi Naavu’ campaign. It was inaugurated by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in Hubballi. He administered an oath to the people gathered that they would speak and transact in Kannada in their everyday life. According to a release from the Government, similar events were also held in Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, and Kasaragod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lakhs-assemble-to-sing-kannada-songs/article37224060.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lawyers’ association objects to proposed changes to Forest Act||Joining the chorus against the proposed amendments to the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, the All-India Lawyers’ Association for Justice (AILAJ), an association of lawyers, legal professionals and law students from across India, has written to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change with its objections. Beginning with the procedural objections, the association has said that the consultation paper was issued at a time when India was just recovering from the massive COVID-19 pandemic. This has resulted in a situation where key stakeholders to the proposed amendments were not in a situation to effectively respond. “At this stage, the methodology adopted by the ministry to issue the consultation paper — firstly, only in English language; secondly, only in online mode; thirdly, without broadcasting widely in the press; and fourthly, without localised consultations with effected stakeholders — reveals a lack of inclination, let alone commitment, to any real consultative process. The initiation of such a consultative process in this manner is tantamount to non-consultation and is exclusionary of the vast majority of stakeholders,” the association said. Referring to the manner of consultation as “violative” of the Pre-legislative Consultation Policy-2014, the association also said, “Moreover, as per the policy, the minimum period must be 30 days, whereas only 15 days were given here. Only after public criticism was the date extended to 30 days.” ‘Undemocratic response’ Unfortunately, the response of the government has been “similarly opportunistic and undemocratic” throughout the pandemic in a host of arenas, the association alleged. “Whether it be through the draft proposal to amend the Environment Impact Assessment procedures that effectively render local communities voiceless, the suspension of operation of labour laws by various states at the expense of workmen, the dilution of land ownership laws allowing for easy takeover of agricultural land by corporations, or the attempt to overhaul the criminal law system, the pro-corporate and anti-people agenda of the government has been laid bare during this period,” it added. Urging the government to “immediately withdraw” the consultative paper, the AILAJ has submitted paragraph-wise objections, including to those that speak of private land in forest areas and forest land acquired for infrastructure projects. “The paper states that a large number of forest land was acquired “long before 1980” by various ministries for non-forest purposes.... it is irrational to suggest that these large tracts of old forests must now be permitted to be deforested without permission for no reason. The exemption of these tracts from compliance with the law serves no discernible purpose, and nor has the same been justifiedin any way,” it said.  At this stage, the methodology adopted by the ministry to issue the consultation paper reveals a lack of inclination, let alone commitment, to any real consultative process All-India Lawyers’ Association for Justice,in a letter to MoEF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lawyers-association-objects-to-proposed-changes-to-forest-act/article37224072.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New government school students denied textbooks, uniforms||Thousands of students who shifted out of private schools and enrolled in government schools this academic year have still not got their textbooks and uniforms, while some are not even getting their midday meals. This is because while they made the switch during the pandemic, private school managements are refusing to issue transfer certificates. An official from the Department of Public Instruction said that thousands of students across the State have been put to hardship because of this. While these students have started attending classes in government schools, they are still listed as enrolled in private schools in the Student Achievement Tracking System (SATS) and are hence unable to get textbooks, uniforms, and midday meals. “If we try to register the child once again, the system says there is a doubling mistake.” The headmaster of a government high school said enrolment in his school, located in Bengaluru, has increased and 20 new students were admitted. “Of the 20 students, 12 were earlier studying in private schools but have not been issued transfer certificates. While we are providing them with midday meals, we are unable to issue uniforms and textbooks as these students are not enrolled in the SATS database under our school,” he said. A question of fee D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that private schools were not issuing TCs as parents had not paid their dues for the past two academic years. “Many have refused to pay for the online classes their children attended. This is a gross injustice and school managements will incur huge losses if the parents do not pay,” he said. R. Vishal, Commissioner for Public Instruction, acknowledged the problem and said that the matter would be resolved on a case-by-case basis. “We will ensure that students are not denied midday meals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-government-school-students-denied-textbooks-uniforms/article37224055.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||National policy, ‘data-driven’ Incredible India campaign to boost tourism||New policies, campaigns and measures to give a boost to the tourism sector were among the announcements made by Union Minister for Tourism, Culture and Development of Northeastern Region G . Kishan Reddy at the two-day conference of Tourism and Culture Ministers of the southern region, which began here on Thursday. “To utilise the huge advantage that the country has, the central and state ministries of tourism have taken several measures to boost tourism and encourage investments in the sector. Among these are a national tourism policy, which we wish to unveil after close consultation with the states and all stakeholders,” he said, adding that industry status to various tourism projects and loans to tourist operators and guides affected by the pandemic are also among the measures. A new “data-driven” Incredible India 2.0 campaign is also on the cards, he said, adding that the Government wanted to give five lakh tourist visas to international visitors to India free of charge and also extend e-visa facilities. Karnataka Tourism Minister Anand Singh said that though the COVID-19 pandemic had raised questions about the tourism sector’s revival, the response to Mysuru Dasara proved that the pace was picking up. He spoke about the need for single-window clearance for film shooting at monuments to attract visitors. “Even in Hampi, near the Virupaksha Temple, a few places are barred to visitors. People should at least be allowed to see them. The Archaeological Survey of India and locals have differences of opinion in Hampi and this has been brought to the attention of the Centre,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/national-policy-data-driven-incredible-india-campaign-to-boost-tourism/article37224071.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State Govt. set to launch literacy programme in prisons from Nov. 1||After a recent survey found nearly one-third of the prison inmates across the State to be illiterates, the State Government is set to expand literacy programme to enable them to read and write, from November 1. Of about 15,000 inmates — both convicts and undertrials lodged in 51 prisons — about 5,000 were found to be completely illiterate or with a capacity to only sign. Most of them are affixing their thumb impression for their signature. The 51 prisons in Karnataka includes nine central prisons, 21 district prisons, 30 taluk prisons, and one open-air prison at Devanahalli near Bengaluru. Currently, about 11,200 prison inmates are undertrials and about 3,800 are convicts. While the programme to bring literacy among these prisoners was launched by the Government at the Bengaluru Central Prison, it will be launched across all prisons in the State from November 1. In Bengaluru Central Prison, the biggest in Karnataka, of the about 4,800 inmates in the age group of 18 to 90, it was found that nearly 700 inmates were illiterates while about 580 inmates had studied up to standard V. The jail authorities have formed batches of 10 inmates, who are illiterates, and they are brought under the wings of the inmates who can read and write. “The idea is to utilise the services of well-educated prisoners to bring about literacy. Over a period of six months, they will be taught up to III standard syllabus,” Home Department sources said. “The prisoners will then become eligible to appear for SSLC-level examination conducted by the National Institute of Open Learning.” Training To make the project a success, the prisoners chosen to teach illiterate prisoners will be trained through the trainers’ syllabus ‘Balige Belaku’ brought out by the Mass Education Department. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said, “We are planning to provide remuneration to prisoners who will be roped in to teach. The help of outside tutors may also be taken.” Mr. Jnanendra said, “These prisoners entered the jail by putting their thumb impressions. But we want them to put their signatures when they leave the jail.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-set-to-launch-literacy-programme-in-prisons-from-nov-1/article37224086.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Treat murder of youth in Belagavi as ‘religious honour killing’: Fact-finding team||A fact-finding team comprising members of civil society groups has urged the Belagavi police to treat the murder of 25-year-old Arbaz Aftab Mulla on September 28 as “communal honour killing” and not pass it off as a case of contract killing. They want the Karnataka Government to take steps to ensure compliance with the Supreme Court judgment in the Shakthi Vahini vs. Union of India case, which mandates protection to all inter-faith and inter-caste couples.  ‘A murder in Belagavi: A report, an appeal for justice solidarity harmony’ was released by the team that visited Belagavi on October 7. The team appealed to people of Karnataka to extend solidarity to the family of Mulla who was allegedly murdered by activists of Sri Rama Sena-Hindustan (SRS-H) at the behest of the family of the girl with whom Mullawas in love. The report says that the involvement of the girl’s family must be seen in tandem with that of the SRS-H, and the police and district administration must ensure safety of Mulla’s family. “In the last few weeks, we have seen increasing instances of religious goondaism (moral policing), which seek to divide the youth. They deny women any choice, and attack the dignity of Muslims and Christians. Cases have been reported across Karnataka from Mandya to Mangaluru,” it said. It said Mulla was beheaded while Muslim boys in Ilkal were beaten up for wearing skull cap. In the latter case, victims of the violence had been arrested. Churches and pastors were being attacked, and police were barging into Christian homes, violating their most basic rights, the report alleged, adding that the State was also witnessing an increase in assault on Dalits. Appeal by team “We appeal to all fellow citizens, who believe in India’s Constitution, to organise themselves to hold the government and law enforcement agencies accountable, to ensure justice for victims of such violence, and to stand in solidarity with all those under attack,” the report stated. The team consisted, among others, members of All-India People’s Forum, All-India Lawyers’ Associationfor Justice, Fraternity Movement, All-India Students’ Association, and Movement for Justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/treat-murder-of-youth-in-belagavi-as-religious-honour-killing-fact-finding-team/article37224079.ece
29 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karnataka power consumers can get connection within 24 hours from today||Karnataka’s Energy Department has launched Janasnehi Vidyuth Sevegalu,  a scheme under which a new power connection can be availed of within 24 hours through an online application. The new services, which will be available in all the energy supplying companies of the State, are set to be launched on Friday by Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar. The scheme pertains to four sets of services, including new connections which will be available within 24 hours for domestic and commercial consumers if there is no requirement for expansion or alteration of the existing power network in the area. Also, the demand for power load should not be more than 18 kW for such consumers to avail of the facility within 24 hours, said an official release. Under this scheme, it is now also possible to change the name of the owner of the installation within 24 hours. The scheme also allows increase or reduction in sanctioned load within 24 hours. It also allows change in power tariff in tune with purpose of utilisation of power within 24 hour of application. These services are available through both online/off-line application modes. The applicants would be informed about the fees either through SMS or email. The status of application could also be tracked under the new system. Pointing out that the number of required documents to be submitted along the application had been reduced, the release said that the main intention was to simplify the procedures and to enable consumers to get services easily. The new system would be available in 409 sub-divisions of the energy sector in the State from Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-power-consumers-can-get-connection-within-24-hours-from-today/article37224076.ece
29 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Joint team of CCB, cyber police to act against piracy||The State Home Department has formed a joint team comprising CCB and cyber police to crackdown on piracy in Kannada cinema industry. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said the Kannada film industry had provided employment to lakhs of people besides being the entertainment sector, and added that the Government would take all measures to protect its interests. While earlier there was only discussion in this regard, recently a complain against piracy had been filed by film-makers, he said. Meanwhile, the Minister also held consultations with various authorities concerned on the issue of amendment to the Karnataka Cinema (Regulation) Act, 1964. “We have decided to amend it in the next legislature session. In this background, we are eliciting the views of various stakeholders,” he said. The 1964 legislation needed to be amended now in tune with the present-day requirements, he said. “Earlier, we needed a big room in theatres for housing the projector and several staff to maintain it. But now only two persons can manage 10 screens due to the advent of technology,” the Minister pointed out. Thursday’s meeting discussed various issues, including the time period for which exemption should be provided from the licence fee for theatres as they had been closed on account of COVID-19, he noted. Also, the film industry had sought that the licence fee should be revised once in five years against the present system of revising every year, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/joint-team-of-ccb-cyber-police-to-act-against-piracy/article37224084.ece
29 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kannada commands at police parade||The Home Department is set to introduce Kannada commands for the police parade and drill from this year’s Kannada Rajyotsava. Announcing this at a press conference on Thursday, Home Minister Araga Jnanedra said the commands were hitherto in English.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-commands-at-police-parade/article37224061.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Georgia proclaims Nov. 1 as ‘Kannada Language and Rajyotsava Day’||As Karnataka prepares to celebrate Kannada Rajyotsava, Kannadigas living in Georgia in the U.S. have reason to cheer. The Governor of Georgia, Brian P. Kemp, has issued a proclamation that November 1 will be observed as ‘Kannada Language and Rajyotsava Day’. The Atlanta-based Nrupatunga Kannada Koota, which worked to get the proclamation, said in its Facebook post that Georgia had become the first state in the U.S. to issue such a proclamation for Kannada. The Koota thanked Governor Kemp for bestowing the honour. A Governor’s proclamation is a ceremonial document issued on behalf of the state. Georgia has one of the biggest Indian diaspora in the U.S. “Kannada is one of the longest-surviving classical languages, with a rich literature and etymological formations, unique to its language and inscriptions dating back to 450 BCE,” the proclamation noted. It said that the Kannadiga community of Georgia was educating future generations in their language through three local schools in the greater Atlanta area and through events organised by the Nrupatunga Kannada Koota. “Kannada language has been recognised with Biliteracy Seal Outreach in Heritage Languages from the Georgia Department of Education.” A courtesy Proclamations are issued at the discretion of the Governor as a courtesy to Georgia residents to recognise a day, week, or month for a cause of significant statewide interest, the Georgia Governor’s website said. It also said that all proclamations required an in-state sponsor or suggested language. “These documents are strictly honorary and are not legally binding,” it said. The proclamation said that the Kannadiga community had contributed to the state in medicine, engineering, research, law, language, culture, and tradition, as well as enriching Georgia’s economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/georgia-proclaims-nov-1-as-kannada-language-and-rajyotsava-day/article37224062.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman alleges moral policing by BBMP official||A theatre personality, Anuradha H.R., who went to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) office in Kengeri on Thursday alleged that she was subjected to “moral policing” by an official who objected to the way she was dressed. She has written to Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, who told The Hindu that he has ordered an inquiry into the incident and sought a report. “We will take action against the officer, if he is found guilty. This behaviour is not accepted,” he said. Ms. Anuradha, who had been with her friend to get a khata extract, said the official, Madhu, went on a rant saying she was dressed indecently. “I was wearing a T-shirt and three-fourths pants. The officer said that this was not the way for women to dress at a government office and that there was a dress code. I asked for the dress code, which he failed to furnish. When I took up the issue with him, objecting to his moral policing, he stopped talking to me and did not help us get our work done,” she told The Hindu.  Ms. Anuradha said she “felt very violated as a woman” and that it was no business of any government official to impose their morals on citizens visiting government offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-alleges-moral-policing-by-bbmp-official/article37224065.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||478 new COVID-19 cases, 17 deaths reported||Karnataka on Thursday reported 478 new cases of COVID-19, up from 282 on Wednesday. With this, the total cases rose to 29,87,313. The maximum number of cases on the day, 235, were reported from Bengaluru Urban. Seventeen people succumbed to the virus, including seven from Bengaluru district. With this, the death toll across Karnataka rose to 38,054. The State currently has 8,557 active patients. The positivity rate for the day was 0.42%, while the case fatality rate was 3.55%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/478-new-covid-19-cases-17-deaths-reported/article37224064.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Device to monitor patients in real time launched||Honeywell Technology Solutions has developed a wearable device for real-time patient monitoring, and recording of vital signs data, which it said would help make routine tasks by healthcare professionals and caregivers a lot easier. Called Real-Time Health Monitoring System (RTHMS), the device comprises a wrist-band that monitors SpO2 (oxygen saturation levels) and a disposable, wearable biosensor patch with a QR code placed on the patient’s chest, which records other vitals such as ECG, respiratory rate, heart rate, skin temperature, and posture of the patient. A caregiver can scan the QR code and monitor patients in real time or remotely on a dashboard placed at the nursing station. “Our software offers real-time remote patient monitoring, reads and records vital signs of the patients with much accuracy and automates time-consuming, critical tasks to improve the overall experience of patients, and reduces the administrative tasks of medical personnel by 35%,” said Samuel Pratap, president, Honeywell Technology Solutions, the global engineering and technology development arm of Honeywell. Honeywell is currently in the process of deploying the device for several healthcare firms across the country, including at least half a dozen hospitals in Bengaluru. According to Nandakumar K., general manager, Honeywell Safety and Productivity Solutions, India, RTHMS captures the vital parameters of patients in real time and transmits them to a health analytics dashboard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/device-to-monitor-patients-in-real-time-launched/article37224067.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre of excellence||Honeywell Center of Excellence for Women Empowerment was inaugurated at Rajarajeswari College of Engineering here on Thursday by the ICT Academy with the aim to empower students of the institution with digital skills. The centre will train 100 students in advanced technologies and facilitate placements, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-of-excellence/article37224081.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man gets 20 years RI for sexual assault on minor||The city civil and sessions court recently convicted a 23-year-old wall painter for sexually assaulting a 16-year-old repeatedly in February 2019. Vijay Shekhar has been sentenced to 20 years of rigorous imprisonment and fined Rs. 10,000. The court has also directed the legal services authority to pay a compensation of Rs. 4 lakh to the victim. Public Prosecutor K.V. Ashwathnarayan said the minor girl had gone to the painter’s house to give a notebook to his sister. However, the sister was not at home. Shekhar invited her inside for tea and sexually assaulted her. Four days later, he took her to an isolated place near the house and assaulted her again. The victim later narrated the ordeal to her family, based on which Shekhar was arrested and booked under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-gets-20-years-ri-for-sexual-assault-on-minor/article37224054.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police round up beggars in special drive||The West Division police, as part of a special drive, rounded up over 30 persons who were found begging in public places. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP, West) Sanjeev Patil said a similar drive had been taken up earlier this year as well. “However, it was noticed that there was a rise in the number of persons begging in public spaces. So the drive was taken up again,” he said. Upparpet and Cottonpet police stations had the maximum number of cases reported among other stations in the division because of the commercial areas in their jurisdictions. Most of the people rounded up were between 30 and 80 years of age and are now at a rehabilitation centre. A few minors, who were among them, were sent to the state homefor girls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-round-up-beggars-in-special-drive/article37224063.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman killed as auto rams into truck||A 43-year-old woman was killed, while her husband and daughter were injured, when the autorickshaw they were travelling in collided with a cement mixer truck that was parked on C.V. Raman Road in Sadashiva Nagar. The incident took place late on Wednesday night. The deceased has been identified as Mubeena. Her husband, Yaseen Khan, 48, and their 20-year-old daughter were admitted to Bowring Hospital, said the police. The cement mixer truck belonged to a civil contractor entrusted to take up roadwork in the area. “The truck driver had parked the vehicle without switching on the indicators. As the road was dark, Yaseen Khan (who was driving the auto) failed to see it and collided into it,” said a police officer.  The police have arrested the truck driver, charging him with negligence that led to death. The contractor has also been booked for not following safety precautions while taking up civic work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-killed-as-auto-rams-into-truck/article37224066.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kannada missing||Amid the ‘Kannada- kkaagi Naavu’ (We for Kannada) campaign being run till October 30, there was a minor controversy at the tourism conference where Karnataka Minister Anand Singh took exception to Kannada missing from the event. Kannada missing from an event being held in Karnataka is unacceptable despite the ongoing campaign and action will be taken in the future, he warned. After his intervention, a digital banner with Kannada was presented, a release from the Minister’s office said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-missing/article37224074.ece
29 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||The highly educated||Bengaluru Central Prison currently has a PhD holder, three doctors, 28 BE/BCA degree holders, 111 BA/MA graduates, 116 ITI/diploma holders, 75 BCom/ MCom graduates, and about 30 BSc/MSc graduates, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-highly-educated/article37224087.ece
29 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Tirthahalli TP polls: Congress members elected||Shabnam and Jayaprakash Shetty of the Congress were elected president and vice-president respectively of Tirthahalli Town Panchayat on Thursday. The Congress had won nine of the total 15 seats in the elections that were held recently. The BJP had fielded Jyothi Mohan and Raveesh for the two posts. However, they could secure only six votes each. Tirthahalli is represented by Home Minister Araga Jnanendra in the Legislative Assembly. Following the elections, the Congress workers celebrated the occasion. Former Minister Kimmane Ratnakar and Manjunath Gowda joined the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tirthahalli-tp-polls-congress-members-elected/article37224453.ece
29 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Cash bag with Rs. 43 lakh stolen from vehicle||Unknown people made away with Rs. 43 lakh in cash kept in a vehicle that belonged to a cash management company at Banavara in Arsikere taluk on Wednesday. The staff members of the company were busy loading cash to an ATM when miscreants fled with a bag containing cash, according to the complaint. Harish Kumar, the manager of CMS Info Systems Ltd., has filed a complaint with Banavara police. Driver Natesh, cash officer Rudresh and gunman Bharat K.L. were with the vehicle that carried the cash. The incident took place when the driver had got down from the vehicle, while the other two officers were busy loading cash in the kiosk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cash-bag-with-rs-43-lakh-stolen-from-vehicle/article37224461.ece
29 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Tiger nails recovered, one person arrested||The forest mobile squad of Chikkamagaluru arrested a person and recovered a pair of tiger nails from him. Shekhar, 45, of Hakki Pikki colony at Hirekolale near Chikkamagaluru, was allegedly attempting to sell the nails when officials arrested him on Wednesday night. One more accused is absconding. R. Venkatesh, RFO of the squad, said that the staff arrested Shekhar after they received information about his attempt to sell the pair of nails for Rs. 25,000. “During the inquiry, we learnt that Sundar of Ukkunda village is also involved in the case. He allegedly killed a tiger by putting a snare in his village and sought Shekhar’s help to sell the nails. We are trying to secure Sundar,” he said. Many people have the habit of usingtiger nails as pendants for their necklaces. “We will get more details on how the accused got the nails once the absconding person is arrested”, the RFO said. The officers have registered a case against the accused under several sections of the Wildlife Protection Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tiger-nails-seized-one-held/article37224069.ece
29 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Over 25,000 participate in Hassan dist.||Thousands of students, teachers and government employees participated in the recitation of Kannada songs as part of the ‘Kannadakkagi Navu’ programme, organised in the run-up to the 66th Kannada Rajyotsava, in Hassan on Thursday. The main programme was held at the district stadium. Three songs were recited by the gathering. Excise Minister K. Gopalaiah, Preetham Gowda, MLA, Deputy Commissioner R. Girish and others participated. Similar programmes were held at 15 historic places in the district. Students in many schools and colleges also took part in the event. Around 25,000 people participated in the programme across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-25000-participate-in-hassan-dist/article37224454.ece
29 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hasanamba festival begins, rituals performed||The annual Hasanamba festival began on Thursday with the opening of doors of Hasanamba Temple in the presence of elected representatives and senior officers. The temple is opened for devotees only during this festival. The doors were opened around 12.15 p.m. in presence of Excise Minister K. Gopalaiah, Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy, Preetham Gowda, MLA, and others. Rituals were performed by a team of priests on the occasion. The district administration had decided to allow only elected representatives and officers to the temple on the first day. However, many devotees stood in the queue to have darshan. They were asked to carry certificates to show COVID-19 vaccination.  There was no proper mechanism to check if the devotees carried certificates. The devotees hardly followed COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. The festival concludes on November 6. The devotees have access to the temple on all days except the last day, when traditional rituals are held. The devotees can get special passes by paying Rs. 300 and Rs. 1,000. The administration has made arrangements for the benefit of devotees, who stand in long queues. During this festival, the temple attracts lakhs of devotees. Due to the COVID-19 lockdown, there were restrictions in place during the festival last year. This year, the administration has relaxed restrictions, considering the decrease in the positivity rate of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hasanamba-festival-begins-rituals-performed/article37224456.ece
29 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||CM to lay foundation stone for water project||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will lay the foundation stone for the Ranaghatta Project, meant to bring water for the Dorasamudra tank at Halebidu from Yagachi river, on October 30. Former Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa is also expected to take part in the event. Interestingly, H.D.Kumaraswamy had announced this project during the JD(S)-Congress rule and earmarked Rs. 100 crore for its implementation. He had also laid the foundation stone for the project on February 26, 2019. However, the project did not proceed further. Minister for Excise K. Gopalaiah, who is in charge of Hassan district, on Wednesday, inspected the spot and reviewed the preparations for the Chief Minister’s programme. The project includes the construction of a canal that connects the Yagachi river at Ranaghatta near Belur and Halebidu. The cost has is put at Rs. 158 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-to-lay-foundation-stone-for-water-project/article37224452.ece
29 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Houses of Shivakumar’s aides searched by Income Tax sleuths in Dharwad||Sleuths from the Income Tax Department, Goa, conducted searches at the residences of Congress leader and civil contractor U.B. Shetty and his brother Seetaram Shetty in Dharwad on Thursday. A team of I-T officials visited the residence of PWD contractor Mr. Seetaram Shetty located at Vinayak Nagar and the posh bungalow of Mr. U.B. Shetty at Dasankoppa Circle in Dharwad. The searches were carried out from dawn to dusk. The siblings reportedly have close contacts with KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar. Sources said that the searches were extended part of the exercise carried out by I-T officials at the residences and offices of contractors in Bengaluru recently. Around 50 officials and personnel from Goa, Bengaluru, and Belagavi were part of the searches. A native of Byndoor in Udupi district, Mr. U.B. Shetty owns several educational institutions in this region and is said to be a key aspirant for the Legislative Council ticket from Udupi-Mangaluru region. Mr. U.B. Shetty returned to Dharwad from Bengaluru on Thursday morning and minutes later, the I-T teams reached his residence. Congress leaders have taken exception to the searches. Belagavi MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar has said that this was nothing but “a ploy to harass Congress leaders ahead of the bypolls”. However, there was no question of any fear over such politically motivated searches and it would have no impact on the bypolls, she said. KPCC member Robert Daddapuri also alleged that the raid was politically motivated but truth would prevail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/houses-of-shivakumars-aides-searched-by-income-tax-sleuths-in-dharwad/article37224077.ece
29 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Sindgi is all set for bypolls tomorrow||Deputy Commissioner of Vijayapura P. Sunil Kumar has said that all requisite steps have been taken and arrangements made for conducting the byelections to Sindgi Assembly Constituency in a free and fair manner. Addressing presspersons in Vijayapura on Thursday, Mr. Sunil Kumar said that arrangements have been made for facilitating voting by 2,34,584 voters in the constituency. Polling will be held from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Saturday. Mr. Sunil Kumar said that there are 1,20,844 male voters, 1,13,561 female voters and 32 voters of the third gender in the constituency. The constituency has 147 service electors. He said that in all, 297 polling stations, 271 polling stations and 26 auxiliary polling stations, have been set up. “Seven check-posts have been set up to keep vigil over movement of vehicles and people to check any kind of poll malpractice. There are 22 sector officers, 18 flying squads and 21 surveillance teams,” he said. The Deputy Commissioner said that a total of 1,308 polling officials and personnel will be deployed for polling duties. And, 66 buses and other vehicles have been kept ready for their transportation. The Deputy Commissioner clarified that polling will be held as per COVID-19 guidelines. Already, 93% of the people in the Sindgi Assembly segment have received their vaccine doses. 24 cases He said that the administration has received 53 complaints pertaining to violation of model poll code of conduct and COVID-19 protocol. After looking into them, a total of 24 cases have been registered, he said. So far, 307 litres of liquor have been seized by teams of the Excise Department and the Police Department, he said. Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat Govind Reddy, Superintendent of Police H.D. Anand Kumar and Additional Deputy Commissioner Ramesh Kalasad were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sindgi-is-all-set-for-bypolls-tomorrow/article37224470.ece
29 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bypolls: Senior leaders continue to camp in neighbouring districts||After a hectic last day of public campaign on Wednesday, both Hangal and Sindgi Assembly segments witnessed a lull on Thursday, with electioneering limited to door-to-door canvassing. However, most of the political leaders, including Ministers of the BJP Government, senior Congress leaders from Bengaluru and other places are camping in nearby towns and farmhouses outside the constituency borders. Asper reports from both the constituencies, the candidates and their followers were not keen on visiting households on Thursday. Barring a few, most of them spent the day in holding closed-door meetings with their associates. CM at Bada Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, whose constituency also lies in Haveri district, remained in Hubballi till late evening on Thursday and visited Bada village, spending some time at the reconstructed palace of saint-poet Kanakadasa. He was accompanied by Health Minister K. Sudhakar, who has been camping in Hubballi for over a week and MLA Raju Gowda and others. Meanwhile, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar claimed that the BJP was busy distributing cash among voters and released videos that claimed to prove it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bypolls-senior-leaders-continue-to-camp-in-neighbouring-districts/article37224080.ece
29 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Leadership award||Director (Administration) of Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara University Saketh Shetty has been honoured with “Exemplary Youth Leadership Award” instituted by Red FM for his contribution in the field of Education and Healthcare as an young administrator. The former Lokayukta N. Santosh Hegde presented the award to him recently, a release said.    Padmasambhava Wellbeing Centre will hold a 21-minute meditation course called “Meditation of Twin Hearts” for everyone above the age of 16 on its premises at Rajdhani Colony in Hubballi. The free session will be held daily. Those interested can contact Ph: 7406677747.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leadership-award/article37224294.ece
29 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Did Siddaramaiah join the Congress for livelihood?’||Hitting back at Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, who had reportedly said that Dalit leaders had quit the Congress and joined the BJP for securing their livelihood, State Vice-President of BJP’s Scheduled Castes Morcha Ambaraya Ashtagi said that the remarks were insulting to Dalit community and their political leadership. “Speaking at a by-election campaign at Sindgi, Mr. Siddaramaiah had said that Dalit leaders had deserted Congress and joined the BJP for securing their livelihood. It is true that Dalits are increasingly quitting the Congress and joining the BJP these years. For, the Congress had taken the Dalit community for granted and treated it as its vote-bank hardly making any effort for the development of the community,” Mr. Ashtagi said in a media statement released here on Thursday. Mr. Ashtagi further said that systematically sidelining and suppressing the Dalit leaders in the Congress are the other important reasons for many Dalit leaders deserting the Congress and joining the BJP. “Systematic suppression of Dalit leaders in the Congress being another important reason for many Dalit leaders deserting the Congress and joining the BJP is not unknown to Mr. Siddaramaiah. Yet, he is covering up the truth and making absurd statements on the issue for political reasons. Why did Mr. Siddaramaiah quit the Janata Dal (Secular) and join the Congress? He should introspect whether he had done it for a livelihood,” Mr. Ashtagi said. Countering Mr. Siddaramaiah’s argument that the Congress had offered reservations to Dalits, Mr. Ashtagi said that it was the Indian Constitution drafted by Baba Saheb Ambedkar that offered Dalits and other backward classes the reservations and not the Congress. “It is the Indian Constitution drafted by Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar and not the Congress that offered reservations to all oppressed and marginal communities, including Dalits. Reservation is not a mercy or compassion shown by a particular party or the ruling dispensation, but a Constitutionally guaranteed right,” Mr. Ashtagi said, demanding Mr. Siddaramaiah to withdraw his statement that insulted the Dalit community and tender a public apology.  The Congress had taken the Dalit community for granted and treated it as its vote-bank hardly making any effort for the development of the community Ambaraya Ashtagi, State Vice-President of BJP’s Scheduled Castes Morcha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/did-siddaramaiah-join-the-congress-for-livelihood/article37224469.ece
29 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi hosts ‘Kannadakkagi Naavu’ ahead of Rajyotsava||As part of “Kannadakkagi Naavu” campaign to promote Kannada language ahead of Rajyotsava celebrations to mark the unification of all Kannada speaking regions, officials, Kannada activists, singers and students participated in a musical programme here on Thursday. In Kalaburagi, the programme was organised at the Deputy Commissioner’s office, the Zilla Panchayat office and the City Corporation where the participants sung three popular songs written by Rashtrakavi Kuvempu, K.S. Nisar Ahmed and lyricist-musician Hamsalekha, respectively. The programme was also held at Central Prison on the outskirts of the city, where around 100 prison staff and 500 inmates sang the songs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-hosts-kannadakkagi-naavu-ahead-of-rajyotsava/article37224288.ece
29 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Paintings go on display||Rehman Patel, a Kalaburagi-based artist, displayed his works at a solo exhibition of paintings organised by the Kannada and Culture Department here on Thursday. Inaugurating the three-day solo exhibition of paintings, co-ordinator, Department of Visual Art, Gulbarga University, Abdul Rab Ustad said that it is a challenging subject for the artist to express his ideas through his canvas. Lauding the works of Mr. Patel, he said that the artist, who is involved in contemporary subjects, has expressed socio-cultural concepts through his canvas. A solo exhibition titled “Metaphor” is a figure of speech in which one thing implicitly represents another. A visual metaphor is an image that the viewer is meant to understand as a symbol for something else, Mr. Patel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/paintings-go-on-display/article37224290.ece
29 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Clean India programme||Stressing the need for extending the campaign for cleanliness beyond students, State Director of Nehru Yuva Kendra M.N. Nataraj has called for community involvement in the drive. Addressing a Clean India programme organised by the Kalaburagi chapter of the kendra at Buddha Vihar on the outskirts of Kalaburagi on Wednesday, he said that a special cleanliness drive was taken up at 75 important Archaeological Survey of India sites spread across the country to celebrate the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence. “The month-long campaign started on October 1 simultaneously in 774 districts of the country. It will end on Sunday. Dignitaries from different fields are part of it. The campaign needs to be extended to become a community programme,” he said. Harshal Talaskar, an officer from the Kalaburagi kendra, said that those involved were collecting 275 kg plastic waste every day in Kalaburagi to reach the target of 8,225 kg by the end of the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/clean-india-programme/article37224286.ece
29 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Scorching sun does not deter participants from singing||Despite a scorching sun, students and others participated in good numbers in the mass singing of three Kannada songs organised ahead of Rajyotsava in Mangaluru and other parts of Dakshina Kannada on Thursday. More than 200 students from different schools and colleges took part in the event organised by the district administration on Tannirbhavi Beach here. Students started coming to the beach by 10.30 a.m. Among the students who took part in programme included those from Sharada Vidyalaya, Canara School, Dongarkeri, Vidyadayinee School, Surathkal, Government First Grade College, Car Street, Government First Grade College for Women, Balmatta, Besant Women’s College and Govindadasa College, Surathkal. While most of the students faced the stage, a few faced the sea. The programme started at 11 a.m. with the arrival of Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra and other dignitaries on stage, when students sang the Naadageete. Then, came Baarisu Kannada Dimdimava, Jogada Siri Belakinalli and Huttidare Kannada Naadalli Huttabeku. As many as 30 teachers and college lecturers were posted to take care of the students. In warm weather, many of the students, who, despite carrying lyrics of the songs, found it hard to render them in chorus with those who had the microphone. As many as four students collapsed on the ground and they were quickly moved to a shelter nearby. This made Dr. Rajendra to intervene and ask students felling uneasy to move to the shelter. After administering oath, Dr. Rajendra applauded the spirit of the students and the teaching staff in attending the programme and said that this showed the committent of the participants for the cause of Kannada. Deputy Director of Public Instruction Malleswamy said that 600 teachers were deputed for coordinating with various agencies and organisations in holding the event at different places, including Mangaluru International Airport, bus stands of the KSRTC and railway stations in the district. In Moodbidri, a good number students turned up for the programme held at the Thousand Pillared Basadi. It was attended by Bhattaraka Charukeerthi Panditacharyavarya Swami of Moodbidri Jain Mutt. Nearly 5,000 students turned up for the programme held separately on the campuses of Alvas Group of Institutions in Putthige, Mijar, Vidyagiri and Nudisiri of Moodbidiri. Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited organised the programme at its administrative building. Apart from employees from the State, those hailing from other States also participated in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scorching-sun-does-not-deter-participants-from-singing/article37224435.ece
29 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nearly 62,000 participate in Udupi||An estimated 62,000 people participated in the mass rendition of three Kannada songs ahead of Rajyotsava in Udupi district on Thursday with the highlight being the one on board a ferry in the Arabian Sea off Malpe Coast. Udupi Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Y. Naveen Bhat led the mass singing programme by administering a pledge at the district office in Rajatadri, Manipal, at 11 a.m. Starting with the Naadageethe, Jaya Karnataka Jananiya Tanujathe, about 750 staff from different departments assembled at the venue and rendered Baarisu Kannada Dindimava, Jogada Siri Belakinalli and Huttidare Kannada Naadalli Huttabeku. The government had issued directions for the mass rendition of the popular songs across the State to usher in the spirit of Kannada on the occasion of Rajyotsava. About one hundred singers boarded a ferry at the Malpe Fishing Harbour wearing safety jackets and sang the four songs even as the vessel began sailing in the Arabian Sea. Over 200 people rendered the songs at Malpe Beach. Dakshina Kannada and Udupi Cooperative Fisheries Federation president Yashpal Suvarna, Kannada and Culture Assistant Director Kumar Bekkeri, District Information Officer B. Manjunath and others were present on the occasion. Similarly, hundreds of students assembled at the Rajangana of the Udupi Sri Krishna Temple/Mutt to render the songs. Besides students, staff from the Ashta Mutts, tourists and the general public, numbering over 800, participated in the programme at this venue. As per a rough estimate by the district administration, nearly 24,000 PU and degree students and about 9,500 primary school students were among the 62,000 participants in the mega rendition programme. Mass singing was organised in every gram panchayat, at over 20 places of tourist importance, educational institutions, industries and factories and other places. The response was overwhelming, Dr. Bhat, who is officiating as the Deputy Commissioner, and Additional Deputy Commissioner B. Sadashiva Prabhu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nearly-62000-participate-in-udupi/article37224431.ece
29 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Khuba to lay foundation stone today for MCF ammonia plant renovation||Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers Bhagwanth Khuba will lay the foundation stone for the renovation of the ammonia plant (intermediate in urea production) at Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilizers here on Friday. Minister S. Angara, Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel, Members of Legislative Assembly Y. Bharath Shetty and D. Vedavyas Kamath and Mayor Premananda Shetty will attend the programme at 2 p.m. A release from MCF here said that the ammonia and urea plants of MCF were commissioned in 1976 and at present, about 4 lakh tonnes per annum of urea are produced. The plants are one of the most energy efficient among those of that vintage. The feedstock was switched over from naphtha to natural gas in December 2020 and it has resulted in energy conservation and substantial environmental benefits. In line with the new urea policy of the Department of Fertilizers, which directs urea producers to further improve their energy consumption norms, MCF decided to carry out a major revamp of the ammonia plant with an intention to improving its performance at par with modern plants in terms of energy consumption and cost of production of urea. The existing plants were studied by renowned technology providers in the field of ammonia and accordingly, the revamp plan was designed based on technology provided by Kellogg Brown & Root (KBR). Environment clearance was obtained from Ministry concerned in August 2018 and subsequently, detailed design and engineering was carried out by Worley. The construction work of the plant will commence, with the foundation stone laying by the Minister. And, the project is scheduled for commissioning in June 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/khuba-to-lay-foundation-stone-today-for-mcf-ammonia-plant-renovation/article37224439.ece
29 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vijayapura-Mangaluru train to resume services on Nov. 1||South Western Railway (SWR) has decided to resume the services of Vijayapura-Mangaluru Junction-Vijayapura Express Daily Special on November 1. However, the services will follow the earlier timings despite a demand to change it. Patrons and Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, had urged Railways to ensure the train arrives in Mangaluru by 9 a.m. instead of 12.40 p.m. and that it leaves at 5.30 p.m. instead of 4.30 p.m. Its arrival in the afternoon did not suit passengers travelling for official work or such other purposes. Similarly, if the train leaves after 5 p.m., it helps passengers complete the day’s work and then board the train, the patrons had said. However, Southern Railway that manages Mangaluru Junction, informed South Western Raiway that it cannot accommodate the train at the desired timings as the platforms remain occupied during those times.  Accordingly, Train 07327 leaves Vijayapura at 6 p.m. to reach Mangaluru Junction at 12.40 p.m. from November 1 via Bagalkot (departure 7.46 p.m.), Gadag (10.30 p.m.), Hubballi (11.45 p.m.), Karjagi (1.20 a.m.), Sakleshpur (7.30 a.m.), Subrahmanya Road (10.25 a.m.), Kabaka Puttur (11.12 a.m.), and Bantwal (11.42 a.m.) to reach Mangaluru Junction at 12.40 a.m. the next day. In the return direction, Train 07328 leaves Mangaluru Junction from November 2 at 4.30 p.m., Bantwal (5.07 p.m.), Kabaka Puttur (5.35 p.m.), Subrahmanya Road (6.30 p.m.), Sakleshpur (9 p.m.), Karjagi (3.18 a.m.), Hubballi (5.15 a.m.), Gadag (6.55 a.m.), and Bagalkot (9 a.m.) to reach Vijayapura at 11.45 a.m. the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vijayapura-mangaluru-train-to-resume-services-on-nov-1/article37224472.ece
29 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Women expedition team gets warm welcome||An all-woman “Shikharadinda Sagara” expedition team that climbed a mountain in the Himalayan ranges, cycled over 3,000 km and participated in kayaking [300 km], was given a warm reception at Malpe in Udupi district on Thursday afternoon. Udupi Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Y. Naveen Bhat welcomed the team comprising V. Aishwarya, Dhanalakshmi, Asha, Pushpa and Bindu. He appreciated the efforts put in by the team to instil confidence among the general public in general and women in particular. The expedition was launched on August 16 after which the team climbed Mount Kolahoi (5,425 m) in Jammu and Kashmir in the vicinity of Sonamarg. The team later rode bicycles for a distance of 3,350 km before reaching Karwar in the State. From Karwar, the members participated in kayaking till Mangaluru and later went back to Udupi on Thursday. Indian Mountaineering Association’s southern zone and General Thimmayya National Academy of Adventure jointly organised this expedition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/women-expedition-team-gets-warm-welcome/article37224441.ece
29 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rape accused arrested||The Udupi Women Police arrested Aryan Chandvani (21), a former student of an engineering college in Manipal, on the charge of sexually assaulting a student from the college. The police said that the victim hailing from Uttar Pradesh filed a complaint on October 17. The police arrested the accused the same day. Chandvani, who hails from Delhi, had come down to Udupi for college-related work. In the complaint registered as Crime No 42/2021, the victim said that the accused took her to Restobar at around noon on October 16 where she was asked to drink a cocktail. As she became uncomfortable after drinking the cocktail, the accused offered to drop her to the college hostel. Instead of taking her to the hostel, the accused took her to a room in Shivalli village and sexually assaulted her in the evening. The accused was admitted to a private hospital soon after where her examination revealed the sexual assault. The accused was produced before court which remanded him in judicial custody, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rape-accused-arrested/article37224442.ece
29 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Police arrest associate of accused-advocate||The police arrested K. Ananth Bhat (48) of Bondel on the charge of helping advocate K.S.N. Rajesh, who is accused of raping a law student, evade arrest. The police said that Ananth Bhat has been a close associate of Rajesh. After the registration of a complaint of sexual assault, Ananth Bhat reportedly drove Rajesh’s car and kept the latter in a faraway place. Ananth Bhat has also been accused of keeping Rajesh’s mobile phone in hiding. The police arrested Ananth Bhat on Wednesday and seized the car and the mobile phone. The police have launched a search for Rajesh. The law student on October 18 filed a complaint accusing Rajesh of sexual harassment. The victim’s friend filed another complaint against the advocate and an activist Pavitra Acharya accusing the two of forcing her to sign a document at the Urwa Police Station to deny the occurrence of the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-arrest-associate-of-accused-advocate/article37224443.ece
29 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||73-year-old rape accused surrenders before court||A 73-year-old owner of a farm land in Puttur taluk, who was accused of sexually assaulting a 17-year-old Dalit girl, surrendered before a local court in Puttur on Wednesday. The girl in her statement said she had been raped by K. Narayana Rai in whose farm she worked. The Puttur Rural police took cognizance of the statement and was looking for Rai. Meanwhile, his anticipatory bail application was dismissed by a district sessions court. Based on the initial complaint by the victim, the police had arrested a person. Following her subsequent statement, the police released the earlier arrested and arrested a relative of the victim. The victim then named Mr. Rai in her statement before the court. Clash between students Differences over the costume for a cultural programme led to a clash between the third year and final year engineering college students of a college in Moodbidri on Thursday. Complaints of the two groups have been registered. Boats seized The city police seized 11 boats in Faizal Nagar that were allegedly found extracting sand illegally on Thursday. The boats, along with the sand contained therein, were handed over to the Department of Mines and Geology for further action. A case was registered with the Kankanady police. Two killed in accidents A 45-year-old motorist and a 68-year-old pedestrian died in accidents reported near Thokkottu on Wednesday. Subrahmanya Rao Sindhya, 45, died after he fell down from the Thokkottu flyover. The police said Mr. Sindhya was driving towards Kumpala, when he lost control over his motorcycle and hit the retaining wall before falling down by about 20 feet from the flyover. Meanwhile, Mohan Holla, former district court employee, died after he was hit by a vehicle while crossing the road in Kotekar, near Thokkottu, on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/73-year-old-rape-accused-surrenders-before-court/article37224444.ece
29 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Advocate Sripathi Acharya dead||Senior advocate Alevoor Sripathi Acharya passed away in Udupi on October 27. He was 83.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/advocate-sripathi-acharya-dead/article37224426.ece
29 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Fresh protest against poor condition of road||Protesters were back on Azeez Sait Main Road in the city on Thursday, for the third time this year, condemning its deplorable condition. It is one of the busiest roads in Narasimharaja Assembly constituency, cutting through the densely populated areas of Shantinagar and Ghousianagar. The condition of the road, which has not been repaired for more than eight years now, has incurred the wrath of the residents of the localities. The recent rains have further worsened the condition of the road, where repair work had been taken up twice this year, but was discontinued due to various reasons including technical issues. The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), which had given a call for protest on Thursday, has threatened to stage a demonstration in front of the main office of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and the residence of former Minister and Narasimharaja assembly constituency MLA Tanveer Sait if the road is not repaired in the next one week. SDPI leader Amjad Khan, in a memorandum to the MCC Commissioner Lakshmikant Reddy, said neither motorists nor pedestrians can use the road. Though the matter has been brought to the notice of the MCC and the local MLA several times, only false assurances have been given, he regretted before threatening to stage a demonstration before the office of MCC and the MLA’s house if the road is not repaired in one week’s time. Discontinued Meanwhile, sources in the MCC said the repair works, which were taken up earlier this year at a cost of Rs. 2.5 crore, had to be discontinued due to non-availability of construction material during COVID-19. However, when the work resumed in September, there was a demand from local people’s representatives, including MCC corporators, for a thicker layer of asphalt to bear the heavy load of vehicles that plied on the road. “To meet their demand, a variation estimate had to be submitted to the Government, which has already been done”, said an official. The proposal is pending with the Directorate of Municipal Administration (DMA) in Bengaluru. The MCC officials said the Mr. Sait had already met the DMA officials in Bengaluru with a request to expedite the approval for the pending proposal and facilitate early resumption of repair work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fresh-protest-against-poor-condition-of-road/article37224463.ece
29 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Big vaccination drive soon||The district administration and the Department of Health and Family Welfare will conduct a special vaccination drive before Deepavali to shore up the vaccination coverage across Mysuru district. This was stated at the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) meeting held here on Thursday and the plan is to administer 1 lakh vaccination dose on a single day during the drive. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha who chaired the meet said that the vaccination drive started as early as in February and gained traction since July by when the vaccine hesitancy had dropped. So 87 per cent coverage of the first dosage was not something to be proud of and the department should strive to reach 100 per cent of the target population, he added. District Health and Social Welfare Officer K.H. Prasad said Mysuru was above the State average but Mr. Simha said Mysuru was among the worst COVID-19 affected districts in the country and hence efforts should be to ensure that in terms of vaccination, the coverage was high. The coverage in tribal-dominated areas was also pegged at 89 per cent of the population and Mr. Simha said that the district administration and the Department of Health should launch a drive to increase the coverage. “We had two massive drives in the recent past and despite it if the coverage was not 100 per cent then it called for renewed efforts’’, he added. With respect to the second dose the district coverage was 49 per cent and 11, 96,000 people had received the second dose so far, according to the health officials who said they had a stockpile of 2 lakh vaccines. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Goutham said time has come for a massive drive involving the entire district administration as people were now becoming apathetic towards taking the vaccine and this was attributed to the decline in the number of active cases of COVID-19. He said a single-day drive can be conducted before Deepavali to administer 1 lakh doses and the second drive after the festival. Mr. Simha suggested that the focus should be to administer Covishield vaccine and to avoid Covaxin especially in case of those who have plans to go abroad as the WHO was yet to give its nod for emergency use. Cancer centre The district administration was also directed to ensure availability of at least 50 acres of land to establish a cancer centre in the city. The Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology was ready to establish a centre in Mysuru and this would shore up the quality of medical infrastructure in the city. “We are also in touch with NIMHANS to establish a centre in Mysuru and this will ensure that quality health care will be available not only to the people of Mysuru but will cater to the districts of Chamarajanagar, Mandya, Kodagu and Hassan’, said Mr. Simha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/big-vaccination-drive-soon/article37224465.ece
29 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Good response to Kannada campaign||Hundreds of people - mainly students, officials and staff drawn from various departments and educational institutions – took part in the ‘Kannadakkagi Naavu’ campaign that entailed mass rendering of the Naada Geethe and three other Kannada songs, here on Thursday. The venues were Oval Grounds, MCC office, Commercial Tax Office and educational institutions where people assembled in response to the State Government’s appeal to sing the Nada Geethe en masse to usher in Kannada Rajyothsava. The campaign is being spearheaded by the Department of Kannada and Culture and was launched on October 24. It entails rendering en masse the Naada Geethe, Baarisu Kannada Dindimava, Jogada Siri Belakinalli, and Huttidare Kannada Nadalli Huttabeku. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, L. Nagendra, MLA, Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham, MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy, MUDA Chairman H.V.Rajeev, Rangayana director A. Cariappa and other officials were present. Most educational institutions including SBRR Mahajana First Grade College and Vidyavadhaka First Grade College had their own programmes and students took part in the event and rendered the Naada Geethe and the three songs. In the adjoining districts of Mandya and Chamarajanagar also the enthusiasm for the event was being built up since the last few days and the turnout and participation was beyond all expectations. The participants were also administered oath to enhance the usage of Kannada in homes, offices and schools while engaging and transacting with others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-response-to-kannada-campaign/article37224459.ece
29 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Govt. help to be sought to speed up rail track barricading||The government will be urged to expedite the installation of rail track fence or barricades in areas prone to human-elephant conflict outside the forest periphery in Mysuru and Kodagu. The Forest Department has also been asked to submit a detailed proposal and the imperatives of taking up the barricading work on a priority basis in Kodagu and surrounding regions so as to mitigate such conflicts. Human-animal conflict with specific reference to elephants was a subject of discussion at the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee held here on Thursday. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha said that he will take up the rail track fencing issue with the district in-charge Ministers of Mysuru and Kodagu and approach the government for additional funds. Nagarahole National Park Director Mahesh Kumar, who apprised the monitoring committee meeting of the progress regarding rail track fencing, said that the national park has a peripheral boundary of nearly 250 km out of which fencing has been completed so far on a stretch of 50 km. He said in places around H.D. Kote where the rail track fencing has been completed, the number of conflict cases with respect to elephants has reduced. He said installation of rail track fences was a permanent solution and 15 km of fencing will be taken up around Nagarahole this financial year. Mr. Simha said that Kodagu and Mysuru were among the two districts with high number of human-elephant conflicts and hence steps should be in place to reduce it. The MP was also informed that the Forest Department has taken up grassland development and lantana eradication inside the forests. This would ensure fodder apart from improving the quality of forest habitat and this was being taken up under MNREGA. Mr. Mahesh Kumar said that nearly 14,000 man days has been sanctioned for the work which was in progress. However, this is a long-drawn process which has to be done gradually, he added. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Goutham, Deputy Conservators of Forest V.Karikalan and Kamala Karikalan were among those present.  Nagarahole national park has a peripheral boundary of nearly 250 km out of which fencing has been completed so far on a stretch of 50 km  The number of conflict cases with respect to elephants has reduced||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-help-to-be-sought-to-speed-up-rail-track-barricading/article37224458.ece
29 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Skill India: CFTRI to train entrepreneurs in baking tech||A skill development programme on baking technology will be conducted at CSIR-CFTRI, as part of Skill India Initiative, from November 15 to December 10. CSIR-CFTRI said the bakery industry in India is the largest of the food processing segments with an estimated annual turnover of about $7.60 billion in 2020. The market value is projected to reach $13.3 billion by 2025. Driven by changing consumer preferences and health consciousness, the bakery industry is rediscovering itself. The sector is expected to see more international brands entering the Indian market and there will be a huge potential for unorganised small-scale bakery entrepreneurs, a release from the CFTRI said here. The programme caters to the needs of the industry as per the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) guidelines. Scientists of CFTRI will provide hands-on training on choice of quality ingredients, product development and quality criteria. The course would provide job opportunities for persons intending to have a career in baking industry, SHGs, unorganised bakery personnel, quality control managers, lab technicians/assistants etc. Those who have completed matriculation or entrepreneurs having interest in the bakery industry can seek admission to the programme. The course fee has been fixed at Rs. 25,000 plus GST (total Rs. 29,500) per person. Participants need to arrange their own accommodation. The details may be found at: https://www.cftri.res.in/sdp or contact Head, Flour Milling, Baking and Confectionery Technology, Email: fmbct@cftri.res.in; 0821-2517730 (off) or 9448093080 (Mob). The last date for registration is November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/skill-india-cftri-to-train-entrepreneurs-in-baking-tech/article37224466.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Fishing boat under water||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fishing-boat-under-water/article37224438.ece
29 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Harbour upgrading on the cards||The State Government is planning to upgrade the Thottappally fishing harbour on a par with international standards, Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian has said. Replying to a submission by Ambalappuzha MLA H. Salam in the Assembly on Thursday, Mr. Cherian said the department was preparing an estimate of Rs. 112 crore for constructing a 436-m breakwater on the northern side and increasing the length of the breakwater on the southern side, among other works. The first phase of the harbour was completed in 2011. However, the harbour remains almost dysfunctional due to heavy silting in the harbour basin, which makes navigation an arduous task. CWPRS study The Central Water and Power Research Station (CWPRS), Pune, which conducted a study, recommended increasing the length of the breakwater on the southern side and construction of a new breakwater on the northern side to prevent the accumulation of silt. As part of the second phase of the development of the harbour, the Government had sanctioned Rs. 13.38 crore under the Ockhi package for repairing the sunken portion of the breakwater on the southern side and increasing its length. Mining rights Besides, the Indian Rare Earths has been given permission to dredge the basin and separate minerals from the sand. Mr. Cherian said the development of the harbour was a priority for the Government. The Minister said that it was important to prevent siltation of the harbour basin before going ahead with big projects at the harbour. Big project “As recommended by the CWPRS, work has been launched to increase the length of the breakwater on the southern side. The 436-m new breakwater on the northern side will be constructed 300 m from the existing groyne there. Once the works are over and the breakwaters succeed in preventing siltation, the Government will contemplate implementing a big project with the aim of upgrading the Thottappally harbour on a par with international standards,” Mr. Cherian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/harbour-upgrading-on-the-cards/article37224399.ece
29 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Demolition of Parassery bridge across AC road begins today||Demolition of the Parassery bridge in Kuttanad will begin on Friday. It is being demolished as part of reconstructing the Alappuzha- Changanassery (AC) road as a semi-elevated highway. The bridge will be reconstructed with a width of 14 m. A temporary route has been set up parallel to the bridge for the movement of light vehicles. Semi-elevated highway The AC road is being reconstructed under the Kerala State Transport Project as a semi-elevated highway at Rs. 649.76 crore. The project, expected to prevent the flooding of the road during the monsoon, is expected to be completed by December 2022. Once completed, the two-lane road will have a width between 13 m and 14 m. As part of the project, 2.9 km of the road will be refurbished using bituminous macadam bituminous concrete. Another 8.27 km will be strengthened by laying geotextiles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demolition-of-parassery-bridge-across-ac-road-begins-today/article37224400.ece
29 October 2021||Idukki,KERALA||Cheruthoni dam to be opened||With water nearing the red alert level, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) completed all arrangements to open the Cheruthoni dam of the Idukki reservoir on Friday. A dam safety official said the KSEB got permission from the State Disaster Management Authority to open the dam shutters at 3 p.m. on Friday. Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine said 100 cusecs of water would be released. The present water level in the Periyar is below two metres of the warning level, he said. It was decided to open the Cheruthoni dam shutters considering the additional inflow in case of opening of the spillway shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam. The water level in the Idukki reservoir reached 2,398.30 ft by night. The red alert level is 2,398.31 ft. The dam safety wing will issue a red alert soon, said the official. The final decision on opening the Cheruthoni dam will be taken based on the situation after opening the shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam. In the current situation, permission to open the shutters at 3 p.m. had been received, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cheruthoni-dam-to-be-opened/article37224361.ece
29 October 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Barapole project generates 40.5 mu of power||The Barapole hydroelectric project in Kannur district bordering Karnataka has achieved an annual production of 40.5 million units (mu) of electricity. The powerhouse has been generating 36 million units annually. However, it surpassed production on October 13. Assistant engineer Aneesh Aravind said that all the generators were working full time as enough water was available in the reservoir. He said Barapole had an installed capacity of 15 MW with three generators of 5 MW each. The project, which was inaugurated on February 29, 2016, has so far generated 150 mu of electricity. The water in the Barapole river, which flows in from Kodagu in Karnataka, is channelled through a 3.5-km-long canal to the powerhouse to generate electricity. Mr. Arvind said that the project was looking forward to more production in the next three months, adding that it was a great achievement to operate all the three generators at full load during the power crisis being faced by the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/barapole-project-generates-405-mu-of-power/article37224339.ece
29 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL goes into cost-cutting mode to tide over crisis||Faced with the Kochi metro’s annual loss rising to Rs. 334 crore in 2020-21 from Rs. 310 crore a year ago, fall in patronage and mounting expenditure, Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) is probing ways to rein in expenditure and mop up non-ticketing revenue. For a start, it has given up its project to ready a vertical garden every six metro pillars. This was decided upon since even maintaining the few existing ones in the vicinity of metro stations turned out to be a strain on resources. Each such garden costs approximately Rs. 1 lakh to maintain every year, in the form of manpower, upkeep, and watering expense, metro sources said. Faced with an uphill task in maintaining them, money plants were planted across select pillars, to give the much-needed green cover beneath the 25-km metro viaduct. A proposal to cover the pillars with flowering climbers, which came much cheaper, was given up after concerns were raised about its possible impact on the structural safety of pillars. At the same time, the metro agency is scouting for commercial and other institutions which can landscape the medians beneath the viaduct, to break the monotony of the huge mass of concrete that went into its construction. Plants which can withstand the air polluted by continuous emission of automobile exhaust ought to be planted in the medians. Bliss City In addition, KMRL is in the process of tying up with the Horticulture Department to make optimal use of 31 acres of Government land in Kakkanad that was identified for Bliss City, a Rs. 3,000-crore wellness and wholesome entertainment destination, to garner non-ticketing revenue for the metro’s operation and maintenance. The project has been a non-starter. Advertisement space The metro agency is also readying a novel plan to sell advertisement space in the exterior and interior of metro stations, sources said. A sample of the LED-display spaces that have been planned will be put up in a week’s time at the Edappally station. Station controllers can be contacted for possibilities like installing advertisements within metro stations. An aggressive drive is on to market 305 commercial spaces—each measuring 120 sq.ft.—in metro stations, at a four-day auction that will begin at the Ernakulam Town Hall from November 2. Metro personnel are leaving no stone unturned to tap the potential of those spaces. The rest of the available commercial space will be devoted as office space for banks and other institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmrl-goes-into-cost-cutting-mode-to-tide-over-crisis/article37224351.ece
29 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam sees spike in leptospirosis cases||The number of confirmed leptospirosis cases in Ernakulam district has gone up in October compared to figures in September. Eighteen cases were confirmed in September, while the number of suspected cases was 51. The number of confirmed cases was 29 as on October 26. Forty-eight suspected cases were also reported in the district from October 1 to 26, according to official estimates. The number of deaths due to suspected leptospirosis went up from five in September to six this month. Ernakulam has witnessed 304 suspected cases since January this year. The number of confirmed cases is 133. District Medical Officer N.K. Kuttappan said the cases would go up once the rains were over. People in rain-affected areas and those engaged in relief and cleaning work should take doxycycline tablets on the advice of health workers, he added. Dr. Kuttappan said those who died of leptospirosis were found to have not taken preventive medicines. They had also delayed receiving proper medical care. The health authorities said people should refrain from self-medication, if they have leptospirosis symptoms. They include fever, redness in eyes, headache, skin rash, and muscle pain. Any delay in taking treatment leads to liver and kidney problems. Those rearing cattle and involved in agriculture as well as cleaning workers need to be careful, as chances of getting infected through urine and droppings of animals in stagnant water are high. “They should take doxycycline tablets distributed by the government,” Dr. Kuttappan said. The Health Department pointed out that conditions like fever and throat pain need not be viewed as symptoms of COVID-19 alone, as they could be due to leptospirosis and dengue fever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-sees-spike-in-leptospirosis-cases/article37224360.ece
29 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A fest that gives Kadamakkudy its due as a tourism destination||The four-day Kadamakkudy Village Fest, dubbed as Kadamakkudy Carnival, may be a prelude to a sustained campaign to showcase the idyllic network of 14 islands as a perfect getaway from the hubbub of the city. The fest, which got under way at Pizhala on Thursday, is being organised by local bodies in association with tour operators and the local community. Kadamakkudy, which is just 8 km away from Kochi city, is dominated by waterbodies and paddy fields with land accounting for a mere 16%. “It has immense tourism potential and gives a perfect frame for visitors at any time. Kadamakkudy will be the highlight of the Water Metro,” said Vipin Raj, vice president, Kadamakkudy panchayat. The organisers have set up a food court showcasing indigenous dishes of Kadamakkudy. “We have handpicked women known for their culinary skills and given them training under an experienced chef. We have set an ambitious target of around 10,000 footfalls at the food court through the four days,” said Benny Xavier, an aqua farm owner. The food court will be open from 4 a.m. to 8 p.m. Kadamakkudy panchayat president Mary Vincent said the fest might even be made into an annual event. “What we are aiming through this fest is to create a miniature of all 14 islands that could be experienced in around three hours. There are fishing expeditions, local games to engage children, boating, kayaking, and food courts,” said Vishal Koshy, a kayaking operator. Rajeev P.K., joint convener of the organising committee, said Kadamakkudy was perfectly placed to be developed into a village tourism destination.  (Youngsters wield sickles: www.the hindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-fest-that-gives-kadamakkudy-its-due-as-a-tourism-destination/article37224353.ece
29 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Officers’ visit out of interest in antiquities’||Former State Police Chief Lokanath Behera and Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) Manoj Abraham visited the house of Monson Mavunkal “purely out of interest to have a look at those items claimed to be of historical importance and artistic value,” according to Anil Kant, State Police Chief (SPC). Mr. Kant submitted an affidavit to this effect in the Kerala High Court on Thursday on a petition filed by the driver of the accused alleging that he was being harassed by the police. The duo made an ‘unscheduled visit’ to the house of Monson while they were in Kochi to attend the wedding of a police officer. No intelligence report or information was available then about the dubious nature of the articles in the house. The ADGP accompanied the then SPC on his request. ‘No image boosting’ The visit was not with the intention to give any undue advantage to Monson in society or to boost his image in public, the SPC submitted. Soon after the visits, according to the affidavit, the ADGP raised suspicion regarding the items displayed in the house and about the antecedents of Monson. The suspicion was put on paper as a source report and sent to the Intelligence Department for verification, he submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/officers-visit-out-of-interest-in-antiquities/article37224352.ece
29 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Sexual abuse survivor alleges harassment at medical college||The survivor of the sexual abuse case registered against self-styled antique dealer Monson Mavunkal has reportedly alleged harassment by doctors at the Government Medical College, Kalamassery, where she was taken on Wednesday. Medical College authorities, however, denied the allegation, stating that it was in fact one of the two doctors entrusted with the examination, who complained about being hindered from discharging her duty after the survivor was whisked away abruptly before completing the process. The Crime Branch (CB) had initially taken the survivor to the Aluva Taluk Hospital on Wednesday afternoon. However, in the absence of a gynaecologist there, she was taken to the Government Medical College around 1 p.m. The allegation is that the doctors accused her of framing Monson in the case besides locking her up in a room. Medical College authorities, however, said that all the procedures in connection with the medical examination of a sexual abuse survivor were complied with. Later, the magistrate directed CB officials to conduct her medical examination at the General Hospital. The survivor then turned up at the Kalamassery police station around 7 p.m. reportedly to complain about her alleged experience at the medical college. However, the police asked her to come the next day on the grounds that there was no woman official to collect her statement. However, her statement wasn’t taken on Thursday either as the Kalamassery police said that she had not turned up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sexual-abuse-survivor-alleges-harassment-at-medical-college/article37224355.ece
29 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Brain-dead youth’s hands donated||A 34-year-old from Bellary district in Karnataka, who lost his hands in an electrical accident, underwent a successful forearm transplant at Amrita Hospital here. Basavanna Gowda, who met with the accident in July 2011 while working as a boiler operator at a rice mill, received the limbs of 25-year-old Kottayam native Nevis Sajan Mathew, who was declared brain-dead here on September 25. His family decided to donate his heart, liver, intestines, kidneys, cornea, and hands. Six patients Dr. Subramania Iyer, professor and head, Centre for Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at the hospital, who led the team that carried out the transplant said that six patients were waiting for hand transplant at the hospital. Though multi-organ donation has gone up in the State under the Government’s initiative, hand donation has been low owing to fear of mutilation among donors’ families. The transplant could be carried out successfully only because of the noble gesture of Nevis’ family, Dr. Iyer said in a communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brain-dead-youths-hands-donated/article37224359.ece
29 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Middleman behind forged certificates arrested||The Ernakulam Rural police arrested a man in a case related to forging of education certificates and travel documents to send youngsters abroad for higher studies. Nafsal, 38, of Thrithala in Palakkad is accused of being a mediator in arranging the forged certificates. He allegedly arranged forged degree certificates of Madurai Kamaraj University for two students and a Plus Two certificate of an educational institution in Maharashtra for Rs. 90,000 each. He allegedly procured the forged certificates from a person, originally from Hyderabad. The certificates he had received from Hyderabad were allegedly handed over to the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/middleman-behind-forged-certificates-arrested/article37224354.ece
29 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Trespasser arrested||The Aluva East police on Thursday arrested a man on the charge of trespassing into actor Dileep’s house and verbally abusing family members. The arrested was identified as Vimal Vijay, 31, of Nadathara in Thrissur. The incident occurred earlier this month. He allegedly jumped the gate to the actor’s house and created trouble.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trespasser-arrested/article37224356.ece
29 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Consider proposals to stop sea erosion’||Speakers at a convention on sea erosion in Chellanam panchayat urged the State Government to give an ear to suggestions by people’s groups instead of promoting projects like K-Rail, which involved enormous investments. Activist C.R. Neelakandan, who inaugurated the convention here on Thursday, said the Chellanam-Kochi Janakiya Vedhi, which leads a movement demanding Government action, had put forward various proposals to contain sea erosion. The Vedhi has been on protest mode for the last two years, and Thursday marked a new phase of action by its members, said V.T. Sebastian, its convenor. The Vedhi said the programme to rehabilitate people from coastal areas and the Blue Economy proposals would not help coastal residents. It felt that the proposal to set up tetrapods to resist sea erosion should be implemented in a scientific manner. The convention demanded a time-bound completion of the Rs. 344-crore project to contain sea erosion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/consider-proposals-to-stop-sea-erosion/article37224357.ece
29 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Complaints of out of syllabus questions||Law students of colleges affiliated to Mahatma Gandhi University remain worried as they had to face “questions from portions which were not part of the syllabus” for the second time this year. The questions appeared in the fifth-semester paper in Constitutional Law I held on Wednesday. Interestingly, this was a re-examination following complaints of questions from outside the syllabus for the original examination. The students blamed the university authorities for playing with their future. Senior officials of the exam wing said they had come across the complaints. “We have sought a report those concerned.” The preliminary feedback showed that the questions were based on the syllabus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/complaints-of-out-of-syllabus-questions/article37224409.ece
29 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Programme to eradicate extreme poverty in five years||As part of an elaborate programme to eradicate extreme poverty in the State, a training programme for local body heads was held at the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA) Centre for Human Resource Development, Kottarakara, on Thursday. The Local Self-Government Department has launched the programme with the objective of eradicating extreme poverty within five years. An intensive drive will be held with the support of the public to identify the poorest of the poor. In the next stage, micro-plans will be formulated for their uplift, attaining the goal within the next five years. A set of parameters, including access to nutritious diet, health, income and dwelling place, will be used for identifying the beneficiaries. The destitute, wandering groups and migrant labourers who have been residing in a local body for more than five years will be considered along with senior citizens, bedridden patients and mentally challenged persons with no income and other resources. The criteria will be different for the urban poor, coastal communities, the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. Grama, block and panchayat presidents, municipal chairpersons, the Corporation Mayor and the district panchayat president participated in the training programme. “Extreme poverty in Kollam district will be completely eradicated within the next five years through the joint efforts of the local bodies at all levels,” said district panchayat president Sam K. Daniel who inaugurated the programme. Beyond politics Mayor Prasanna Earnest, who presided, urged people’s representatives to work together irrespective of their political allegiance to achieve the goal. The district has completed training for district-level officers, block-level trainers and local body heads. The second phase of the training for people’s representatives will be held before October 30. Anil Kumar, district facilitator, People’s Planning Programme, and Sayooja T.K., district nodal officer, spoke.  Intensive drive will be held with public support to identify the poorest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/programme-to-eradicate-extreme-poverty-in-five-years/article37224401.ece
29 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||COVID centre demolition lands NHM staff in trouble||Dismantling of a COVID-19 second-line treatment centre at Shankaramangalam, Chavara, has landed the officials of the National Health Mission (NHM) in the soup as they reportedly failed to follow the procedure. Apart from Government hospitals, the furniture and other equipment at the centre were distributed among a handful of others, including charitable trusts, clubs and libraries. District Collector Afsana Parveen on Thursday instructed the NHM to retrieve the cots and chairs handed over to private institutions and submit a report on the current stock. While known charitable trusts can keep the furniture, organisations that are not very active will have to return them. Ahead of school opening The district administration had deputed the NHM district programme manager to dismantle the centre at the Government Higher Secondary School and move the furniture and equipment to Government facilities ahead of the school reopening. While around 25 Government facilities, including hospitals, received furniture from the centre, the rest were distributed among shelter homes and cultural organisations without any auction. Kept in the dark The items at the centre set up by Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd. (KMML) and run by the Kollam district panchayat included cots, mattresses, pillows, chairs, washing machines, induction cookers and refrigerators. Both the panchayat and KMML officials said they were kept in the dark about the developments and received no communication from the NHM. While appliances, including washing machines, refrigerators and induction cookers, were handed over to various Government facilities, a good percentage of cots and mattresses were given to private institutions. According to NHM officials, many Government hospitals were not very keen on having low-quality wooden cots and they could not distribute the entire stock among Government facilities. They also claim that no storage space was available and the dismantling was carried out on a war footing to meet an extended deadline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-centre-demolition-lands-nhm-staff-in-trouble/article37224404.ece
29 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||609 cases in Kollam||Kollam reported 609 new cases of COVID-19 and 491 recoveries on Thursday. While 607 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include one NRI and one person from another State. At present the district has 19,037 persons under observation. A total of 1,451 persons completed home quarantine on Thursday. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 12.2 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/609-cases-in-kollam/article37224405.ece
29 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Three more landslips hit Kottayam||The eastern high ranges of Kottayam which had come under a spell of extreme showers witnessed more devastation with the Erumely region reporting at least three landslips on Thursday. As per preliminary reports, landslips were reported at Angel-Valley Junction, Pallippady, and Valayathupadi. The Okanthodu canal witnessed a heavy gush of water and mud, which entered several houses and commercial establishments. Crops in several acres of land were reported to have been destroyed. An autorickshaw and a couple of two-wheelers reportedly were washed away with the run-off water entering all major roads. The heavy rain also caused traffic disruptions in different locations, besides raising the water level in the Pampa. A team of the National Disaster response Force has been dispatched to the location. Revenue officials led by a tahsildar and a village officer coordinated the rescue mission. Meanwhile, the Pallaickathodu region witnessed a flood-like situation with heavy rain inundating several shops in the location. The District Collector has urged the public to exercise caution. Loss for KSEB The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) suffered an estimated loss of nearly Rs. 45 crore through the release of water from dams during the recent torrential rain in the State. Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty, who divulged the quantum of loss in the Assembly on Thursday, said the Government prioritised public safety over such interests. ‘No cause for worry’ In response to a question by Antony John [CPI(M)] on the impact of water discharge from the Mullaperiyar dam on the Idukku reservoir, the Minister said there was no immediate cause for concern. Pointing out that the inflow into the Mullaperiyar dam was 9,000 cusecs, Mr. Krishnankutty said Tamil Nadu was currently drawing close to 2,500 cusecs. Under the circumstances, there was no need for worry even if we had to release water from the Idukki reservoir, he said. Dams to be desilted He said the Government would soon initiate steps for desilting resevoirs to enhance their storage capacity. Various factors, including environmental concerns, would be considered during consultation with various departments.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-more-landslips-hit-kottayam/article37224345.ece
29 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Demand for police aid posts in tourism spots falls on deaf ears||Citing shortage of manpower and increased workload, the Police Department is yet to respond positively to the public call for opening more police aid posts covering prominent ecotourism destinations in Kozhikode district. Instead, the police suggest more mobile patrols with the support of local police stations. The demand for opening new aid posts comes in the wake of sexual assault cases and incidents of substance abuse reported in the surroundings of unguarded tourism spots in village areas. Though security guards have been posted in many locations, their job is seemingly a challenging one in destinations with wider geographical boundaries. “There are closed-circuit television cameras in some of the ecotourism spots, but unguarded locations are safe havens for miscreants. In many locations, CCTV network is poor due to the termination of annual maintenance contracts,” said a security guard who is now working at a prominent ecotourism spot. He was of the view that police patrol was not that effective to compensate for the police aid post. Some of the destination management committees from the rural areas said popular ecotourism spots like Janakikkad, Kariyathumpara and Kakkayam are slowly emerging as safe havens for drug addicts and those who lure minor girls for abuse. Only the presence of the police will solve such issues, they pointed out. Three major sexual assault cases were reported from the Janakikkad ecotourism spot area recently, which pointed to the involvement of sex rackets. Despite the increase in such cases, the call for a permanent police aid post remains unattended here. Same is the case with other places like Thusharagiri, Kakkayam, Peruvannamoozhi, Vayalada and Thonippara. Citing technical issues, some of the Station House Officers in rural police stations said the aid posts offered the services of a normal police station and they could not be set up without proper preparation. “If the destination management committees or the Tourism Department can manage surveillance measures on their own using the daily revenue they get, it will be the most viable option than trying for a police aid post, which requires multiple-level clearance from the authorities,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-for-police-aid-posts-in-tourism-spots-falls-on-deaf-ears/article37224342.ece
29 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Thwaha’s family elated over bail||Thwaha Fazal’s mother, Jameela, and brother, Ijaz, on Thursday expressed joy over the Supreme Court’s latest order granting bail to him in the Pantheerankavu UAPA case registered in 2019. Ms. Jameela and Mr. Ijaz, who were constantly fighting for his legal rights with the support of various human rights organisations, said they were very much hopeful of a favourable verdict at the right time. “No one has isolated us in this incident. We have got abundant moral support from the local people to fight the case,” they said. Ms. Jameela said the family would be thankful to all who stood by them in the crisis. “The main relief was that no one, including our relatives, put the blame on the family. We have the strong belief that he has not done anything anti-national,” she claimed. Responding to reporters’ questions, Mr. Ijas said he would like to acknowledge the wholehearted support of all those who stood by them in the crisis. He said that the CPI(M)’s “changing stance” in UAPA cases was highly objectionable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thwahas-family-elated-over-bail/article37224340.ece
29 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Action against illegal charging of parking fees in city||Kozhikode Mayor Beena Philip has promised action against shopping malls, hospitals, and business firms which charge illegal parking fees from customers in the city. The issue was raised at a meeting of the corporation council on Thursday. Ms. Philip said that the corporation would serve notices on four shopping malls and three parking centres against which complaints had been registered. It was pointed out that the above-mentioned land had been granted to these firms by the corporation. Officials of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation too had been served notice for charging parking fee on the premises of their bus terminal on Mavoor Road. However, their explanation was not found to be satisfactory and follow-up action would be taken. Basheer memorial The council approved a detailed project report for the construction of a memorial for the late Vaikom Mohammed Basheer at Beypore. The revised project cost would be Rs. 16.12 crore. A community hall on BC Road would be demolished for the purpose. The DPR was prepared by Space Art. Meanwhile, BJP councillors led by T. Raneesh staged a walkout after they were denied permission by the chair to raise the controversy related to the KSRTC bus terminal on Mavoor Road. The Mayor clarified that the issue was not related to the corporation. The corporation decided to reduce the lease period for taking an electric car for the Kudumbashree Mission on rent to a year. Earlier, it was planned to take the car on a monthly rent of Rs. 27,540 for eight years. The total rent amount would have come to Rs. 27.76 lakh, much above the original price of the car. Councillors of the United Democratic Front had opposed this. The decision to reduce the lease period was put to vote and the UDF and the BJP recorded their dissent note. N.C. Moyin Kutty, a member of the ruling party, too raised the doubt whether it was better to buy the vehicle than taking it on rent for long. Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahmed and standing committee chairperson P. Divakaran claimed that taking vehicles on rent was a policy decision of the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-against-illegal-charging-of-parking-fees-in-city/article37224337.ece
29 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Audit finds fault with Calicut varsity||An audit report has found fault with the University of Calicut for delaying allocation of grants to the tune of Rs. 4.5 crore meant for students from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Class categories in university departments. The report for the year 2018-19 came up for discussion at a meeting of the Senate held on Thursday. It was pointed out that though the government had released the grants to the university, it had not been released owing to the incompetence of the office staff. The audit report took serious note of the fact that Rs. 1.8 crore excess fee had been charged from students who registered with the School of Distance Education. The report said that the university departments were not following the workload provisions for teachers laid out by the University Grants Commission and the State Government. Many research students were not completing their research on time though they were getting the fellowship regularly. There were students who have not submitted their thesis even after 10 years. A sum of Rs. 45 lakh had been allocated as fellowship in the audit period. A remark by Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj that no university in Kerala was following reservation norms in PhD admissions was objected to by the members. Meanwhile, the Senate entrusted Mr. Jayaraj to ensure that undergraduate exams are held and results published on time by relaxing the procedures and not compromising on academic values. Third, fourth, fifth, and sixth semester exams of the 2019 batch are still pending. The effort is to declare the results by May. Both the Pareeksha Bhavan officials and evaluating teachers would have to slog if so many exams are held simultaneously. A submission on the issue was raised at the meeting by Vinod N. Neekkampurath and T. Mohammedali. A majority of the members pointed out that skipping the exams or granting marks after taking the average of previous exams would be akin to compromising on academic values. This would affect the future of the students as well, they said. Mr. Jayaraj would take a call on relaxing the procedures related to exam duty and evaluation of answer scripts. K.K. Haneefa, Syndicate member, described the preparations being done by the university ahead of the grading by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council. A special meeting of the Syndicate would be held on November 8 to discuss the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/audit-report-finds-fault-with-calicut-varsity-over-grant-allocation/article37224332.ece
29 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||NIT-C convocation to be held tomorrow||The 17th convocation of the National Institute of Technology-Calicut (NIT-C) will be held in the virtual mode at 3 p.m. on October 30. Tessy Thomas, distinguished scientist and Director General of Aeronautical Systems at Defence Research and Development Organisation, will deliver the convocation address. Gajjala Yoganand, Chairperson, Board of Governors of National Institute of Technology- Calicut, and Prasad Krishna, Director, NIT-C, will be present. A total of 1,539 graduates will receive their degrees, who include 850 B.Tech., 37 B.Arch., 402 M.Tech., 14 M. Plan., 39 MCA, 43 MBA, 58 M.Sc., and 96 Ph.D degrees. A release said that during this year, NIT-C recorded the best placement figures. In the 2020-21 placement drive, the outgoing students received a record number of 714 placements, as compared to 647 last year. The highest offer this year was Rs. 43.31 lakh a year, offered by Microsoft to a student of B.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering), while the average annual salary was Rs. 11 lakh a year. Placements for the 2022 graduating students have begun, with four students of B.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering) receiving the highest ever annual salary of Rs. 67.6 lakh a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nit-c-convocation-to-be-held-tomorrow/article37224333.ece
29 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gang rape: One more case involving victim’s relative registered||The Kozhikode Rural police have registered one more case as part of the continuing probe into the gang rape of a minor girl at the Janakikkad ecotourism spot. The man booked in the case is reportedly a close relative of the girl. Police sources said the victim revealed the details of the suspect during a personal counselling session. He was reportedly the first one who sexually abused the girl while her parents were away from her home, they said. The Rural police had arrested four youths in connection with the gang rape case on October 20. The arrested were Sayooj Thekkeparambath, 24, Shibu Parachalil, 32, Rahul Thaminjal, 22, and Akshay Paloli, 22. In the second phase of the inquiry, two more persons who allegedly exploited the girl at a different location had been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gang-rape-one-more-case-involving-victims-relative-registered/article37224343.ece
29 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rights panel seeks report on food poisoning||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has asked the Kozhikode District Collector to inquire into the food poisoning reported at the women’s hostel of a private entrance coaching centre at Perumanna in the district recently. Commission judicial member K. Baijunath issued an order based on a complaint filed by Akbar Ali, an activist. The collector has been asked to submit a report in two weeks. The incident occurred on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rights-panel-seeks-report-on-food-poisoning/article37224334.ece
29 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Kalpathy divided over car fest||The Kalpathy Tamil Brahmin village in Palakkad is divided over conducting the popular annual Kalpathy car festival (Ratholsavam). Though villagers fear the possible spread of COVID-19, they are also concerned about not organising a major festival held traditionally to propitiate the deities that preside over the temples of Kalpathy. While those closely associated with the temples and politicians seek to conduct the festival with grandeur, a large number of village elders do not favour this proposal. However, they are also reluctant to vehemently oppose the conduct of the festival because of its religious significance. Action plan This difference of opinion was visible in a meeting convened by District Collector Mrunmai Joshi the other day. Ms. Joshi sought a detailed action plan from the organisers so that the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) can take a decision. The DDMA discussed the action plan on Thursday, but has referred the matter back to the Government. The Government has been wary but diplomatic about giving permission for the festival. Minister for Dewaswom K. Radhakrishnan had shifted the responsibility to the Malabar Devaswom Commissioner and the District Administration by asking them to take a decision after consulting the stakeholders. Though everyone, including the Minister and Palakkad MLA Shafi Parambil, religiously talks about upholding COVID-19 protocol, they have been cautious not to say a ‘no’ to those demanding festivities and the traditional chariot race. “Why can’t we hold the festival with a few thousands of people when the Government has given permission for a much larger number of visitors at Sabarimala?” asked municipal councillor Subhash Kalpathy. The giant chariots have not been touched since the last race that took place in 2019. Their condition may not be perfect and they need to get a certification from the authorities concerned if at all they are to roll along the villages of Kalpathy. The condition of the chariots apart, what worries many in Kalpathy is the mammoth gathering the festival brings. “It is a matter of concern. We are all worried about it. We can’t bluntly say no to the conduct of the chariot festival because it is a matter of faith. At the same time, the COVID-19 situation is not favourable for a massive gathering,” said K.G. Krishnan, treasurer of the festival committee. Some favour curbs K.G. Padmanabhan, a retired postmaster who resides at Chathapuram, which together with Old Kalpathy, New Kalpathy and the main temple junction form the core area of the festival, said that it would be better if the authorities imposed a restriction on the festival. The festival is scheduled to be held from November 7 to 17, and the chariot race, if permitted, will take place on November 14, 15 and 16. The biggest crowd will be on the third day when the chariots of all deities converge in a rare culmination of religious fervour.  The festival is scheduled to be held from November 7 to 17||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalpathy-divided-over-car-fest/article37224497.ece
29 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Violence mars CPI(M) local meet broaching bifurcation||The CPI(M) local conference at Walayar in Palakkad district ended in violence following strong differences and protests among the members on Thursday. The protest over division of the party local committee led to violence and vandalism. Party members threw chairs and tables and destroyed other furniture. A section of workers sat in dharna on the stage and raised slogans. The meeting was suspended following noisy protests. There were 34 branch committees under the Walayar local committee of the party. The decision to bifurcate the local committee into Walayar and Chullimada reportedly led to the protests. Party leaders had decided to have 20 branch committees under Chullimada and 14 branch committees under Walayar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/violence-mars-cpim-local-meet-broaching-bifurcation/article37224498.ece
29 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Jumbo carcass exhumed, cremated||The Forest Department on Thursday exhumed the carcass of a juvenile elephant buried at Ambalappara, near Thiruvizhamkunnu, Mannarkkad, following protests by the local people. The carcass was later shifted to the forest land at Kacheriparamba and cremated there. People had opposed the burial of the elephant carcass that was found in the Velliyar river on Monday. Ignoring the people’s opposition, Forest officials had buried the carcass in a private land a few metres away from the river. Water contamination However, the protests mounted in the last two days with the Congress, the CPI(M) and their youth wings joining the issue. They argued that the carcass buried near the river would lead to water contamination. A large number of people in Ambalappara, Kapuparamba, Mundakkunnu, Muriyankanni, Kannamkundu, and Melattur depend on the Velliyar river drinking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jumbo-carcass-exhumed-cremated/article37224499.ece
29 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Child ‘kidnap’: anticipatory bail plea to be heard on Nov. 2||The District and Sessions Court, Thiruvananthapuram, will pass its orders in the anticipatory bail plea filed by the mother and sister of the young woman who complained that her parents had kidnapped her son and gave in adoption by falsely obtaining her consent on November 2. The father of the girl, arraigned as the first accused, has not filed any anticipatory bail plea. Other accused Besides the parents, Jayachandran and Smitha James, and sister, Anju, the police have arraigned her brother-in-law Ramesh and two CPI(M) workers Ramesh and Anilkumar as the other accused in the case. Opposing the bail plea, A.A. Hakkim, public prosecutor, contended that the custodial interrogation of the accused was necessary to trace the original birth certificate of the baby and other documents, ‘forged by the accused.’ ‘Wrong message’ The investigation was in its preliminary stage. A genetic identification test of the baby, who had been given in foster care, should be conducted. If tests proved that the baby was not the woman’s, investigation to trace the biological child needed to be carried out. Hence the custody of the accused was required, he contended. He also argued that granting of bail to the accused in the case would give a wrong message in society and lead to reduced faith in the judicial system. Defence lawyer Murukkumpuzha R. Vijayakumaran Nair contended that the charges of kidnapping levelled against the accused would not stand as the girl had submitted a statement in the family court, Thiruvananthapuram, that the baby was handed over to her parents for temporary care. Moreover, the baby had been traced as given to foster care, he submitted. Birth certificate forgery On the charge of forgery in the birth certificate of the baby, the lawyer submitted that the name of the biological father of the baby was not mentioned anywhere. Hence the charge of forgery would not stand, he submitted. There was no justification for arraigning the sister and the brother-in-law of the woman as accused, as the woman had given birth to the child at least four months before the sister’s marriage, he submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-kidnap-anticipatory-bail-plea-to-be-heard-on-nov-2/article37224534.ece
29 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State worried about blue economy proposals: Minister||Kerala has conveyed its apprehensions to the Centre regarding the draft paper on blue economy and the Marine Fisheries Bill, seeking adequate safeguards for protecting the coastal environment and the rights of the fishing community, Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian said on Thursday. Replying to a calling attention notice by P. P. Chitharanjan of the CPI(M) in the Assembly on the issue, Mr. Cherian said Kerala had urged the Centre to put off implementing blue economy policies until proposals that are detrimental to the fisheries sector were properly discussed and reviewed. The policy will endanger the livelihood of traditional fishers and drive them away from the coast, Mr. Cherian said. Further, it has provisions which infringe on the rights of States, especially in matters pertaining to territorial waters. The proposal for a National Placer Mission to exploit coastal and offshore minerals is, again, an encroachment upon on the rights of the States. Untrammelled construction and tourism promotion will harm the coastal ecosystem and pollute it, the Minister said. Mr. Cherian said the Kerala Government had sought corrective measures for protecting the interests of the State when the initial draft of Marine Fisheries Bill was published in 2019. ‘Favourable stand’ In the latest draft published on October 22, the Centre has taken a favourable stand on some of the demands made by the State, he said. The ambit of the bill has been limited to the EEZ, and fishers and fisher organisations will be included in the consultative committee as part of participatory management. Certain provisions have been included for the conservation of resources. The State Government will convey its opinions on the latest draft to the Centre soon, Mr. Cherian said.  Kerala has urged the Centre to put off policy implementation, Saji Cherian tells Assembly ‘Its provisions infringe on States’ rights on territorial waters’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-worried-about-blue-economy-proposals-minister/article37224541.ece
29 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vagbhatananda’s contribution to renaissance remembered||The vision and sacrifices of renaissance leaders like Guru Vagbhatananda have helped shape the features that make Kerala unique, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday. Such personalities had braved many obstacles and dedicated their lives to free society from social evils. It is through their endeavours that Kerala has reached a unique position and registered many achievements, he said after releasing a DVD of the documentary ‘Vagbhatananda Gurudevan – The Herald of the Dawn of Renaissance.’ Renowned filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan received the DVD. Chalachithra Academy president Kamal presided over the function. The documentary depicts Vagbhatananda’s philosophy and its application in the material and social life in the context of the Kerala renaissance. The hour-long film points to the modern-day relevance of Vagbhatananda, who organised people to fight injustice. It depicts his transformation from a spiritual teacher to a social reformer and renaissance leader. The documentary also revisits the historic debate between Vagbhatananda Guru and Sree Narayana Guru, which influenced the latter’s position on various issues. The film was directed by K. Jayakumar and produced by the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vagbhatanandas-contribution-to-renaissance-remembered/article37224543.ece
29 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF flags rise in serious crimes against women||The Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) walked out of the Assembly on Thursday, accusing the Government of failing to stem the tide of serious crimes against women. Seeking the leave of the House to move an adjournment motion to discuss the issue, Congress legislator Roji M. John highlighted the gang rape of a teenage girl student at Kuttiyadi in Kozhikode as an illustrative case. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said entrenched patriarchy in the police, government, and political parties was the leading causes for the subjugation of women. Powerful males in the family often decided who women married, and the outlawed practice of dowry still endured. The police often viewed victims of sexual abuse and rape through the prism of morality. They seemed skewed against women complainants, constantly doubting their character and probing their past. Mr. Vijayan said advancing gender equality was his Government’s stated policy. The Chief Minister asked: “Whose political agenda do you serve by erroneously comparing Kerala to lawless pockets in northern India?.” Crimes against women in Kerala had come down since 2018. “I am not touting it as an outstanding achievement; there is more ground to be covered,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-flags-rise-in-serious-crimes-against-women/article37224365.ece
29 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Assembly passes varsity laws Bills||The Assembly on Thursday passed the University Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the University Laws (Amendment) (No.2) Bill, 2021 even as the Opposition boycotted the discussion after accusing the Legislative Secretariat of partisanship while considering proposals for amendments. The Bills, referred to the Subject Committee earlier, sought to enhance coordination between the State Government and universities. Among other provisions, the law will pave way for the creation of an inter-university consultative committee which will consider matters that mutually affect both the Government and universities, and are meant to be resolved at the government level, Higher Education Minister R. Bindu said. The panel will be chaired by the Pro Chancellor and include Vice Chancellors and the Secretary in-charge of Higher Education. Provisions relating to constitution of various statutory bodies in autonomous colleges also find place in the proposed law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assembly-passes-varsity-laws-bills/article37224368.ece
29 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Orange alert in six districts||Six districts have been put on orange alert on Friday for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall, even as a low pressure area over the south Bay of Bengal moved further westward. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Idukki are on orange alert. Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall on Friday. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Kerala can expect heavy to very heavy rainfall on Friday and isolated heavy rainfall on Saturday and Sunday. The strengthened rainfall is on account of the low pressure area and a trough which extends from a cyclonic circulation associated with the low pressure system to the northwest part of the Bay.  On Thursday evening, the low pressure system lay over southwest Bay of Bengal off the Sri Lanka coast. It is likely to move further westward. Yellow alert has been sounded for several Kerala districts over the weekend also. Fishers have been advised against venturing into the sea till Sunday as squally weather is likely to prevail over the Kerala coast, Kanyakumari region and the Gulf of Mannar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orange-alert-in-six-districts/article37224369.ece
29 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||RCC’s architect M. Krishnan Nair passes away||M. Krishnan Nair, renowned oncologist and founder-director of the Regional Cancer Centre (RCC), passed away here on Thursday. He was 81. Having single-mindedly pursued the dream of setting up the first modern and affordable cancer-care centre in the State’s public sector, Dr. Nair’s name was synonymous with the institution he founded in 1981 and nurtured till his retirement in 2003. Dr. Nair, who began his career as a tutor at the radiology department of Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, underwent training in oncology at NHS Christie Hospital, Manchester, U.K., one of the largest cancer centres in Europe, in 1969. Between 1972 and 81, Dr. Nair took the lead in developing the radiology department at the MCH as the Institute of Oncological Sciences. Convinced that a comprehensive approach was required to tackle cancer, which was emerging as a significant public health problem, he sought the help of the then Chief Minister C. Achutha Menon to lobby for a Centrally aided RCC for the State. The Institute of Oncological Sciences at the MCH became the RCC in 1981. There was much resentment among his peers at the time that Dr. Nair was walking away with the entire radiology department at MCH, but he pushed ahead. Major milestones Some of the major milestones during his tenure included the setting up of regional RCC centres in districts, implementation of the 10-year Kerala Cancer Control Plan, launch of the community oncology department for creating awareness on the importance of early detection and care of cancer, the first paediatric oncology division in the State, oral morphine manufacturing unit, pain and palliative care unit, computerisation of outpatient departments, and telemedicine network (Onconet) Dr. Nair was concerned about the impoverishment of families caused by cancer and Cancer Care for Life was a care scheme he launched in 1985-86 to provide free cancer care to people. In later years, as the cases grew manifold, the scheme became unviable for the RCC. A drug trial controversy in 1999-2000, when the RCC, in association with the Johns Hopkins University was accused of having conducted a series of drug trials on 26 patients, testing an experimental drug, M4N, created quite a scandal at the time. The many costs of cancer Dr. Nair always emphasised the social, mental and economic costs of cancer. His efforts to make the RCC the State’s premier cancer-care institution were indefatigable. Dr. Nair was honoured with the Padma Shri in 2001.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rccs-architect-m-krishnan-nair-passes-away/article37224364.ece
29 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Special covers released||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Thursday released the Kerala Postal Circle’s special covers on the unsung heroes of India’s Independence movement Vakkom Abdul Khader Moulavi and Swadeshabhimani Ramakrishna Pillai. The covers were released in connection with the celebrations marking the 75th year of Independence. Hailing the sacrifice of Vakkom Moulavi and Swadeshabhimani Ramakrishna Pillai, the Governor said the Postal Department had upheld the cultural heritage and social reform tradition of Kerala by bringing out the special covers. He also paid tributes to the 1,200 postal workers who lost their lives to COVID-19. Sheuli Burman, Chief Postmaster General, Kerala, presided. Dak Seva awards were presented to the best eight postal employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-covers-released/article37224546.ece
29 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||94,390 apply for Plus One supplementary||As many as 94,390 applications have been received for supplementary allotment to Plus One higher secondary courses in the State at the close of the application window on Thursday. Of the applications received, 91,480 are from candidates who had applied for allotment in the main phase but did not get allotment, while 4,113 applications are new. The maximum number of applications (20,562) received was from Malappuram, the district with the most shortage of seats. There are more than 40,000 merit seats available for supplementary allotment. The allotment will be published on November 1. The number of seats vacant after the allotment and the increase recently decided by the Cabinet will be considered for allowing school/combination transfers for students who have already taken admission. Of the 55,157 seats available in the unaided sector, more than 34,000 are vacant. However, few students who have studied in government and aided schools tend to shift to unaided schools for Plus One.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/94390-apply-for-plus-one-supplementary/article37224367.ece
29 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Elocution contest for Children’s Day||The Kerala State Council for Child Welfare at Thycaud here will organise a Malayalam elocution contest for lower and upper primary students in the district for selection of children’s president, prime minister, speaker, and two children to deliver introductory and valedictory address in connection with the online Children’s Day celebrations on November 14. The elocution contest will be held on November 6. For details, call 9447125124, 0471 2324932.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elocution-contest-for-childrens-day/article37224536.ece
29 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Applications for research awards||The Kerala State Higher Education Council has invited nominations and applications for the Kairali Research Awards for 2021. The awards are instituted to encourage and honour the most eminent research scholars and research pedagogues of Kerala origin within areas of Arts and Humanities, Biological Sciences, Chemical Sciences, Physical Sciences and Social Sciences. The categories of awards include Kairali Gaveshaka Puraskaram, Kairali Gaveshana Puraskaram, Kairali Lifetime Achievement Prize for Researchers and Kairali Global Lifetime Achievement Prize for Researchers (for scholars from abroad). The deadline for applications is November 26. The guidelines and link for online submissions can be obtained on the council website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-for-research-awards/article37224537.ece
29 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,089 cases in district||The district recorded 1,089 COVID-19 cases and 563 recoveries on Thursday. The test positivity rate was 12.1%. Vanda ward of Nedumangad municipality, Kannamba ward of Varkala municipality, and Ayilyam ward of Mudakkal grama panchayat have been declared containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1089-cases-in-district/article37224539.ece
29 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM seeks speedy prosecution in POCSO cases||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday called for speedy prosecution in cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Chairing a top-level meeting on child protection, Mr. Vijayan said the prosecution should help courts complete trials in such cases within a year of the occurrence of the crime. Speedy justice would serve as a social deterrent, he said. Mr. Vijayan said the Government would seek High Court sanction to train prosecutors and judges to conduct POCSO cases in victim-friendly mode. He said the police should work in conjunction with various departments to ensure child welfare and protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-seeks-speedy-prosecution-in-pocso-cases/article37224366.ece
29 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||7,738 more test positive||The State logged 7,738 new cases of COVID-19 when 76,043 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The active case pool had 78,122 patients on Thursday, with 5,460 more recovering. The case fatality now stands at 30,685 with the State adding 708 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Thursday. These include 56 deaths which occurred in the past few days, 542 undeclared deaths of the period before June 2021 and 110 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families  Among the districts, Ernakulam had the highest number of new cases at 1,298, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 1,089, Thrissur 836, Kozhikode 759, Kollam 609, Kottayam 580, Pathanamthitta 407, Kannur 371, Palakkad 364, Malappuram 362, Idukki 330, Wayanad 294, Alappuzha 241, and Kasaragod 198.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7738-more-test-positive/article37224372.ece
29 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Attingal Revolt||State Institute of Languages Director and historian V. Karthikeyan Nair inaugurated reading activities and a history seminar organised by the Attingal Kollambuzha Friends Association library, Attingal municipality, and the Attingal History Lovers Association in connection with the 300th anniversary of the Attingal Revolt. On the occasion, he said documents were the foundation of history and could not be changed by anyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attingal-revolt/article37224535.ece
29 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Sexual abuse of minor: man gets 11-year RI||A 37-year-old man was on Thursday sentenced to 11 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) for sexual violence against a 11-year-old girl. Thrissur Fast Track court judge Bindu Sudhakaran also slapped a fine of Rs. 80,000 against Parakkal Sasidharan of Ottappalam, Palakkad. The incident happened in 2015. The case was registered by the Pazhayannur police. The court sentenced him for seven years of RI and imposed a fine of Rs. 50,000 under Section 10 and 9 of the POCSO Act and three years of RI and a fine of Rs. 20,000 under Section 354 (i) of the IPC and one-year RI and a fine of Rs. 10,000 under 354 (iv) of the IPC. The sentences will run concurrently. The money will be given to the survivor as compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sexual-abuse-of-minor-man-gets-11-year-ri/article37224500.ece
29 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Issues in education will be ironed out: rights panel||Issues in the education sector will be systematically addressed even as educational institutions are gearing up to reopen after the COVID-19 lockdown, State Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson K.V. Manoj Kumar has said. He was interacting with participants of a meeting on the Right to Education Act here on Thursday. “The commission will look into complaints in the general education sector and take correctional measures. The commission will conduct meetings in every district and submit a report to the Government,” he said. The meeting discussed the suggestion to keep a logbook on the services of school buses. Schools should ensure only drivers with heavy vehicle licence are employed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/issues-in-education-will-be-ironed-out-rights-panel/article37224501.ece
29 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Karuvannur bank loanee kills self||One more person who had taken loan from the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank in Thrissur ended his life on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Jose Allappad (60). Jose, a mason, had taken a loan of Rs. 4 lakh from the bank for his daughter’s wedding. As COVID-19 and lockdown hit his work, he failed to repay the amount. It is reported that he was under pressure after receiving revenue recovery notice from the bank. He was found dead on Thursday morning. Earlier, another person, Mukundan of Irinjalakuda, ended his life after receiving revenue recovery notice.   (Suicide Prevention Helpline: Disha - 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karuvannur-bank-loanee-kills-self/article37224362.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Gearing up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gearing-up/article37224336.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In award glory||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-award-glory/article37224407.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tough lessons||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tough-lessons/article37224548.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Student-friendly||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/student-friendly/article37224375.ece
29 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu’s Kuppam tour before municipal poll raises eyebrows||The scheduled visit of Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu to his home constituency of Kuppam on October 29 and 30 seems to have caused some discomfort among the party cadre instead of boosting their morale, if the observations made by political leaders are to be believed. Mr Naidu is scheduled to reach Kuppam by road from Bengaluru on Friday and address a public meeting there, besides taking part in roadshows in nine panchayats in the recently created Kuppam Municipality, for which the election notification is likely to be issued next month. The last time Mr. Naidu launched an election campaign in Kuppam region was in 1989 when he was elected as an MLA from there, after his debacle in Chandragiri constituency in 1983. The TDP president has never taken part in a poll campaign in Kuppam in the last 32 years; all his visits were meant either for thanksgiving after the elections or for launching welfare programmes. Mr. Naidu’s scheduled visit ahead of the municipal elections has raised eyebrows among the TDP cadre who feel that the YSRCP leaders would project the visit as ‘a move borne out of desperation’, given the political heat after the attack on the TDP office allegedly by YSRCP cadre. The results of the recent civic polls came as a jolt to the TDP as the YSRCP bagged all the four ZPTCs and four MPTCs and about 70% of the sarpanch posts in Mr. Naidu’s home constituency. In the 2019 Assembly elections, the victory margin of Mr. Naidu had reduced by around 20,000 votes when compared to the 2014 elections. The TDP cadre from Kuppam constituency, who switched their loyalties to the YSRCP, maintain that they, while in Mr. Naidu’s party, had failed in convincing the voters during the 2019 elections. They point out that in the last 32 years as the local MLA, and 14 years as the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh (including the five years at the helm of the residual State post bifurcation), Mr. Naidu had not brought a single industry to his home turf. The Kuppam airstrip project, which was claimed to benefit local farmers, was shelved. The promise of getting the Handri-Neeva water to the region too is yet to be fulfilled, they say. “More than 5,000 youth travel to Bangarpet, Bengaluru, and Jollarpettai and Chennai in Tamil Nadu to work as daily wagers. Thousands of families have left to the neighbouring States in search of livelihood. All these factors have impacted the political scenario ,” says a TDP leader, on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidus-kuppam-tour-before-municipal-poll-raises-eyebrows/article37224034.ece
29 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ID liquor seized in Madanapalle||The Madanapalle Taluq police on Thursday raided an illicitly-distilled liquor manufaturing unit at Panasamakulapalle, a village in forest, and destroyed a huge quantity of fermented jaggery wash, liquor, and utensils. A police team led by Circle Inspector M. Srinivasulu raided the unit. Seeing the police, four persons fled into the forests. A search team has been pressed .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/id-liquor-seized-in-madanapalle/article37224026.ece
29 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drop contract farming proposal: FCV growers||The farmers cultivating Flue-Cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco have urged the Centre to drop the proposal of introducing contract farming system. The farmers made this demand on the Global Tobacco Growers’ Day that was celebrated at various auction platforms on Thursday. Tobacco Board former vice-chairman Gadde Seshasgiri Rao said that the contract farming in tobacco would only aggravate the problems of farmers and the move could jeopardise the interests of small farmers. Even globally, he said, the Malawi and the Zimbabwe governments were being urged to move swiftly to put a stop to the contract farming system. The growers were met with unfavourable contract conditions, low prices, deductions, inflation, and currency fluctuations. In the event that the farmers failed to repay their loans due to factors beyond their control, the farmers became indebted to tobacco buyers, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drop-contract-farming-proposal-fcv-growers/article37224027.ece
29 October 2021||Guntur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Perni scoffs at KCR’s remarks||I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah has scoffed at the reported remarks of Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao that the people of Andhra Pradesh wanted the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in their State. Addressing the media at Velagapudi on Thursday, Mr. Venkataramaiah said, “Let KCR take the initiative and combine A.P. and Telangana, and be its Chief Minister.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/perni-scoffs-at-kcrs-remarks/article37224484.ece
29 October 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inspector in Disha case quizzed for second day||The Cyberabad Commissionerate’s Inspector of Police Shaikh Lal Madhar, who opened fire at the accused of Disha gangrape and murder with his AK-47 on December 6, 2019, told the Supreme Court-appointed commission of inquiry that he was not aware of the reasons why the commission was appointed by the apex court. “I do not know,” he said when the commission member and former director of CBI D.R. Karthikeyan asked him whether he knew why the commission was constituted. Mr. Madhar, the then sub-inspector with the Special Operations Team, was questioned at length for the second consecutive day on Thursday why he chose AK-47, when and how he opened fire, did he aim the ‘targets’, how many rounds were fired from his AK-17 and what was the formation of team when they reached Chatanpally with the accused persons for recovery of Disha’s articles. Only weapon left The officer told the panel that on December 4, 2019 when he reached Bell of Arms, AK-47 was the only weapon left there as five others who reached before him took other firearms. “After getting instructions from then Shadnagar ACP Vasam Surender, as the accused snatched our weapons and opened fire on us, I kept the selector switch in single position and opened fire in the air. Upon receiving further orders from the officer, I fired towards the direction of sound by taking cover of 2.5-foot bund,” he said, adding that 18 rounds were fired from his AK-47. When your height is 6.2 feet and when in a squatted position, how did you manage to take cover from 2.5-foot bund? the panel questioned. “I felt it was safe for me as it was big,” the officer said. How is that all the shots were above the waist of the accused? “I do not know,” he said. ‘Under pressure’ When questioned about his statement to the National Human Rights Commission, like the previous witnesses, Mr. Madhar too maintained that his statement was wrongly recorded and ‘under pressure and threat’ from the NHRC officials he had signed on the statement. The panel was shocked to know that the officer doesn’t understand Hindi. “I don’t know Hindi. I come from a place which is on the border of Andhra Pradesh and ours is the only Muslim family there,” he said. When asked how come his mobile phone tower locations on the day of incident were at various places, Mr. Madhar told the panel that after the firing, around 8.30 a.m, Shadnagar inspector took away their mobile phones and returned only in the evening. Earlier, Mr. Karthikeyan posed a string of questions to the officer, including apprehending four of the accused in a record time, the public applause for the police action, doesn’t he think that after arrest if the accused have been brought before the court for a final verdict, that would have really brought glory to the police investigation confirming their charges. “I do not know,” was his standard reply to all the questions. Later in the day, Head Constable Mohammed Sirajuddin, who too opened fire on December 6, 2019, was questioned by the SC-appointed panel for an hour. He was asked whether he can differentiate between soil and dust. While the panel’s advocate was seen stressing on the term ‘self-defence’, both the officers maintained that they opened fire on the instructions of ACP Surender to protect the police party and panchas from the indiscriminate firing from the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inspector-in-disha-case-quizzed-for-second-day/article37223636.ece
29 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Excise teams see phones for chat on ‘ganja’||The ongoing crackdown against ganja in Hyderabad has come under criticism as the Telangana Prohibition and Excise Department teams have checked phones of some people to verify if the word ‘ganja’ was used in chats. The vigil and the checks against the peddlers and consumers are conducted in and around Hyderabad and concentrated in Dhoolpet limits, a part of the Old City of Hyderabad, which is infamous for the supply of ganja. A few parts of the locality is a maze of narrow bylanes. In a video shot by Siasat , circulating since Thursday morning, a law enforcement official said they check phones, vehicles and pockets. In phones, they check for use of the word ganja, weed or stuff. Dhoolpet’s excise station’s superintendent K. Naveen Kumar said they have checked phones only in a few cases. For the past one month at least, the Telangana Police and excise officials have stepped up vigil in the city to curb transportation and peddling of ganja. Teams from both the Departments have been conducting patrolling in Dhoolpet. “We don’t stop everyone coming to the locality and check their phones. When someone comes to Dhoolpet and looks clueless, we ask where they came from, the purpose of the visit and other preliminary questions. If there is a suspicion that a person has come for ganja, we check their phone for the use of the word ganja, and nothing else. This is done in rare cases, in the presence of the person owning the phone,” said the official. When a suspicious person is lurking in the night time whose identity is not known to the police, then it is the responsibility of the police officers to establish the identity, said Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar. Youngsters who bought or tried to buy ganja in the locality too were caught. More than 470 youngsters were caught from September 21 to October 28. They were counselled by a clinical psychologist. Parents too are asked to attend the counselling session. On October 20, Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao convened a meeting with officials from the police and the State Prohibition and Excise Department where various aspects of ganja and arrack were discussed including the States where ganja is cultivated, the routes it is transported into Telangana,and how to curb it. There on, the raids and checks have intensified. Several seizures were reported in the past few days. A similar exercise to stop the peddling of ganja in Dhoolpet was taken up a few years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probing-use-of-word-ganja-in-chats-criticised/article37223625.ece
29 October 2021||IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala gears for water release from dam||The district administration has completed all arrangements in view of the opening of the spillway shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam at 7 a.m. on Friday, said Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine here on Thursday night. As per available information, 3,000 cusecs (cubic feet per second) of water will be released from the dam. Tamil Nadu did not inform the quantum of water discharge. The Revenue Department evacuated 100 people from Periyar village and two from Manjumala village of Peerumade taluk and two from Ayyappancoil of Idukki taluk in the morning. Relief camps have been opened in Peerumade and Idukki taluks. Control rooms have been opened in villages under Peerumade, Udumbanchola, and Idukki taluks. Course of water Water released through the spillway shutters is expected to reach the first residential area of Vallakadavu through the Periyar within 20 minutes. It will move through Manjumala, Vandiperiar, Mlamala, Santhipalam, Chappathu, Alady, and Upputhara to join the Idukki reservoir waters at Ayyappancoil, 35 km from the Idukki arch dam and the Cheruthoni dam. There will be controlled flow compared to the August 2018 situation, when water was released at 4,000 cusecs. This was at a time when the Periyar was in spate following heavy rainfall. The water caused large-scale damage to crops and houses upstream of the Idukki dam. Meanwhile, water level continued to rise in the Mullaperiyar and Idukki reservoirs on Thursday. The water level in Mullaperiyar at 5 p.m. was 138.15 ft. As per the rule curve, the upper rule level is 138 ft till October 31. The Government machinery was fully prepared for the release of water from the Mullaperiyar dam, Minister for Water Resources Roshy Augustine said on Thursday. Arrangements for ensuring the safety of people residing on the banks of the Periyar had been completed, he said. “Evacuation strategies will be finalised after Tamil Nadu informs Kerala about the volume of water to be released,” Mr. Augustine told reporters in Thiruvananthapuram before leaving for Idukki to oversee the arrangements. Vehicles and special equipment and machinery had been kept in readiness for handling emergencies. Officials deputed “Special arrangements have been made for the evacuation of the elderly and the sick,” he said. The Revenue Divisional Officer, Idukki, was in charge of the arrangements and two deputy collectors had been specially posted in the region. “Disaster management, revenue, and police personnel and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in the region,” the Minister added. He reiterated that the upper rule level of 138 ft was not acceptable to the State. He, nevertheless, welcomed Tamil Nadu’s readiness to release water once that level was reached and also to draw more water from the dam. ( Inputs from Thiruvananthapuram bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-gears-for-water-release-from-dam/article37223641.ece
29 October 2021||IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister hails SC directive on Mullaperiyar||Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine has said the new directive of the Supreme Court on the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam is more hopeful for Kerala. The apex court has asked the State to submit a detailed affidavit about the new rule curve prepared by Tamil Nadu. “Now, we hope we can submit the actual details and conditions about the dam before the court,” he said here on Thursday. The court did not accept the Tamil Nadu demand to raise the water level to 142 ft. Kerala would raise the issue of a new dam there. Rule curve As per the rule curve, the water level in Mullaperiyar was fixed at 138 ft till October 31. At present, there was no problem in releasing water above the rule curve level, he said. The Government had made all arrangements considering the chances of opening of the spillway shutters. Blocks in the Periyar had been cleared for the smooth flow of water. There was no need for panic and the government had prepared the details of the people to be evicted from downstream areas. He said Tamil Nadu had not informed on how much the spillway shutters would be opened. The Idukki reservoir was capable to hold the water released water from Mullaperiyar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-hails-sc-directive-on-mullaperiyar/article37223639.ece
29 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||210 kg ganja seized||The Tuni Rural police have arrested 12 persons, including seven from Maharashtra, in two cases while they were transporting ganja on the national highway in East Godavari district on Thursday. The police seized 210 kg ganja and four vehicles from the two gangs that were taking the substance from the Visakhapatnam and Odisha agency areas to Maharashtra, according to Peddapuram DSP A. Srinivasa Rao. The seven from Maharashtra have been identified as Gourav Dileep, Sreyas Kumar Narayan, Mandal Uttam Pawar, Krishna Sopan, Santosh Ramesh Kale, Hasan Chand Mulla and Laal Mulla.  All the accused were produced in a local court and sent in remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/210-kg-ganja-seized/article37224517.ece
29 October 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Virtual queue is for the safety of pilgrims’||The virtual queue system introduced at Sabarimala Ayyappa temple should not be withdrawn considering the safety of pilgrims, the State Government informed the Kerala High Court. The State made the submission while making its stand clear in a petition seeking to shift the control of the virtual queue system from the police to the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB). The virtual queue system was introduced after the Pullumedu tragedy and on the direction of the Kerala High Court to introduce some crowd management system, the State submitted.  The court will consider the case again on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virtual-queue-is-for-the-safety-of-pilgrims/article37223638.ece
29 October 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 cluster: 39 students test positive in Kodagu school||At least 41 people, including 39 students of a residential school at Galibeedu in Madikeri taluk of Kodagu district, have tested positive for COVID-19 in a cluster outbreak. Kogadu District Health Officer Dr. R. Venkatesh said the students from the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya Residential School were aged between 14 and 17. The students, who tested positive included boys and girls studying in IX to XII classes. However, he said there was no cause for alarm as all the students and two staff members were undergoing treatment at the COVID-19 hospital in Madikeri. “There is nothing to worry. None of them is serious. We have admitted them to the hospital to prevent its spread to other children,” he said. Tests were conducted on all the 270 students and more than 40 staff members over the last one week after two students showed symptoms of COVID-19 and tested positive. The district administration was conducting tests on the family members of the residential school staff as well. Kodagu Deputy Commissioner Sateesha B.C. visited the residential school on Thursday along with Additional Deputy Commissioner Raju Mogaveera K. and Dr. Venkatesh. The officials met the school principal and discussed containment measures. Meanwhile, a statement issued by the Kodagu district administration on Thursday said a total of 15 cases of fresh COVID-19 were reported in the district over the last 24 hours. There were a total of 15 containment zones in the district and the test positivity rate stood at 0.45%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-cluster-39-students-test-positive-in-kodagu-school/article37224011.ece
29 October 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apollo wants Arumughaswamy Commission proceedings quashed||Apollo Hospitals urged the Supreme Court on Thursday to quash the inquiry proceedings before the Justice (retired) A. Arumughaswamy Commission into the death of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Submitting before a Bench of Justices Abdul S. Nazeer and Krishna Murari, senior advocate Aryama Sundaram, assisted by advocate Rohini Musa, said the proceedings reeked of bias and violation of the principles of natural justice. “When there is a reasonable apprehension of bias, there is no question of Your Lordships saying ‘we will tell him to behave in the future’... I am seeking quashing of the proceedings,” Mr. Sundaram submitted on behalf of the Chennai hospital. The senior lawyer said the right to protect one’s reputation against bias allows one to challenge an inquiry even before the Commission submits its report. Lack of bias is part of the principles of natural justice. “Fair hearing is by a person who has no interest in the lis (suit),” he submitted. “We have seen the Commission file an application before itself, file a reply and hear the application... Is that not being a judge of his own cause?” Mr. Sundaram asked. “What you are trying to say is that he has been identified with the cause?” Justice Nazeer asked. “Yes... He has gone way beyond being a judge of his own cause...,” Mr. Sundaram responded. At an earlier hearing, the court had wondered whether the Commission had “virtually become a judge of his own cause” or an “umpire playing the game himself”. Mr. Sundaram had said the reputation of the premier Chennai hospital, where Jayalalithaa breathed her last in 2016, was “blighted overnight” by the Commission who took a tangent which was “unbelievable”. The senior lawyer said the path followed by the Commission was straight out of the fairy tale Alice in Wonderland . Mr. Sundaram submitted that the Commission had even asked for the medical records concerning the hospitalisation of another former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran 37 years ago and his shifting to the Brooklyn hospital in the United States. The proceedings before the Commission were stayed by the Supreme Court in April 2019 on the basis of a plea by Apollo Hospitals that the panel’s functioning was “replete with bias”. Apollo Hospitals submitted that the Commission, instead of conducting an impartial probe, had filed a pleading alleging “criminal intent” on the part of the hospital and its doctors. At an earlier hearing, the Commission, represented by senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, had informed the court that it had only four more witnesses left to examine and should be allowed to complete its work and place its fact-finding report before the State Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apollo-wants-arumughaswamy-commission-proceedings-quashed/article37224138.ece
29 October 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Mere association with terror outfit does not attract UAPA’||The Supreme Court on Thursday held that “mere association” with a terrorist organisation as a member or otherwise is not sufficient to attract an offence under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act of 1967. Association or support for a terror outfit should be accompanied with an intention to commit acts to further the activities of the terrorist organisation, a Bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and Abhay S. Oka clarified in a judgment which may create significant ripples about the State’s use of powers to arrest and detain young persons under the terror law. The court was dealing with Sections 38 (membership of a terrorist organisation) and 39 (supporting a terrorist organisation) of the UAPA. Both Sections attract imprisonment up to 10 years or fine or both. “Mere association with a terrorist organisation is not sufficient to attract Section 38 and mere support given to a terrorist organisation is not sufficient to attract Section 39. The association and the support have to be with the intention of furthering the activities of a terrorist organisation,” Justice Oka, who authored the judgment, drew the distinction. Justice Oka observed that an accused in such cases was “entitled” to bail if the court was satisfied that “there are no reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against the accused is prima facie true”. The interpretation of the provisions of the 1967 Act is part of a judgment granting/confirming bail to Thwaha Fasal and Alan Shuhaib of Kerala, who were booked under the UAPA for alleged Maoist links.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/support-for-terror-outfit-does-not-attract-uapa/article37223605.ece
29 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco Board urges ryots to produce quality output||The Tobacco Board has adopted a multi-pronged strategy to help farmers realise a remunerative price for their produce with a focus on stepping up exports in a big way, its Executive Director Addanki Sridhar Babu has said. Taking part in the World Tobacco Growers’ Day celebrations at the Ongole-II auction platform on Thursday, Mr. Sridhar Babu termed the Centre’s decision to cut the penalty on excess production by half as a ‘victory’ for the farmers who had been demanding it since long. “The Tobacco Board is keen on stepping up exports. Farmers should produce good quality tobacco comprising more bright grade varieties to ensure better price for their produce,” he said. The Tobacco Board, Mr. Sridhar Babu said, had taken up with the Centre the inclusion of tobacco and tobacco-related products in the Free Trade Agreement with United Arab Emirates (UAE) and South Korea. “Embassy-level talks are on with countries such as China, Japan, Egypt, where state monopoly on tobacco trade exists, to finalise the export orders. An action plan has been prepared to step up the exports by 32% this year,” he said. Meanwhile, tobacco growers from the drought-prone region led by YSRCP’s farmers’ wing President Mareddy Subba Reddy urged the authorities to take stringent measures to curb the increasing menace of ‘illicit’ cigarette that carried no mandatory pictorial health warning. Illegal cigarette trade “Thanks to the high tax regime, India has emerged as fourth largest and fast growing market for illegal tax-evaded cigarettes,” said Potu Murali, a farmer leader. The sale of smuggled cigarettes had increased to 28 billion sticks in 2019 from 11.5 billion sticks in 2005, he pointed out. The FCV (flue-cured Virginia) tobacco farmers had incurred losses of more than Rs. 7,000 crore owing to drop in production from 325 million kg in 2014-15 financial year to 227 million kg in 2020-21, said B. Ramanjaneyulu, another farmer leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-board-urges-ryots-to-produce-quality-output/article37224036.ece
29 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bring fuel prices under GST: Left parties||The activists of the Left parties staged a demonstration in-front of the Prakasam Bhavan on Thursday, demanding that petrol, diesel and cooking gas be brought under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime. Leading the protest, Communist Party of India (M) Prakasam district Secretary P. Anjaneyulu said that there was no justification for the prices of petrol and diesel crossing the Rs. 100-mark and cooking gas price nearing the Rs. 1,000-mark even after the crude oil price crashed in the international market. “It is unfortunate that the YSRCP and the main opposition TDP are involved in politicking, ignoring the sufferings of the toiling masses who are finding it difficult to make a living as the prices of all essential commodities have shot up,” he said. At a time when the common man is struggling to eke out a living owing to the economic downturn triggered by the coronavirus pandemic, the Union and State governments have imposed a hefty tax of more than Rs. 70 per litre of fuel, said CPI leader M.L. Narayana. More people have started using firewood for cooking again as the LPG cylinders have gone out of reach, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bring-fuel-prices-under-gst-left-parties/article37224028.ece
29 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||20 bus stations will get a facelift, says RTC MD||In an attempt to with provide better amenities to passengers, the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has launched an initiative to modernise more than 20 bus stations in the State, its Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao has said. “Under the ‘Nadu-Nedu’ programme, bus passengers in Ongole and other select cities will be provided with smart facilities including digital boards displaying bus schedules and spacious waiting halls,” Mr. Tirumala Rao told the media after interacting with some passengers here on Thursday. The APSRTC has chalked out an action plan to best utilise the large parcel of land available at various bus stations, he added. “Not only deluxe and express services, more than 3,000 ‘Palle Velugu’ buses would be upgraded to provide better travelling experience to the passengers,” he said. Mr. Tirumala Rao further said that the cargo service being offered by the APSRTC was evoking a good response after the door delivery of consignments was launched, adding that compensation was being provided to customers in case of any damage to consignments. More than 450 consignments are being booked in Ongole daily, while it receives 600 consignments from other places on an average, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/20-bus-stations-will-get-a-facelift-says-rtc-md/article37224029.ece
29 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held for temple thefts||The police have nabbed two suspects who had allegedly struck at several temples in Prakasam district, and recovered valuables worth about Rs. 2 lakh. DSP G. Ramakrishna told the media that a special team, with clues provided by the IT core team, cracked the case by arresting P. Mahesh (25) and D. Venkanna (27) of Krishna district, and recovered valuables including a “'Panchaloha Kalasam”, a gold nose stud and two silver crowns allegedly stolen from Chowdeswari temple at Garlapeta, following their arrest at the Gundlapalli Growth Centre, near Maddipadu, late on Wednesday.  Investigation revealed that they had also allegedly struck at some temples in Khammam in Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-for-temple-thefts/article37224030.ece
29 October 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||No VIP break darshan on November 4||The TTD has announced that there will be no VIP break darshan on November 4 following Deepavali Asthanam at the hill temple. It also made it clear that it will not accept any recommendation letters on November 3 for the darshan of the deity on the following day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-vip-break-darshan-on-november-4/article37224485.ece
29 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bring to light scientific facts hidden in Vedas, Governor tells students||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has appealed to students of Sri Venkateswara Vedic University (SVVU) to bring to light the scientific facts hidden in the Vedas for the benefit of society. In his ‘virtual’ address at the sixth convocation of the SVVU on Thursday, Mr. Harichandan, who is also the Chancellor of the university, described the students as the custodians and promoters of the Vedic culture. “India has taught the world science, arithmetic, commerce, economics, agriculture in the Vedic perspective. By virtue of this cultural heritage, India has preached to the world the concept of equality and international brotherhood,” he said. Stressing the need to ‘re-emphasise’ the relevance of the Vedas, the Governor asked the university to consider introducing innovative subjects with the help of science and technology in the light of overwhelming advances made in the field. He expressed delight at the introduction of mathematics in the curriculum of Vedic sciences and advised the researchers to pursue the topics pertaining to Vedic sciences for their doctoral degrees. Referring to the achievements of the university, Vice-Chancellor Sannidhanam Sudarsana Sarma said a whopping 1,000 hours of chanting of Jata, Ghana of Rigveda and Yajurveda and recitations from Samaveda had been recorded. He spoke on the computer lab, skill development centre and the gymnasium on the premises of the university that taught Yogic exercises to the students. Recruitment of teachers “Ahead of the NAAC accreditation, the university is going to undertake a recruitment drive to ensure a healthy teacher-student ratio,” said Mr. Sudarsana Sarma. The ‘Mahamahopadhyaya’ title was conferred on renowned Samaveda scholar V. Ganesan Srowthi on the occasion. Mr. Sudarsana Sarma and Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy conferred the title. The TTD is the sponsoring institution for the university. In all, 229 degrees including eleven Ph.Ds., 2 M.Phils, 46 masters, 122 graduation and 48 diplomas were presented during the convocation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bring-to-light-scientific-facts-hidden-in-vedas-governor-tells-students/article37224038.ece
29 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati gears up for ‘Gau Maha Sammelan’||The temple city is gearing up for the arrival of nearly 3000 ‘Gau Rakshak’ volunteers for the two-day ‘Gau Maha Sammelan’, scheduled to be held on October 30 and 31. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is hosting the event that aims at promoting cow worship as well as cow-based agriculture and cow-related products, its Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy told the media here on Thursday, adding that the meet would prepare the blueprint for encouraging the aspiring farmers in cattle-rearing and organic farming. Pontiffs representing Mutts and Hindu organisations from across the country have been invited and they will address the farmers as well as the public on the importance of cow in the various facets of life, in the wake of growing awareness on cow-based and natural food products after the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic. Mr. Reddy also spoke about the recently-launched ‘Navaneetha Seva’, ‘Gudiko Gomatha’, ‘Govinduniki Go Adharitha Naivedyam’ programmes and the to-be-unveiled Panchagavya products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-gears-up-for-gau-maha-sammelan/article37224031.ece
29 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties protest against fuel price hike||The Left parties staged a protest against the steep hike in prices of petroleum products, near Kaleswara Rao Market in the city on Thursday. Traffic hit The police physically lifted the protesting Communist Party of India (CPI) and the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) leaders, and workers of the front organisations, who virtually laid siege to the roads in the vicinity. Traffic came to a grinding halt for some time. The protesters raised slogans against the Central government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu said the State and Central governments were not taking steps to control the prices of petroleum products. There was a possibility that the petrol price might touch Rs. 130 a litre in a month. The BJP leaders were suggesting to change the designs of the two-wheelers, but not taking steps to control the prices. The prices of essential commodities and bus fares had increased following the rise in petrol prices. Both the State and Central governments were engaged in mudslinging against each other but not addressing the issue, he said. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said petrol price was Rs. 60 a litre per litre when the Modi government came to power. Now it touched Rs. 114. The price of diesel was Rs. 50 per litre, and now it cost Rs. 104 per litre. Similarly, the prices of LPG, power tariff, property taxes, user charges on garbage collection have increased. The State and Central governments were competing with each other in implementing anti-people policies, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-protest-against-fuel-price-hike/article37224626.ece
29 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only one COVID-19 death reported in State in 24 hours||The State reported only one COVID-19 death and 381 infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The lone death was reported in Krishna district which has the highest death rate. It was also the only district with more than 1% death rate. The cumulative death toll and tally reached 14,365  and 20,65,235 respectively with a death rate of 0.70% and recovery rate of 99.07%. The number of active cases reached 4,743  with  414 patients recovering in the past day. The total recoveries stand at 20,46,127. The daily test positivity rate of the 38,896 samples tested in the past day was 0.98% and that of the total 2.94 crore samples tested was 7.02%. Chittoor reported 82 infections in the past day. It was followed by Krishna (61), East Godavari (57), Visakhapatnam (43), Guntur (29), Nellore (23), Prakasam (23), West Godavari (21), Srikakulam (17), Kadapa (9), Vizianagaram (9), Anantapur (4) and Kurnool (3). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,93,544), Chittoor (2,46,728), West Godavari (1,78,966), Guntur (1,77,953), Anantapur (1,57,823), Visakhapatnam (1,57,641), Nellore (1,46,313), Prakasam (1,38,462), Kurnool (1,24,126), Srikakulam (1,23,037), Krishna (1,19,215), Kadapa (1,15,593) and Vizianagaram (82,939).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/only-one-covid-19-death-reported-in-state-in-24-hours/article37224478.ece
29 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cabinet nod for 10 mega tourism projects||The Cabinet on Thursday approved 10 mega tourism projects, including luxury resorts, star hotels and spiritual tourism projects, at various locations in the State. “The projects are planned with an expected investment of more than Rs. 2,800 crore, and will create employment opportunities for about 48,000 people,” said Special Chief Secretary, Tourism and Culture, Rajat Bhargava. “Tourism contributes to about 7% to the GSDP of Andhra Pradesh and is one of the most important sectors to bring investments and generate employment, while enabling growth of agriculture, transport, handloom and consumer goods due to its strong backward linkages,” Mr. Bhargava said in a statement. Referring to the State Tourism Policy, he said it offered best-in-class incentives for development of tourism establishments. Luxury resorts He said the 10 proposed projects of hotels and resorts were a mix of PPP and private investments. They included luxury resorts with 7-Star facilities by the Oberoi Group. The group proposes to develop a resort with 300 independent villas at Annavaram village of Bheemunipatnam mandal in Visakhapatnam district in over 40 acres (Rs. 350 crore); a resort with 100 independent villas at Peruru in Tirupati in over 20 acres (Rs. 250 crore); 120 independent villas at Gandikota of Jammalamadugu mandal in Kadapa district in 50 acres (Rs. 250 crore); 120 villas at Horsely Hills of B. Kothakota mandal in Chittoor district in 21 acres (Rs. 250 crore); and 150 villas at Pichukalanka of Atreyapuram mandal in East Godavari district in 30 acres (Rs. 250 crore). A mega spiritual centre and a tourist base camp was proposed to be developed at Penukonda in Anantapur district by ISKCON Charities. “It is being designed to attract footfalls of more than 10,000 every month, and the estimated cost of the project is Rs. 100 crore. It will come up in an area of 75 acres,” said Mr. Rajat Bhargava. Besides, the Cabinet also approved grant of incentives for star hotels under ‘Hyatt’ and ‘Taj’ brands in Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam and Tirupati. “Today is an important day for AP Tourism and the proposed projects will facilitate more investments in the sector,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cabinet-nod-for-10-mega-tourism-projects/article37224489.ece
29 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lorry owners threaten to launch nationwide bandh against fuel price hike||Lorry owners in the State have resolved to call a nationwide bandh if the State and Central governments did not bring down the prices of petrol and diesel immediately. They also urged the governments to bring petrol and diesel under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) purview to check the frequent price rise. The lorry owners staged a protest here on Thursday. Lorry Owners Association general secretary Y.V. Eswara Rao said oil prices were not coming down despite a fall in international crude oil rates. Diesel price was Rs. 65 per litre when crude oil barrel price was $109. Now the barrel price was $83 but diesel was being sold at Rs. 106 per litre. The Centre was collecting Rs. 32 as tax on petroleum products while the State government was imposing 22.25% VAT on diesel. In addition, Rs. 4 and Rs. 1.22 per litre were being collected towards road and other cess. Increasing the price by 35 paise per litre every day was putting an unfair burden on the crisis-ridden transport sector. The governments should bring petrol and diesel under the GST to bring down the prices, he said. Leaders and members of The Andhra Pradesh Lorry Owners Association, The Krishna District Lorry Owners Association, The Krishna District Lorry Owners Mutually Aided Cooperative Stores, The Krishna District Lorry Owners Foundation, The Krishna District Trailers Owners Association, and The Vijayawada Two-wheeler Mechanic and Workers Welfare Association took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lorry-owners-threaten-to-launch-nationwide-bandh-against-fuel-price-hike/article37224621.ece
29 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP questions presence of many YSRCP leaders in Badvel||BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said in a release that the camping of a large number of YSRCP leaders, who included Ministers P. Ramachandra Reddy, A. Suresh, Sk. Amzath Basha and V. Srinivas, in Badvel for the by-election campaign was a testimony to the BJP’s strength. If the YSRCP resorted to arm-twisting, people would teach it a lesson, he stated, insisting that the contest should be a fair one in the interest of democracy. Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said, apart from the Ministers, three MPs – M. Gurumoorthy, Y.S. Avinash Reddy and P.V. Mithun Reddy, more than 30 MLAs from Anantapur, Chittoor, Kadapa, Kurnool and Nellore districts, and 100-plus chairpersons / directors of various corporations were exclusively on the job of securing a win for their party. “If the BJP is a weak rival, where is the need for such a big contingent of YSRCP to descend on Badvel?” he questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-questions-presence-of-many-ysrcp-leaders-in-badvel/article37224479.ece
29 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM invites Governor to awards function||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy along with wife Bharathi paid a courtesy call to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and his wife Suprava at the Raj Bhavan on Thursday. The Chief Minister invited Mr. Harichandan to be the chief guest at the Dr. YSR Lifetime Achievement Awards presentation programme on November 1 on the occasion of AP Formation Day. Mr. Reddy briefed the Governor about the awards being presented to eminent persons in the fields of agriculture, arts, culture, literature, medical and health, journalism etc. Endowments Minister V. Srinivas, Special Chief Secretary to Governor R.P. Sisodia, Principal Secretary to CM Praveen Prakash, Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, Director of protocol Balasubramanya Reddy and joint secretary to Governor A. Shyam Prasad were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-invites-governor-to-awards-function/article37224481.ece
29 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gorantla Madhav meets Amit Shah, complains against TDP chief||Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Thursday and complained to him that even after his leadership being rejected by the people, former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu was doing things that posed a threat to democracy. Mr. Naidu was also encouraging the use of foul language and promoting anti-social elements, thereby vitiating peace, he alleged. Case sought against Pattabhi Mr. Madhav said the laws against obscenity should be strengthened to make those uttering unspeakable words and behaving in a manner unbecoming of elected representatives, pay the price for being wayward. Cases under relevant laws should be registered against TDP spokesman K. Pattabhiram for making derogatory comments on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, which caused disturbances, he requested the Union Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gorantla-madhav-meets-amit-shah-complains-against-tdp-chief/article37224482.ece
29 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman attempts ‘suicide’ at CP’s office||A woman reportedly attempted suicide by consuming pesticide outside the office of Commissioner of Police on Thursday alleging negligence on part of the Penamaluru police. The police who were posted at the office came to her rescue and rushed her to Government General Hospital. Police said that she was safe. According to information, the woman complained to the Penamaluru police against harassment by her former boyfriend, who allegedly circulated her pictures on social media. Police said that the woman’s complaint was taken up and the pictures in circulation were deleted from social media with the help of cybercrime experts. Police also found that the pictures were circulated by the former boyfriend’s friend and an FIR was registered against both of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-attempts-suicide-at-cps-office/article37224619.ece
29 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh urges Chief Minister not to ‘destroy’ aided schools||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy not to “destroy” the aided educational institutions. In an letter to the Chief Minister on Thursday, Mr. Lokesh accused the State government of hatching a conspiracy to destroy all established systems in the State. “It is atrocious that the government, in a bid to snatch away the prime assets and properties of aided schools, has thrown the future of students to the winds. The future of 1.96 lakh students in 2,203 aided schools, 71,035 students in 182 aided junior colleges, and 2.50 lakh students in 116 degree colleges is a big question now,” he said. The parents, students and staff were coming onto the road to protest against the government’s move, he observed. The interests of aided teachers should be protected. The contract lecturers who had been removed from service should be reinstated, Mr. Lokesh demanded. “There is a need to protect the long-established aided education system, and not a single school should be closed,” he said. “The YSRCP government is targeting the schools usually preferred by the students from poor economic background,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-urges-chief-minister-not-to-destroy-aided-schools/article37224622.ece
29 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sub junior soft tennis team selected||Selections to Krishna district sub junior soft tennis team were conducted at Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) Stadium here on Thursday. Krishna District Soft Tennis Association president Valle Srinu Babu and secretary Daram Naveen Kumar said the selected team would participate in Andhra Pradesh Sub Junior inter-district soft tennis championship scheduled to be conducted at Proddatur in Kadapa district from November 13 to 15. The selections were made under supervision of District Sports Authority observer Y. Siva Ramakrishna. Y. Ishan, M. Revanth, Ch. Mokshagna, Ch. G.V. Sai Akash, D. Lohyendra,T. Raghav, Y.S.V. Kartikeya were selected to the boys team. P. Bhavya, P. Yutika, P. Kalyani, P. Pavani, G. Swetha, and G.Manju Preethi were selected to the girls team, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sub-junior-soft-tennis-team-selected/article37224624.ece
29 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrangements for Tirupati’s SZC meeting reviewed||Chief Secretary Sameer Sarma on Thursday held a review meeting on the Southern Zonal Council meeting scheduled to be held in Tirupati on November 14. The Chief Secretary has asked the officials to make necessary arrangements. There should not be any scope for lapse in the arrangements. Prepare a checklist of the arrangements to be made, he said. The meeting, to be chaired by Union Minister of Home Amit Shah, will be attended by Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Pudduchery, the member States, and Lieutenant Governors of Andaman Nicobar and Lakshadweep Islands, which are special invitees. Senior officials, including Chief Secretaries, government advisers and heads of various departments would attend the meeting, considered important for chalking out the future course of development of the southern States. The meeting would deliberate on the issues between the southern States and Central assistance to them. The departments were asked to liaison and coordinate with Chittoor district officials and State-level senior officials. The officials explained to the Chief Secretary about the plans and arrangements being made. Foolproof security arrangements, high-speed internet with wi-fi and LAN facilities along with laptops and big-size LEDs at the venue, security for the visiting VVIPs, etc., were discussed. Additional DGP Ravi Shankar Ayyanar, TR&B Principal Secretary M.T. Krishna Babu, IT Secretary Jayalakshmi, Secretary (State Reorganisation Commission) L Premchandra Reddy, Protocol Director Balasubrahmanyam Reddy, Information commissioner T. Vijay Kumar Reddy, and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrangements-for-tirupatis-szc-meeting-reviewed/article37224487.ece
29 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RGUKT despatches call letters||The Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) has despatched call letters for special category certificate verification and for general counselling to candidates who qualified in RGUJKT CET 2021, for admissions into its four campuses. In a statement on Thursday, university Vice-Chancellor K. Hemachandra Reddy said the list of certificates to be brought to the certificate verification/general counselling has been mentioned in the call letters. NRIs (Other than AP and Telangana candidates) who wish to study in RGUKT could register their names along with details online in the university websitewww.rgukt.inby November 20. Registered NRIs need to physically attend the counselling on November 30 either at R.K. Valley campus or at Nuzvid campus, said Mr. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rgukt-despatches-call-letters/article37224488.ece
29 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kadapa steel plant gets PCB go-ahead||The Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) has issued Consent for Establishment (CoE) to the Kadapa steel plant at Sunnapurallapalli and Peddadandluru villages of Jammalamadugu mandal in Kadapa district. APPCB Chairman A.K. Parida said in a release that the environmental clearance had been received on March 9, 2021, and the total project cost was Rs. 16,986 crore. The land area is 3,591 acres and the project will have 84.7 MW captive power generation. The steel plant, A.P. High Grade Steels Limited, will make blast furnace coke, coke breeze, iron shots, wire rods, merchant products, plates and granulated slag. The production capacity is 3 MTA and the plant’s water requirement will be met from the Gandikota reservoir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kadapa-steel-plant-gets-pcb-go-ahead/article37224490.ece
29 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Firecrackers worth Rs. 11.5 lakh seized||The city police seized huge quantity of firecrackers worth Rs. 11.5 lakh that were illegally stocked in a grocery store and arrested one person. According to a release, Dasari Mahesh (42) of Prasadampadu who had been running the grocery store in Yanamalakuduru reportedly purchased and stored 103 boxes of firecrcakers in the midst of residential area without any precautionary measures and permissions from the authorities concerned. Acting on a tip-off, the police raided the store and found the firecrackers manufactured by various brands and seized the stock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/firecrackers-worth-rs-115-lakh-seized/article37224618.ece
29 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Police targeting me as I am an SC’||“I am being targeted by the police as I belong to an SC community,” former Minister Nakka Ananda Babu has alleged. Addressing the media on Thursday, he said the Visakhapatnam DIG and the Narsipatnam CI had come all the way to Guntur to issue me a noticejust for voicing concern over ganja cultivation and supply in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-targeting-me-as-i-am-an-sc/article37224620.ece
29 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCRWWO holds cancer awareness programme||The South Central Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation, Vijayawada Division, conducted a cancer awareness programme for women here on Thursday. SCRWWO Vijayawada Division president Jaya Mohan said women neglected many life threatening diseases such as cancer without taking adequate care through regular screening and check up during the COVID pandemic. Prevalence of cancer among women had increased during the past 2 years. Women should take a balanced and nutritious diet so that they did not pick up any disease, she said. , Health kits SCRWWO vice-presidents K. Sarada and D. Sridevidistributed health kits to the women contract employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scrwwo-holds-cancer-awareness-programme/article37224623.ece
29 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||The ‘sugarloaf’ mountain may not look the same again||This is for all the 17th and 18th century Dutch, French and English sailors who had braved the high seas to reach the port cities of Vizagapatam and Bheemunipatam (as they were then called) in their sailing ships: Your ‘sugarloaf’ mountain may not look the same in the future, as the existing Haritha Resort on the hill has been demolished to pave way for a bigger luxury resort. This may also stand good for the Romans, who, in the 2nd century BC, had come all the way to Thotlakonda in oar-driven galley ships to trade with the Buddhist monks, or exchange notes on different philosophies. The ‘Sugarloaf’ mountain, or colloquially called Rushikonda, had earned the sobriquet from the Europeans because from a distant horizon from the sea, the mountain looked like a loaf of sugar on a plateau. Symbol of identity For ages, the geographical feature, when seen through the telescope, stood out like a proud symbol of identity across the blue waters of the Bay and sun-kissed golden sands. This was the only symbol for the sailors of the bygone era that they were nearing the coast and the ports of Vizagapatam and Bheemunipatam were close by. The hill is strategically located between the Dolphin’s Nose and Bheemunipatam. It is also an identified ‘Triangular Station’ of the Geological Survey of India. Once the resort comes up, the rooms will have a splendid view of the Bay and the guests can bask in the soft rays as the sun rises, but the ‘Sugarloaf’ will never look the same again. ‘Legal project’ There is criticism on the issues that are unfolding, and the opposition parties are trying to score brownie points, but the State government has got the CRZ clearance from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change for the construction of the resort on a land measuring about 9.8 acres with a built-up area of 19,968 square metres at a cost of Rs. 240 crore. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao has already said that the existing old resort will be re-developed, as the potential of Rushikonda has gone up manifold after being certified as a ‘Blue Flag’ beach. “It is a legal project and all permissions and clearances have been obtained. Primarily, it is for development of tourism that will have a holistic impact, including employment generation,” he said. But people having concern for environment and heritage raise one question – is it necessary to build a resort on a hill that identifies with the culture and history of the region, especially when there is plenty of land available along the coast? It is true that the aesthetic value of the resort doubles if it comes up on the hill, but at what cost? Constructing the resort in 1984, when the CRZ rules were not there, should have been avoided and the originality should have been retained, said a few environmentalists. Historical connection There are a number of stories associated with the hill and it is revered by the locals. Though there is no evidence to prove its mythological connection, many believe that the hill was named Rushikonda as the revered ‘Sapta Rishis’ (seven sages) had performed penance on it. “There is no proof to substantiate it, and it is myth. But, at the foot of the hill, there is a Lord Siva temple, which is about 150 years old,” said K. Suryanarayana, former Head of Department of History, Andhra University. “The hill falls under the Thotlakonda, Bavikonda and Pavuralakonda Buddhist heritage circuit, and we cannot rule out that it does not have a 2nd century Buddhist connection, as no exploration, excavation or investigation has been taken up. The name of the hill can also come from this connection,” Prof. Suryanarayana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-sugarloaf-mountain-may-not-look-the-same-again/article37224492.ece
29 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector sets 2025 deadline for full road connectivity in Agency||Collector A. Mallikarjuna instructed officials to complete the laying of roads in all villages in the Agency areas of the district by 2025. He also suggested to the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) officials to install AP Fibernet services in order to provide internet connectivity at 110 identified Grama Sachivalayams. The Collector conducted a meeting with officials from ITDA, Panchayat Raj, Roads & Buildings, and Rural Water Supply Departments to learn about the status of road connectivity, drinking water supply, electricity and other basic amenities in the Agency. In the meeting, Mr. Mallikarjuna told the officials that the administration should speed up laying of roads connecting all villages in the Agency mandals. He said that a number of tribals from interior areas are facing many issues due to lack of proper road connectivity and other basic amenities, and it is the duty of the government to provide them all facilities. The meeting comes on the heels of a young tribal woman dying during childbirth at her home in a remote tribal hamlet. He asked officials concerned to submit him a report on electricity connectivity and drinking water supply in the Agency. “There are 3,789 habitations with a population of 6.59 lakh in the 11 mandals of the Agency. The population includes 1,21,727 families. For 1,839 habitations, around 4,421 km of road has to be laid including kutcha roads, BT roads and CC roads,” said ITDA Project Officer R. Gopalakrishna. The PO said that with the help of Tahsildars, MPDOs, and division-level officers, they were able to collect data on the habitations. Data related to demography, road connectivity, drinking water supply, electricity supply, and housing, education, health, animal husbandry, mobile/internet connectivity, transport, post offices, and banking services were collected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-sets-2025-deadline-for-full-road-connectivity-in-agency/article37224628.ece
29 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two unidentified bodies retrieved from Yeleru canal||The bodies of two male persons were found floating in the Yeleru canal near Lingampeta village under Nathavaram mandal, late on Thursday evening. Police are yet to identify the deceased. Sub-Inspector of Nathavaram police station, D. Sekharam, said that the deceased persons might be around 35 to 40 years of age. The bodies might have been in the water for the last 10 to 15 days. While one body was completely decomposed, another was partially decomposed, he said. The bodies were shifted to Narsipatnam area hospital for post-mortem. They will be preserved for 72 hours in order to wait for any relatives of the persons to come forward to claim them. “The area where the bodies were found is close to East Godavari district. So, we have informed the police of that district also,” he said. Nathavaram police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-unidentified-bodies-retrieved-from-yeleru-canal/article37224627.ece
29 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Experts clear the air on dumping activity||With controversy raging over the dumping of quarried material from Rushikonda along the beach road, experts say there is nothing wrong in doing so as acts as a barrier for soil erosion. Ever since the material is being dumped, many have raised concerns that the red mud filled with boulders and stones will interact with the beach sand and pollute its geomorphology. “From a distance, it may look so, but actually the material is being dumped behind the dune area of the beach. If it is dumped on the front side of the dunes, then there is a possibility of the material mixing with the sand,” said D. Rajasekhar Reddy, convener of INTACH, who had earlier worked as geological scientist for the GSI and as professor in the Department of Geology, Andhra University. “All beaches are divided into regions such as foreshore that falls under low tide belt, the berm or the high tide region, the back shore and the dune area. Any material dumped behind the dune area is safe, and if pitched up, it can act as a safeguard for soil erosion and also as protective barrier during storm surge,” Prof. Reddy said. When the authorities concerned were asked why the material was being dumped, they said it was being dumped as a filling material for the proposed six-lane beach road to Bhogapuram. However, environmentalists are sceptical, and have questioned the scientific definition of a beach. “Our beach stretches are very narrow, and the reach of the water even during low tide is barely a few metres from the road at some spots. In such a case, the definition should be looked differently,” said Sohan Hattangadi, an environmentalist.  The dumping of material quarried from Rushikonda along the Beach Road acts as a barrier for soil erosion D. Rajasekhar Reddy INTACH convener||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/experts-clear-the-air-on-dumping-activity/article37224493.ece
29 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pregnant teenager killed, boyfriend on the run||The body of a 19-year-old girl was found on the outskirts of a remote tribal hamlet Boorja under Hukumpeta police station limits in the Agency on Wednesday. The girl, who was pregnant at the time of her death, is believed to have been strangled by her boyfriend some four days ago. The girl went missing from her home on Saturday evening and is believed to have been killed by her boyfriend the same day. However, the incident came to light late on Wednesday after the girl’s family lodged a police complaint. Hukumpeta police station Sub-Inspector K. Papi Naidu said that the accused, identified as S. Anand (26), and the girl were in a relationship for the past seven years. The girl had recently become pregnant. After finding out about the pregnancy, the girl’s family approached the village heads, who directed Anand to marry the girl. However, Anand refused to do so. On Saturday evening, Anand took the girl to an isolated place on the outskirts of the tribal hamlet, where he is suspected to have strangled her to death, Mr. Papi Naidu said. The girl was five months pregnant, he said. The girl’s family had lodged a complaint with us at around 11.30 p.m. on Wednesday. The accused is absconding and is yet to be arrested. A post-mortem was conducted on Thursday and a hunt is on to nab the accused, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pregnant-teenager-killed-boyfriend-on-the-run/article37224631.ece
29 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 arrested for five property offences in city||The city police arrested 11 persons who were allegedly involved in five different property offences, here in the city on Thursday. Police recovered stolen property worth nearly Rs. 20 lakh from them. In one case, police arrested four persons for allegedly stealing 1,695 kg of aluminium shuttering boards worth Rs. 2.20 lakh at Mangalapalem area under Duvvada police station limits, on October 1. In another case, K. Sekhar Naidu (27) was arrested for allegedly stealing a lorry near Pinagadi under Pendurthy police station limits. The lorry worth Rs. 15 lakh was recovered from the accused. K. Premchand (21) was arrested for committing theft of a handbag containing valuables worth Rs. 30,000 in One Town. Police also arrested three persons who committed theft of four copper plates worth Rs. 1.02 lakh from a shop at Autonagar under Gajuwaka police station limits on October 27. Meanwhile, in another case reported from Gajuwaka area, two persons were arrested for stealing four amplifiers worth Rs. 1.5 lakh by gaining entry into a locked shop on BC Road on October 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-arrested-for-five-property-offences-in-city/article37224630.ece
29 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘ends life’ at Kommadi||A 22-year-old married woman ended her life by allegedly jumping from the fifth floor of a building at Kommadi in Visakhapatnam city on Thursday. The deceased was identified as A. Aruna (22), a resident of Kommadi. Station House Officer of PM Palem Police Station, Ravi Kumar, said that the woman was living with her parents at an apartment, where her father worked as a watchman. Police learnt that the woman had separated from her husband over family disputes. The family members of the woman reportedly told police that she was suffering from health issues. Police are yet to come to a conclusion regarding the case. A case was registered and the body sent for a post-mortem. People suffering from depression or struggling with suicidal tendencies are urged to call 100 helpline for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-ends-life-at-kommadi/article37224632.ece
29 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||FDNA decries proposal by govt. on aided schools||Members of the Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) on Thursday condemned the State government’s proposal to take over aided schools. They also demanded withdrawal of the proposal immediately in order to avoid inconveniencing parents in the State. Addressing a press conference in the city on Thursday, State convener of Right to Education Forum Narava Prakasa Rao and FDNA treasurer B.B. Ganesh said that if this proposal goes through, there would be no difference between private schools and schools without government aid. They also sensed the possibility of an increase in fee structure, which could prove to be a burden on parents. They also said that once the aided schools are closed, many parents would shift to government schools. Do the State government schools have all the facilities and accommodation to handle further admissions, they asked, and stated that parents were already facing financial and mental stress due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fdna-decries-proposal-by-govt-on-aided-schools/article37224634.ece
29 October 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIM-V launches course for HPCL employees||A five-month long Professional Programme in Human Resource Management (PPHRM) for officers of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) began at the Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam (IIM-V) on October 28.  “It is important for an HR professional to inculcate the three basic components such as empathy, ethical governance and analytical skills to develop the right HR attitude,” Suresh Shetty, Executive Director-Employee Relations of HPCL, said while addressing the virtual gathering during the inaugural. Abhishek Datta, Executive Director, HR (HPCL), said, “Strategy may define directions, but culture will be the basic habitat for attaining any goal in an organisation.” He added that it was the just the beginning of the many collaborative initiatives that IIMV and HPCL would together embark on.  The programme would be held virtually, with the last phase dealing with project presentations being conducted on the campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iim-v-launches-course-for-hpcl-employees/article37224635.ece
29 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No grounds for FIR in TDP office ‘ransack’ case: police||Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha said that no arrests were made nor any First Information Report (FIR) lodged in a recent incident where some women said to be affiliated to the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) ransacked the TDP office near Daspalla Hills. Addressing reporters in the city on Thursday, Mr. Sinha said that no violence was committed, nor any damage done to the office premises nor any section of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) violated. He added that people belonging to one party entering the office compound of another party is not an offence. “Entering someone’s compound when it is open is not an offence at all. When the actual problem started, our police team reached the spot, separated the parties and sent them out. The city police will take measures to ensure such incidents do not recur,” he told reporters. Speaking on the issue of ganja smuggling, Mr Sinha said that the menace is not new to Visakhapatnam district. He said that apart from arresting ganja smugglers, the police have also come up with counselling programmes to bring about a change in them. He said that till date, the city police had counselled 229 youth. Firecrackers With Deepavali approaching fast, Mr. Sinha said that he has instructed the Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACPs) to allow permissions to fireworks traders who have obtained all the necessary clearances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-grounds-for-fir-in-tdp-office-ransack-case-police/article37224633.ece
29 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nagavamsam community seeks BC-A status||Nagavamsam Samkshema Sangham president and YSRCP leader Avanapu Vikram on Thursday urged the AP Backward Classes Commission to include their community in BC-A category since present BC-D status was not helping anyone to get reservation facility with heavy competition in the category. Along with association senior leaders Kalla Gowri Sankar, Avanapu Vijay and DCMS chairperson Avanapu Bhavana, he explained the grievances of the community and sought a field-level study of the socio-economic condition of Nagavamsam community people. A.P. Nagavamsam Corporation chairman Boddu Appala Kondamma told the media that a detailed report explaining the pathetic economic condition and lack of job opportunities had been submitted to the commission which conducted a public hearing at the Collector office. The commission chairman A. Sankar Narayana and the members visited a few places to know the socio-economic conditions of Gowda and other castes in the town. They asked the officials to implement the government welfare schemes in letter and spirit to uplift the downtrodden and backward sections. Earlier, Collector A. Suryakumari felicitated Justice Sankar Narayana and the members in the Collector office after completion of the second day review in the district headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nagavamsam-community-seeks-bc-a-status/article37224520.ece
29 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 140 cr. disbursed under various schemes at bankers’ outreach event||Collector A. Suryakumari on Thursday asked bankers to provide loans to eligible persons in an easy manner so that more people could take up self-employment projects and also provide livelihood for some others through their activities. The State Bank of India, the lead bank in the district, organised a public outreach programme here. Nearly 25 banks established their stalls for the promotion of their products apart from providing information about loan facility for both Union and State government schemes. Several self-help groups displayed their products at the event. The Collector said on the occasion that bankers’ support was essential for the effective implementation of welfare programmes. SBI Deputy General Managers A. Venkata Ramayya (Amaravati) and Manmaya Pandab (Visakhapatnam) assured the Collector that the bank had been directing all branch managers to give priority to government welfare schemes. SBI Regional Manager, Vizianagaram D. Raja Rama Mohana Rao said that loans to the tune of Rs. 139.52 crore had been disbursed under various schemes. NABARD District Development Manager P. Harish said that self-employment schemes were being promoted in rural areas. APGVB Regional Manager T.G. Nageswara Rao and managers K. Krishna Naik and D. Sriram Patnaik told the media that Rs. 80 crore worth of loans were sanctioned as part of the programme. Union Bank of India DGM P. Krishnaiah, District Cooperative Central Bank CEO K. Janardhan, Axis Bank manager E.V. Hemanth Kumar, HDFC branch manager (Ring Road) K.V.Sai Kumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-140-cr-disbursed-under-various-schemes-at-bankers-outreach-event/article37224519.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cabinet gives its approval for caste census||The Cabinet approved an MoU with Solar Energy Corporation of India to procure 700 MW power at a tariff of Rs. 2.49 per unit for 25 years, to supply nine-hour day time free power to the farming community on a sustainable basis. Mr. Venkataramaiah said the Cabinet okayed allotment of 15 acres to Sri Sarada Peetham at Kottavalasa village in Bheemunipatnam mandal of Visakhapatnam district and 17.79 acres to Jaya Lakshmi Narasimha Sastry Gunduluru Trust at Bommaparthi village in Raptadu mandal of Anantapur district. It also approved exchange of government land in Nagari constituency for an area hospital. It cleared alienation of 50 acres to Silver Jubilee College at Dinnedevarapadu in Kurnool district and seven acres to the Education Department for setting up a Kendriya Vidyalaya in Nuzvid of Krishna district and transfer the rights to manage all Vasavi Kanyaka Parameswari Choultries/ Anna Satrams to the Arya Vysya community from the Endowments Department. The Cabinet decided to allot land for setting up luxury resorts at five locations in the State for development of tourism sector. Land would be allotted for development of a mega spiritual centre and tourist base camp at the foothill of Sri Yadagiri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Penukonda. A tourism project at Shilparamam in Vishakhapatnam, another tourism project at Taj Varun Beach in Visakhapatnam and Hyatt Palace in Vijayawada had been approved. Administrative sanction had been given for the construction of a fishing harbour at Vodarevu in Prakasam district and 130 acres of land to Adani Enterprises in Madhurawada has been cleared for setting up a data center park, business park, skill university and a recreation center.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cabinet-gives-its-approval-for-caste-census/article37224486.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lurking danger||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lurking-danger/article37224515.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fiery show||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fiery-show/article37224637.ece
29 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Festival brings no light to diya makers||Makers of diyas (earthen lamps) do not have much to celebrate on the occasion of Deepavali, the festival of lights, this year, as scarcity of clay has hit them hard. Exponentially rising prices of clay and transport, pandemic induced economic crisis, loss of employment, and lack of demand for locally-made diyas have become major challenges in survival of the traditional potters. Non-availability of clay is a significant crisis when it comes to delivery of Deepavali merchandise. Freely available from lakes and ponds earlier, the clay is now a prized commodity. “We paid around Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 6,000 per truck load of clay two years ago. Now, the same load costs anywhere between Rs. 16,000 and Rs. 18,000. Earlier, we paid only after delivery, but now, we are being asked to transfer the advance online. Soaring diesel prices too, add to the cost,” shared Ch. Sridhar, a diya maker from Kummarwadi of Tappachabutra. After losing his job as a back end executive in an online bike aggregator firm, it has not been an easy task for Sridhar to make both ends meet. He had to completely depend on his traditional vocation, where survival has become a question mark now. “Clay shortage has existed at least for the past six months. We usually procure raw material during summer months when the clay in the ponds is exposed. COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown restrictions had made it impossible then. Now, after monsoons, the water bodies are full, and the villagers and sarpanches are objecting for digging up the clay,” shared M. Anjaneyulu alias Babu, another potter from Amberpet, who also lost his job as a collection agent of a private bank. Cases are being booked and penalties being imposed against truck drivers for trying to procure clay from ponds. A truckload of clay lasts two months if the pottery items are large such as water pitchers, and three to four months if the items are small such as diyas. “It has been a parade of misfortunes for the past two years. Usually I deliver orders for about a lakh diyas every year. Last year was a zero year in terms of business due to the pandemic. This year, I had to cancel about 40% orders due to heavy rains in September and October, and fulfilled 40% more by procuring the diyas from outside, to fulfil regular commitments,” rued Sridhar. Selling the products is no cakewalk either. Buyers, who are equally hit by the pandemic and inflation, are reluctant to shell out the additional price on each diya. Competition from fancy diyas dumped from other states such as Rajasthan is not making it any easier. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is helping all communities dependent on traditional vocations. We seek his support in our survival too. Subsidised machinery and provision of clay would go a long way in ensuring our livelihood,” says Anjaneyulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/festival-brings-no-light-to-diya-makers/article37224297.ece
29 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fuel price hike leading citizens to rework monthly budgets||Unrelenting fuel price rise in Hyderabad has forced citizens to rework budgets and cut down on expenses. On Thursday, the sixth day in 10 days of price hike, petrol retailed at Rs. 112.66 paise in the city. A day earlier it was Rs. 112.29. “Do something so that this price spiral stops,” said a motor mechanic filling up fuel at an outlet in Rethi Bowli area. “I am spending nearly Rs. 200 more per day. Two months earlier, I used to fill diesel for Rs. 400 and by the end of the day my earnings would be Rs. 1,200. But now, I spend Rs. 600 on diesel and my earnings are the same,” said Lakshmi Sagar, who lives in the Aramghar area and drives a hired autorickshaw for living. Workers in the high mobility gig economy have been the worst-affected due to the fuel price hike. “This is a back-breaking price hike. Three months back, I used to spend Rs. 15,000 per month on diesel. Now, I am spending Rs. 22,000. Many families had to change houses due to the dip in earnings,” says Shaik Salauddin, who drives a diesel cab for living. “None of the online platforms have increased the base price to match with the fuel price rise. The companies make the same money but our take home has declined,” he says. Motorists get to see new price every day. Over the past 28 days in October, diesel prices have surged by 7.04% and petrol prices have surged by 5.89% in Hyderabad. “When petrol was Rs. 70, we got Rs. 6/km. Now, petrol is Rs. 110, still we are getting Rs. 6/km. Is this fair? Please increase the payout,” tweeted a food delivery executive. “Earlier, we used to spend Rs. 250-300 per day. Now, Rs. 400-500. When fuel prices were low we used to get return orders to our zones but now no return orders affecting our earnings. Instead of compensating for the price hike, Swiggy is giving us 10% extra on daily incentives, which is useless,” he says. For the record, petrol was Rs. 72.93 in 2017, and Rs. 82 in 2018. It breached the Rs. 100 mark on June 14, 2021, and has been on an upswing since then. “The price at fuel outlets changes at 6 a.m. when we get the notifications. Pre-pandemic, we used to sell 11,000 litres of fuel per day. Now, we sell 8,000 litres,” says the owner of an Indian Oil fuel outlet in Somajiguda. Out of the Rs. 112.66 price, the Telangana government gets Rs. 29.33 as VAT. A major chunk of the taxes on fuel goes to the Centre. “Out of Rs. 32.90 central excise duty, Rs. 31.50 is collected in the form of cess and surcharges, which is not shared with states. Only Rs. 1.40 goes into divisible pool out of which 41% is shared with all states,” informs Rakesh Dubbudu, based on information from Petroleum Planning & Analysis Cell as well as Finance Commission recommendations. The cess collected by Centre includes Special Additional Excise Duty (SAED), Additional Excise Duty (Road & Infrastructure) (AED), and Agriculture & Infrastructure Development Cess (AIDC) per litre. The last cess was introduced in the 21-22 budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fuel-price-hike-leading-citizens-to-rework-monthly-budgets/article37224319.ece
29 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Land prices on Hyderabad-Chevella highway spiral, complain residents||Land prices have shot up on either side of the highway that connects Hyderabad to Chevella and beyond as the two-lane road is set to be turned into a 4-lane one. Land which used to cost Rs. 40-60 lakh an acre is now being bought and sold for Rs. 2.5-3 crore. “You want to buy this land? I have 1.10 acres. Part of it will go for road-widening. The rest will be prime property,” said Kintaiah, who is set to harvest a modest crop of ridge gourd in Bastapur village. “That plot of land which does not have direct access to the main road was sold for Rs. 2.6 crore to a lawyer from Hyderabad. Other deals are also taking place along the road,” said Kintaiah pointing to a plot of land parallel to the road. The Mandal Registration Offices in Chevella and Moinabad are busy places with hushed whispers and gossip. The amount of money changing hands never becomes clear as the government valuation of the land hovers around Rs. 5 lakh. “Land prices are going up here as the GO 111 regulation doesn’t apply and it does not come under the Kandlapally Reserve Forest. But the 4-lane road and plan for Regional Ring Road are also factors for the boom in land rates,” says Bharat Singareddy, who owns land in Pudur village. Some of the villages that are covered by the GO 111 regulations in the area include: Yenkapally, Aziznagar, Surgangal, Kenkamadi, Mudimyal among others. Land deals have reached a stage where any person stopping on the road is being asked about interest in land purchases. At a bakery, on the same stretch of road, the owner steps out and points in a general direction beside the road and quotes a rate that is also in crores. “The ring road is coming there. Many people are coming here to invest in land. Doctors are the biggest buyers,” says the bakery owner. Adding to the speculation is the proposed 340-kilometre Hyderabad Regional Ring Road that is expected to intersect with NH-163 at Changomul village. The NHAI proposal for RRR involves a 4-lane access controlled road connecting the towns of Toopran, Choutuppal, Amangal, Shankarpally and Sangareddy and has the potential to transform the economies of these places. While the land is being bought and sold at unheard of prices, land owners whose land will be acquired for the road project are expecting a compensation of Rs. 12.5 lakh per acre. What about the 1,000 banyan trees that will get cut for laying the road? “The trees are part of the land. So many trees have been cut. These will also get cut,” says a farmer who is planning to dispose of his land and move to another village.  Land prices are going up here as the GO 111 regulation doesn’t apply and it does not come under the Kandlapally Reserve Forest. But the 4-lane road and plan for RRR are also factors for the boom in land rates. Bharat Singareddy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/land-prices-on-hyderabad-chevella-highway-spiral-complain-residents/article37224308.ece
29 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC provides Rs. 98.15 crore loan to self-help groups||GHMC has provided a total of Rs. 98.15 crore loans to 1,735 women’s self-help groups by way of bank linkages during the current financial year. Since 2014-15, the amount disbursed to women’s SHGs through bank linkages works out to Rs. 2,269.37 crore, as financial assistance to 68,894 women, a statement from GHMC informed. GHMC has more than 42,000 SHGs, with 4,21,650 members, with 219 more groups started in the current year. Besides, GHMC has provided Rs. 75.5 lakh financial assistance to 39 SHGs of physically disabled women through its ‘Vikasam’ scheme. So far, a total of Rs. 13.23 crore assistance has been given to persons with disabilities from below poverty line, from 887 SHGs, through Vikasam, the note said. Apart from micro financing, loans are also being provided under the self-employment schemes. In the current year, the target for such loans has been fixed at Rs. 5.48 crore, to 957 deserving candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-provides-rs-9815-crore-loan-to-self-help-groups/article37224328.ece
29 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Optimus Group completes phase 3 trial of anti-COVID drug||Optimus Group based in Telangana has announced the successful completion of the much-awaited Molnupiravir oral capsule phase 3 clinical trial on Thursday. On May 18, the firm had received approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to conduct the trial as per the recommendations of the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The pharmaceutical company was the first to file for phase 3 clinical trial of Molnupiravir with the Central Licensing Authority. The clinical trial partner of Optimus, JSS Research, was tasked with the execution of the trial at the grass-root level. With 29 study sites across the country, roughly covering 96% of the nation’s demographic capital, the trial not only aims to prove the superiority of Molnupiravir over the standard treatment options but also prove the drug’s efficacy across India’s gene pool diversity, said a press release. In order to cater to the unmet medical needs of the nation for a front-end cure to SARS-CoV-2 infection, Optimus is well prepared to ensure manufacturing and distribution of Molnupiravir efficiently and effectively. “With an indigenously developed formulation, Optimus strives to establish its belief in the Make in India initiative of the government. Our aim is to develop a cutting-edge and affordable treatment option for COVID-19 and neutralise the disease in minimum treatment duration. We are fully committed to supporting our business partners across various regions of the world who are counting on us for the supply of Molnupiravir,” said chairman and managing director (CMD) D. Srinivas Reddy. Optimus submitted the final clinical trial report which highlighted promising results: At study Day 5, 78.4% of patients in the treatment group were recorded RT-PCR negative compared to 48.2% in the placebo group. At study Day 10, 91.5% patients in the treatment group were recorded RT-PCR negative compared to 43% in the placebo group. “These results are not only a new hope to neutralise COVID but also reinforce our belief in the CLA to ensure a fair and legitimate trial and provide the necessary support for a self-reliant pharmaceutical industry. CDSCO has emerged as a reliable licensing authority in Asia promoting innovation and strict regulatory and quality compliance in the pharmaceutical industry,” the CMD added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/optimus-group-completes-phase-3-trial-of-anti-covid-drug/article37224314.ece
29 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AI, Data Engineering solutions firm to hire 200 by March||Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Data Engineering solutions consultancy Affine has opened a branch in Hyderabad and plans to hire 200 employees for the facility by March. Talent availability in Hyderabad was one of the key factors behind the Bengaluru-headquartered firm’s decision to expand footprint here, CEO and co-founder Manas Agrawal said during a virtual media interaction. The company will be specifically focusing on AI and cloud engineering skills during the hiring, he added. Stating that Hyderabad is poised to be one of the largest centres for the firm, which also has an office in Seattle, U.S., he said the plan is to increase the headcount to 350-400 here by December 2022. Go-to destination “Hyderabad is big on Industry 4.0. It has emerged as the go-to destination for all tech companies,” Mr.Agrawal said, adding many of the firm’s US clients have offices here. “This city has a lot of potential for growth and development. Our engineers in R&D will work on some of the most innovative products and solutions for customers worldwide, focusing on engineering as a horizontal skill and BFSI and manufacturing as vertical skills.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ai-data-engineering-solutions-firm-to-hire-200-by-march/article37224526.ece
29 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC dismisses PIL pleas over ECI’s order on Dalit Bandhu||Telangana High Court on Thursday dismissed a batch of PIL petitions seeking to set aside the Election Commission of India’s direction deferring implementation of Dalit Bandhu scheme in Huzurabad till completion of the bypoll. Huzurabad bypoll is being held on Saturday. Huzurabad sitting MLA Eatala Rajender, who won the seat in December 2018, resigned as MLA more than four months ago after he was dropped from the Council of Ministers by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. By-election in Huzurabad became inevitable with Mr. Rajender’s resignation. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister announced Dalit Bandhu scheme (offering Rs. 10 lakh financial assistance to each dalit family in the State) and formally launched it in Huzurabad Assembly constituency on August 16. The ECI issued bypoll notification on October 1. While TRS party claimed that Dalit Bandhu was purely for the uplift of dalits, other political parties dubbed it as political gimmick to woo dalit voters. When the bypoll campaign was in full swing, the ECI passed a direction deferring implementation of Dalit Bandhu scheme in Huzurabad till completion of the bypoll. This triggered a blame game by different political parties over who was responsible for the ECI’s order. Meanwhile, three PIL petitions were filed in the HC over the ECI instruction. While two petitioners wanted the court to set aside the deferment of Dalit Bandhu scheme implementation, another petitioner sought a specific direction to stop the scheme’s implementation contending that it would influence the voters. After hearing contentions of the counsels of the three petitioners, a bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy reserved orders in the matter. The bench pronounced the order on Thursday dismissing all the three petitions. The bench also dismissed two writ petitions filed by two police officers Vasam Surender (Deputy Superintendent of Police) and K. Narsimha Reddy (Inspector) seeking an order stay their examination as witnesses by the Inquiry Commission constituted over Disha encounter by the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-dismisses-pil-pleas-over-ecis-order-on-dalit-bandhu/article37224528.ece
29 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Traffic restrictions due to ROB/RUB works||In view of the construction of grade separators (ROB/RUB) at LC No. 7 of Secunderabad – Falaknuma – Shivarampally – Railway line at Shastripuram of Rajendranagar, the Cyberabad traffic police on Wednesday issued a traffic advisory for 180 days starting from November 1. The works are likely to be commenced on April 30, 2022. DCP (Traffic) Vijay Kumar SM said that entry of vehicular traffic is restricted from Vattepally route - Mehmooda Hotel to Mehfil Hotel, Mailardevpally junction and the following alternative routes for vehicular traffic has been made to facilitate the above works. Alternative Route 1: Mailardevpally – Aramghar crossroad – Shastripuram main road – Vattepally road. Alternative Route 2: Vattepally road – Shastripuram road – Shivarampally Railway road – Mailardevpally. Alternative Route 3: Vattepally road – Engine Bowli crossroad – Falaknuma road – Chandrayangutta – Mailardevpally. Alternative Route 4: Mailardevpally – Aramghar crossroad – Shastripuram main road – Tadban junction – Kala Patthar road – Shamsheer Gung junction – Engine Bowli crossroad – Vattepally road. “Public are requested to co-operate with the work executing agency and the traffic police,” Mr.Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-restrictions-due-to-robrub-works/article37224322.ece
29 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS records 171 more cases||The GHMC continues to contribute a major chunk of COVID positive cases from the declining daily tally as 171 cases and one death were reported in Telangana on Thursday. According to the bulletin, GHMC area reported 58 cases followed by Karimnagar, Rangareddy and Hanmakonda with 13 each, Medchal-Malkajigiri 11, Jagityal, Khammam and Sangareddy six each, Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Peddapalli five each. No cases were reported from Adilabad, Jangaon, Jayashankar-Bhupalapally, and Jogulamba-Gadwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-records-171-more-cases/article37224309.ece
29 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR invites missile firm to explore opportunities||IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao, who is in France with a delegation of officials, met CEOs and industry leaders in Paris on Thursday, including the senior leadership of missiles and missile systems maker MBDA. During the meeting with MBDA’s top management team, comprising directors Boris Solomiac, Pol Neil Le Livec and senior vice-president Asia and India Jean-Marc Peyraud, the Minister urged the firm to explore collaboration opportunities for manufacturing in Telangana, Mr. Rao’s office said in a release. In other engagements, Mr. Rao met Aerocampus Aquitaine sales director Xavier Audion. Air Attaché at the Indian Embassy in France Air Commodore Hilal Ahmad was present during the meeting. Also, Mr. Rao met Cosmetic Valley’s deputy CEO-in-charge International Strategy Franckie Béchereau and discussed opportunities to manufacture cosmetics in Telangana. Cosmetic Valley is a cluster of about 800 companies, creating approximately 70,000 jobs and Euro 11 billion in revenue; has seven universities, 136 colleges, 200 research laboratories for 8,600 researchers, and 100 research projects, the release said. In a meeting with the Ambassador of India Jawed Ashraf, the Minister gave an overview of the various initiatives of the Telangana government to attract investments. He also highlighted the priority sectors into which the State is soliciting investments from French companies. Industries and IT secretary Jayesh Ranjan, Aerospace and Defence director Praveen and digital media director Dileep Konatham were present during the meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-invites-missile-firm-to-explore-opportunities/article37224311.ece
29 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stop giving extensions to retired bureaucrats: FGG||The Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has requested the State government to dispense with the system of appointing retired bureaucrats as advisors and chief advisors with ‘fabulous salaries’ and supporting staff as it is nothing but squandering public money. Steps should be taken to stop giving extensions and reappointments to retired officers and the government should provide employment to unemployed youth in their place. Forum secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy lamented that the government was spending close to a crore on each of these advisors and their supporting staff every year. In a memorandum submitted to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, he said that barring some exceptions, senior bureaucrats were dancing to the tunes of politicians, in violation of rules and regulations, in the hope of getting post retirement appointments. Appointment of retired officials was giving a wrong signal to those working that they should be amicable to the party in power if they wanted appointments post retirement. “Moreover, the advisors are sitting beside the Chief Secretary and other senior officials during meetings as if they will render on-the-spot service. This is nothing but doubting the capacity of in service officials. After formation of Telangana, most of the chief secretaries and directors general of police are appointed as advisors, which speak volumes of their working a decision making while in service,” Mr. Reddy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stop-giving-extensions-to-retired-bureaucrats-fgg/article37224316.ece
29 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Social welfare students get ranks in IITs/NITs||About 85 social welfare residential students secured admission in the IITs and 49 students in NITs in the first round of seat allocation this year, while 12 students bagged seats in Central Government Funded Technical Institutions (GFTIs) and seven students in IIITs. The list of successful students included sons and daughters of farm labourers, daily-wage workers, auto drivers, security guards, drivers, tea-sellers, mechanics, vendors, vegetable sellers, etc. Minister for Scheduled Caste Development Department, Koppula Eshwar, congratulated the students and teachers. TSWREIS Secretary Ronald Rose said “Teachers deserve a lot of praise for their devotion and nurturing the dreams of a better future for less privileged students.. TSWREIS has been offering top-class coaching classes on a par with noted private coaching institutions to prepare its students for IITs and NITs.” He further noted that, number of students securing seats in IITs/NITs have been witnessing a significant increase year after year. In 2020, 84 students made it to IITs/NITs, while in 2021, 134 students secured seats, “a remarkable achievement in itself”, said a press release on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/social-welfare-students-get-ranks-in-iitsnits/article37224324.ece
29 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Student attacked by relative||A 21-year-old architecture student was attacked by her distant relative at Vattinagulapally under Gachibowli police station here in the wee hours of Thursday. Police said that around 1.30 a.m. the accused Prem Singh (21), an engineering dropout, sneaked into the house of the victim when everyone was fast asleep and attacked her with a knife while she was in the study room. “The girl tried to resist, he inflicted knife injuries on her leg and hand. She started shouting, as a result her parents entered the room, caught Prem and alerted the neighbours, who in turn roughed him up before handing him to the police,” an officer said. While the girl was rushed to Continental Hospital, Prem was taken to KIMS Hospital for immediate medical assistance. According to the police, Prem and the girl were distant relatives and were in contact. “Recently Prem felt that he was being avoided by the girl as she learnt about his intentions; he forcefully entered the house and attacked her,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/student-attacked-by-relative/article37224326.ece
29 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bio-agri conference begins||BIO AGRI-2021, a biological agriculture conference that began in the city on Thursday with the participation of over 150 delegates from India and abroad, deliberated, among others, transformation of India’s food production Systems. The two-day conference was organised by Bio Agri Input Producers Association (BIPA), which is created to promote biological agriculture in India.. The 2020 World Food Prize laureate Rattan Lal delivered keynote address virtually from the US. He spoke on Indian Cropping System and healthy soil which he said, was equal to a healthy diet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bio-agri-conference-begins/article37224327.ece
29 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGRI, GSI join hands for offshore exploration||The National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) here and Marine and Coastal Survey Division (MCSD) of the Geological Survey of India (GSI) in Mangalore have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for collaboration in the field of natural resource exploration in the Andaman Offshore region on Thursday. GSI has been carrying out seismic surveys on selected parts of the continental shelf, rise and convergent margin in order to unearth submarine structures and associated mineral resources on the EEZ of India by utilising the multi-channel seismic data acquisition system along with other geoscientific equipment onboard Research Vehicle Samudra Ratnakar. NGRI scientists have proven expertise in marine seismic studies with a record of technique development. These efforts are aimed at bringing synergy between the two institutes and to work in tune with the blue economy model of the country. Within the framework of this MoU, NGRI would be carrying out advanced processing of the seismic data acquired by GSI in order to precisely identify the subtle seismic features and delineate the fine-scale velocity structure in the region, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ngri-gsi-join-hands-for-offshore-exploration/article37224312.ece
29 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BDL holds Gram Sabha||Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) organised a Gram Sabha at Bhanur village in Sangareddy district on Thursday, where its chief vigilance officer Upender Vennam administered the ‘Integrity Pledge’ to about 200 persons explaining the menace of corruption and benefits of transparency, accountability and integrity in one’s life. Posters depicting information on PIDPI (Public Interest Disclosure & Protection of Informers) in Telugu were displayed to spread awareness in the village. A skit, delivering a message on the ill-effects of corruption, was also organised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bdl-holds-gram-sabha/article37224315.ece
29 October 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Bodies of three missing women found floating||The bodies of two married women and a 17-year-old minor girl of Gandhinagar in Jagtial town, who went missing at Dharmasamudram cheruvu on Wednesday, were found floating in a rivulet on the outskirts of the town on Thursday. The deceased, including two women aged around 20 years and the minor girl, an Intermediate student, hailed from same locality in Jagtial. Police suspect it to be a case of suicide pact. Health issues Police sources said that the two married women resorted to the “drastic step” due to some health issues. However, the motive behind the minor girl’s “suicide” could not be ascertained immediately. A detailed investigation is underway to find out the exact reason behind their “extreme step,” police said. Roshini - Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bodies-of-three-missing-women-found-floating/article37224531.ece
29 October 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Several stray dogs ‘poisoned’ and buried||Taking cognisance of allegations of killing some street dogs by administering poisonous injections, Arvind Kumar, Secretary, Municipal Administration, has called for a report immediately. Additional Collector, Local Bodies, Pratima Singh submitted a report to the Secretary in this regard on Thursday. According to sources, large number of street dogs were killed and buried in a ground in Narsapur municipal limits. The incident took place few days ago and came to light on Thursday. Peoples for Animals representatives Pruthvi and Goutam lodged a complaint alleging that municipal officials were responsible for the incident. Police registered a case. Carcasses of animals were dug and post-mortem was conducted by the officials of animal husbandry. It was alleged that more than 200 dogs were killed. “The ground was dug, samples were collected from the carcasses and sent to forensic lab. To my knowledge it was stated that about 150 carcasses were there,” said an official from animal husbandry department on condition of anonymity. Confirming the incident, Narsapur police said that they had received a complaint and large number of carcasses were found buried in the ground. “The municipal officials were in no way connected with the incident. On the day of Dasara, a rabid dog bit some persons and dogs. Locals killed these dogs and buried them. We do not know who killed such a large number of dogs,” said the Municipal Commissioner in a video being circulated on social media. When contacted, Ms. Pratima Singh said that she was asked to submit a report immediately and the report was submitted to the Secretary. Municipal Commissioner Ashrith Kumar was suspended pending enquiry and orders were issued by the Commissioner and Director N. Satyanarayana on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/several-stray-dogs-poisoned-and-buried/article37224530.ece
29 October 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nalgonda SP condemns YSRCP statements||Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath condemned the statements made by YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijayasai Reddy, for attributing closeness to former AP Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and the Telugu Desam Party, in the backdrop of Nalgonda police’s ‘Operation Ganja in AOB’ last fortnight. “Also, that Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Karnataka police departments raided the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) region at my call deserves laughter. The issue of ganja exploitation in AOB has been for nearly 15 years,” Mr. Ranganath said in an elaborate rebuttal statement on Thursday. The SP, outlining the sequence of events for Nalgonda police’s 17-team operation in Andhra Pradesh, said the State police was only following the instructions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to make Telangana, and Nalgonda in particular, ganja-free. Nalgonda, which is geographically located between Hyderabad and Andhra Pradesh, with the NH-65 running across, has been a potential source of ganja smugglers. He said 35 cases have been booked in related violations and by tracking networks and call data of the accused, the origin of ganja smuggling was traced to AOB. He said that the Operation was well in the knowledge of senior police officers of the AOB districts and added that Nalgonda officers had even escaped one attack by smugglers at Lambasingi on October 17, by firing in self-defence. Mr. Ranganath opined that Mr. Reddy’s statements were short on facts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nalgonda-sp-condemns-ysrcp-statements/article37224525.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Technology enabled||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/technology-enabled/article37224533.ece
29 October 2021||Agra,||3 Kashmiri students booked for sedition||Three Kashmiri students arrested in Agra for allegedly raising pro-Pakistan slogans were on Thursday booked for sedition, Uttar Pradesh Police officers said. The three students, two of them aged 20 and one 21, were also remanded in 14-day judicial custody by an Agra court, they said. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath earlier in the day had said the sedition law will be invoked against those celebrating Pakistan's victory against India in the recent T20 World Cup match. “The three students were arrested on Wednesday after an FIR was lodged against them at the Jagdishpura police station. They were accused of raising pro-Pakistan slogans," a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-kashmiri-students-booked-for-sedition/article37224387.ece
29 October 2021||Bhopal,||CMs Baghel, Soren go for ‘jugalbandi’ to win back tribals||With a view to strengthen their parties’ position among the tribal vote base, Chief Ministers of the two tribal-dominated States of Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand did a ‘jugalbandi’ by playing traditional musical instruments at the National Tribal Dance Festival in Raipur on Thursday. When Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren started playing the Thoddka , Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel joined him with a traditional trumpet turhi at a stall where several musical instruments of indigenous communities were on display, an official said. Both Mr. Soren and Mr . Baghel understand that tribal electorate can play an important role in government formation, local bodies and in panchayat polls in their respective States. In the 2019 Assembly elections, the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and the Congress-led alliance swept the tribal belts in Jharkhand. The alliance bagged 25 of the 28 Scheduled Tribe seats. The BJP won only two seats and a seat was won by the Jharkhand Vikas Morcha (Prajatantrik. In the 2018 Assembly polls in Chhattisgarh, tribals showed a clear shift towards the Congress party. The seats with major ST population contributed in a big way to the Congress’ sweeping victory. The party was led by the then State chief Bhupsh Baghel. It won 25 out of 29 ST reserved Assembly seats while the BJP managed only three and Ajit Jogi’s Janata Chhattisgarh Congress (J) won one. Addressing the gathering during the inaugural ceremony on the dance festival on Thursday, Mr .Soren praised the efforts of Chhattisgarh government in preserving the culture of the indigenous communities of the State. “The Chhattisgarh government is taking keen interest in protecting their (tribals) culture and is promoting them in a righteous way,” Mr. Hemant Soren said. Political churning The event took place at a time when a political churning is taking place within the tribal communities and a lot of them are talking about ‘badlav’ (change) with key political parties launching a sustained drive to capture the tribal vote bank. The five-day National Tribal Dance Festival, which will be followed by ‘Rajyotsav (Statehood) 2021’ falling on November 1, began here on Thursday. Artistes from 27 States and 6 Union Territories are taking part in the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cms-baghel-soren-go-for-jugalbandi-to-woo-tribals/article37224225.ece
29 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Three held guilty of gang rape of Rewari girl||Three persons, including an Army constable, were held guilty by a trial court in Narnaul on Thursday on charges of gang-rape of a teenage girl three years ago. Five of the accused in the case were acquitted. Pronouncing the verdict, Mona Singh, Additional District and Sessions Judge, Special Court for Crime Against Women, held the prime accused in the case — Pankaj, Manish and Nishu — guilty on charges of gang-rape, causing hurt by means of poison, and abduction. The five other accused in the case — Deendayal, Sumit, Naveen, Abhishek and Mohit — were acquitted. Deendayal, the owner of the tubewell room where the crime was committed, was accused of concealing design to commit offence, and criminal conspiracy. Sumit was also charged with concealing design to commit offence, and Naveen was arrested on charges of intentional omission to give information of an offence. Abhishek and Mohit were charged with harbouring the offender. Prosecution counsel Karan Singh Yadav, appointed at the behest of District Legal Services Authority, said the court had fixed October 29 for the quantum of sentence. Meritorious student A 19-year-old girl, a high achiever in Board exams, was abducted and gang-raped by three men belonging to her native village in Rewari. The incident took place on September 12, 2018 when the teenaged girl, a B.Sc (I) student at a government college, went to neighbouring Mahendergarh district with her father for a coaching class. The trio offered the girl a drink laced with sedatives and abducted her in a car at Kinana bus stop. The three then took her to a tubewell room in the fields in their native village and raped her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-held-guilty-of-gang-rape-of-rewari-girl/article37224393.ece
29 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||Three held guilty of gang rape of Rewari girl||Three persons, including an Army constable, were held guilty by a trial court in Narnaul on Thursday on charges of gang-rape of a teenage girl three years ago. Five of the accused in the case were acquitted. Pronouncing the verdict, Mona Singh, Additional District and Sessions Judge, Special Court for Crime Against Women, held the prime accused in the case — Pankaj, Manish and Nishu — guilty on charges of gang-rape, causing hurt by means of poison, and abduction. The five other accused in the case — Deendayal, Sumit, Naveen, Abhishek and Mohit — were acquitted. Deendayal, the owner of the tubewell room where the crime was committed, was accused of concealing design to commit offence, and criminal conspiracy. Sumit was also charged with concealing design to commit offence, and Naveen was arrested on charges of intentional omission to give information of an offence. Abhishek and Mohit were charged with harbouring the offender. Prosecution counsel Karan Singh Yadav, appointed at the behest of District Legal Services Authority, said the court had fixed October 29 for the quantum of sentence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-held-guilty-of-gang-rape-of-rewari-girl/article37224222.ece
29 October 2021||Jabalpur,||M.P. HC restrains firm from carrying out mining||The Madhya Pradesh High Court has directed a private firm not to commence any diamond mining or construction activities without its explicit permission in Buxwaha sub-division of Chhatarpur forest division in the State. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice V.K. Shukla issued the directives on Tuesday, while hearing two PILs challenging the diamond mining lease granted to the firm in 382 hectares of land under Buxwaha sub-division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mp-hc-restrains-firm-from-carrying-out-mining/article37224398.ece
29 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Candidates try to lure voters with tall promises||Locked in a keen contest at two seats in the tribal-dominated Mewar region in southern Rajasthan, the ruling Congress and Opposition BJP candidates are trying to lure voters for the Assembly by-elections, scheduled for October 30, with tall promises to bring infrastructure development, agricultural power, irrigation waters and employment opportunities. The electorate in Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad constituencies going to bypolls faces almost similar issues of lack of civic amenities, jobs, water and power supply and transport, educational and medical facilities. The people in Dhariawad also complain of defective implementation of Tribal Sub-Plan provisions. In addition to the two principal political parties, the candidates of Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP), Janata Sena, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) as well as several Independents are in the fray. The by-elections were necessitated after the death of Vallabhnagar MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and Dhariawad MLA Gautam Lal Meena earlier this year. The contestants started door-to-door contacts on Thursday after the period for election campaign and rallies ended. The party workers showed a tremendous enthusiasm in organising public meetings and rallies during the visits of leaders such as Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Pradesh Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra, BJP national general secretary Arun Singh and BJP State president Satish Poonia. Mr. Gehlot, who visited the region twice during the campaign, sprang a surprise by going to the home of deceased BJP MLA Mr. Meena in Dhariawad to condole his death before addressing a rally. He highlighted the works done by his government and affirmed that the Congress party was contesting the bypolls on the basis of its performance. BJP rebel in field While BJP rebel Udai Lal Dangi has been fielded as the RLP candidate in Vallabhnagar after he was denied ticket by his parent party, the BTP's official candidate Ganesh Meena is likely to bear the brunt of division in the tribal votes in Dhariawad because of a tribal youth, Thawarchand Damor, contesting as an independent candidate. Congress candidate Preeti Shaktawat, widow of Mr. Shaktawat, expects to get the sympathy votes in the name of her late husband, who was a loyalist of Sachin Pilot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/candidates-try-to-lure-voters-with-tall-promises/article37224389.ece
29 October 2021||Kolkata,||Temple visits key part of CM Mamata Banerjee’s Goa visit||Temple visits are going to be crucial part of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s itenerary as she arrived for a three-day tour of Goa on Thursday. The Trinamool Congress chairperson is scheduled to visit three temples on Friday. After an interactive session with members of the fishermen community, Ms. Banerjee will visit the Mangueshi Temple, followed by the Shri Mahalsa Narayani Temple and Tapobhoomi Temple. The visit to three temples in a day assumes significance as the TMC chairperson is trying to extend her party’s footprint in the western State. However, Ms. Banerjee has always visited religious places as a part of her political campaigns. During the West Bengal Assembly polls earlier this year, when she contested from Nandigram and later during the Bhabanipur bypolls, she visited temples on a daily basis during her campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/temple-visits-key-part-of-cm-mamata-banerjees-goa-visit/article37224223.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||30-ft-high Ram temple part of ‘Dilli ki Diwali’||The Delhi Government has started building a replica of Ram Mandir — the one under construction in Ayodhya — at the Thyagaraj Stadium Complex as part of its ‘Dilli ki Diwali’ celebrations. The 30-foot-high and 80-foot-wide replica is part of the stage where the Deepavali puja will be performed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on November 4, the day of the festival, an official source told The Hindu . The total height of the stage, including the lights, will be around 60 feet. “The construction work is being done as per the directions from the Deputy Chief Minister’s (Manish Sisodia) office. An event management company was selected and a work order has been issued,” the source said. There have been several references to Lord Ram by Mr. Kejriwal since the Aam Aadmi Party came back to power in Delhi last year. In March this year, the Chief Minister had said in the Delhi Assembly that he was trying to establish the model of “Ram Rajya” in the city. “All of us worship Lord Ram... He was the king of Ayodhya. During his rule, people were content as they had access to all basic facilities. This was called the ‘Ram Rajya’… We have been constantly striving to establish this model in Delhi for the last six years,” he had said. Eye on U.P. election AAP will contest the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, which is due early next year, and several senior party leaders, including Mr. Kejriwal, have visited Ayodhya in the last two months. On Wednesday, the Delhi Cabinet also took a decision to add Ayodhya to the list of pilgrimage sites. The ‘Dilli ki Diwali’ programme was started in 2019 when the city Government organised a four-day cultural event, including laser shows, at Central Park, Connaught Place. The event was organised with the aim to encourage people to not burst crackers and attend the event instead in the evenings. In 2020, a “grand puja” was performed by the Chief Minister, the Deputy Chief Minister and other AAP leaders at Akshardham Temple on November 14, the day of Deepavali, and it was telecast live on TV channels. This year, the Government is preparing to organise a live telecast of Deepavali celebrations at Thyagaraj Stadium. Advertisements for the event, in which Mr. Kejriwal invites citizens to join him remotely from their homes, have been playing out on various media, including radio and TV news channels. Preparations under way On Thursday afternoon, workers were busy at Thyagaraj Stadium, making a frame of metal pipes. “The Ram Mandir will be part of the stage. It will be built on a metal frame and will have plywood over it. The exterior of the temple will be made of thermocol,” a worker said. Work on the temple replica began on Tuesday and is expected to be completed by Sunday. One of the football goalposts at the ground has been removed, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/30-ft-high-ram-temple-part-of-dilli-ki-diwali/article37224218.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||HC warns of action against U.P. Police||The Delhi High Court on Thursday warned that it will take action against Uttar Pradesh Police for arresting and taking away two persons — the brother and father of a boy who got married to a girl against her family’s wishes — from the Capital without informing Delhi Police. Justice Mukta Gupta said that such illegal acts are not permissible and will not be tolerated here. “I will call for CCTV. I will direct departmental enquiry if I see U.P. Police arresting from Delhi. I want all CCTV footage and vehicle number. If I see U.P. Police entering, I will take action. We will not permit this. You can’t do illegal acts here,” Justice Gupta cautioned. The High Court remarked that U.P. Police personnel, who came to the Capital and took away the father and son without intimating Delhi police, “violated the law at every step” which “won’t be tolerated in Delhi”. ‘Illegal custody’ The SHO of Police Station Shamli in U.P., who was present in the court, said they were not aware if the girl was a major or a minor as her mother had not shown them any document to ascertain the age. He also claimed that the arrest was made from Kudhara Bus Stand, District Shamli in U.P. The court, however, pointed out that the FIR itself clarifies that the girl was 21-years-old. “They can file a case against you [U.P. Police] for illegal custody. The FIR says she was 21 years of age but you arrest the brother and father without ascertaining her stand. If you close your eyes and brains while working, nothing can be done. There is no solution if you and your IO [investigating officer] can’t read,” the judge remarked. “We will take action against you. She is an adult. She married of her own volition and you go on and arrest...You didn’t get to know about the girl but you got to know about the father-in-law and the brother-in-law?” the judge remarked. The High Court directed the SHO to submit in an affidavit as to how the two persons, now in judicial custody in U.P., were arrested. The court also directed that the statement of the girl be recorded before a Magistrate here either on Thursday itself or Friday. The judge also reprimanded the mother of the girl for making a complaint to threaten the boy and asked if she had disclosed the age of her daughter to the U.P. police. “This may be working in U.P., not here. Your crying will not make a difference,” the judge told the mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-warns-of-action-against-up-police/article37224221.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||Councillors in Delhi civic bodies score low on performance, says Praja report||The performance of councillors in Delhi’s three municipal corporations — North, South and East — has been on the decline in the last three years in terms of attendance in house meetings and the number of issues raised, a report card released by the NGO, Praja Foundation, said on Thursday. A majority of the 265 councillors across the BJP-led civic bodies were ranked abysmally in the report. North Delhi Municipal Corporation councillor and Delhi BJP president Adesh Kumar Gupta was ranked 80 (scoring 50.34 out of 100) and Mayor Raja Iqbal Singh was ranked 70 (scoring 53.11 out of 100). The data for the report titled ‘Delhi Councillor Report Card 2021’ was collated through RTIs and public accounts. But unlike the previous years, this year’s is a consolidated report that documented the performance of 265 municipal councillors from 2018 to 2021. The average score of councillors of the North Delhi civic body has dropped from 60.50% in 2018 to 57.92% in 2021, while that of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) councillors has dipped from 60.48% in 2018 to 56.85% in 2021. In the case of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), it has declined from 61.5% in 2018 to 54.40% in 2021. ‘Poor attendance’ “The attendance for the North Delhi corporation has come down from 78.81% in 2018 to 72.39% in 2021 and for the SDMC, it has dropped from 79.62% in 2018 to 68.79% in 2021. While the attendance for the EDMC was 82.34% in 2018, it has fallen to 69.37% in 2021,” the report said. Furthermore, the general body meetings and statutory meetings were “not fully utilised” in all three corporations. “On an average, only one ward committee meeting has been conducted monthly per zone, whereas the monthly average of general body meetings per civic body is only two during 2018-2021,” it said. Important issues The report said that there was “no improvement” in the “quality of issues raised” in the meetings. The average score on “quality of issues raised” for the North Delhi civic body has declined from 48.24 in 2018 to 46.01 in 2021. While for the SDMC, it has dipped from 47.97 in 2018 to 45.48 in 2021, for the EDMC, it has dropped from 46.77 in 2018 to 39.75 in 2021 — the lowest among the corporations. North Delhi civic body councillor Ravinder Kumar (BJP), SDMC councillor Abhishek Dutt (Congress),  and EDMC councillor Sanjay Goyal (BJP)  were ranked first in overall performance in their respective corporations. Commenting on the report, EDMC Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said he had “not seen” the scores and that he was “concerned” about the decline in performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/councillors-in-delhi-civic-bodies-score-low-on-performance-says-praja-report/article37224200.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘Less deaths during pandemic year in Delhi’||The number of deaths and births in Delhi fell during 2020, when COVID-19 hit the Capital, as compared to 2019, says the “Annual Report on Registration of Births & Deaths in Delhi-2020” of the city Government. A total of 1,42,789 deaths were registered in the city in 2020 as compared to 1,45,284 in 2019. The total number of births registered during 2020 was 3,01,645 as against 3,65,868 in 2019. The ‘Sex Ratio at Birth’ has increased to 933 females per thousand males in 2020 from 920 in 2019. The Infant Mortality Rate fell to 20.37 in 2020 from 24.12 a year ago, says the report. Lockdown effect “In Delhi, a lot of people come from other States for treatment and some of them die in hospitals. But because of lockdowns, people from other States coming to Delhi fell drastically during 2020. This could be one reason for the fall in the number of deaths,” a Delhi Government official told The Hindu . As per the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969, municipal bodies are responsible for registering every birth and death in the city and the report is a compilation of these figures. According to the report, 10.11% of total deaths happened due to COVID-19, identified and not identified, which is more than the official death figures of 2020 given by the Delhi Government. The total deaths due to COVID in 2020 were 10,536, according to the Delhi Government bulletin. But as per the report, the total deaths identified and not identified are 14,436. “Identified deaths are those which are confirmed COVID deaths. Not identified are deaths that happened outside a hospital and families are claiming them to be COVID-related,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/less-deaths-during-pandemic-year-in-delhi/article37224207.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks status report on Jamia violence cases from Delhi Police||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked Delhi Police to submit the latest position of cases relating to incidents of violence on the Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) campus in December 2019 during the student protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said the police should inform it about the status of cases that were going on in the trial court, including the number of chargesheets filed, charges framed, trial commenced, and the number of witnesses examined. As the counsel for Delhi Police sought time to gather the information, the HC posted the case for further hearing on December 23. The HC was hearing a batch of petitions, moved by lawyers, students of JMI, and residents of Okhla in south Delhi, seeking setting up of a judicial commission to look into the Jamia violence and registration of FIRs against the erring police officers. Delhi Police had earlier defended its decision to enter the campus of the university during the violence that occurred in December, saying it was done to control the “aggravated form of unlawful assembly”. The petitioners had said that there was a need for an SIT that was independent of the police and the Centre, which by their conduct had shown that their investigation into the violence was “not independent”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-seeks-status-report-on-jamia-violence-cases-from-delhi-police/article37224216.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘97% of surveyed people have antibodies against COVID-19’||As many as 97% of the 28,000 people, whose blood samples were collected in September from across the city, have developed antibodies against COVID-19, according to authorities. Blood samples of random people of different age groups were collected as part of a serological survey to check how many of them had developed antibodies against the virus. Higher in women “The survey was done in 280 wards of Delhi. At least 100 samples from each ward were collected. The government collected 28,000 samples of random people. Sero prevalence was higher in women [90.1%] as compared to men with only [88.2%] positivity. Serosurvey was conducted in all the 11 districts of the national capital and the data showed that 97% of people had antibodies against COVID-19,” Health Minister Satyendar Jain said. He said that all districts showed a value of above 95% and almost all vaccinated people had developed antibodies. The Minister said the survey showed that the population with a past history of symptomatic COVID-19 infection, irrespective of severity, had significantly higher odds of having antibodies compared to those without such history. Of the people surveyed, 95.3%, who had taken both the doses of Covishield, had developed antibodies. For Covaxin, the figure stood at 93%. Similarly, 95.6% of people who had taken one dose of Covishield had antibodies. It was 92.1% for Covaxin. What is a sero survey? Blood samples collected from across the city are tested in a lab using antibody testing kits to understand whether the person was infected by the virus and developed antibodies. A positive result would imply that the person has developed antibodies. This means that the person was infected at some point and developed immunity against the virus or has developed antibodies after vaccination. The first such survey done in the city in June-July last year had shown that 23.4% people surveyed had developed antibodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/97-of-surveyed-people-have-antibodies-against-covid-19/article37224201.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Cong. gets new executive committee ahead of civic polls||Ahead of the municipal polls early next year, the Delhi Congress on Thursday got its new executive committee. Congress national general secretary K.C. Venugopal in a press statement said party president Sonia Gandhi has approved the formation of the executive committee and appointment of office-bearers of Communications Department and Doctors Cell, chairman and vice-chairman of Booth Management Committee and Disciplinary Committee of the Delhi unit. “The 83-member executive committee has a mix of our youth power and experience of leaders. Many of our leaders and workers who served people committedly during the pandemic have been rewarded,” Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar said. The committee includes the Delhi Congress president and all the vice-presidents. The list of permanent invitees to the Executive Committee included names of senior leaders J.P. Agarwal, Ajay Maken, Kapil Sibal, Janardan Dwivedi, Arvinder Singh Lovely, Subhash Chopra. Jagdish Tytler, whose name figured in connection with the anti-Sikh riots in 1984, was also made a permanent invitee to the Executive Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-cong-gets-new-executive-committee-ahead-of-civic-polls/article37224203.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||City’s air quality likely to be ‘very poor’ today||The air quality in the city deteriorated to the higher end of the “poor” category on Thursday and is expected to worsen to the “very poor” level on Friday, official data showed. The effect of stubble burning has increased and is likely to further go up. “As predicted by SAFAR, the AQI is now forecasted to degrade to the very poor category by tomorrow (Saturday) and likely to remain so till the next day,” government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research) said in a statement. On Thursday, the contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi increased to 19% and the number of active fire counts in the region was 502. The air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 268 on Thursday, up from 232 on Wednesday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the last 24 hours and considered the day’s AQI. Chatbot The Delhi Government has launched ‘Paryavaran Saathi Chatbot’ to connect with the youth in the fight against air pollution, Environment Minister Gopal Rai said. The chatbot is an initiative with the UNICEF’s YuWaah with over 10 lakh youths already connected, of whom 50,000 are from Delhi, according to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/citys-air-quality-likely-to-be-very-poor-today/article37224214.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||DCW and police rescue four-month-old infant||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW), with the help of city police, rescued a four-month-old infant who had been sold off by her father when she was six days old, from north-west Delhi’s Jahangirpuri. DCW chief Swati Maliwal said they received a complaint on October 21 that a man had sold his newly born daughter. A team was immediately formed and the police were contacted. The mother of the girl was then approached who informed the police that she was suffering from epilepsy and when her daughter was born, her husband sold her to a woman named Madhu before abandoning her and heading to Ranchi. She also said that her husband had given away their other daughter to a distant relative and the child had died. ‘Sold’ in Panipat An FIR was lodged and subsequently Madhu was interrogated who allegedly admitted that she had sold the child to someone in Panipat, Haryana. However, the police could not trace the child there. The baby was traced to a lawyer’s house in Jahangirpuri on Tuesday. The lawyer allegedly said he had bought the child from a man named Mahesh and a woman named Meenakshi from Panipat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dcw-and-police-rescue-four-month-old-infant/article37224205.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘Phones of riots accused have private content’||A Delhi court on Thursday raised concerns over the privacy of several accused in the Delhi riots larger conspiracy case after noting that the phones of some of them had “obscene material”, which if provided to the co-accused would have an impact on their personal lives. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat was hearing an application filed by the counsels of some of the accused under Section 207 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC), which sought supply of evidence and all material relied upon by the prosecution in the case in which former JNU student Umar Khalid is among the 18 accused. Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad said that personal data contained in the mobile phones of the accused cannot be supplied to others in view of privacy concerns. For this purpose, he also showed to the court two sealed envelopes which contained photographs taken from the mobile phones. “These photographs contain nude pictures, private intimate moments, and other self-made porn videos by accused,” ASJ Rawat said in the order. SPP Prasad further said that in view of this, the same cannot be provided to anyone else. “It appears that there is a question of right to privacy of the accused and supply of any such data, as asked for, will have an impact on personal lives of accused and thus, supplying of any photographs or video as contained in the mobile phones of accused to any other accused or even to the counsels of the accused would not be possible,” the order said. In response, the counsels of the accused said that it was a case of conspiracy for which they would require the contents of mobile phones of other accused who are stated to be related to each other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/phones-of-riots-accused-have-private-content/article37224219.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||Second chargesheet filed in Sushil Kumar case||The Delhi police have informed a court here that it has filed a supplementary chargesheet against the remaining accused in the Chhatrasal Stadium murder case involving Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar. The first chargesheet which was filed by the police on August 2 named 13 persons, including Sushil Kumar as the “main” accused. There are a total of 17 accused in the alleged murder case, according to the police. Mr. Kumar, along with others had allegedly assaulted former junior national wrestling champion Sagar Dhankar and his friends at the stadium in May over an alleged property dispute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/second-chargesheet-filed-in-sushil-kumar-case/article37224204.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||BJP hits out at Govt. over finance panel||The Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Thursday accused the Delhi Government of ignoring constitutional obligations by delaying formation of the Fifth Finance Commission by a year. The Finance Commission recommends on allocation of tax revenues by the Delhi Government to the municipal corporations. Mr. Bidhuri said according to Article 243 (I) of the Constitution, it is the responsibility of the Delhi Government to form a State Finance Commission every five years. The Fourth Finance Commission was constituted in 2016 in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-hits-out-at-govt-over-finance-panel/article37224208.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||CEO meets Education Dept. officials||The Chief Electoral Officer of Delhi, Ranbir Singh, on Thursday interacted with officials from the Department of Education to seek their cooperation in creating awareness of the special summary revision - 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ceo-meets-education-dept-officials/article37224213.ece
29 October 2021||NEW DELHI/Gurugram,||Barricades being cleared near protest site at Tikri||The Delhi police have started removing barricades from the Tikri border where farmers have been protesting for the past 11 months against the new farm laws. A senior police officer said there are several layers of barricades and the process of removal started on Thursday. The barricades are being removed from one side on the way to Bahadurgarh, Haryana. “Because there are layers of barricades, the removal may take a day or two after which a decision will be taken on how to route the traffic,” the officer said. The decision comes as the Supreme Court is hearing the matter of road blockade at the border. The court has asked the Central Government and Delhi’s neighbouring States to find a solution to the issue. Farmers have been protesting against the new farms laws since November 26 last year at Delhi’s borders including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur. Truck kills 3 farmers Three women farmers were killed and two sustained injuries on Thursday after a speeding truck hit them near a protest site in Bahadurgarh, close to the Tikri border. The women were standing on the central verge waiting for an autorickshaw. The erring truck driver, Mangal, fled the spot but was later arrested. Haryana State committee of All India Kisan Sabha demanded a detailed probe into the accident saying that eyewitnesses had seen the truck parked near the accident spot before it hit the women. The police have ruled out foul play. “The truck driver was coming from the direction of Badli. He said during interrogation that he did not have enough sleep the previous night and dozed off leading to the accident,” said Inspector Nar Singh, SHO, Sector 6, Bahadurgarh. The deceased have been identified as Gurmail Kaur, Amarjeet Kaur and Sukhvinder, all belonging to Punjab’s Mansa district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/barricades-being-cleared-near-protest-site-at-tikri/article37224212.ece
29 October 2021||Panaji,||BJP here stay for decades, says Kishor||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor, who is currently lobbying for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) for the upcoming Goa Assembly elections, has said the BJP will remain at the centre of Indian politics and will not go anywhere for the “next many decades” irrespective of whether it wins or loses. He also took a swipe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for “thinking” that people will throw the BJP away immediately. A video clip of Mr. Kishor saying this during a private meeting in Goa has gone viral. A senior leader of the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), a group led by Kishor, confirmed that the video was from a private meeting held on Wednesday in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-will-stay-for-decades-says-kishor/article37224386.ece
29 October 2021||Thane,||Court issues warrant against former Mumbai police chief||A court in Maharashtra’s Thane city has issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in connection with an alleged extortion case registered against him with a local police station. The order was issued by Chief Judicial Magistrate R.J. Tamble two days ago to Thane Nagar police station, where the case is registered. The order became available on Thursday. The case was registered in July against Mr. Singh and 28 others including six police officers for allegedly extorting money from a builder. Other accused include retired ‘encounter specialist’ police officer Pradeep Sharma, DCP Deepak Devraj, ACP N.T. Kadam and Inspector Rajkumar Kothmire. Complainant Ketan Tanna had alleged that when Mr. Singh was Thane Police Commissioner from January 2018 to February 2019, the accused extorted Rs. 1.25 crore from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-issues-warrant-against-former-mumbai-police-chief/article37224397.ece
29 October 2021||HONG KONG,||Eye on Afghanistan, China to build military base in Tajikistan||China will take full control of a military base in Tajikistan near the Afghan border that it has been quietly operating and will also build a new base for the Tajik Government, according to a report on Thursday. Tajikistan on Wednesday granted approval for the construction of a new base, following an agreement reached between Tajikistan’s Interior Ministry and China’s Public Security Ministry or police force, the U.S.-funded Radio Free Europe (RFE) reported. That the agreement was being signed by the Public Security Ministry, and not the Chinese military, suggests a focus on counterterrorism amid rising concerns over instability in neighbouring Afghanistan. The new base, RFE quoted Tajik officials as saying, would be owned by Tajikistan’s Rapid Reaction Group or special forces, and financed by China for a cost of $10 million. It will be located in the eastern Gorno-Badakhshan autonomous province near the Pamir mountains, and Chinese troops will not be stationed there. While this base will be under Tajik control, the Tajikistan Government has also agreed to transfer full control of an existing facility that both sides have been using jointly, a former Soviet base not far from the China-Tajikistan-Afghanistan tri-junction and the Wakhan Corridor, where China shares a less than 100 km border with Afghanistan. Russia and India are among countries that already have a military presence in bases in Tajikistan. China and Tajikistan have, however, continued to officially deny the presence of Chinese security forces there. However, a communique from China’s Embassy in Dushanbe to Tajikistan’s Foreign Ministry, seen by RFE, said the Tajik Government offered to transfer full control in exchange for military aid from China. That base too is thought to be staffed not by the Chinese military but by China’s People’s Armed Police Force, which is responsible for internal security in Xinjiang. China’s interest in the base is tied to its security concerns in its western Xinjiang region, which shares a border with Afghanistan and Tajikistan. The base, once full control has been transferred, will become only the second known overseas Chinese security facility, after Djibouti near the Horn of Africa .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eye-on-afghanistan-china-to-build-military-base-in-tajikistan/article37223576.ece
29 October 2021||Washington,||Biden proposes $1.85 tn social security and climate plan||In a bid to unite Democrats on Capitol Hill around an agenda-defining social security and climate action Bill, U.S. President Joe Biden visited Capitol Hill on Thursday morning, proposing a $1.85 trillion legislative package. The President delayed his departure to Rome for the G20 meetings, as the White House scrambled to bring conservative (centrist) and progressive Democrats together, so Mr. Biden had something to show the international community in Rome and then in Scotland, where nations will meet for the UN climate conference (COP26). “We have a framework that will get 50 votes in the United States Senate,” Mr. Biden told House Democrats, according to reporting in the American press. “I don’t think it’s hyperbole to say that the House and Senate majorities and my presidency will be determined by what happens in the next week,” he reportedly said. Key elements left out The new ‘Build Back Better’ proposal, which has been linked to a $1 trillion infrastructure Bill that passed the Senate and is awaiting passage by the House of Representatives, leaves out key elements of Mr. Biden’s initial request of Congress, including paid family leave, free community college tuition and provisions for the government to negotiate lower drug prices. It will nevertheless include significant social spending measures — such as expanded access to preschool for 3 and 4 year olds, making them universal, and the largest federal investment in clean energy and tech — of the order of $555 billion. “No one got everything they wanted, including me… but that’s what compromise is,” Mr. Biden said as he announced the proposal at the White House following his meeting on the Hill. ‘Very significant’ Bernie Sanders, the Senator from Vermont and progressive who heads the Senate Budget Committee, said the legislation was “very significant” but that he wanted to make it “better”. Progressives are concerned that the ‘Build Back Better’ package will not go through if the House passes just the infrastructure vote, for which there is bipartisan support. Mr. Sanders made it clear that he was not in support of the infrastructure legislation passing independently. “So you don’t want to see as the infrastructure Bill passed and then not have the kind of build back better Bills that we need,” he said. “And that’s why you need 50 members [of the Senate] on board before there should be a vote in the House.” The success of the social security package has hinged on the support of two Democratic Senators — Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona — and neither has thus far offered their clear support for the updated Biden plan. The Senate is split 50:50 (with Vice-President Kamala Harris holding a tie-breaking vote), and the Democrats need every single one of their members on board for the legislation to pass. The Bill, as per data released by the administration, will be fully funded and not add to the deficit. There will be a tax surcharge for the wealthiest Americans that the White House says will bring in $230 billion. There will also be penalties on companies that are based in countries not adhering to the global minimum tax recently agreed by more than 130 countries and a surcharge of 1% on corporate stock buybacks. ‘A capitalist’ “I don’t want to punish anyone’s success. I’m a capitalist,” Mr. Biden said. “I want everyone to be able to … if they want to be a millionaire, billionaire, to be able to seek their goal. But all I’m asking is: pay your fair share,” he said. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi , the chamber’s top Democrat, told her colleagues not to “embarrass” the President before his overseas trip by not voting for the infrastructure Bill, CNN reported. Mr. Biden will arrive in Rome and meet other world leaders en masse for the first time since America’s chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan, and he is keen to show them that his domestic agenda — particularly around climate change — is in order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-proposes-185-tn-social-security-and-climate-plan/article37224003.ece
29 October 2021||Washington,||Biden pushes revised $1.75 tn U.S. social spending plan||U.S. President Joe Biden announced Thursday a revised $1.75 trillion social spending plan that he is confident Democrats will support, ending weeks of wrangling and delivering a political victory hours before he departs for twin summits in Europe. Mr. Biden failed in his original goal of securing a vote in Congress, where Democrats hold a razor-thin majority, before going to Rome for meetings with Pope Francis and G20 leaders, then a UN climate summit in Glasgow. Too good to refuse Instead, his dramatic last-minute intervention will present Democrats with a deal too good to refuse, senior aides believe. Putting the full prestige of his presidency on the line, Mr. Biden went up to Capitol Hill to unveil the framework agreement to Democratic leaders. The White House said Mr. Biden’s compromise outline of the legislation would pour $1.75 trillion into education, childcare, clean energy and other social services. This is much less than the original $3.5 trillion price tag Mr. Biden and left-leaning Democrats wanted. However, this would still represent a major win a year after Mr. Biden, 78, defeated Donald Trump with a promise to heal America’s “soul.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-pushes-revised-175-tn-us-social-spending-plan/article37223568.ece
29 October 2021||Taipei,||Tsai confirms U.S. troop presence in Taiwan||President Tsai Ing-wen has confirmed a small number of U.S. troops are present in Taiwan to help with training, adding she had “faith” that the American military would defend the island in the event of a Chinese attack. The remarks sparked a strident, albeit familiar, rebuke on Thursday from China which accused the U.S. of trying to “stir up trouble” and that it “firmly opposes” any official or military contacts between Taipei and Washington. In an interview with CNN, Ms. Tsai described Taiwan as a regional “beacon” of democracy that is facing down a giant authoritarian neighbour as the threat from Beijing grew “every day”. The presence of U.S. troops was first confirmed by a Pentagon official earlier this month. Ms. Tsai’s comments are the first time a Taiwanese leader has publicly made such an admission since the last U.S. garrison left in 1979 when Washington switched diplomatic recognition to Beijing. Asked how many U.S. troops were in Taiwan, she replied “not as many as people thought”. “We have a wide range of cooperation with the U.S. aiming at increasing our defence capability,” she added. When asked if she was confident that the United States would help defend Taiwan if necessary against China, Ms. Tsai replied: “I do have faith.” Speaking to lawmakers on Thursday, Taiwan’s Defence Minister Chiu Kuo-cheng said U.S. and Taiwanese troops have long had contacts with each other. “We have personnel exchanges and they [U.S. soldiers] would be here for military cooperation, but this is different, according to my definition, from having ‘troops stationed’ here,” Mr. Chiu said. Authoritarian China regards self-ruled Taiwan as its own territory and has vowed to one day seize the island, by force if needed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tsai-confirms-us-troop-presence-in-taiwan/article37223573.ece
29 October 2021||Washington,||U.S. will continue to protect freedom of religion: Joe Biden||U.S. President Joe Biden said America would continue to stand for religious freedom globally, both as a reflection of the country’s values and also as a matter of national security, in a written statement released on Wednesday, October 27, to commemorate International Religious Freedom Day. “We stand in defence of religious freedom not only as an expression of our deepest values but also because it is a vital national security priority. The United States will continue to rally the globe to protect and promote the right of freedom of religion or belief,” Mr. Biden said. The comments are consistent with the Biden administration’s position that it has made human rights central to its foreign policy. The comments are also relevant to the U.S.-India bilateral relationship. Both Mr. Biden and Vice-President Kamala Harris made pointed references to democratic values during their remarks in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he visited the White House last month. In Wednesday’s message, Mr. Biden said promoting and protecting religious freedom was of utmost importance today as individuals continued to get persecuted by state and non-state actors for their religious identity. “Tragically, repressive governments, violent extremists, and other societal actors continue to persecute and abuse individuals and groups simply because of their religious identity, practices, or beliefs,” he said. “Every faith is in the minority somewhere in the world, and we can only fully realise the freedom we wish for ourselves by helping to ensure that liberty for everyone. On International Religious Freedom Day 2021, my Administration pledges to make that aspiration a reality around the world,” Mr. Biden said. He also said that he was “proud” to recommit the U.S. to international religious freedom and lead the effort to “press for freedom of religion or belief” everywhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-will-continue-to-protect-freedom-of-religion-joe-biden/article37223580.ece
29 October 2021||Jakarta,||Myanmar military is torturing detainees across country: probe||Since its takeover of the government in February, the Myanmar military has been torturing detainees across the country in a methodical and systemic way, The Associated Press has found in interviews with 28 people imprisoned and released in recent months. Based also on photographic evidence, sketches and letters, along with testimony from three defected military officials, AP’s investigation provides the most comprehensive look since the takeover into a highly secretive detention system that has held more than 9,000 people. The military, known as the Tatmadaw, and the police have killed more than 1,200 people since February. While most of the torture has occurred inside military compounds, the Tatmadaw also has transformed public facilities such as community halls and a royal palace into interrogation centres. The prisoners came from every corner of the country and from various ethnic groups, and ranged from a 16-year-old girl to monks. Some were detained for protesting against the military, others for no discernible reason. Multiple military units and police were involved in the interrogations, their methods of torture similar across Myanmar. The military has a long history of torture, particularly before the country began transitioning toward democracy in 2010. While torture in recent years was most often recorded in ethnic regions, its use has now returned across the country. But this time, the torture carried out is the worst it’s ever been in scale an severity, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners. Since Febru- ary, the group says, security forces have killed 1,218 people, including at least 131 detainees tortured to death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-military-is-torturing-detainees-across-country-probe/article37223575.ece
29 October 2021||San Francisco,||Facebook changes parent company name to ‘Meta’||Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg on Thursday announced that the parent company’s name is being changed to “Meta” to represent a future beyond just its troubled social network. The new handle comes as the social media giant tries to fend off one its worst crises yet and pivot to its ambitions for the “metaverse” virtual reality version of the Internet that the tech giant sees as the future. Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp will keep their names under the rebranding. “We’ve learned a lot from struggling with social issues and living under closed platforms, and now it is time to take everything that we’ve learned and help build the next chapter,” Mr. Zuckerberg said during an annual developers conference. “I am proud to announce that starting today, our company is now Meta. Our mission remains the same, still about bringing people together, our apps and their brands, they’re not changing,” he added. Facebook critics pounced last week on a report that leaked the rebranding plans, arguing that the company was aiming to distract from recent scandals and controversy. An activist group calling itself The Real Facebook Oversight Board has warned that major industries like oil and tobacco had rebranded to “deflect attention” from their problems. The “real issue” was the need for oversight and regulation, the group said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/facebook-changes-parent-company-name-to-meta/article37224004.ece
29 October 2021||Khartoum,||New clashes rock Sudan’s capital as UN slams coup||Security forces clashed with protesters on Thursday furious over a military coup that has derailed Sudan’s fragile transition to democracy and sparked an international outcry. At least one protester was killed, according to medics, on the fourth consecutive day of street violence in Khartoum, as the UN Security Council and U.S. President Joe Biden called for a restoration of the civilian-led government toppled by the Army on Monday. The council in a unanimously passed statement expressed “serious concern” about the Army power grab in the poverty-stricken Northeast African nation and urged all sides “to engage in dialogue without pre-conditions”. General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan — Sudan’s de facto leader since the 2019 ouster of veteran autocrat Omar al-Bashir after huge youth-led protests — on Monday dissolved the country’s fragile government. Major demonstration While the civilian leader, Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok, has been under effective house arrest, the capital has been rocked by days of unrest and is bracing for major demonstrations on Saturday. Roads have been blocked by barricades of rocks, debris and burning car tyres that have sent black smoke billowing into the sky, while most shops have been shuttered in a campaign of civil disobedience. “We do not want military power, we want a free democratic life in this country,” said one protester, who asked not to be named.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-clashes-rock-sudans-capital-as-un-slams-coup/article37223571.ece
29 October 2021||New York,||U.S. returns 250 antiquities to India||U.S. authorities returned about 250 antiquities to India on Thursday in a long-running investigation of a stolen art scheme. The items, worth an estimated $15 million, were handed over during a ceremony at the Indian Consulate in New York City. The centrepiece is a bronze Shiva Nataraja valued at $4 million, authorities said. The ceremony stems from a sprawling probe by the Manhattan district attorney’s office and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The investigation has focused on tens of thousands of antiquities allegedly smuggled into the United States by dealer Subhash Kapoor, who has denied the allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-returns-250-antiquities-to-india/article37224005.ece
29 October 2021||Paris,||China submits new climate plan to UN||China, by far the world’s largest polluter, on Thursday renewed its emissions cutting plan with a promise to peak carbon pollution before 2030. Beijing’s new submission to the UN also confirmed its goal to achieve carbon neutrality before 2060 and slash its emissions intensity by more than 65%. China is responsible for more than a quarter of all man-made emissions, and had previously promised, under a process set in motion by the 2015 Paris climate deal, to reach net-zero by 2060. Under the landmark accord, nations are required to submit renewed emissions-cutting pledges — known as Nationally Determined Contributions, or NDCs — every five years. China had been a major holdout in renewing its plans to curb emissions, and it was hoped its new submission could build momentum ahead of the delayed COP26 summit in Glasgow, which begins on Sunday. According to its renewed NDC, published on the UN’s climate change website, it will increase its share of non-fossil fuels in primary energy consumption to 25%, up from the 20% previously pledged. It also plans to increase its forest stock by six billion cubic metres compared with 2005 levels and “bring its total installed capacity of wind and solar power to over 1.2 billion kilowatts by 2030”. However it was not immediately clear how Beijing plans to draw down its emissions in line with what science says is needed to avoid catastrophic levels of heating this century.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-submits-new-climate-plan-to-un/article37223569.ece
29 October 2021||Gaza City,||6 ‘informants’ sentenced to death in Gaza||The Islamist movement Hamas that rules the Gaza Strip announced on Thursday it had sentenced six Palestinian “informants” to death for collaborating with Israel. The Hamas military court said it had issued sentences “against a number of informants, including six death sentences, other sentences varying between life terms and temporary hard labour, and one acquittal”. Hamas takes a rigid approach to collaborators with Israel, which has put the impoverished enclave under blockade since the Islamists took power in 2007. In 2018 a Hamas military court sentenced six people to death for espionage, including a woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/6-informants-sentenced-to-death-in-gaza/article37223570.ece
29 October 2021||lahore,||Supporters of Pak. party start protest march||Tens of thousands of supporters of a banned radical Islamist party in Pakistan took out a march towards Islamabad on Thursday to press the Government of Prime Minister Imran Khan to release their party chief Saad Rizvi and expel the French Ambassador in protest against the blasphemous caricatures published in France. The rally by members of the Tehreek-i-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP)started after the government announced that it cannot meet its demand for the expulsion of the French Ambassador.  The government has announced that the protesters will not be allowed to reach Islamabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/supporters-of-pak-party-start-protest-march/article37223577.ece
29 October 2021||berlin,||German man spied for Russia: court||A court on Thursday handed a two-year suspended sentence to a German man for passing on floor plans of Parliament buildings to Russian secret services while employed by a security company. The suspect named as Jens F., 56, was found guilty of handing over a CD with more than 300 files of floor plans of buildings used by the German Bundestag to the military attache of the Russian Embassy in 2017. The military attache in post at that time is suspected to have been an employee of Russia’s GRU military intelligence service. The suspect meanwhile worked for a security company contracted by the Bundestag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/german-man-spied-for-russia-court/article37223578.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Should the NDPS Act be amended?||The Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has proposed certain changes to some provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act of 1985. The recommendations have assumed importance in the backdrop of some high-profile drug cases including the recent arrest of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan following a raid on a cruise ship by the Narcotics Control Bureau a few weeks ago. One of the recommendations of the Ministry is to decriminalise the possession of narcotic drugs in smaller quantities for personal purposes. Another suggestion is that persons using drugs in smaller quantities be treated as victims. In a conversation moderated by Marri Ramu , Mahesh Bhagwat and Mazhar Hussain look at the implications of the changes suggested to tackle the problem of drug abuse and the abuse of the law. Edited excerpts: First arrest and then investigate seems to be the principle for investigations under the NDPS Act. Is this justified? Mahesh Bhagwat:That is not correct. The procedure of seizing narcotic drugs is important first. Section 50 of the Act (conditions under which search of persons shall be conducted) needs to be followed scrupulously. When officials stumble upon a person carrying drugs during raids or a routine check, the drugs must be seized in front of a Gazetted Officer or a Magistrate. In cases of sudden development, the suspect is taken to the nearby Magistrate or the latter is brought to the spot and then only drugs are seized. If this is not adhered to, the court acquits the accused persons. Only then the next stage of investigation commences. Is there not a possibility of people in power misusing the NDPS Act since the onus is on the accused to prove their innocence? MB:I don’t think so. You cannot manage all the people all the time. While tracking drugs cases, investigators go from consumers to drug suppliers. Since the seizure procedure is to be followed, there could be one Magistrate at the time of seizing drugs, another during further investigation and a different Magistrate at the time of trial. Moreover, governments can change. What are the challenges that the police face in enforcing the NDPS Act to take drugs cases to their logical end? MB:The Act was brought in 1985. This is a stringent law where the death penalty can be prescribed for repeat offenders. Since drug peddling is an organised crime, it is challenging for the police to catch the persons involved from the point of source to the point of destination. Identifying drugs that are being transported is a challenge since we cannot stop each and every vehicle that plies on Indian roads. Most drug bust cases are made possible with specific information leads. In one instance, it was found that a ganja peddler had a secret chamber fabricated inside a lorry. We caught it only because we had specific inputs from a network of informants. Unless we check every vehicle with specially trained sniffer dogs, it is difficult to check narcotic drugs transportation. The main challenge is to catch those producing these substances. Going beyond State jurisdiction, finding the source of narcotic substances and destroying them is another big challenge. Catching the accused cultivating ganja in areas bordering the States too is turning out to be a herculean task. It gets tougher when ganja is cultivated in areas that are Maoist hideouts. Securing conviction for the accused in drugs cases is yet another arduous task. There are frequent delays in court procedures. Sometimes, cases do not come up for trial even after two years of having registered them. By then, the accused are out on bail and do not turn up for trial. Bringing them back from their States to trial is quite difficult let alone getting them convicted. Mazher Hussain:No doubt the NDPS Act is stringent, but we need to make a distinction between the drug peddler and the end user. The person using it in smaller quantities for personal use cannot be bracketed with the person producing narcotic drugs. We need to make a clear distinction between a drug supplier and an end user. A drug user needs to be seen as a patient. The Act as of now prescribes jail for everyone — the end user and the drug supplier. How do you see the Ministry’s proposal to refer persons possessing drugs in smaller quantities to government-run rehabilitation centres instead of awarding them jail terms and imposing fines? MB:The proposal to send persons to rehabilitation centres is good on paper but do we have the infrastructure to ensure that it is properly implemented? The answer is ‘no’. We don’t have adequate de-addiction centre counsellors. We face an acute shortage of psychiatrists and counsellors. How many rehabilitation centres are there vis-à-vis the volume of persons involved in drug cases? I suggest that the States be consulted. Policing is a State subject. It is not in the Concurrent list. So, instead of suggesting proposals to change sections of the law for the entire country, I think it would be advisable to introduce this on a pilot basis in one State that faces an acute drugs-related problem. The government could also study some of the best practices in the world. In Iceland, for example, a community-led approach has worked wonders. Iceland witnessed acute drug abuse among its children and the youth. The government decided to tackle the issue right from the school level. From introducing aptitude tests which revealed the inclinations of students to persuading parents to keep liquor and cigarettes out of reach of the youth, the country took various measures to tackle the problem and weaned away 70-80% of its young population from drugs. It also helped drastically reduce the usage of drugs. MH:We need to thoroughly examine why and how people are getting addicted to narcotic drugs. There is a growing hopelessness in society due to various factors. The COVID-19 pandemic, for instance, has aggravated anxieties among the youth. We need to redefine and redesign the law so as to tackle what acts as a trigger. An aspect of the Act which is least discussed is a national fund for rehabilitation. We need to allocate more money for the fund, help transform drug addicts and make the job of policing easier. In the U.S., some States have started permitting the usage of narcotic drugs like marijuana in smaller quantities. Do you think the legalisation of drugs usage is the right step? MB:We cannot think of legalisation of drugs usage in isolation. We need to think of the harmful effects first. There are connected issues like absenteeism in schools, loss of jobs, income, depression and suicide. The crime rate could go up, throwing up yet another new challenge for the police. MH:Legalisation of drugs usage will only compound the problem. It could lead to proliferation of drugs. It is dangerous. More and more people may start using them. At the same time, the solution is to decriminalise usage of drugs. If a person is caught for the first time in a drugs case, be it for possession or usage, they should be sent to a rehabilitation centre. There should be scope for reformation of such persons. Not anybody and everybody connected to drugs cases should be sent to prison. Only repeat offenders should be sent to prison. There are many street children who use whiteners, glue, painting chemicals, etc. There is no focus on such children becoming victims of substance use. MB:There are three types of drugs — party drugs, prescription drugs and others, namely inhalants (also known as synthetic drugs). Some people even apply Zandu Balm on bread slices and eat them. We found people using cough syrups to get a high. Street children and labourers cannot afford to buy costly narcotic drugs like cocaine and so, they go after cheaper options like glue. With computers replacing typewriters almost completely, it is anybody’s guess how many are using whiteners. While the police have to focus on this, persons selling chemicals or whiteners are equally responsible. During my visit to the U.S., I went to a shop to buy a bullet-proof jacket; the vendor refused to sell it to me. As I was leaving, the shop owner noted details of the vehicle in which I was travelling. The question is do we have such responsible traders here. MH:After noticing that many street children are getting addicted to whiteners, COVA filed a PIL petition in a High Court more than a decade ago. The High Court passed a direction instructing the government to ensure that whiteners are not sold to children below 18 years of age. It is for the police and others concerned to implement the court order and keep a tab on persons selling such chemicals. Decriminalisation apart, what other steps can be taken to check the drug menace in the country? MB:There are three crucial factors we need to adopt to end the drug menace. While bringing up their wards, parents must be able to talk to their children and assure them of all support should they face a problem. Parents have to act as confidants first. Mutual trust should be so strong that wards come to them at the first sign of trouble. Sometimes, it could be a friend inducing them to take drugs once — once caught, they get trapped in a vicious cycle. So, our approach to tackling the problem should begin from home. Our experience shows that cigarette is an entry point for the young. To graduate from cigarette to drugs is not difficult if there is access to the drug. Watching a parent smoke, the child thinks it’s a cool act to emulate. From here, children go to the next level of taking out tobacco from a cigarette and filling it with weed to get a high. Second, teachers should keep an eye on school surroundings to ascertain whether anyone is selling hookah pipes or ganja papers. Checking drugs usage is not the job of only the police. The police cannot enter every house and physically check if youngsters are using drugs. Everyone should have a proactive role. Civil society support is equally important. If everyone joins hands, wiping out drugs usage is not an issue at all. MH:We should examine the root cause of the problem. Why are people taking drugs? One has to ascertain why different sections of the society, be it street children or youngsters from rich families, are getting addicted to drugs. Relying only on law-enforcing agencies, however hard they are at work to address the problem, is not going to solve it. Civil society and governments will have to work together to create an enabling environment to address the issue.  A drug user needs to be seen as a patient. The Act as of now prescribes jail for everyone — the end user and the drug supplier. MAzher Hussain||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/should-the-ndps-act-be-amended/article37223567.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The perils of ideological certitude||Trend, fashions or ideas float in all societies. When does a trend become an ideology? What motivates an individual to commit itself to it? An ideology is understood to mean a system of ideas that aspires to explain the world, and at times change it. Some call it the science of ideas aimed at serving people, ridding them of prejudice, preparing them for the sovereignty of a preferred idea. Regulating behaviour This would seem to be obvious ever since humans indulged in deductive and inductive reasoning for sheer survival in daily life. This process matured with time and experience down the ages. When simple explanations were not discernable, the phenomena were attributed to superhuman or divine forces. Each of these sought justice between human beings living together. Hence, the dictum that justice is the first law of human institutions. Evidence of it is available in the ancient codes of China, Mesopotamia, India and elsewhere. Overtime, these became religious codes and were duly sanctified. They all held out visions of an apogee of rectitude that humankind should endeavour to attain. In all cases the purpose was to regulate human behaviour in societies. The unstated premise in most was that the average member of a social group living together was too busy or simplistic or both to discern the full meaning or implications and was, for the purposes of these laws almost mindless in the sense of acting without particular reason, ready and willing to observe the dicta and the accompanying suggestion of punishment in case of disobedience. Obedience was sought to become habitual. Quest for social order The political atmospherics of the 19th and 20th centuries, particularly in Europe, sought to imbibe ideologies with their focus on change with greater meaning to the public. Hence, the assertion in Marx’s Theses on Feuerbach : The philosophers have only interpreted the world in various ways; the point is to change it. The 20th century had a surfeit of these, each addressing an intended audience ranging from local and regional to global and premised on an idealised social order. Each also portrayed a demonology premised on social class or ethnic specificity, from whose tyranny salvation was promised. Thus, communism, with its vision of a classless communist society promising to ‘each according to his/her need’, made sense to the disposed. Similarly, and apart from various versions of anarchism in European worker movements, national socialism in Germany and Italy tantalised its votaries with the focus on the nation and the fatherland. All of these found emulators in colonial lands in India, China and in some parts of western Asia. They were all characterised by what Eric Hobsbawm depicted as ‘ruthless, brutal and command’ versions of socialism. Freedom, communal ideas In India, the germination of ideas of ‘communal consciousness’ (in cases with political overtones) on a societal scale alongside the urge for freedom from foreign rule surfaced in a segment of society in the closing decades of the 19th century. The effort by Mahatma Gandhi and his like-minded supporters was countered by many among Hindus and Muslims who deluded themselves as belonging to separate ‘nations’. The rest was done by the Mountbatten Plan in 1947 and the death and destruction that accompanied it. The past three decades have witnessed the ease with which the Bharatiya Janata Party’s political approach and tactics have made headway in the public mind. Electoral data in recent decades indicates the shift in its vote share, diligently and successfully built upon on exclusive identity in adversarial contrasts to what is dubbed non-Indic, meaning, principally, adherents of Zoroastrianism, Judaism, Christianity and Islam but politically focused on the latter two. Why and how has this order of priorities been put in place for a good segment of the electorate instead of the bread and butter governance issues? In State elections from 2014 to 2019, its vote share reached or crossed the 50% mark in Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Delhi, etc. Political commentators attribute this and its subsequent spectacular success essentially to successful advocacy of majoritarianism. Agenda of artificial lines This despite the dispersal of the minority population in most parts of India and the fact that in daily life, all sections of people, majority and minorities, live in the same or adjacent neighbourhoods, and in daily life work together. Despite it, artificial lines are sought to be drawn for laying the foundations of a majoritarian agenda by categorisation of faiths on the basis of their places of origin. How far back in history can one go when confronted with M.S. Golwalkar’s observation that “Iran is nothing but the base of Aryabhumi” and part of “grand picture of our motherland”? So were the Aryans, and their faith and philosophy. Was it Indic or non-Indic? It considered  convenient to recall Swami Vivekanand’s letter of June 1898 in which he said, “I am firmly persuaded that without the help of practical Islam theories of Vedantism, however fine and wonderful they may be, are entirely valueless to the vast mass of mankind”, adding that “for our own motherland a junction of the two great systems, Hinduism and Islam — Vedanta brain and Islam body — is the only hope.” Also lost in the stated parameters of Hindutva is the constitutional imperative of fraternity. Core issues The Hindutva agenda of viewing matters through the prism of faith has perhaps disrupted or weakened the post-Mandal equations and brought electoral gains; so has the intoxicating impact of the success of the Ram Mandir movement. It, however, cannot explain away the policy and its implementation challenges posed by the ongoing protests against the farm laws, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, National Population Register, widespread unemployment and a host of other measures resulting in dire distress in most segments of society. Does this ‘ideological certitude’ explain away the public distress and its widespread publicity within the country and in credible foreign media? Can it be attributed to a mindlessness of its supporters who are deluded by an uncritical ideological conviction? Would it reflect, public indoctrination notwithstanding, in the forthcoming State elections, and beyond it? Would the lord of Hindutva neither slumber nor sleep? Hamid Ansari was the Vice President of India (2007-2017)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-perils-of-ideological-certitude/article37223561.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting the focus back on Early Childhood Education||Early Childhood Education (ECE) is crucial to the overall development of children, with impacts on their learning and even earning capabilities throughout their lifetimes. Despite the importance of ECE, little has been said about the continuance of ECE delivery during the COVID-19 school closures, reminiscent of its status quo even prior to the novel coronavirus pandemic. Those attending preschool are primarily enrolled in the nearly 14 lakh anganwadis spread across the country where ECE continues to suffer from low attendance and instructional time amid prioritisation of other early childhood development services in the anganwadi system (https://bit.ly/3G2lF3W). Where ECE has continued during COVID-19 pre-school closures, access has reduced and the priority for ECE is low within households. In a recent study by the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy (https://bit.ly/3DXG88i), 45% of the 650+ households surveyed in urban Maharashtra reported that they prioritise their older child’s education over ECE. A crucial factor for households to be able to prioritise ECE is active parental engagement in their child’s education, especially for children in the age group of three to six years who spend a majority of their time within the household and rely greatly on parental assistance in the learning process. The overall development of a child in the early stages edicts a conducive home environment and parental involvement in addition to equitable access to the schooling system. As such, the home environment and stimulation children receive within the household can contribute to their overall development. For example, studies have found that the act of making conversation with your child in the early years has significant gains on language skills they develop (https://bit.ly/3BZn1d6). Role of parental engagement Enabling parental engagement in ECE requires an understanding of barriers that usually prevent parents from meaningfully engaging in their child’s education. The socio-economic background of households determines access to preschools and the ability to invest in ECE. Worryingly, the lack of priority for ECE often means that households choose to forgo investing in ECE altogether. The pandemic has highlighted the glaring digital divide in the country, even in an urban context. Unless the state vows to provide devices and Internet access to all children, it is clear that complete reliance on technology is not an option. Even for those who are able to overcome the initial barrier of access, the ability to engage in ECE at home remains dependent on time and ability. Households that have limited means have little time to invest in educational activities in the home. In the study mentioned above, with low-income households engaged in ECE in urban Maharashtra during COVID-19, we find that job and income losses led to further de-prioritisation of education, and the need to invest in educational and digital resources for its continuance during school closures. Even among households that are able to create the time for education, many parents lack the self-efficacy to support their child’s learning. Most parents lack knowledge of effective methods to facilitate learning within the home, and appropriate means of using technology for education. Parents in low-income households are additionally less likely to be able to access support to learn such methods. COVID-19 school closures made engagement of parents in their child’s education a further necessity. Overcoming barriers Crossing these barriers will become crucial as we move towards achieving universal and equitable ECE, as envisioned in the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. Some of these are harder to address, such as internalising the importance of ECE among parents. This shift of mindset requires prolonged and committed state action, which at present does not reflect any such urgency. Other barriers, however, are easier to address if we operationalise support of the state, schools and teachers towards the goal of enabling parental engagement at home. The pandemic has created an opportunity where parents and teachers have increasingly recognised the crucial role of parents as partners in their child’s education. As we slowly move towards the reopening of schools for younger grades, we should not lose sight of this. In the same study we conducted in urban Maharashtra, we studied two ECE programmes — the E-paatshala programme in Balwadis run by Rocket Learning, and Akanksha schools in Mumbai and Pune. For those who were able to access the programmes, we found that those participating in these programmes showed higher engagement levels associated with the alleviation of some of the barriers discussed above. What might have worked for E-paatshala was its design to use only materials available at home for educational activities. This minimised the need for parents to purchase any additional resources and ensured that it was relevant to the child’s environment and experiences. We found that programmes that were supporting parents’ financially — through provision of rations and devices for education — resulted in higher parental engagement in ECE. The study also highlighted that a more decentralised approach of identifying and alleviating these barriers to ECE, through teachers and school systems as the forerunners, goes a long way. Being the first point of contact with both the child and the parents, teachers are the most equipped to effectively engage with parents, address their challenges, and design adaptable and innovative modes of teaching and learning. Empower households We must leverage the present opportunity of heightened parental engagement in children’s education. Efforts must be taken to empower households with time and resources so that they have the ability to prioritise ECE and are not forced to choose between their children’s education. The provision of non-educational support to low-income households to alleviate income and food insecurities might be just as crucial in aiding parents to invest in education. Second, we must collect information about teachers’ experiences (on suitable modes of engagement with parents and children, delivery logistics, constraints of parents, etc.) and on innovations they have developed to increase parental engagement during school closures. We need to ask what has been done to alleviate constraints, and how can these be operationalised to reach more households? While teachers should remain at the centre of this effort we must also make sure they are not further overburdened, by providing adequate resources and institutional support. Nisha Vernekar and Pooja Pandey work on education at the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Karan Singhal is a researcher at the Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/getting-the-focus-back-on-early-childhood-education/article37223559.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The Glasgow climate test||The climate crisis is a code red for humanity. World leaders will soon be put to the test at the UN Climate Conference, known as COP26, in Glasgow. Their actions — or inactions — will show their seriousness about addressing this planetary emergency. The warning signs are hard to miss: temperatures everywhere are reaching new highs; biodiversity is reaching new lows; and oceans are warming, acidifying and choking with plastic waste. Increasing temperatures will make vast stretches of our planet dead zones for humanity by this century’s end. The Lancet just described climate change as the “defining narrative of human health” in the years to come — a crisis defined by widespread hunger, respiratory illness, deadly disasters and infectious disease outbreaks. An achievable target Despite these alarm bells ringing at fever pitch, we see new evidence in the latest UN reports that governments’ actions so far simply do not add up to what is needed. Recent new announcements for climate action are welcome and critical — but even so, our world is on track for calamitous global temperature rises well above 2°C. This is a far cry from the 1.5°C target to which the world agreed under the Paris Agreement — a target that science tells us is the only sustainable pathway for our world. This target is achievable if we can reduce global emissions by 45% compared to 2010 levels this decade, if we can achieve global net zero by 2050, and if world leaders arrive in Glasgow with ambitious and verifiable 2030 targets, and new, concrete policies to reverse this disaster. G20 leaders in particular need to deliver. The time has passed for diplomatic niceties. If governments, especially G20 governments, do not lead this effort, we are headed for terrible human suffering. But all countries need to realise that the old, carbon-burning model of development is a death sentence for our planet. We need decarbonisation now, across every sector in every country. We need to shift subsidies from fossil fuels to renewable energy, and tax pollution, not people. We need to put a price on carbon, and channel that towards resilient infrastructures and jobs. And we need to phase-out coal — by 2030 in OECD countries and 2040 in all others. Increasing numbers of governments have pledged to stop financing coal; private finance needs to do the same, urgently. Everyone has a role to play People rightly expect their governments to lead. But we all have a responsibility to safeguard our collective future. Businesses need to reduce their climate impact, and fully and credibly align their operations and financial flows to a net zero future. No more excuses; no more greenwashing. Investors must do the same. They should join front runners like the net zero asset owners’ alliance, and the UN’s own pension fund, which met its 2021 carbon reduction investment objectives ahead of time and above its target, with a 32% reduction this year. Individuals in every society need to make better, more responsible choices in what they eat, how they travel, and what they buy. And young people need to keep doing what they’re doing: demanding action from their leaders and keeping them accountable. Throughout, we need global solidarity to help all countries make this shift. Developing countries are grappling with debt and liquidity crises. They need support. Public and multilateral development banks must significantly increase their climate portfolios and intensify their efforts to help countries transition to net zero, resilient economies. The developed world must urgently meet its commitment of at least $100 billion in annual climate finance for developing countries. Donors and multilateral development banks need to allocate at least half their climate finance towards adaptation and resilience. The UN was founded to build consensus for action against the greatest threats facing humanity. But rarely have we faced a crisis like this one – a truly existential crisis that, if not addressed, threatens not only us, but future generations. There is one path forward. A 1.5°C future is the only viable future for humanity. António Guterres is Secretary-General of the United Nations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-glasgow-climate-test/article37223563.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A clear signal||China passing a new border law amid a continuing stalemate in negotiations with India sends a clear signal to New Delhi that Beijing is in no mood to quickly end the 18-month-long crisis along the LAC. The law, which will take effect on January 1, designates the responsibilities of various agencies in China, from the military to local authorities, in guarding the frontiers. It “stipulates that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the People’s Republic of China are sacred and inviolable”. Calling on the military to “guard against and combat any act that undermines territorial sovereignty and land boundaries”, the law says the Chinese military “shall carry out border duties” to “resolutely prevent, stop and combat invasion, encroachment, provocation and other acts”. India has reacted sharply, telling China that it must not use legislation as a “pretext” to formalise the PLA’s actions since last year to unilaterally alter the LAC. While the law says Beijing will negotiate with its neighbours to settle its borders, India reminded China that the legislation will have little bearing on the India-China boundary as both sides are yet to resolve the boundary question. Responding to India’s concerns, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said the law would not affect the implementation of existing agreements. The legislation also has implications for the only other country China has unresolved land borders with — Bhutan — calling for continuing efforts to develop border areas. Among those efforts is the on-going construction of frontier villages, including in disputed areas. The Chinese side may justify the law as an “internal” matter akin to India’s abrogation of Article 370 and the creation of a Union Territory in Ladakh, which China strongly opposed because it included Aksai Chin, but there is one crucial difference. The new Chinese legislation, first proposed in March, came almost a year into the LAC crisis. It followed the PLA’s amassing of two divisions of troops in forward areas in the summer of 2020, in contravention of the four past border agreements, and essentially gives a stamp of approval to those moves. If both New Delhi and Beijing at least appear to be in agreement that the legislation will not affect past agreements, the fact is those understandings are already in tatters. The last round of LAC talks, held on October 10, ended with both sides trading accusations, Beijing blaming India for making “unrealistic” demands and New Delhi countering that the other side offered no real proposals for a solution. Indeed, the new law underlines that China increasingly sees little space for compromise as far as its frontiers are concerned. Even as India and China continue negotiations, the law is the latest signal that the current state of affairs along the border, marked by continuing deployments by both sides in forward areas and a build-up of infrastructure, is likely to continue over the longer term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-clear-signal/article37223554.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A climate dividend||As it prepares to face pressure at the COP26 of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow, India is adopting the stand that a national deadline for net zero carbon dioxide emissions is uncalled for, given its moral claim to a far greater share of the remaining global carbon budget. The budget, which represents the estimated volume of future emissions that will allow global average temperature rise to be kept within safe limits — well below 2° C or 1.5° C under the Paris Agreement — must anyway be shared by all countries. Since China, the U.S. and the EU collective, representing the highest emissions, are expected to occupy a big share of the remaining budget calculated at between 420-580 Gigatonnes of CO2, India will again rely on its historical energy poverty, underdevelopment and low per capita emissions to convince the world that a net zero target is incongruous with the present reality. Yet, as the Centre must acknowledge, a minimalist approach is not an option, given the global repercussions of emissions for all vulnerable nations, and India’s own alarming losses from periodic extreme weather events. It can seek convergence with the world on identifying green growth pathways, aligning future investments with a smart recovery plan for COVID-19, embracing renewable energy more widely and averting long-term lock-in effects of fossil fuel dependence in energy generation, buildings, mobility and so on. An immediate leap into net zero may yet be avoided, and a core message at Glasgow would be that rich countries are yet to deliver on the promised $100 billion a year from 2020 to help poor nations adapt to climate change; but India’s case can be strengthened only with a clear plan for a multi-sectoral energy transition. There is little evidence, for instance, that the indirect carbon tax in the form of very high levies on automotive fuels has been earmarked for a big green push through affordable electric mobility, or even a financial dividend to all citizens to mitigate inflationary price effects on essential consumption. As national scientific advisers have argued in a joint statement on the eve of the UN climate conference — and to which India’s Principal Scientific Adviser is a signatory — it is essential for governments to draw up precise technological, socio-economic, and financial policies and requirements to demonstrate a commitment to the 1.5° C goal. The country must seize the moment and present convincing plans that will be rolled out in the present decade in order to attract climate finance, even while buttressing the argument for a medium-term window to taper down carbon emissions. If severe floods, droughts and more frequent storms erode the assets of citizens, governments of the future will have to pay for lack of foresight today.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-climate-dividend/article37223555.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Lady fasts for 111 days||Bangalore, Oct. 28: A 59-year-old mother of six children, Mrs. Dhapubhai Golecha, ended a fast that lasted 111 days here on Tuesday. There was a stream of visitors at Mrs. Golecha’s house in Rangaswami Temple Street to have her “darshan”. This was Mrs. Golecha’s fourth fast lasting more than 50 days. She fasted for 51 days in 1963, for 61 days in 1968 and for 91 days in 1969. Mrs. Golecha was overcome by fatigue when she ended her fast and became unconscious. Her weight had come down from 155 pounds to 105. She is now recovering in a private nursing home here. She undertook the fast, it is said, as her ‘agony’ became acute after hearing the plight of Bangla Desh refugees. Seventy-five days after she began her fast, Mrs. Golecha went on a pilgrimage to Jaipur and other places for 20 days. During the fast she drank water only three or four times a day. On October 22, Mrs. Golecha was taken in a procession in a coach drawn by two horses to the Lal Bagh, where a reception was held by the Sri Vardhaman Sthanakvasi Jain Sravak Sangh. Over 10,000 people attended the reception.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lady-fasts-for-111-days/article37223562.ece
29 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Sensex slumps 1.9% led by bank stocks as sentiment sours||Benchmark stock indices plunged almost 2% on Thursday amid concerns about the impact of inflation on economies worldwide, prompting analysts to flag the possibility of a further slide in the coming days. The S&P BSE Sensex nosedived 1,158.63 points, or 1.89%, to 59,984.70. Selling pressure was witnessed across the board and the fall was led by banking stocks. The top Sensex losers included ITC, down 5.5%, ICICI Bank, which fell 4.4%, Kotak Bank (4.1%), Axis Bank (3.8%) and Titan (3.7%). The NSE Nifty 50 index plunged 353.70 points, or 1.94%, to 17,857.25 amid all-round profit booking. Monthly expiry of derivatives also added to the selling pressure, analysts said. Ajit Mishra, VP Research, Religare Broking Ltd., said, “Weak signals from the global counterparts were weighing on sentiment, which further deteriorated with a decline in index majors”. Earlier, Japan’s Nikkei led losses in Asia with a fall of 0.9%, Reuters reported. “Most sectoral indices ended lower... banking, metal and realty were among the top losers,” Religare Broking’s Mr. Mishra said. “This fall in the index has derailed the recent recovery and we may see a further slide in the following sessions. We reiterate our cautious view on markets and suggest restricting leveraged positions,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-slumps-19-led-by-bank-stocks-as-sentiment-sours/article37223540.ece
29 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Gold demand rises 47% in July-September: WGC||Demand for gold in India, which was 47% higher in the July-September quarter compared with a year earlier, is expected to rise further in the current quarter due to festival and wedding season demand, said Somasundaram P.R., regional CEO, India, World Gold Council. Expectations of higher inflation in the country would also likely further spur demand for the yellow metal, he added. ”India’s Q3 2021 gold demand at 139.1 tonnes is a 47% jump over 2020, reflecting a combination of low base effect and return of positive trade and consumer sentiments,” he said. “This is primarily driven by what appears to be a firm grip on the pandemic with higher vaccination rates and falling infection rates, leading to a strong rebound in economic activity.” Softer gold prices had also generated significant consumer interest, he said. The upcoming festival and wedding season could be the busiest gold-buying season since the start of the pandemic, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gold-demand-rises-47-in-july-september-wgc/article37223538.ece
29 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||IndiGo loss narrows from June quarter||Budget airline IndiGo on Thursday reported second-quarter net loss narrowed to Rs. 1,435 crore, from Rs. 3,174 crore in the April-June three-month period. Revenue from operations grew 86.5% from the preceding quarter to Rs. 5,608 crore. CEO Ronojoy Dutta said a fall in COVID-19 cases, increased pace of vaccination and relaxation of testing norms by various States for passengers arriving at airports had helped stimulate demand resulting in improved revenue. “We carried about 6.3 million passengers in the June quarter, which expanded to 11.2 million — an increase of 79%,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indigo-loss-narrows-from-june-quarter/article37223541.ece
29 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 18,300-crore Paytm IPO to open on Nov. 8||The Rs. 18,300-crore initial public offering (IPO) by One97 Communications, the parent firm of Paytm, will open on November 8, valuing the company at close to $20 billion. The price band has been fixed at Rs. 2,080 to Rs. 2,150 for the offer, which will close on November 10, the company said. The IPO, the largest since 2010 when state-owned Coal India raised Rs. 15,475 crore, comprises issuance of fresh equity shares worth Rs. 8,300 crore and offer for sale by existing shareholders of Rs. 10,000 crore. Paytm increased the issue size from the earlier Rs. 16,600 crore following increased investor demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rs-18300-crore-paytm-ipo-to-open-on-nov-8/article37223542.ece
29 October 2021||COIMBATORE,||Sugar estimate pared to 305 lakh tonnes||The Indian Sugar Mills’ Association (ISMA) has estimated net sugar production for the current season (2021-22) at 305 lakh tonnes, a small reduction from the 310 lakh tonnes it had projected in July. With higher ethanol production capacity and surplus cane production, about 34 lakh tonnes of sugar is expected to be diverted for ethanol this season, ISMA said on Thursday. After accounting for the reduction due to diversion of cane juice and B-molasses to ethanol, ISMA estimated production at 305 lakh tonnes. Area under sugarcane is pegged at 54.37 lakh hectares this season, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sugar-estimate-pared-to-305-lakh-tonnes/article37223543.ece
29 October 2021||Chennai,||Indian Bank posts Rs. 1,089 cr. Q2 net profit||Indian Bank on Thursday reported a standalone net profit of Rs. 1,089.17 crore for the quarter ended September 30, as against Rs. 412.28 crore during the same period last year. Standalone net profit for the six-month period ending September 30, grew to Rs. 2,270.83 crore from Rs. 781.54 crore registered a year earlier. Standalone total income for the quarter under review stood at Rs. 11,440.41 crore as against Rs. 11,615.90 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year. For the half year ending September 30, total income grew to Rs. 22,884.69 crore from Rs. 23,103.01 crore in the same period last fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-bank-posts-rs-1089-cr-q2-net-profit/article37223545.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||Cognizant Q3 income rises to $544mn, expects to make offers to 45,000 new graduates in India in Q4||Cognizant reported a 56.3% rise in September quarter net income to $544 million. It aims to make offers in India to 45,000 freshers in Q4.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cognizant-q3-income-rises-to-544mn-expects-to-make-offers-to-45000-new-graduates-in-india-in-q4/article37223544.ece
29 October 2021||HISAR,||Hard work pays off for Nikhat||Backed by self-belief and positive attitude, Nikhat Zareen has reaped the rewards of her hard work at the National women’s boxing championships here. Maiden title The former World junior champion and Asian championships bronze medallist rose from a minor dip in her career to win her maiden National title (in 52kg) and claim the ‘Best Boxer’ award on Wednesday. Unfortunately, Nikhat had grabbed headlines in the past because of reasons other than performances. When she tried to raise her performance, the pandemic affected her training last year. The Hyderabad girl made a successful comeback in the Bosphorus tournament in Turkey in May and beat two World champions on her way to a 51kg bronze medal. But the second wave of the pandemic again derailed her training. “It was difficult as I could not do proper training at home. But I had faith in the almighty. I thought if I am going through all this then there must be something good for me in future,” Nikhat told The Hindu . Nikhat, sponsored by Welspun, paid to train at the Inspire Institute of Sports for about three months to get ready for the Nationals. The training helped her give some clinical performances, including the referee stopping the contests twice, before staging an impressive come-from-behind 4-1 win in the final against the young talent Minakshi. Dominant “The work I put in produced results. I am happy with my performance here as I dominated all the bouts.” The 25-year-old is keen on proving herself at the World championships. “I wanted to win the National title desperately and compete in the World championships. Now I will work hard to get a Worlds medal,” said Nikhat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hard-work-pays-off-for-nikhat/article37224299.ece
29 October 2021||Dubai,||Warner powers Australia to facile win||David Warner oozed class and confidence in his 42-ball 65 as Australia beat Sri Lanka by seven wickets with three overs to spare in a Group 1 Super 12 contest at the ICC T20 World Cup on Thursday. Needing 155 to win, Warner and Aaron Finch shrugged off their poor form in style. Mystery spinner Maheesh Theekshana came into the attack in the second over and was immediately reverse swept for four by Warner. That set the tone for the chase. The openers took 20 off pacer Lahiru Kumara's first over as Australia racked up 63 in the PowerPlay. An elegant straight drive by Finch stood out. Warner got a reprieve on 18 when Kusal Perera missed a simple caught behind chance off Dushmantha Chameera. Just when Australia was threatening to run away with the contest, Finch chopped on off Wanindu Hasaranga for 37. Glenn Maxwell fell to the same bowler soon after. Steve Smith joined Warner, who brought up his fifty off 31 balls. With the equation down to 43 from 42 balls, Warner kept finding the ropes before holing out to Dasun Shanaka. Smith saw Australia home in the company of Marcus Stoinis. Earlier, Australia chose to field. Finch began with the pace trio of Mitchell Starc, Josh Hazlewood and Pat Cummins. The move paid dividends immediately when Pathum Nissanka was caught off Cummins in the third over. Maxwell went for 16 in his first over with Charith Asalanka hitting a six and a four. Perera and Asalanka brought up their 50-run partnership off just 36 balls before Adam Zampa removed Asalanka. Starc, after bowling the first over, returned to the attack in the 11th over. Perera, who hit Starc into the second deck, was bowled next ball by a searing 90mph leg-stump yorker. In the next over, Zampa dismissed Avishka Fernando as Sri Lanka slipped from 78 for one to 94 for five. Though Bhanuka Rajapaksa came up with a cameo to take the team to 154, it wasn’t enough.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/warner-powers-australia-to-facile-win/article37223989.ece
29 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Ridhima bests Maana again||Karnataka’s Ridhima Veerendra Kumar provided another glimpse of her growing status as one of the country’s best by sprinting to her second backstroke gold at the 74th senior National aquatic championships at the Basavanagudi Aquatic Centre on Thursday. The 14-year-old relegated Maana Patel to second spot for the second successive race (after 100m backstroke on day one) by clocking 29.94s over 50m, and missed rewriting Maana’s National record by an agonising five-hundredth of a second. The day’s lone National record was set by Kushagra Rawat, who added the 1,500m gold to the 400m and 800m titles he had won earlier, also in record times. The Delhi swimmer’s timing of 15:38.13 was over three seconds faster than his own previous best mark set in 2019. Dominant Prachi Fellow Delhi swimmer Prachi Tokas proved equally dominant in long-distance swimming, securing the 800m freestyle title to add to her 1,500m gold from Wednesday. Prachi and second-placed Aanya Wala were neck-and-neck until the last 200m, before the former surged ahead to touch the pad in in 9:20.16. Elsewhere, Sajan Prakash won his second individual gold, coasting to victory in 200m butterfly. The Tokyo Olympian’s timing of 1:58.74 was nearly six seconds faster than second-placed Aryan Panchal. Srihari Nataraj added yet another gold to his kitty, in 50m backstroke, winning in 25.77. “I was expecting to go faster, but this is more or less where I am in backstroke at the moment,” said the 20-year-old, who holds the 50m record (25.58). “I had been training backstroke since last November. So just to change it up I’ve been training freestyle a lot more. The speed will come back once I start training backstroke again,” Srihari added. Sambhavv excels In the last event of the day, home swimmer R. Sambhavv clinched his first-ever senior Nationals individual medal with a gold-winning performance in 50m freestyle. The 17-year-old, one of the standout swimmers at the junior Nationals last week where he swept the Group I 50m, 100m and 200m freestyle titles, came home in 23.65. “I was a bit nervous, but I was expecting the gold,” Sambhavv said later. “I expected the biggest challenge from Srihari but he didn’t swim. I trained a lot of short course and that helped me with my turns and underwater.”  The results: Men: 50m freestyle: R. Sambhavv (Kar), 23.65; 1,500m freestyle: Kushagra Rawat (Del), 15:38.13 (NMR; OR: 15:41.45, Kushagra, 2019); 50m backstroke: Srihari Nataraj (Kar), 25.77; 200m butterfly: Sajan Prakash (Police), 1:58.74; 4x100m medley: RSPB (K. Abbasuddin, M. Lohit, Sanu Debnath, Pavan M.S. Gupta), 3:53.29.   Women: 50m freestyle: Avantika Chawan (RSPB), 27.18; 800m freestyle: Prachi Tokas (Del), 9:20.16; 50m backstroke: Ridhima Veerendra Kumar (Kar), 29.94; 200m butterfly: Astha Choudhury (Asm), 2:20.47; 4x100m medley: Maharashtra (Jyotsna Pansare, Apeksha Fernandes, Jyoti Patil, Palak Joshi), 4:31.50.   Water polo: Men, final round: RSPB 26 bt Kerala 6; SSCB 15 bt Kerala 0; Women, semifinals: Kerala 15 bt Maharashtra 7; Police 18 bt Karnataka 8.   Diving: Platform, men: Siddharth Pardeshi (SSCB), 363.70; Women: Ipsita Mahajan (Police), 173.00 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ridhima-bests-maana-again/article37223547.ece
29 October 2021||Chennai,||Rakesh’s century in vain for Southern Railway Instt.||A. Rakesh’s 104 went in vain as Southern Railway Institute lost to RKS CA in a rain-hit match in the TNCA second division recently. Chasing 287 for victory, RKS CA was cruising at 204/4 in 39.5 overs, thanks to half-centuries from N.D. Harishankar and P.S. Raghul when rain stopped play. RKS CA won by four runs by VJD method. In the fifth division, C. Velmurugan’s five-wicket haul helped BSNL Chennai Telephones script a seven-wicket win over Companions CC.  The scores:   II div.: Southern Railway Institute 286 in 50 overs (A. Rakesh 104, A. Baskar 46, M. Bilva Prasath 35) lost to RKS Cricket Academy 204/4 in 39.5 overs (N.D. Harishankar 79, P.S. Raghul 62 n.o., P.A. Abdul Bazith 37). RKS CA won by four runs (VJD method).   CromBest 192 in 50 overs (Ankur Julka 55, I.S. Akash 30) lost to Parry’s S&RC 177/4 in 38.1 overs (S. Siddharth 60, Sudhan Sanjeevi Kandepan 55, R. Sasidharan 3/27) Parry’s won by 59 runs (VJD method).   Aruna 244/9 in 50 overs (G. Hemanth Kumar 48, P.S. Nirmal Kumar 41, N. Aashish 32, G.K. Shyam 30, Jhathavedh Subramanyan 4/43) lost to Egmore RC 247/6 in 47.5 overs (N. Niranjan 149).   Alwarpet 123 in 36.5 overs (S. Santosh Shiv 40, R. Mithun 4/20, N. Selva Kumaran 3/26) lost to Sea Hawks 127/1 in 26.4 overs (Paras Dogra 57 n.o., R. Rajan 46 n.o.).   V-A: Dorairaj Memorial 169 in 47.5 overs (T. Jangu Thapa 45, V. Shanmugam 33, V. Sathish 5/46, J. Manivannan 4/51) bt Grove 122 in 34 overs (B. Manoj Kumar 4/40, M. Anand 3/41).   Sir Ashley Biggs Institute 141 in 42.3 overs (A.S. Arjun Prakash 31, M.R. Madhan 3/33) lost to Vepery 143/6 in 37.5 overs (M. Senthil Vadivel Raj 32, M.R. Madhan 32 n.o., A.S. Arjun Prakash 3/36).   V-D: Companions 105 in 40.5 overs (R. Hairuthick 34 n.o., C. Velmurugan 5/27) lost to BSNL Chennai Telephones 108/3 in 16.1 overs (Huzefa M. Patel 55 n.o.).   Universal RC 214 in 48.1 overs (M. Kishore Kumar 78, A. Mohammed Asif Iqbal 40, M.S. Sivakumar 37) bt Triplicane RC 203 in 49.5 overs (M. Nishanth Raj 61, S. Sai Bharath 44, Y. Narendra Reddy 43 n.o., E. Prabhu 4/43, S. Viganesh 3/40).   Globe 185/5 in 50 overs (S. Sakthi Sathish 54 n.o., Kiran Karthikeyan 43, Nithin Mouliya 38 n.o.) bt Gopalapuram 119 in 40.5 overs (K. Parthiban 33, P. Sanjay Kumar 5/21).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rakeshs-century-in-vain-for-southern-railway-instt/article37224096.ece
29 October 2021||ROME,||Gritty AC Milan means business this season||Nine wins. One draw. Zero losses. AC Milan has improved on last year’s unbeaten start through 10 matches with one extra victory and one major difference: The team no longer seems completely dependent on Zlatan Ibrahimovic. Slowed by injuries, the 40-year-old Ibrahimovic has played in only four Serie A matches this season and scored two goals. It’s a sign of maturity for one of the youngest teams in the Italian league, which is chasing its first Serie A title in a decade. “It’s a great roster. All of the players are strong and can overcome absences,” Milan coach Stefano Pioli said after his injury-hit team struggled to a 1-0 victory over Torino on Tuesday. While Milan was missing injured forward Ante Rebic, Ibrahimovic came on for only the final four minutes. “We fought for every ball as if it were the last, which is what you need to do in such tough matches,” Pioli said. The victory was Milan’s sixth straight and it meant that the club matched its best start in history, having also won nine and drawn one in 1954-55. Influential France veteran Olivier Giroud, who scored an early goal against Torino, has been a key addition this season. Simon Kjaer, another of Milan’s few over-30 players, has also been key — as evidenced when he thwarted Torino’s attempt at a late equaliser. Kjaer, the captain of European Championship semifinalist Denmark and one of the 30 Ballon d’Or nominees, was given a contract extension through 2023-24 on Wednesday. “My dream is to win something before I leave,” Kjaer said. A title certainly appears within reach for Milan, although it’s worth noting that the club led Serie A after 21 matches last season and then faded behind city rival Inter Milan with Ibrahimovic injuring his left knee in May. Pioli’s squad appears grittier this season. In its last three games, Milan came back from two goals down to beat Hella Verona 3-2; produced two late goals in a 4-2 win at nine-man Bologna; and then produced only two shots on goal but still beat Torino. Goalkeeper Mike Maignan, who was brought in to replace the departed Gianluigi Donnarumma, is out until January following surgery on his left wrist, but Ciprian Tatarusano has stepped in and kept a clean sheet against Torino. Bench stability Another key factor for Milan has been stability on the bench, with Pioli in his third season after a turbulent stretch that saw rapid-fire coaching changes with Clarence Seedorf, Filippo Inzaghi, Sinisa Mihajlovic, Cristian Brocchi, Vincenzo Montella, Gennaro Gattuso and Marco Giampaolo following each other in rapid succession. The stability has coincided with the promotion of former Milan great Paolo Maldini to technical director in 2019. Milan has even cut its financial losses in half over the last year, despite the coronavirus pandemic, after a stretch of financial fair play violations that saw the Rossoneri voluntarily withdraw from the 2019-20 Europa League. The only Serie A match that Milan hasn’t won this season was a 1-1 draw at Juventus in September. There have also been struggles in the Champions League, where Milan has lost all three of its group matches. Bigger tests More big tests are coming up with a visit to Jose Mourinho-led Roma on Sunday and the derby with defending champion Inter the following weekend sandwiched around a Champions League game with Porto at the San Siro. “We’ve got three big, stimulating matches next week,” Pioli said. “We’ve got to keep on trying to play better.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gritty-ac-milan-means-business-this-season/article37224376.ece
29 October 2021||Dubai,||India loses to UAE||India slumped to a 1-0 defeat after conceding a late penalty in its second AFC U-23 Championship Qualifiers match against host UAE at the Fujairah Stadium here. Abdulla Idrees converted the 82-minute penalty for the hosts after Suresh brought Ali Saleh down inside the box. Both the Group E encounters ended in similar fashion on Wednesday night after Oman got the better of Kyrgyz Republic thanks to a late penalty. Igor Stimac made only one change to the team that got a 2-1 win against Oman in its previous game, having brought in Lalengmawia at the expense of Aniket Jadhav to make the mid-field more compact against UAE. Safety first Both the teams started with a safety-first approach before Rahim Ali squeezed in to make room for himself in the six-yard-box, but before he could connect to the long throw-in by Asish, UAE goalkeeper Suhail Abdulla Almutawa collected the ball calmly. Before the clock struck the half-hour mark, India launched back-to-back attacks but the opponents dealt with them to cut the scorer out of the equation. Rahul K.P. got himself onto the end of a cross from the right by Asish, and tapped it in past the keeper, but his celebrations were cut short after referee Fu Ming adjudged Rahim Ali, who had allegedly touched the ball on the way, to be off-side. The hosts re-joined with more vigour and took only four minutes to launch their first attack in the second half. Rescue act Marwan Fahad leapt above others to convert a long throw-in but Dheeraj came to the rescue act in the 49th minute. UAE kept on pushing the Indian defenders vigorously in search of the opening goal. All four teams are locked on three points each, with identical goal differences. The group-topper will qualify for the finals in Uzbekistan next year, whereas the four best runners-up will also join them. India will next take on the Kyrgyz Republic on Saturday.  The result: UAE 1 (Abdulla Idrees 82-pen) bt India 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-loses-to-uae/article37224046.ece
29 October 2021||Paris,||Lakshya and Sindhu sail into third round||India’s Lakshya Sen sailed into the third round of the French Open badminton men’s singles event with a comfortable 21-17, 21-13 win over Singapore’s Loh Kean Yew here on Thursday. P.V. Sindhu defeated Danish player Line Christophersen 21-19, 21-9 to move into the third round in women’s singles. But it was curtains for the mixed doubles pair of Ashwini Ponnappa and Satwiksairaj Rankireddy as it lost its round-of-16 match to Indonesia’s Praveen Jordan and Melati Daeva Oktavianti 21-15, 17-21, 19-21.  Other result: Men: Shesar Hiren (Ina) bt Sameer Verma 21-16, 12-21 (retd).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakshya-sen-sails-into-third-round/article37223985.ece
29 October 2021||Manchester,||Solskjaer limps into defining week||Ole Gunnar Solskjaer limps on at Manchester United, seemingly now operating on a game-by-game basis while the club’s hierarchy weighs up whether he is still the right manager for England’s biggest team. Could a loss to Tottenham in the Premier League on Saturday be the decisive blow? Does a hectic schedule of three games in a week mean he’ll survive at least until the international break that follows? Solskjaer is fighting to keep his job heading to Tottenham Hotspur Stadium this weekend and something needs to drastically change if he is to engineer another turnaround in his turbulent three years at United. However, it is with a nod to his most recent past at United that Solskjaer might yet get through this crisis. Much of the analysis surrounding United’s pitiful display against Liverpool focused on the team’s inability to press effectively as a team high up the field. With no unity or cohesion in United’s pressing game, Liverpool has demonstrated this season, had an easy time breaking through the midfield and unpicking a defence that was woefully unprotected. After all, adopting that approach is how United has managed to stay undefeated against City in the league in their last four meetings, winning three of them, and how United kept five clean sheets in six games combined against City, Chelsea and Liverpool last season. It might appear to be a step back for Solskjaer, an acceptance that he hasn’t advanced United’s play despite some major attacking additions to the squad in the last two years in the form of Bruno Fernandes and more recently Cristiano Ronaldo and Jadon Sancho. But the current situation might demand it, especially over the next week with Tottenham so effective on the break through Son Heung-min and Harry Kane, Atalanta prone to going all out in attack and leaving gaps in its defense, and City having had problems dealing with United’s counter-attacks. It makes Solskjaer’s team selection against Tottenham fascinating, arguably his most important as United manager. Get it wrong and it could spell the end for the club great who is running out of time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/solskjaer-limps-into-defining-week/article37224191.ece
29 October 2021||Kuala Lumpur,||India in a tough draw||Host India was on Thursday handed a tough draw for the 2022 AFC Women’s Asian Cup as it was clubbed with eight-time champion China, Chinese Taipei and Iran. India, ranked 57th in the FIFA charts, is the third-highest ranked side in the group behind China (17th) and Chinese Taipei (40th) and ahead of Iran (72nd). The draw was held here at the Asian Football Confederations (AFC) headquarters in the Malaysian capital. India is scheduled to host the tournament from January 20 to Feb. 6 in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Pune. “It is an exciting group. We respect all our opponents as all of them are strong teams who have qualified for the AFC Asian Cup India 2022. But we are ready to play any team,” India’s head coach Thomas Dennerby said. “I don’t consider any particular match as a key one. All three matches are key matches for us in the group stage.” The excitement around Asia’s marquee women’s national team the competition is starting to build following the completion of qualifiers where Chinese Taipei, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Korea Republic, Myanmar, the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam secured their spots to the Finals. They will join the top three from the 2018 showpiece Japan, Australia and China alongside host India. “The AFC Women’s Asian Cup is the premier flagship tournament for women’s football in our continent, and I’m proud and happy that India is going to be the host for the 2022 edition,” said All India Football Federation (AIFF) president Praful Patel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-in-a-tough-group/article37224044.ece
29 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Digvijay stops Siddharth; Paras gets past Rishi||Digvijay Pratap Singh stopped the dream run of former champion and qualifier Siddharth Vishwakarma with a 7-5, 6-7(5), 6-3 win in the quarterfinals of the Fenesta National tennis championship on Thursday. The 21-year-old Digvijay could have served out the match in the 12th game of the second set but Siddharth made a determined comeback to force a decider. Digvijay will play Nitin Kumar Sinha in the semifinals. The other semifinal will feature top seed Niki Poonacha against Paras Dahiya. Paras lost control after leading 4-1, 40-0, but saved two set points at 4-6 in the tie-break to prevail 7-6(6), 6-3 against the energetic Rishi Reddy. In the women’s section, Akanksha Nitture lost the plot after leading 5-0 against Vaidehi Chaudhari. Though the former won the first set 6-4, Vaidehi had understood the way to play the National junior champion and capitalised on her fluent strokes on both the flanks to prevail. Shrivalli Bhamidipaty’s reign was cut short after she missed set points against the top seed Zeel Desai. Zeel will play Sai Samhitha in the semifinals, while Vaidehi will be up against qualifier Sharmada Balu, who was ruthless against Reshma Maruri.  The results: Men: Quarterfinals: Niki Poonacha bt Prithvi Sekhar 6-4, 6-2; Paras Dahiya bt Rishi Reddy 7-6(6), 6-3; Nitin Kumar Sinha bt S.D. Prajwal Dev 6-4, 6-4; Digvijay Pratap Singh bt Siddharth Vishwakarma 7-5, 6-7(5), 6-3.   Doubles: Semifinals: S.D. Prajwal Dev & Niki Poonacha bt Paras Dahiya & Ishaque Eqbal 6-4, 7-5; Chandril Sood & Lakshit Sood bt Ajay Malik & Karan Singh 7-5, 6-4.   Women: Quarterfinals: Zeel Desai bt Shrivalli Bhamidipaty 7-6(4), 6-1; Sai Samhitha bt Vanshita Pathania 6-4, 6-0; Sharmada Balu bt Reshma Maruri 6-0, 6-3; Vaidehi Chaudhari bt Akanksha Nitture 4-6, 6-2, 6-3.   Doubles: Semifinals: Sharmada Balu & Sravya Shivani bt Nidhi Chilumula & Snehal Mane 6-1, 3-6, [10-7]; Vaidehi Chaudhari & Mihika Yadav bt Yubrani Banerjee & Rishika Sunkara 6-3, 7-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/digvijay-stops-siddharth-paras-gets-past-rishi/article37223549.ece
29 October 2021||Vallecas (Spain),||Barca sacks Koeman after Vallecano debacle||Real Madrid returned to the top of La Liga on Wednesday, despite being held to a goalless draw by Osasuna, but Barcelona dropped to ninth after losing 1-0 to Rayo Vallecano, with Radamel Falcao scoring the winner. But the result was enough for Barcelona to sack coach Ronald Koeman. The club is close to finalising Xavi Hernandez’s long-anticipated return as coach, according to various reports in the Catalan press on Thursday, with B team coach Sergi Barjuan put in temporary charge. Barca president Joan Laporta was reportedly in talks with Xavi —currently coach of Qatari club Al Sadd — about the vacant position on Thursday morning. Madrid jumps above Sevilla, Real Betis and Real Sociedad — all four of them with 21 points — on goal difference while Osasuna sits sixth after extending its strong start to the season. Barcelona now sits ninth in La Liga, six points off the top and, most concerning for the board, the gap growing between it and the top four.  The results: La Liga: Rayo Vallecano 1 (Falcao 30) bt Barcelona 0; Real Mallorca 1 (Sanchez 22) drew with Sevilla 1 (Lamela 73); Real Betis 4 (Iglesias 14-pen, 30, Pezzela 61, Juanmi 68) bt Valencia 1 (Gabriel Paulista 39); Real Madrid 0 drew with Osasuna 0.   Serie A: Cagliari 1 (Pavoletti 52) lost to Roma 2 (Ibanez 71, Pellegrini 78); Empoli 0 lost to Inter Milan 2 (D’Ambrosio 34, Dimarco 66); Juventus 1 (McKennie 76) lost to Sassuolo 2 (Frattesi 44, Lopez 90+5); Lazio 1 (Pedro 52) bt Fiorentina 0; Sampdoria 1 (Caputo 10) lost to Atalanta 3 (Zapata 17, 21, Ilicic 90+5); Udinese 1 (Success 3) drew with Verona 1 (Bral 83-pen) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barca-sacks-koeman-after-vallecano-debacle/article37223553.ece
29 October 2021||DUBAI,||India would look to give Shastri a fitting farewell||M.S. Dhoni returning to India’s dressing room — debuting in a non-playing member capacity — for the T20 World Cup must have put a wide smile on head coach Ravi Shastri’s face. After all, for much of the seven-year duration — divided in two stints and with different designations — Shastri has preferred to remain in the shadow of someone, be it Dhoni or Virat Kohli. Eyeing strong comeback As Shastri is set to sign off his glorious career at the helm of Team India — often marred by the exaggerated memes on social media about his off-the-field image — the gritty allrounder would be as eager as anyone else in the Indian contingent for the team to make a strong comeback after the loss to Pakistan. After all, despite achieving stupendous success with the team, especially the Test team consistently starting to win overseas, an ICC Trophy has been missing from Shastri and Kohli’s much-acclaimed combo. Starting with the 2015 World Cup, when Shastri was the Team Director, he has been a part of India’s coaching staff at every ICC tournament, except the 2017 Champions Trophy. Stumbling However, in none of his four previous attempts the team has not crossed the final hurdle. Despite leading the inaugural ICC Test Championship league table, India stumbled against New Zealand in the final earlier this year. And in the three limited overs’ tournaments where he has been the guiding force, India has failed to cross the semifinal hurdle. India opted to skip training yet again on Thursday. With less than 72 hours remaining for the must-win clash against New Zealand on Sunday, Shastri, the great motivator, would be focussed on ensuring a relatively young bunch (in terms of international experience) does not think too far ahead.  Despite his image on social media, the cricketers who have been under Shastri’s wings admit that he has been as good as anyone else when it comes to helping them with 3Ts — technique, tactics and temperament. Shastri, over the couple of years, has tried his best to downplay the silverware of an ICC trophy while speaking about the achievements of his group. But knowing the fierce personality that Shastri is, he would keen to sing the last hurrah with India becoming the T20 World Cup champion. After all, Champion of Champions has been a tag associated with Shastri the cricketer for almost four decades now. While underlining the evolution of India’s men in the last five years, even captain Kohli admitted that winning the World Cup is the ultimate goal for him and Shastri. “Winning an ICC tournament will definitely be a wonderful moment for all of us, for him as coach, for me as captain. “It’ll be an amazing achievement and something that we are obviously motivated for and we’ll give everything we have,” Kohli had said last week. India’s men will be desperate to give their beloved coach a fitting farewell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-would-look-to-give-shastri-a-fitting-farewell/article37223983.ece
29 October 2021||DUBAI,||Old teams can retain four, three early picks for new IPL franchises||The two new IPL franchises are set to be offered pre-auction selection through a player draft ahead of IPL 2022. The objective is to make it a level-playing field with the existing eight franchises, who are likely to be allowed to retain up to four players before the mega auction scheduled for January 2022.  The Hindu understands that after the RPSG Group (Lucknow) and CVC Capital (Ahmedabad) joined the IPL bandwagon on Monday, the representatives of the teams were told that they can pick three players each between the deadline for the player retention and the auction. It has been learnt that both the new franchises have asked the BCCI that they be allowed to pick the same number of players (4) as the other franchises are allowed to retain. It will be interesting to see if the IPL authorities accept the demand of the new team owners to pick four players ahead of the auction. The players for the draft for the two teams will obviously be done once the existing eight teams finalise their retention. Like in 2017, the BCCI is set to offer each of the eight teams a maximum of four players, including two overseas cricketers, from the 2021 roster. The IPL is set to increase the purse for each squad from Rs. 85 crore to Rs. 95 crore for IPL 2022. The retained players as well as the draft picks’ fees will be deducted from the available auction purse. The formal communication detailing the deadline for retentions, player fee for each retention and the auction purse, along with the tentative auction date, is likely to be sent to the franchises the coming week. The retention and pre-auction selection will be interesting since a majority of franchises will be on the look-out for new captains. At the moment, only Mumbai Indians and Delhi Capitals are not looking for a new skipper while Chennai Super Kings will be hoping that M.S. Dhoni will make himself available as a player for yet another edition.  After the retained players’ list is finalised, the new franchises will get first choice from the rest of the pool ahead of the auction||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/old-teams-can-retain-four-three-early-picks-for-new-ipl-franchises/article37223987.ece
29 October 2021||DUBAI,||Pakistan faces the Afghanistan test||Pakistan will look to move closer to a semifinal spot at the ICC T20 World Cup when it takes on Afghanistan in a Group 2 Super 12 game on Friday. Pakistan has played 13 T20Is in the UAE since 2016, winning all of them. Babar Azam’s men will start favourites against Mohammed Nabi’s Afghanistan, which began its campaign with a 130-run win over Scotland. Mujeeb Ur Rahman, with his variety of off-breaks, googlies and carrom balls, finished with five for 20. Such was its dominance that by the time Rashid Khan, the No. 3-ranked T20I bowler in the world, came on to bowl, Afghanistan was already on course for a big win. On the attack Its batters were equally impressive, racking up a total of 190 — its highest in a T20 World Cup. The innings comprised a whopping 13 fours and 11 sixes. Rahmanullah Gurbaz and Najibullah Zadran added a quickfire 87 for the third wicket. Mohammad Shahzad’s return as Hazratullah Zazai's opening partner has given the side a fillip. However, against Pakistan, Afghanistan’s batters have to contend with a bowling attack of outstanding pedigree and variety. Shaheen Afridi and Haris Rauf offer swing and pace while Hasan Ali and Imad Wasim bring control. Then there's the wily leggie Shadab Khan. Pakistan’s batting is headlined by the in-form opening pair of Babar and Mohammad Rizwan. Shoaib Malik's experience came to the fore in the chase against New Zealand, and in Asif Ali, Pakistan has a reliable finisher. Despite facing a strong opponent, Rashid is confident of a good show. “We want to give the kind of performances where fans back home can have joy and celebrate,” said Rashid. Afghanistan will hope to bring more smiles to people come Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-faces-the-afghanistan-test/article37223993.ece
29 October 2021||TUNIS,||Sathiyan in last eight||G. Sathiyan stormed into the men’s singles quarterfinals of the World Table Tennis Contender Tunis with an 11-6, 11-9, 11-9 win over Ibrahima Diaw of Senegal on Thursday. The 28-year-old had also reached the semifinals of the men’s doubles and mixed doubles events. Partnering Harmeet Desai, Sathiyan defeated the Hungarian pair of Patrik Juhasz and Bence Majoros 12-10, 11-7, 10-12, 11-6. He then joined hands with Manika Batra to get past France’s Alexandra Cassin and Prithika Pavade 11-8, 7-11, 8-11, 11-4, 11-8. However, Sharath Kamal and Manav Thakkar went down to Nandor Ecseki and Adam Szudi of Hungary.  The results: Singles (pre-quarterfinal): G. Sathiyan bt Ibrahima Diaw (Sen) 11-6, 11-9, 11-9.   Double (quarterfinals): Men's doubles: Sathiyan & Harmeet Desai bt Patrik Juhasz & Bence Majoros (Hun) 12-10, 11-7, 10-12, 11-6; Nandor Ecseki & Adam Szudi (Hun) bt Sharath Kamal & Manav Thakkar 11-6, 11-9, 7-11, 13-11.   Mixed doubles: Sathiyan & Manika Batra bt Alexandra Cassin & Prithika Pavade (Fra) 11-8, 7-11, 8-11, 11-4, 11-8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/good-day-for-sathiyan/article37223998.ece
29 October 2021||Poitiers (France),||Prarthana advances||India’s Prarthana Thombare and Lara Sailden of Belgium defeated Flavie Brugnone and Lucie Wargnier of France 6-4, 3-6, [10-7] to reach the doubles semifinals of the $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament here. In the same tournament, qualifier Karman Kaur Thandi lost 7-5, 7-5 to Estelle Cascino in the first round. In the ITF women’s event in Tunisia, qualifier Jennifer Luikham downed fifth seed Chiara Catini of Italy 5-7, 6-3, 6-1 in the first round, but was outplayed in the pre-quarterfinals by Lucija Ciric Bagaric of Croatia.  The results: $15,000 ITF Monastir: Men: Pre-quarterfinals: Simon Beaupain (Bel) bt Sidharth Rawat 1-6, 7-6(5), 6-3.   Women: Pre-quarterfinals: Lucija Ciric Bagaric (Cro) bt Jennifer Luikham 6-0, 6-3; First round: Jennifer Luikham bt Chiara Catini (Ita) 5-7, 6-3, 6-1; Natalia Orlova (Rus) bt Bhuvana Kalva 6-3, 6-4; Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Jennifer Ruggeri & Arianna Zucchini (Ita) bt Selya Rakki (Fra) & Jennifer Luikham 6-4, 6-3.   $25,000 ITF women, Poitiers: First round: Estelle Cascino (Fra) bt Karman Kaur Thandi 7-5, 7-5; Doubles (quarterfinals): Lara Sailden (Bel) & Prarthana Thombare bt Flavie Brugnone & Lucie Wargnier (Fra) 6-4, 3-6, [10-7]; Pre-quarterfinals: Lara & Prarthana bt Julia Grabher (Aut) & Simona Waltert (Sui) 6-2, 7-6(10).   $15,000 ITF women, Antalya, Turkey: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Ziben El Ouazzani (Mar) & Rosa Vicens Mas (Esp) bt Sonia Cassani (Ita) & Annika Kannan 6-3, 2-6, [10-4] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prarthana-thombare-in-doubles-semifinals/article37224041.ece
29 October 2021||Belgrade,||Berwal enters pre-quarterfinals||Indian boxer Narender Berwal (+92kg) stormed into the pre-quarterfinals of the AIBA men’s World Championships after out-classing Sierra Leone’s Mohamed Kendeh in a second-round contest here on Thursday. Berwal thoroughly dominated his imposing rival, who just could not connect for most part of the bout and struggled with his movement as well. The Indian, making his debut at the big event, was the sharper of the two and did well not to come in the line of the heavy punches Kendeh could have thrown had he been more agile. Kendeh’s sluggish footwork, inability to either defend himself or launch any attack of note eventually forced the referee to hand him a standing eight count a minute and a half into the third round. However, late last night, another debutant Varinder Singh (60kg) was forced to give a walkover to Karen Tonakanyan of Armenia as he was down with high fever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/berwal-enters-pre-quarterfinals/article37224043.ece
29 October 2021||New Delhi,||Nihal and Gukesh win||Nihal Sarin and D. Gukesh scored over lower-ranked rivals while Arjun Erigaisi held sixth seeded Russian Andrey Esipenko in the opening round of the $425,000 FIDE Grand Swiss chess tournament in Riga, Latvia, on Wednesday. In the women’s section, R. Vaishali was the lone Indian to begin her campaign with a win.  First-round results (involving Indians): Open: Arjun Erigaisi drew with Andrey Esipenko (Rus); P. Harikrishna drew with Vladislav Kovalev (FIDE); B. Adhiban drew with S.P. Sethuraman; Gabriel Sargissian (Arm) drew with R. Praggnanandhaa; Surya Shekhar Ganguly drew with Sanan Sjugirov (Rus); Raunak Sadhwani drew with Ivan Cheparinov (Bul); Nihal Sarin bt Kiril Georgiev (Mkd); D. Gukesh bt Antenaina Rakotomaharo (Mad); Miezis Normunds (Lat) drew with K. Sasikiran.   Women: D. Harika drew with Nataliya Buksa (Ukr); Padmini Rout lost to Zhu Jiner (Chn); Vantika Agarwal drew with Batkhuyag Munguntuul (Mgl); Jolanta Zawadzka (Pol) drew with Divya Deshmukh; Jesse Nikki February (RSA) lost to R. Vaishali .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nihal-and-gukesh-win/article37224001.ece
29 October 2021||DUBAI,||de Kock apologises, will take a knee in future||South Africa’s Quinton de Kock has apologised for refusing to take the knee in his team’s Twenty20 World Cup match and said he would be “happy” to do it.” “I would like to start by saying sorry to my teammates, and the fans back home,” de Kock said in a statement on Thursday. “I never ever wanted to make this a Quinton issue. I understand the importance of standing against racism, and I also understand the responsibility of us as players to set an example. “If me taking a knee helps to educate others, and makes the lives of others better, I am more than happy to do so.” Mixed race family de Kock explained he comes from a mixed race family with his half-sisters being coloured and his stepmother is black. “For me, Black lives have mattered since I was born. Not just because there was an international movement,” said the 28-year-old. de Kock pulled out of Tuesday’s match against holders West Indies for “personal reasons”, defying orders from Cricket South Africa (CSA) to their players on following the anti-racism gesture. Cricket South Africa welcomed the move and said, “The Proteas men’s team agreed to align and unify in taking the knee for the remaining fixtures of the World Cup campaign.” The board added their stance against racism “is a moral issue, not a political issue”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-kock-apologises-will-take-a-knee-in-future/article37223996.ece
29 October 2021||London,||Big guns fire blanks||Manchester City’s four-year reign as English League Cup titleholder is over. It lost 5-3 to West Ham in a penalty shootout in the last 16 on Wednesday after the game finished 0-0 after 90 minutes at the London Stadium. Shell-shocked Bayern Munich suffered its heaviest defeat in the German Cup when its star-studded team was thrashed 5-0 at Borussia Monchengladbach. Full-strength Bayern conceded the first goal after just 71 seconds and was 3-0 down with 21 minutes played as Gladbach made a lightning start. It was the first time for 27 years Bayern has conceded so many goals so early in any competition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/big-guns-fire-blanks/article37223552.ece
29 October 2021||DUBAI,||Holder replaces McCoy||Defending champion West Indies called up former skipper Jason Holder to its T20 World Cup squad on Wednesday after fast bowler Obed McCoy suffered a right leg injury.  Holder, who has 199 West Indies caps including 27 T20I appearances to his name, was one of the permitted travelling reserves in the UAE. He will be available for West Indies’ game against Bangladesh on Friday. Both teams have lost both matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/holder-replaces-mccoy/article37223999.ece
29 October 2021||KOCHI:,||Manasa sparkles as Kozhikode enters final||Two goals from Manasa, both off brilliant freekicks in a six-minute spell in the first-half, helped Kozhikode defeat Malappuram 2-1 and enter the final of the 23rd State senior inter-district women’s football championship at the Maharaja’s Stadium here on Thursday. Both the freekicks, the first from the left of the box and the other a long-ranger from the front, curled in nicely and foxed the Malappuram goalkeeper K.T. Anjitha. Malappuram had taken the lead a few minutes earlier through P. Anagha, who smartly dodged two defenders as she received a long pass from the left from T. Mufeena and cooly ran into the box to outwit Kozhikode goalkeeper Keerthana with a diagonal shot. Thrissur, riding on Vinitha Vijayan two goals, beat Pathanamthitta 4-2 in the other semifinal. The final will be played on Friday.  The results (semifinals): Kozhikode 2 (Manasa 17, 23) bt Malappuram 1 (P. Anagha 11); Thrissur 4 (C. Sivisha 26, Vinitha Vijayan 34, 72, Abhirami 58) bt Pathanamthitta 2 (Jyothika 25, T. Nikhila 72) .    Top-seeded Mohammed Arshad and second seed Athul Kishore entered the semifinals of the Kerala State senior billiards and snooker championship at the Club Yolo here on Thursday. While Ernakulam’s Arshad had it easy, his District-mate Athul was forced to sweat.  The results:   Billiards (100-up, best of three): Mohammed Arshad (Gym, Ekm) bt V.A. Anoob (Ekm) 2-0 (101-36, 102-57); Athul Kishore (CMP, Ekm) bt Mohammed Ali (Ktm) 2-0 (100-99, 100-99); Mohammed Sajeer (Knr) bt M. Midhun (Koz) 2-1 (69-101, 101-81, 102-83); T. Aabid (Knr) bt K.P. Shaan (Knr) 2-0 (103-78, 101-79).   Snooker (best of five): V.A. Anoob (Ekm) bt Namzad Nizamudheen (Klm) 3-0 (92-0, 75-22, 58-13); Shaloof Hassan (Koz) bt Shahid Mohammed (Tvm) 3-0 (68-48, 65-20, 62-8); Joshy Joseph (Ekm) bt H.N. Ashik (Klm) 3-1 (48-8, 45-55, 46-21, 59-24) .    M.T. Abhilash has been appointed as the head coach of the upcoming SAIGAF swimming academy here. Abhilash, who holds a level 3 certificate of American Swimming Coaches Association, has trained champion swimmers like Advait Page, Kanya Nayyar, Annie Jain, Param Brithare. and many other swimmers.   The Trivandrum Tennis Club (TTC) and Indus Cycling Embassy (ICE) will jointly conduct a cycle ride in the city to popularise tennis and promote the campaign Tennis & Fitness for Good Health . The 10km ride will start from Vellayambalam and end at the TTC, touching all the major landmarks in the city. The TTC is providing affordable tennis coaching facility to youngsters and is one of the oldest tennis clubs in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manasa-sparkles-as-kozhikode-enters-final/article37224349.ece
29 October 2021||KADAPA:,||andhra scores||B. Sujhan’s unbeaten 105 (202b, 17x4) helped ACA XI score 239 for eight in reply to South Zone’s 286 at close on the second day of the ACA inter-zonal (under-19) three-day championship match at YSRR-ACA Stadium on Thursday.  The scores: North Zone 472 in 109.4 overs (M. Yuvan 89, T. Deepu Bhargav 63, K.S.N. Raju 3/45) vs. Central Zone 151/3 in 57 overs (K.S.N. Raju 71, Ch. Pavan Karthikeya 32).   South Zone 286 in 104.5 overs (Madhav 65, Chanti 3/57, Mallikarjun 3/66) vs. ACA XI 239/8 in 68 overs (B. Sujhan 105 batting, Samanvith 34, P. Narayana 3/49, Madhav 3/32).    Nellore drubbed Prakasam 12-0 in the league phase of the Andhra inter-district football tournament for senior men.  The results:   Nellore bt Prakasam 12-0; Visakhapatnam bt Chittoor 2-0; West Godavari bt Vizianagaram 2-1; East Godavari 0 drew with Krishna 0; Guntur 0 drew with Srikakulam 0.    M.D. Jagan of Southern Railway clinched the 81kg honours with a combined lift of 165kg in clean and jerk and snatch at the all-India RPF weightlifting championship at ECORSA Sports Complex on Thursday.  The results: Men: 61kg: 1. M. Ganesh (ECoR) 161kg, 2. Sachin (RPSF), 3, Tapas Biswas (ER); 67kg: 1. M. Kalidas (SR) 120kg, 2. M. Suri Babu (ECoR), 3. M. Sambasiva Rao (SCR, Sec’bad); 77kg: 1. Pramodh Kumar (CR) 135kg, 2. Preetam (RPSF); 81kg: 1. M.D. Jagan (SR) 165kg, 2. Sajal (ER), 3. K. Sangamesh (SWR); 89kg: 1. S.K. Biswas (ER) 175kg, 2. Manish (SCR), 3. Md. Javed (ER); 96kg: 1. Arun Kumar (CR) 218kg; 102 kg: 1. A. Sudhakar Rao (SCR) 110kg; 109kg: 1. Asim Halder (ER) 180kg, 2. S. Vijay Kumar (SR); 109kg & above: 1. Shekar Chatterjee (ER) 160kg, 2. E. Joseph Kiruba (SR), 3. Imdad Khan (CR). Women: 55kg: 1. Ruby (NR); 64kg: J. Subasri (SCR); 71kg: 1. Priyanka (SCR) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/andhra-scores/article37224476.ece
29 October 2021||Mysuru,||Raaj at the helm||R. Raaj will lead Mysore Zone U-16 team in the KSCA inter-zonal tournament to be held at Bengaluru from Nov. 2.  The squad: R. Raaj (capt.), P. Hrishikesh, M. Kanishk, Mohammed Daniyal Shariff, M.D. Ayush, Gaghaan Prem, P. Thejas, Yashas S. Rao, Manjunath Gowda, M.C. Samarth, H. Amogh, Rajashekar Swamy, Roshan Raju, Santhosh Kumar, Shiven Gowda. Coach: N. Bharath, Manager: N.J. Gowtham .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/raaj-at-the-helm/article37224423.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 08:11 IST,||Sudoku — October 29, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-29-2021/article37224692.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A pat for the Patola||Weaving is such a precise and mathematical process that textile revivalist Belaa Sanghvi is in the process of creating a new series of Gujarat’s famous Patola sari using the Fibonacci number series. “It will be a weft-only Patola and creates asymmetrical designs,” says Belaa on her recent visit to Bengaluru. Various weavers the world over have used the Fibonacci series before for various textiles, but it is probably a first for the Patola. Belaa collaborated with Bengaluru-based cultural activist Chandra Jain and fashion entrepreneur Yashodhara Shroff for a discussion on The Mystery of the Patola at the BIC. Belaa also later showed her label at the ffolio store just in time for the Deepavali festive season. The Mumbai-based handloom revivalist and researcher at present works with eight weaver clusters across Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. She came into the limelight for her revival of the Ashawal weave, but is a name synonymous with the Patan Patola saree. She broke into the patriarchal weaving community by offering them weaving challenges for which they had to come back to her for solutions, she says. “Consumers are becoming more aware of handloom. That is vital for ensuring markets. If the consumer has information, they understand and are willing to pay more to the karigar (weaver), which translates to better skills and execution.” Newer experiments A tie up with jewellery brand Voylla resulted in a series of Patola textile-based jewellery. “I’m a purist until the number of weavers practising Patola is limited,” says Belaa, indicating that she is open to experimentation. She is still in the initial phase of around three collaborative projects to produce upholstery, jewellery, and bed linen using the Patola weave. “For creating bed linen, we will first have to calculate changes and manufacture larger looms.” Where areweavers headed “We live in a country where employment schemes to break stones pay four times more money than spinning khadi. This is an issue plaguing the entire handloom industry.” Belaa gives an example of the situation in Kanchipuram district (the hub of Kanjeevaram silk saree weaving), where automobile factories pay more with free meals and transport. “Why will anyone not take up such a job?” she argues, stating that hardly 20% of the weavers in the district remain now in the weaving profession. She admits it is also not right to stop a weaver from aspiring for a better quality of life. She talks of a similar situation in Gujarat with new technologies and options available. Weavers around her are dabbling online in stocks and shares — an easier and faster way of making money. She elaborates with the example of Patola weavers — on an average a weaver, depending on his skill, earns a minimum of Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 per month and a maximum of around Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000. When they create a better quality piece, they get a better price. The raw material for the yarn to make a Patola silk saree costs Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 30,000. Making a Patola is a complex and mathematical precision process where once the design is decided, the yarn has to be tie-dyed pre-weaving, according to the entire pattern. A good quality double (warp and weft) Patola sari takes sometimes over a year to weave. “At present there are about five weaving families in Patan district in Gujarat who work with me. They are teaching others. Most of them have one of the three necessary skills – yarn making, tying and dyeing, and weaving. It is rare for a weaver to have all three.” She also points out how we have such misnomers when we say that Patola is only Gujarati. “It is world heritage. No weaver outside this small region can weave a Patola.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-pat-for-the-patola/article37223831.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The evergreen romantic hero||He is known as the Lovely Star Prem and his film, Premam Poojyam releases today (October 29). The actor, known for his lover boy image on screen in Kannada films, once again dons the romantic hat for Premam Poojyam . The film also features Brinda Acharya and Aindrita Ray and is directed by Dr Raghavendra. This films is his 25th release in Kannada and about Premam Poojyam , he states: “I play a lover boy again, but, the only difference in this film is that the character also matures in the story as it covers his journey from 18 to mid- 40s. Besides romance, the film is also about bonding and includes a lot of sentiments,” say the actor who started off his career with TN Seetharam’s Manvanthara on the small screen. He says he is “happy in the way the OTT and TV is booming today. It is good for a producer as he gets many platforms to stream his film besides theatres. But, as an actor, I tend to lean towards the cinema theatre, specially single screens. They are also a part of our family and need to be kept alive. Hence, I believe a balance between watching films on OTT and theatres will be great.” And the actor also observes that “Almost every one is doubled vaccinated and theatres are also taking every care to sanitise the place after every show. So looking forward to life and cinema slowly chugging back to normalcy,” says Prem, who is also known as ‘Nenapirali’ (his debut film by the same name, directed by R Chandru) Prem. Ask him if the prefix has forced him to don the lover boy image on screen and he responds, “Cinema is my livelihood and if people like to see me as a lover boy on screen, I have to do it without complaining. After all they make the effort, spending time and money to come and watch us. Hence, its my duty to deliver what is expected of me. But, then again, that will not restrict me from exploring other roles either.” Besides this, he is also a part of a film on Field Marshal Cariappa. “There has not been much development there but the logistics -- like the research, seeking permission for the shoot in historical places -- have all been done. I am looking forward to this film as it is based on true life events. I suddenly feel like a child as I have to study about the renowned Field Marshal and his place in history.” This film will be directed by Raghavendra, who has also directed Premam Poojyam . Besides cinema, Prem is also passionate about weaving. Hailing from a family of weavers, Prem watched his father, Basappa, work on the family power-looms. “I am proud of my heritage and my entire family is into weaving. I am also passionate about handlooms and worked for 13 years in that field, reviving and learning every nuance of the craft from my father. In fact, I managed our family looms. But sustenance was tough. Our weavers are skilled and create exquisite textiles, but lack marketing skills. When we were in dire straits I shifted to acting. Soon, I hope to do something for the weaving and textile community. But, today people are aware of what they wear, but weavers need to learn to expose their crafts and products as the overseas market is great for such products.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-evergreen-romantic-hero/article37223835.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Festive hampers and treats||With Deepavali around the corner,The Leela Bhartiya City Bengaluruhas come up with a range of hampers called Signatures by The Leela. This includes handcrafted sweets by Chef JP Singh and features chocolates, mithai , luxury collection, and more. The gift boxes are priced at Rs. 1,500 plus taxes. To buy your box dial 7411782463.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/festive-hampers-and-treats/article37223852.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Blessed are the cheesemakers||After 15 years of making cheese, the monks of Vallombrosa Bendictine Congregation were determined to keep going, despite through the challenges of the pandemic. Sold under the brand name Vallombrosa Cheese, named after the order’s monastery in Tuscany, Italy, the venture produces 10 kinds of artisanal cheese. Although many restaurants and hotels, their main customers, downed shutters, word-of-mouth publicity for their brand ensured that there were buyers right at home in Bengaluru. “About 60 apartment complexes in Bengaluru buy from us directly, a service that we began during the lockdown. We have our own delivery staff and that kept us going during the lockdown, helping us pay the wages of our workers and preventing any layoffs,” says Father Jins, present head of the Vallombrosa Bendictine Congregation at KR Puram in Bengaluru. Reducing the production of soft cheese like mozzarella and ricotta, some of their bestsellers, they increased production of hard cheese such as Parmesan and Pecorino which keeps better and tastes better with age. In the meantime, the congregation also started a goat farm in Hosur to procure milk for goat cheese. Prior to the lockdown, goat milk was supplied from their centre in Kottayam. “It stopped during the lockdown. That is when we began the farm to ensure continuous supply of 40 to 50 litres of goat milk,” says Fr Jins. Post lockdown, the small unit will have to ramp up their production as major customers and premium hotel chains have resumed buying cheese from them. “At present, we make cheese from about 700 to 800 litres. Our quality is our best publicity.” In 2004, Father KL Michael, who hails from Kottayam, Kerala, recreated the Italian cheese-making process in Bengaluru. During his eight-year stay in Vallombrosa, near Florence in Italy, headquarters of the Vallombrosan Bendictine monks, Fr Michael visited cheese-making centres in and around Tuscany and Naples. “Naples is famous for buffalo mozzarella while North Italy is well-known for hard cheese. In 2000, I returned to India and took charge of Gualbert Bhavan in Bengaluru. Each house of ours is supposed to be financially sustainable. Our motto is ‘pray and work’. Hence, I tried to think of a way to be financially independent that also involved manual work,” recalls the 48-year-old. An Italian friend of his, a businessman, suggested that Fr Michael could make cheese, as good Italian cheese was hard to come by in India. So, he returned to Italy and in a month’s time was trained to make cheese in Naples. “It is not easy to train in these places as they are not keen on sharing trade secrets. With the help of our monastery, they permitted me to learn from them,” he says. Armed with the training and notes, he returned to Gaulbert House. Through trial and error, he began cheese making with buffalo milk procured from farms in the vicinity. “In 2004, we exported second hand machinery from Italy and began on a small scale. The vegetarian culture to curdle the milk is also bought from Italy although we were able to buy it from North India during the lockdown.” Vallombrosa Cheese now makes the much-in-demand Burrata, mozzarella, Parmesan, Pecorino, ricotto, bocconcini, mascarpone, cheddar and Caciotta. Once the cheese making started, they began to look for buyers. Fr Jins remembers that they were able to get a foothold in the market only in 2006 when Chef Manjit Singh, currently the President of the Indian Federation of Culinary Associations and an influential chef at ITC Hotels, helped them with the first big order and spread the word around about the quality of their cheese. Soon, big hotel chains such as the Taj, Oberoi and Mariott became regular customers. “It was during the lockdown that we started directly selling to customers,” says Fr Jins. Their top-seller, he says, is Burrata, a creamy cheese which has customers in Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Kolkata and Kochi asking for more. At present, there are four monks and 10 staffers making cheese. Fr Jins says that what makes the cheese special is that they add no preservatives, and also the fact that the taste has not changed over the last 15 years.  It was Chef Manjit Singh who helped with the first big order and spread the word around about the quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/blessed-are-the-cheesemakers/article37223857.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Wow, what a m||Letting go is hard. No wonder Gayatri Gandhi sometimes finds herself in a tug of war with her clients, trying to make them get rid of possessions that do not serve them any more. This could be anything from an empty box of detergent to rusted kadais that are half a century old, says Gayatri, a professional organiser and India’s first certified KonMari consultant. Gayatri has trained to professionally organise homes using the KonMari method propagated by Japanese organising consultant, author and host Marie Kondo (who first became famous for her book The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up in 2011). She launched Joy Factory in 2017 to help people “detach and discard” items they no longer need. “The level of attachment people have with their items is too much,” she says, discussing the most challenging aspect of her job over a call from Delhi, where she is based. “They have 100 reasons as to why they should keep an item,” she laughs. Prachi Chowla, a former chartered accountant who started Smiling Spaces, a decluttering and organising service in Bengaluru agrees. “As Indians we get attached to our belongings and see decluttering as a waste of money. Counselling the client is the hardest task. This is why before I start with any new client, I first do complimentary sessions to discuss hoarding and talk about how decluttering can benefit them,” says Prachi. Inspired by the Netflix series Tidying up with Marie Kondo , Prachi says she decided to apply the principles to organise her clothes first, and then her home. “I was amazed at how my guests visiting us felt peaceful in the house. My family never has to spend time looking for things as there is a home for everything in the house. Many of my friends asked for my help to organise their homes too and that is when I found my true calling as a consultant under Marie Kondo,” says Prachi who trained under Marie’s senior consultants in Los Angeles. Marie herself conducted one session. “Before I could enrol, I had to organise my entire house as per Marie’s principle and share photos of the reorganisation. After the course I had to organise two homes and share detailed reports on that with the trainers. And finally before becoming a KonMari consultant in 2019, I had to write an exam and attend an interview,” she explains. These consultants help clients get rid of unwanted things, organise their homes and label designated areas for belongings. “It involves a bit of counselling as sometimes people hold on to hand-me-downs for emotional reasons. I always tell them to retain an item if it sparks joy, else give it away,” explains Gayatri, who trained with Marie in New York in 2017. “One of the most wonderful aspects was how 110 of us from different parts of the world had come together to find a common goal with such a simple act of decluttering and tidying,” she says. Professional organisers and decluttering experts are getting increasingly popular across the world, especially after the pandemic and lockdowns, which resulted in people spending more time at home. It has also given rise to virtual decluttering sessions. Via video calls, professional organisers help clients tidy their home, as they talk them through the process. Continued on page 2 Continued from page 1 “With people confined within four walls for the last year-and-a- half, they want to make their homes the best space. I was receiving two to three requests a week and started helping virtually. Not just homes, I also work with hotels and offices. The philosophy is the same.” Ironically, as someone who practises, and preaches, minimalism, Gayatri loves mess. “I love it because when I see it, I start imagining what it would look like once I am done,” she says, adding, “Often there are homes that look beautiful from the outside with a nice living room. Then, I see the private space and think, ‘Oh God, This is going to be a mammoth task’.” When she launched in India, Gayatri says even her own family did not quite understand the concept. “ Safai karne ja rahi hai ? (Are you going clean a house?)” they would ask. And she would explain, it is decluttering not cleaning. “I had to bring in a change in their mindset,” says Gayatri. Initially there was no market but fortunately, with OTTs playing a number of series on the subject, ( Get Organized With The Home Edit , and more recently The Minimalists: Less is Now ) the concept has been picking up. De-cluttering vs deep cleaning “Now India has nearly 15-20 professional organisers,” says Gayatri, adding that she got her first client in December 2017 in Mumbai. It was a family of four. The lady of the house had just had her second child and needed help organising clothes. Since a lot of homes are smaller in Mumbai, she felt a space crunch. “Once we told her how to fold clothes, she was so fascinated to see how much space she could save. Four months later, she sent pictures of how she had changed all her shelves to drawers as the latter is more conducive to the KonMari style of folding,” explains Gayatri. With Deepavali round the corner, Chennai-based Service Square has seen an uptake in requests for decluttering. Started by Babu Vincent in 2000, Service Square initially offered 150 plus concierge services for 50,000 employees of different companies, but since 2010, its focus has been on providing cleaning services. Early this year, he introduced decluttering services, after he himself embarked on a journey of minimalism. “According to the Pareto principle, 20% of the most important things give us 80% of the results. It is a vital few and trivial many,” he says. Over the years Babu noticed that even though people repeatedly got their homes cleaned, they did not stay that way because of the clutter. “If people really want to keep their homes neat and organised, they need to declutter. Then the place remains tidy for at least six to seven months,” he says, adding that his clientele consists of executives from Chennai, in the 30-to-50 age bracket. Decluttering takes time: the process can take anywhere between six hours to a few days. Expect to get rid of anything from 30% to 50% of your belongings to create wardrobes and cupboards that are more compact, and functional. Sometimes it can also be a 12-hour shift at a stretch. The prices vary depending on the size and space, with some starting at Rs. 3,000 for an hour, while some charge a fixed amount for the whole process. Other than the aesthetic appeal, decluttering has several other benefits. A lot of the things discarded in good condition are sent to charities. “It is a humbling experience when clients truly experience changes in their quality of life like sleeping better or have more time for their hobbies, or even cooking a variety of food,” says Prachi. For Geetha Prasanna, a client of Prachi’s, the whole process of letting go has made her feel lighter. “I was a bit ashamed of my clutter but Prachi never made me feel bad about it,” says 61-year-old Geetha, who has still managed to maintain the house as Prachi arranged it almost two years back. She follows the tweaks, advice and methods shared by the professional organiser. “During the process, I found so many things that were missing for months,” laughs Geetha. Now, her specific kitchen implements are neatly laid out in a drawer, her books are stacked a certain way, and even her petticoats are arranged in a colour-coded manner. Clutter competes for attention. Something as simple as searching for car keys can be stressful when in a hurry. Which is why, decluttering and organising can have a deep impact on our mental and physical state. As Gayatri consults a spate of new clients approaching her to help organise their homes for Deepavali, she explains to them the benefits of decluttering. “It lets you focus on tasks that you want to accomplish. It is a way to control your surroundings. When we take a positive action like organising or decluttering a cupboard or a shelf, we feel more in charge and that is very reassuring.”  Clutter competes for attention. Which is why, decluttering and organising can have a deep impact on our mental and physical state||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/wow-what-a-m/article37223860.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Shoes of Auschwitz||The 4x6 foot photograph showing a sea of shoes stands tall at Kochi’s Durbar Hall Art Gallery. It is a heartbreaking image for several reasons. The shoes featured are remnants of the 1.1 million people killed at the Nazi concentration camps at Auschwitz. This photograph, in addition to 73 others, is part of the exhibition Yours is Not to Reason Why by Bengaluru-based IT entrepreneur, Sudeesh Yezhuvath. The images bring home the horrors of Auschwitz for those who have only read about the Holocaust or seen it in films and documentaries. The concentration camp has been memorialised as the Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial Museum in Poland. What remains of the camp conveys how the Nazi machinery went about killing Jews. Tall watchtowers, barbed wire fencing around paths, red brick buildings on a carpet of green grass — the images communicate an eerie, unnerving stillness. “There was no vegetation when the camp was ‘functioning’, we were told. There were so many people in the three camps, Auschwitz I, II (Birkenau) and III (Monowitz), that there was no space for anything else,” says Sudeesh, who captured these images during a 2018 trip. A different take  While at the Auschwitz Museum, Sudeesh shot these photographs like a normal tourist would. “Usually, when you are at a tourist spot, you see happy, smiling faces. However, not a single person in our batch was smiling.” Being confronted with what he saw at the concentration camp, Sudeesh says, he was apprehensive. “This was not in the distant past or for that matter the Middle Ages. This holocaust happened barely eight decades ago. It is a frightening thought.” An engineer from Palakkad, Kerala, Sudeesh runs an IT company in Bengaluru. He is a photo enthusiast who has been to over 73 countries, he says. He had not originally intended to exhibit these photographs. That suggestion came from his close friend and visual artist Murali Cheeroth, who curated the photographs with Jayaraj Sundaresan who teaches at the London School of Economics. The response to the exhibition has exceeded his expectations, says Sudeesh. “Most people were shaken and many appreciated the photos for their artistic value.” When they wrapped up the tour at the Museum, the tour guide reminded them that “something like this could happen in any country, at any time”. Sudeesh, through these photographs, says he remembers the significance of history. “This is why George Santayana’s quote is displayed at the entrance to the first barrack in Auschwitz: ‘Those who do not remember the past are condemned to repeat it. This is why Auschwitz should remain in our memory,” he concludes.  The exhibition, which opened on October 16, concludes today. He plans to exhibit in Bengaluru too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/shoes-of-auschwitz/article37223819.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Storytelling on the cards||Artist Banamalli Mohapatra is busy creating decks of cards for Deepavali, with cotton saris, squirrel hair brushes and crushed stone colours.  Athrangi ganjifa , with 96 cards hand-painted by Banamalli, puts the spotlight on ganjifa this festive season. One of the world’s oldest playing cards, ganjifa traces its origin back to the 16th Century. Though Persian in origin, over a period of time, the art form embraced the pantheon of Hindu mythology in its expressions. Each card is made through an intricate and long process using old cotton saris that are painted with squirrel hair brushes in crushed stone colours. In the past, ganjifa cards featured paintings of wrestlers, acrobats, swordsmen, musicians, animals and birds. The iconography, however, has changed today and is now largely centred around devotional themes. “It was introduced by the Mughals but the motifs then were influenced by their culture,” says Neeta Shah, GM of Bangalore-based GoCoop, which showcases the cards on its website along with artisan partner organisation, Potli. “They bring to life, mythology, history and social mores,” she adds. As card games are popular on Deepavali, sales are targeted at this time of the year. The cards lend themselves to variations of modern games such as poker and teen patti; the three-card version popular in India. Each suit consists of one king, one wazir, and 10 numbered cards. After shuffling, the cards are placed face down on a white cloth, then divided equally among the players. It also builds a sense of community as these cards tell stories. While the playing ganjifa cards are typically circular, depending on the artist’s imagination, there are rectangular decks too. The cards were originally used for storytelling, but now are marketed as wall panels and coasters as well. “The dasavatar collection did very well during Navratri. The cards are still hand-painted, but we are trying to find a utilitarian value to it, since they highlight a tradition,” says Neeta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/storytelling-on-the-cards/article37223848.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Lying eyes||“There is a dark alley within each of us, no matter how polished we may appear on the outside; a side that is disturbed and fascinated by the morbid,” says author Novoneel Chakraborty, talking about his latest book, Whisper To Me Your Lies (Penguin Random House). While Whisper To Me... might be his 17th novel, Chakraborty says it was his first attempt at penning a murder mystery. “Most of my books have been romantic thrillers and the plot for a hardcore crime thriller had eluded me till now. I always wanted to write one of these because I am a fan of crime movies and novels myself.” “What excites me as a story teller is the emotional quotient of my characters and it took me a while to visualise a plot with this angle for this genre. I believe whenever a crime happens, the trigger, motive or cause is usually a fractured relationship.” Chakraborty says the buzz behind the morbid Debjani De case in Kolkata a few years ago had lingered on in his mind. “I could not stop thinking about that case and though Whisper To Me... is not based on that crime, I pondered on the story of a family and how I could couch it in a crime thriller.” “Within a family the relationship between a mother and son is very different from that of a father and daughter. There is an innate, visceral quality to these relationships and that is what I decided to explore in my book. I’ve also looked at the disarray that ensues when there is an absentee parent and a lack of communication within the members of a family.” Ekantika Pakrashi, the protagonist of Whisper To Me... , is a UPSC hopeful from a small town, who finds herself to be a person of interest in a murder that seems to be the work of a serial killer. “On a visit to Delhi, I noticed a subculture of sorts surrounding the UPSC, its aspirants and coaches. I thought it would be nice to set a story in this background as a deliberate departure from my previous books.” Chakraborty, 36, is a full-time writer and says his process of creating is a bit chaotic. “I figure things out as I go along. Writing has helped me understand myself better. I feel it is important that whatever line of work we are in, we should have evolved a bit from what we last created. I can’t be the same person who wrote my last book — that would be pointless.” His next book which is already underway, is a sequel to his 2010 novel, That Kiss in the Rain . “The book had an open ending and it wasn’t until now that I was ready to explore the fate of those characters.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lying-eyes/article37223813.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Zooming in on life||Bengaluru-based theatre troupe Stagecraft will be presenting, Zoomed In! a set of five plays in an online format on October 30 and 31. Stagecraft was founded in 2015 by Prabahan Chakraborty, a neuro scientist currently based out of France, for the benefit of a group of scientists who wanted to channel their creative side. “We are scientists by day and do plays by night,” says Aditya Vijaykumar, one of the producers of the show.  Zoomed In! is a collection of five short plays written and directed by Prabahan Chakraborty. Conceptualised during the lockdown, the plays were written to suit an online format and a few revolve around different aspects of the pandemic such as loneliness. “They are meant to be performed on Zoom or an online format and it would not be easy to adapt them for the stage. Each play is a standalone one with a duration of 15-20 minutes and genres include satire, science fiction and romance among others. The total run time for the event would be about 90 minutes,” says Aditya. “With cast members living across different time zones, practising for the plays was a challenge,” he says, adding they followed a fixed schedule for over a month so sessions could run smoothly. The Stagecraft troupe comprises 14 members in the age group of 20 to 35, all of whom have participated in all five plays in some capacity or the other. While all the members of Stagecraft are primarily scientists or are related to that field, for the production of Zoomed In! professional theatre actors were invited to audition. Supported by the French Institute in India, the plays feature artistes in three countries and six cities, and first ran in August 2021. StageCraft’s Zoomed In! will run on October 30 and 31 at 5.30 pm and 8 pm (IST). Tickets are available atlinktr.ee/stagecraftncbs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/zooming-in-on-life/article37223840.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Pump up the volume||The latest album by violinist Kumaresh R and veena artiste Jayanthi Kumaresh, Run with SA , with its thumping rhythms and cadence is perfect for workouts. The five-track, 36-minute long album has warm-up tracks, fast-paced and cool down pieces based on Carnatic ragas, garnished with a dash of African Malian phrases, and some Cuban and Brazilian pop. The album was born when someone in the Kumareshs’ walking group spoke of the need to have a playlist while on the run. “The music is composed specially for workouts using the Carnatic raga and tala format,” says Kumaresh. “We perceive rhythm everywhere including in the way our heart beats. It was interesting to match the speed of the music with the rhythm of a workout.” The SA in the name of the album is an acronym for Strings Attached (the Kumareshs’ production house), says Jayanthi. ‘“Sa’ is also a musical note.” The musical duo researched fashioning melody into diverse tempos. “We also researched the exact work-out requirements — the duration, varied pace and stages of workout to ensure the music fitted into the BPM (beats per minute) followed during workouts,” says Kumaresh. Apart from Jayanthi and Kumaresh, percussionist Pramath Kiran on recording, mixing, editing and Shadrach Solomon on the keyboards have brought out the right texture and arrangements for the album. “With regard to the different instruments used, there are about 40 to 50 tracks in each song. They are all sample sounds of various instruments, both melodic and rhythmic, to enhance the soundscape of each track,” says Kumaresh. Carnatic music by default is accommodative to human emotions and expressions, says Kumaresh. “The genre has no restrictive, time-bound or seasonal ragas. We can play or practise any raga at any given time. When we sat to compose for this album, all the phrases, melodies, rhythmic cycles fell into place.” The couple made use of the lockdown to go into a creative overdrive. Jayanthi used the veena to tell stories in her Cup O Carnatic series and Kumaresh set upfiddlingmonk.comwith more than 600 videos on the art of playing the Indian violin.  Track list   ‘Getting in Tune’ – Hamsadwani for a warm-up   ‘Swing with Strings’ – Jazzy Shudha-dhanyasi   ‘Follow the Notes’ – Keeping pace with Nattakurunji   ‘Run with SA’ – Upbeat with shades of Keervani and Simmendramadhyama  ‘Kool with Kamaas’ – For winding up||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pump-up-the-volume/article37223821.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A cause on canvas||An exhibition and sale of art with the theme of “environmental protection” titled Kaliyug 2.0 is on at Chitrakala Parishath. The event, which concludes today at 7.30 pm, features works by Rishikesh Kalyan and Manasa Kalyan — both Class XII students from Thrissur, Kerala. They learnt to paint from Shine Karunakaran and Rishikesh specialises in realistic and modern fine art and has graduated from water colours to acrylic paintings, while Manasa works range from landscape, portrait and still life drawing. She also works with pencil, pastel and texture paintings and wants to specialise in mural paintings. The exhibition is curated by Roshan Bobby, also an artist. The proceeds from the sale will go towards Akshaya Patra Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-cause-on-canvas/article37223833.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Say ‘Boo!’ in Bengaluru||SOCIAL outlets in Koramangala, Church Street and Indiranagar will usher in their Halloween festivities on October 30, with a unique horror theme playing out at each location. Apart from their signature Halloween cocktail, a special line-up of DJs at every outlet will add their surreal offerings to the mix. SOCIAL is encouraging guests to dress up for the event.    Go trick-or-treating with these eerily cute delicacies at Magnolia or sink your teeth into them yourself. While monster cupcakes and spooky cake slices vie for your attention, magnolia is also accepting offers to customise scary cakes with chocolate or vanilla buttercream depending on their design. Magnolia’s Halloween specials will be available till October 31.    Those staying in over the weekend can enjoy Bacardi’s limited edition Halloween special packaged just for the occasion. Apart from the kit which will be available at leading liquor stores in the city, Bombay Adda in Koramangala, Raahi Neo Kitchen & Bar on St Mark’s Road and the Park Hotel in Ashok Nagar are venues for Casa Bacardi’s boos and booze parties on October 30 and 31. Music acts by Mannat Band, Kaleem, VJ Lokie and Ankytrixx Answers are also part of the line-up.    Sip the Witch’s Brew, the Devil’s Margarita or a host of specially crafted drinks paired with a curated Halloween menu at the Gawky Goose this weekend. DJ Rohit Barker and Shiva Manvi will spin their magic on Saturday night, while DJ Ivan present his set on Sunday, following Halloween Brunch. Children can trick-or-treat across tables and pets in outfits are welcome too.    Over the weekend, BLVD Club will be transformed into a haunt for all things Halloween. Enjoy pumpkin carving, a scavenger hunt and a black-and-white themed Sundowner party apart from contests and other activities. Spooky music and a special menu will complete the experience that will unfold keeping in mind all COVID-19 protocols. For reservations call +91 97311 01414.      The Hebbal Cafe, Courtyard By Marriott’s all-day dining restaurant is offering a Halloween brunch on October 31. Feast on Roasted Bat Risotto, Devil’s Chicken, Monster Bones, Spooky Spider Devilled Eggs and much more. Indulge in their curated menu and make it a memorable Halloween. For reservations call +91 9606482968. (It is recommended interested parties call the venues for reservations and additional information)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/say-boo-in-bengaluru/article37223838.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Rockstar paceman||More than the number of wickets Brett Lee got — and he did get quite a few, it is how he bowled that impressed one more. He was... fast. Not 135 kmph fast; not 140 kmph fast; he was 150 kmph fast, often. Occasionally, 155 kmph. A few times even breaching 160 kmph. Batters get less than half a second to react to that kind of speed. In other words, they hardly saw it coming. Brett breathed fire. Sometimes, after shattering the stumps, he would pummel his fists down thrice in celebratory fury. He called it The Chainsaw. It was like a frenzied guitar riff at a hard rock concert. Brett could, however, also play the screeching guitar riff at a rock concert — his rock band Six & Out has made it to the top-100 of the Australian music chart. The fury on the field belies his soft-natured persona off it. He is polite, mostly smiling. Now, though, we mostly see him in the commentary panel. The former Australian pacer discusses pace bowling, the importance of a cricketer having multiple interests, and India’s chances in the ongoing World T20.  Excerpts:-   International cricketers usually retire when they are between 35 and 40. Their autobiographies, which get released soon after, mostly deal with their playing career. So, we rarely get to know the second half of their lives. How has it been for you?  It has been a lot of fun. I have spent the first half of my life travelling around the world, playing the sport I loved, and making a lot of friends. Now it is about enjoying the hard work that has been done. I still enjoy doing my fitness. What I love about the second phase of my life is that I am actually allowed to do things I have always wanted to. I want to enhance my music career, have some fun with it, or enjoy and learn more about wine [Lee is an ambassador of the Australian winemaker Jacob’s Creek].  Speaking of music, what is happening with Six & Out?  Our band was formed in the late ‘90s. We have done over 250 shows around Australia. So, that is a lot of music. We still have it. We have not played a lot of gigs for a while because of COVID-19. (Lee sings and plays bass guitar for the band).  Was it difficult to get used to a life without playing cricket in the initial few years after retirement?  It was not that hard. Throughout my career I made sure I did a number of things. I always had a full-time job. I have been in menswear sales for 25 years. Even after playing a Test match against India, I would come home and be straight back in the menswear store selling suits and shirts and ties and socks. The next job I had was commentary. I took it up even while I was still playing in the Big Bash League. Then there are my interests in music and wine. So, I was actually upskilling myself in other areas and picking up interests so that when cricket was over, I had these things to fall back on.  Do you advise youngsters to pursue other interests as well?  Absolutely. I think it is very important to have other interests. It does not matter what you do — reading or writing books, or music or fashion or photography, but have a second, third, fourth, and fifth passion, because cricket will not last forever. They also help to take pressure off yourself. Playing music, being outdoors and fishing took the pressure off cricket when I was away from the field. So once I was on the field, I was relaxed and enjoying myself.  You, like many other former cricketers, are now a commentator. I am assuming you find it easier to talk about the game than to play it.  Well, sometimes it is harder to get inside a player's mind and see what they are trying to do. I would rather get out on the field and do it myself. Cricket came pretty naturally to me because I enjoyed it. Commentary, meanwhile, can be harder because you are trying to understand another person.  Let’s talk about fast-bowling. Almost every country in the top-five or top-six has at least two good quality fast-bowlers. Would you say this is the best era for pacers?  You think about how much the game has improved. How the batsmen are hitting balls further, how they are playing different shots, running fast. But when you look at the bowler's pace, no one is going past 155 kmph. I wonder if we are training correctly. I want the guys to hit that 160 kmph mark.  What do you make of the young crop of fast bowlers? Who has impressed you the most?  I liked Kartik Tyagi from this IPL. He is got some really good pace, a beautiful action, and a nice run up. So he is one guy that I was impressed with. Anrich Nortje from South Africa has got good pace. Then, there is Kagiso Rabada, of course.  And, finally, who is your pick for the World T20?  I think India has a very good chance. They did not play their best cricket against Pakistan in their first game. But they are the team to beat. Australia also has a great chance to bring home the trophy for the very first time. It is going to be exciting.  It does not matter what you do —have a second, third, fourth, and fifth passion, because cricket will not last forever||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rockstar-paceman/article37223829.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A desi carnival||Soul Sante comes alive on October 31. The concept was first created in 2010 and it brought together the creative culture of India under one roof. This day-long flea market will showcase arts, crafts food, fashion and entertainment (which includes live music). Living Food Company will cater to the foodies with its experiential store, which will offer you a wide range of gourmet fresh produce, bakery, artisanal groceries and kitchen essentials. Besides a live kitchen, they will also launch ready-to-eat salad kits.  Soul Sante begins at 10 am at 1, Jayamahal Road, Near Cantonment Railway Station Road, Nandi Durga Road Extension.   Entry fee is Rs. 250. Get your tickets at bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-desi-carnival/article37223811.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Wow, what a m||Letting go is hard. No wonder Gayatri Gandhi sometimes finds herself in a tug of war with her clients, trying to make them get rid of possessions that do not serve them any more. This could be anything from an empty box of detergent to rusted kadais that are half a century old, says Gayatri, a professional organiser and India’s first certified KonMari consultant. Gayatri has trained to professionally organise homes using the KonMari method propagated by Japanese organising consultant, author and host Marie Kondo (who first became famous for her book The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up in 2011). She launched Joy Factory in 2017 to help people “detach and discard” items they no longer need. “The level of attachment people have with their items is too much,” she says, discussing the most challenging aspect of her job over a call from Delhi, where she is based. “They have 100 reasons as to why they should keep an item,” she laughs. Prachi Chowla, a former chartered accountant who started Smiling Spaces, a decluttering and organising service in Bengaluru agrees. “As Indians we get attached to our belongings and see decluttering as a waste of money. Counselling the client is the hardest task. This is why before I start with any new client, I first do complimentary sessions to discuss hoarding and talk about how decluttering can benefit them,” says Prachi. Inspired by the Netflix series Tidying up with Marie Kondo , Prachi says she decided to apply the principles to organise her clothes first, and then her home. “I was amazed at how my guests visiting us felt peaceful in the house. My family never has to spend time looking for things as there is a home for everything in the house. Many of my friends asked for my help to organise their homes too and that is when I found my true calling as a consultant under Marie Kondo,” says Prachi who trained under Marie’s senior consultants in Los Angeles. Marie herself conducted one session. “Before I could enrol, I had to organise my entire house as per Marie’s principle and share photos of the reorganisation. After the course I had to organise two homes and share detailed reports on that with the trainers. And finally before becoming a KonMari consultant in 2019, I had to write an exam and attend an interview,” she explains. These consultants help clients get rid of unwanted things, organise their homes and label designated areas for belongings. “It involves a bit of counselling as sometimes people hold on to hand-me-downs for emotional reasons. I always tell them to retain an item if it sparks joy, else give it away,” explains Gayatri, who trained with Marie in New York in 2017. “One of the most wonderful aspects was how 110 of us from different parts of the world had come together to find a common goal with such a simple act of decluttering and tidying,” she says. Professional organisers and decluttering experts are getting increasingly popular across the world, especially after the pandemic and lockdowns, which resulted in people spending more time at home. It has also given rise to virtual decluttering sessions. Via video calls, professional organisers help clients tidy their home, as they talk them through the process. Continued on page 2 Continued from page 1 “With people confined within four walls for the last year-and-a- half, they want to make their homes the best space. I was receiving two to three requests a week and started helping virtually. Not just homes, I also work with hotels and offices. The philosophy is the same.” Ironically, as someone who practises, and preaches, minimalism, Gayatri loves mess. “I love it because when I see it, I start imagining what it would look like once I am done,” she says, adding, “Often there are homes that look beautiful from the outside with a nice living room. Then, I see the private space and think, ‘Oh God, This is going to be a mammoth task’.” When she launched in India, Gayatri says even her own family did not quite understand the concept. “ Safai karne ja rahi hai ? (Are you going clean a house?)” they would ask. And she would explain, it is decluttering not cleaning. “I had to bring in a change in their mindset,” says Gayatri. Initially there was no market but fortunately, with OTTs playing a number of series on the subject, ( Get Organized With The Home Edit , and more recently The Minimalists: Less is Now ) the concept has been picking up. De-cluttering vs deep cleaning “Now India has nearly 15-20 professional organisers,” says Gayatri, adding that she got her first client in December 2017 in Mumbai. It was a family of four. The lady of the house had just had her second child and needed help organising clothes. Since a lot of homes are smaller in Mumbai, she felt a space crunch. “Once we told her how to fold clothes, she was so fascinated to see how much space she could save. Four months later, she sent pictures of how she had changed all her shelves to drawers as the latter is more conducive to the KonMari style of folding,” explains Gayatri. With Deepavali round the corner, Chennai-based Service Square has seen an uptake in requests for decluttering. Started by Babu Vincent in 2000, Service Square initially offered 150 plus concierge services for 50,000 employees of different companies, but since 2010, its focus has been on providing cleaning services. Early this year, he introduced decluttering services, after he himself embarked on a journey of minimalism. “According to the Pareto principle, 20% of the most important things give us 80% of the results. It is a vital few and trivial many,” he says. Over the years Babu noticed that even though people repeatedly got their homes cleaned, they did not stay that way because of the clutter. “If people really want to keep their homes neat and organised, they need to declutter. Then the place remains tidy for at least six to seven months,” he says, adding that his clientele consists of executives from Chennai, in the 30-to-50 age bracket. Decluttering takes time: the process can take anywhere between six hours to a few days. Expect to get rid of anything from 30% to 50% of your belongings to create wardrobes and cupboards that are more compact, and functional. Sometimes it can also be a 12-hour shift at a stretch. The prices vary depending on the size and space, with some starting at Rs. 3,000 for an hour, while some charge a fixed amount for the whole process. Other than the aesthetic appeal, decluttering has several other benefits. A lot of the things discarded in good condition are sent to charities. “It is a humbling experience when clients truly experience changes in their quality of life like sleeping better or have more time for their hobbies, or even cooking a variety of food,” says Prachi. For Geetha Prasanna, a client of Prachi’s, the whole process of letting go has made her feel lighter. “I was a bit ashamed of my clutter but Prachi never made me feel bad about it,” says 61-year-old Geetha, who has still managed to maintain the house as Prachi arranged it almost two years back. She follows the tweaks, advice and methods shared by the professional organiser. “During the process, I found so many things that were missing for months,” laughs Geetha. Now, her specific kitchen implements are neatly laid out in a drawer, her books are stacked a certain way, and even her petticoats are arranged in a colour-coded manner. Clutter competes for attention. Something as simple as searching for car keys can be stressful when in a hurry. Which is why, decluttering and organising can have a deep impact on our mental and physical state. As Gayatri consults a spate of new clients approaching her to help organise their homes for Deepavali, she explains to them the benefits of decluttering. “It lets you focus on tasks that you want to accomplish. It is a way to control your surroundings. When we take a positive action like organising or decluttering a cupboard or a shelf, we feel more in charge and that is very reassuring.”  Clutter competes for attention. Which is why, decluttering and organising can have a deep impact on our mental and physical state||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/wow-what-a-m/article37223844.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The Biennale’s back||In 2019, Chennai’s heritage buildings, libraries and MRTS stations doubled up as unexpected art galleries. Prints spread across station walls, exhibits in college campuses and videos projected on Indo-Saracenic buildings. Chennai Photo Biennale’s second edition put the city on the global map through its multi-disciplinary exhibits spanning mediums. In 2020, though the global pandemic stalled the festival’s much-anticipated edition III, the planning never stopped. Now, exactly a year after CPB announced its theme — Maps of Disquiet — for edition III, the festival will begin: on December 9. Spaced out across 60 days, till February 6, 2022, the festival will take a hybrid route this time: in the form of physical exhibits and virtual experiences, says Varun Gupta, festival director and co-founder of CPB. Maps of Disquiet plans to address the “exigencies of our times”: Everything from resistance to majoritarian impositions, ecological collapse and technological dystopia, by building “new networks of solidarity”. The four-member curatorial team, comprising Bhooma Padmanabhan, Arko Datto, Boaz Levin and Kerstin Meincke remains the same, as does the theme. But some artists have reimagined their projects to fit the virtual component that forms the core of this edition. “We decided that it’s important to go ahead with our plans. We are rethinking the biennale into one that you can basically watch from home, office or even a tea shop on your mobile phone. We went back to the drawing board around six to eight months back with the curators. And, we have been working with the artists to custom-develop a website that is going to be an online exhibition experience,” says Varun. To help people engage with the theme, as a precursor, two research-driven journals will also be published. While venues like Senate House and the Government College of Fine Arts, Egmore, were “jewels in the crown” for the second edition, this edition’s physical component gives these venues a miss, considering COVID-related challenges. But the upside, Varun believes, is that the world is now their audience. “It’s no longer an option for us to do ‘physical’ on such a big scale. But we are presenting at three galleries in Chennai — Ashvita Art Gallery, Forum Art Gallery and Roja Muthiah Research Library. Apart from this, we have the Goethe-Institut, which lends itself as a viewing room,” says Varun. Renditions of video art through single-screen and dual channel projections are expected at the venue. Key attractions There are two major commissioned projects on the subject of the excavation site and village in Tamil Nadu, Keezhadi. “Andreas Langfield and Sarabhi Ravichandran are working on a project together — a video, with interviews of scholars on the subject. In parallel, we also have Saranraj, a young, Madurai-based artist from the Government College of Fine Arts, who has been working on the site for the past one-and-a-half years. He will be presenting his project at the Roja Muthiah Research Library.” This edition has a more regional flavour thanks to the focus on projects from Tamil Nadu. Student showcases are an important component of all CPB editions — “This time too, the students’ showcase is going to be physical. The venue is yet to be decided,” says Varun. He adds that they believe there is something on offer for everyone, both outstation visitors and city residents, who wish to visit the festival. “It’s not going to be just prints on a wall, there will be installations too, presented in an immersive manner,” says Varun. Over the course of the pandemic, thanks to screen fatigue coupled with the need to step out, virtual art viewing has taken a significant hit. Many also argue that experiencing art through a screen will never match up to walking through a space to relish it up close. “We are aware that it’s sort of an odd experience where you are there more for the gimmick than the art,” says Varun, adding, “So we wanted to create something that’s focussed on presenting the art, the narrative, actually in a way that can’t be done in a physical exhibition where it is very sequential.” A narrative that is scroll-driven, keeping in mind the mobile and the desktop user, can be expected, he adds. With the festival, CPB also hopes to push the nature of hybrid events in the arts space. “We would love for people to come to Chennai,” concludes Varun.“But it’s no longer a limitation.”  CPB is looking for volunteers, donors and collaborators for this edition. Reach out at contact@chennai photobiennale.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-biennales-back/article37223885.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Remember, Hanks was here||After two Academy Awards, seven Emmys and a host of other international accolades, the most recent being the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award, it is tempting to wonder what more could challenge Tom Hanks. The answer to that can be seen in his latest film, Finch , for Apple TV+, where he plays the only actor (well, almost) in the entire project. Tom plays the titular character, a robotics engineer who is one of the few survivors of a cataclysmic solar event that has left the world a wasteland. Sounds a bit like Hanks’ own Cast Away , the classical survival drama that released 21 years ago? “Well, yes, and no. Part of it is because the countenance is much the same, and there you could probably take an aspect of the story element. The difference — something Miguel Sapochnik [director] and I talked about — is thatFinchbegins with the desire to create the next version of what life is going to be,” explains Hanks over a video call. “Whereas in Cast Away , it was about the discovery of what was needed in order to live a full life... and that was company, and getting off that island! So that desire, and the emotional, philosophical superstructure ofFinchis very different from Chuck, because there is no attempted rescue.” Last man standing Hanks admits that the complexity of Finch is what attracted him. “He is in an immediately precarious position right from the get-go, and there is all sorts of questions for the audience. Who is this guy? Where is he at this point? His daily struggle is the one between life and death. When I was first reading it, I thought okay, there is a familiar science-fiction trope, but it is going to be different.” The film’s director, Miguel Sapochnik, is renowned for his work on shows like Game of Thrones (for which he won an Emmy), House and is also one of the showrunners for the upcoming House of the Dragon . His attention to detail was “fascinating and ridiculous fun,” adds Hanks. “Miguel and I had to figure it out, and honestly, it was a blast. If you have ever seen a one-man show on Broadway, you know what I am talking about. The camera moves around a lot, and does an awful lot of the storytelling for you; that is Miguel’s role. But I still had to discern what Finch’s behaviour and procedure was like. Miguel was very specific, and he had a great sense of the fidelity of these moments.” “Every movie comes along, and the challenges are unique every time. There is a type of communication that goes on in a screenplay that is always verbal. But Finch is almost like a silent film, so it was a tantalising prospect. The task was, how do we communicate everything that needs to be said, when it is just me on film?” Did he feel like he had anything in common with Finch at all? “I don’t have any of the smarts in common with Finch! ( laughs ) I have the grey hair and tired bones, but that is about it. The man himself is much more linear than I am; he is a guy who is able to weigh what his needs are, methodically slowly live up to them, acquire everything they want with thoroughness, and so on, without the aid of good luck or serendipity,” says Hanks. “I have far too much ADHD in order to operate like that. This is one of the reasons I was so selfishly attracted to the role; the great thing about being an actor is, I get to play somebody cooler, much more intelligent and more a student of the big picture than I am,” he smiles. Next up, the 65-year-old has two hotly-anticipated projects: Disney’s live-action animated film Pinocchio , as well as Baz Luhrmann’s Elvis biopic. After being the only actor on set in Finch , he does admit he is looking forward to acting with an ensemble cast. “I would like my next character to be part of an ongoing ensemble, in which there is 18 people in the room at the same time, that we all get to talk and listen to one another. The discipline and pleasure of interacting with other people in a big movie, is a lot easier since you are playing characters; their emotions and story beats. It is an easier way to stay sane too!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/remember-hanks-was-here/article37223900.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Kicking up dust||“Naagalum aaduvom, vendrae kaatuvom, vizhil oli illamal, saathithae magizhuvum (We will conquer even without the light) .”  This team song echoed in the lush green grounds of Chennai’s Montfort School, signalling the announcement of the recently-concluded football match between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. This was not your regular game: passionately driven by the Tamil Nadu National Blind Football Association, it was the first national tournament for women and the fifth for men. “It is a matter of pride to host it,” says KK Thomas, principal of Montfort School. The cries of ‘Whoy’ (I am coming in Spanish) filled the air as the game commenced. On the whistle, four women representing their respective states took over the field. The women dribbled the ball with caution, measuring the distance with their hands and listening to the calls of their coaches and goalies, while following the sound of the ball. “We are very happy to have this game here; it is the first-of-its-kind in Tamil Nadu,” says Tamil Nadu coach Francis Sebastian. The audience’s cheers and stifled gasps added to the sportive atmosphere. The match, however, ended in a draw with no goals. “I have never been a goalie before,” says B Janani, Tamil Nadu’s goalkeeper. “I learnt to be one in the camp and have known my team for a month now. They listen only to my voice when they step into defence,” she adds with a smile. Amidst the sportive rivalry, there was also a blooming respect between the two teams. Karnataka’s goalkeeper Reshma Karthik adds, “Tamil Nadu did perform great by getting close to scoring two goals.” This is M Rajeshwari’s first National match. As she catches her breath, she beams, saying she loved the experience, “I feel so grateful to be here and our coach is really patient with us.” Honorary Secretary of the National Association for the Blind P Chandrasekar says they are on a mission: “We wish to take this forward to many blind schools and special schools to keep the game going.” Team member T Bhuvaneshwari’s mother chimes in saying, “I never really knew such sports existed. I am not that literate and I really wanted my children to get everything I could not.” She adds, “Blind football has given my daughter so much happiness and purpose.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/kicking-up-dust/article37223862.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Wow, what a m||Letting go is hard. No wonder Gayatri Gandhi sometimes finds herself in a tug of war with her clients, trying to make them get rid of possessions that do not serve them any more. This could be anything from an empty box of detergent to rusted kadais that are half a century old, says Gayatri, a professional organiser and India’s first certified KonMari consultant. Gayatri has trained to professionally organise homes using the KonMari method propagated by Japanese organising consultant, author and host Marie Kondo (who first became famous for her book The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up in 2011). She launched Joy Factory in 2017 to help people “detach and discard” items they no longer need. “The level of attachment people have with their items is too much,” she says, discussing the most challenging aspect of her job over a call from Delhi, where she is based. “They have 100 reasons as to why they should keep an item,” she laughs. Prachi Chowla, a former chartered accountant who started Smiling Spaces, a decluttering and organising service in Bengaluru agrees. “As Indians we get attached to our belongings and see decluttering as a waste of money. Counselling the client is the hardest task. This is why before I start with any new client, I first do complimentary sessions to discuss hoarding and talk about how decluttering can benefit them,” says Prachi. Inspired by the Netflix series Tidying up with Marie Kondo , Prachi says she decided to apply the principles to organise her clothes first, and then her home. “I was amazed at how my guests visiting us felt peaceful in the house. My family never has to spend time looking for things as there is a home for everything in the house. Many of my friends asked for my help to organise their homes too and that is when I found my true calling as a consultant under Marie Kondo,” says Prachi who trained under Marie’s senior consultants in Los Angeles. Marie herself conducted one session. “Before I could enrol, I had to organise my entire house as per Marie’s principle and share photos of the reorganisation. After the course I had to organise two homes and share detailed reports on that with the trainers. And finally before becoming a KonMari consultant in 2019, I had to write an exam and attend an interview,” she explains. These consultants help clients get rid of unwanted things, organise their homes and label designated areas for belongings. “It involves a bit of counselling as sometimes people hold on to hand-me-downs for emotional reasons. I always tell them to retain an item if it sparks joy, else give it away,” explains Gayatri, who trained with Marie in New York in 2017. “One of the most wonderful aspects was how 110 of us from different parts of the world had come together to find a common goal with such a simple act of decluttering and tidying,” she says. Professional organisers and decluttering experts are getting increasingly popular across the world, especially after the pandemic and lockdowns, which resulted in people spending more time at home. It has also given rise to virtual decluttering sessions. Via video calls, professional organisers help clients tidy their home, as they talk them through the process. Continued on page 6 Continued from page 1 “With people confined within four walls for the last year-and-a- half, they want to make their homes the best space. I was receiving two to three requests a week and started helping virtually. Not just homes, I also work with hotels and offices. The philosophy is the same.” Ironically, as someone who practises, and preaches, minimalism, Gayatri loves mess. “I love it because when I see it, I start imagining what it would look like once I am done,” she says, adding, “Often there are homes that look beautiful from the outside with a nice living room. Then, I see the private space and think, ‘Oh God, This is going to be a mammoth task’.” When she launched in India, Gayatri says even her own family did not quite understand the concept. “ Safai karne ja rahi hai ? (Are you going clean a house?)” they would ask. And she would explain, it is decluttering not cleaning. “I had to bring in a change in their mindset,” says Gayatri. Initially there was no market but fortunately, with OTTs playing a number of series on the subject, ( Get Organized With The Home Edit , and more recently The Minimalists: Less is Now ) the concept has been picking up. De-cluttering vs deep cleaning “Now India has nearly 15-20 professional organisers,” says Gayatri, adding that she got her first client in December 2017 in Mumbai. It was a family of four. The lady of the house had just had her second child and needed help organising clothes. Since a lot of homes are smaller in Mumbai, she felt a space crunch. “Once we told her how to fold clothes, she was so fascinated to see how much space she could save. Four months later, she sent pictures of how she had changed all her shelves to drawers as the latter is more conducive to the KonMari style of folding,” explains Gayatri. With Deepavali round the corner, Chennai-based Service Square has seen an uptake in requests for decluttering. Started by Babu Vincent in 2000, Service Square initially offered 150 plus concierge services for 50,000 employees of different companies, but since 2010, its focus has been on providing cleaning services. Early this year, he introduced decluttering services, after he himself embarked on a journey of minimalism. “According to the Pareto principle, 20% of the most important things give us 80% of the results. It is a vital few and trivial many,” he says. Over the years Babu noticed that even though people repeatedly got their homes cleaned, they did not stay that way because of the clutter. “If people really want to keep their homes neat and organised, they need to declutter. Then the place remains tidy for at least six to seven months,” he says, adding that his clientele consists of executives from Chennai, in the 30-to-50 age bracket. Decluttering takes time: the process can take anywhere between six hours to a few days. Expect to get rid of anything from 30% to 50% of your belongings to create wardrobes and cupboards that are more compact, and functional. Sometimes it can also be a 12-hour shift at a stretch. The prices vary depending on the size and space, with some starting at Rs. 3,000 for an hour, while some charge a fixed amount for the whole process. Other than the aesthetic appeal, decluttering has several other benefits. A lot of the things discarded in good condition are sent to charities. “It is a humbling experience when clients truly experience changes in their quality of life like sleeping better or have more time for their hobbies, or even cooking a variety of food,” says Prachi. For Geetha Prasanna, a client of Prachi’s, the whole process of letting go has made her feel lighter. “I was a bit ashamed of my clutter but Prachi never made me feel bad about it,” says 61-year-old Geetha, who has still managed to maintain the house as Prachi arranged it almost two years back. She follows the tweaks, advice and methods shared by the professional organiser. “During the process, I found so many things that were missing for months,” laughs Geetha. Now, her specific kitchen implements are neatly laid out in a drawer, her books are stacked a certain way, and even her petticoats are arranged in a colour-coded manner. Clutter competes for attention. Something as simple as searching for car keys can be stressful when in a hurry. Which is why, decluttering and organising can have a deep impact on our mental and physical state. As Gayatri consults a spate of new clients approaching her to help organise their homes for Deepavali, she explains to them the benefits of decluttering. “It lets you focus on tasks that you want to accomplish. It is a way to control your surroundings. When we take a positive action like organising or decluttering a cupboard or a shelf, we feel more in charge and that is very reassuring.”  Clutter competes for attention. Which is why, decluttering and organising can have a deep impact on our mental and physical state||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/wow-what-a-m/article37223869.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Teal sweatsuits, pink overalls...||When Mumbai cosplayer Medha Srivastava — known for her viral renditions of Loki, Khaleesi from Game Of Thrones and Dhanush in Jagame Thandhiram — watched Squid Game on Netflix, she knew the show would be a success and wasted no time in channelling her inner-Kang Sae-byoek, a North Korean defector who is one of hundreds competing in the series of deadly games, to win money. The first season of the Korean-language survival-thriller series has become Netflix’s “biggest series launch” till date after it hit the mark of 111 million views in less than a month since its debut on September 17. And this further contributed to the hallyu boom across India that now sees more people recreating the marbles and the Red Light Green Light game or eating Dalgona candy, as well as leaning further into Korean culture. The biggest appeal of the fashion in Squid Game is its simplicity and borderline-neon colour-blocking as well as its gender-neutral statement. Medha is one of many creatives around the world who has started cosplaying as the show’s characters. So far, we have seen cosplays of the players in their teal-green retro-inspired sweat-suit, the giant singing doll in her yellow and orange tunic ensemble, and the pink overall-donning guards with their full-face masks. “Luckily, this costume didn’t require too many intricate details compared to what we do for Comic Con,” she says with a laugh. The real challenge lay in finding that teal-green jumpsuit that the Squid Game players wear. Residing in Andheri in Mumbai, she ventured out to the bustling Lokhandwala market but could neither find a set of that particular colour in the market nor online. So she bought a hoodie jacket online that did colour-match and she cut off the hood, painted on some white stripes and added a sticker that reads ‘067’ (Sae-byeok’s contestant number in the tournament) on the front. For hair and makeup, Medha did the bare minimum without wanting to culturally appropriate the look of Sae-byeok. With a light brush of the brows and a stained lip, she was done. She also added clip-on bangs for good measure and crafted the Squid Game calling card with the triangle, circle and square on it. She posted the cosplay to her Instagram account on October 11 to more than 1,600 likes and hundreds of comments of praise. Colour of the moment Teal-green, a colour long ignored by many, is now the talk of the town, and within the last two weeks, fast fashion houses acted fast to create their own sweat-suit pieces of that colour. While Zara has two zipper jackets, H&M’s Conscious line offers a simple pullover. Accessories such as the Front Man’s matte black mask and the guards’ porous masks with one of the calling card shapes painted on it are also quickly becoming available on e-commerce platforms like Amazon and Flipkart, just in time for Halloween. Meanwhile, Bengaluru-based makeup artist Sakshi Chaturvedi could not decide between the Front Man (the enigmatic host of the games) with his alluring matte black geometric mask and the guards — so she went for a half-and-half look, choosing a bright pink hoodie. She added wounds on her face to mimic the Squid Game shapes on one side and the other side had a painted mask and a blackout contact lens, proving you can add your own flavour to your recreation while staying true to the show. Even the white sneakers worn by the players — which many suspect are Vans — have been in high demand.   Just like in Mumbai, the open markets in the older parts of major metro cities are a great place to find resources for cosplay and Halloween costumes. Hyderabad’s Begam Bazaar and Delhi’s Chandni Chowk markets are choc-a-bloc with costume stores and kiosks that have face paints, overalls that can be dyed, liquid latex and other materials great for a Squid Game ensemble — but not the exact apparel. In early October, events manager Manohar Sriram scoured Begam Bazaar and recalled a conversation with a seller, “He told me that many people were asking him if he had anything from Squid Game and they showed him pictures on their phones. It had barely been two weeks since the release but an average of five people per week would come enquire.” Probably the easiest costume to draw from Squid Game is a simple red wig; towards the end of the series, lead character Seong Gi-hun sports bright red hair while wearing a simple navy business suit. Wigs of the same colour with a side bang are now popping up on Amazon, Ubuy and Flipkart.  There will, of course, be trolls looking to make fun of the series. Vidya Ramraj in Hyderabad, who has not seen the show, explains her plans, “My cousin, who is a hardcore Squid Game fan, is hosting a Halloween party, so I have bought a squid costume and I’ll carry a kid’s chess board — to literally embody ‘Squid Game’ because there have been so many memes of the same online from people who haven’t seen the show.”  Dalgona offerings Just as Auroville’s Korean restaurant Nowana started Dalgona candy in their dessert repertoire, Bengaluru’s Freddie’s Cookies (9148256505) have also kicked off the same. In Squid Game, the contestants are tasked with carefully cutting out a traced shape from a Dalgona candy disc — if contestants broke into the shape, they are eliminated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/teal-sweatsuits-pink-overalls/article37223874.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Atop Mount Kilimanjaro||“My eyes welled up when I reached the summit. It took me three hours to hike the last 50 metres,” says actor Nivetha Thomas, who scaled Mount Kilimanjaro a few days ago. At 5,895 metres above sea level, Mt Kilimanjaro in Tanzania, East Africa, is the highest single free-standing mountain in the world. Nivetha was accompanied by Telangana mountaineer Poorna Malavath, her coach Shekhar Babu Bachinepally and 15 crew members. Speaking from her father’s home in Dubai, where she landed after the summit, the 25-year-old actor says the seeds for the expedition were sown in September 2019, when she presented a TED talk. At the event, Nivetha listened in rapt attention as Poorna spoke about mountaineering. In 2014, at the age of 13, Poorna became the youngest Indian and the youngest female in the world to scale Mt Everest. “I felt an unknown interest in mountaineering surging within me. Poorna and I stayed in touch and I met her coach, Shekhar. I began reading up about mountaineering,” says Nivetha. Over the last year, Nivetha upped her fitness regime for Saakhini Daakhini , the Telugu remake of the Korean film Midnight Runners . She trained in judo, jujutsu, running, kickboxing and endurance training, all of which helped her cope with the varying terrain and altitude-related issues during the expedition. Call of the mountains Attempting to scale Mt Everest, says Nivetha, would have involved disciplined training for two years, which was tough given her filming schedules. However, when Poorna informed her about an expedition to Kilimanjaro, Nivetha was keen to join. “Shekhar felt I was fit enough to take up the expedition. I was on the sets of the Telugu film until five days prior to the trip. I barely told six people who are close to me about my plans. Minutes before I lost Internet connectivity in Tanzania, I put out a story on Instagram that I will be off the radar for 10 days.” Nivetha was aware that, however much she studied about mountains, there would be surprises: “I had never gone on hikes, forget climbing mountains. But I was determined to do this. I followed instructions strictly. If they said pack two thermals, it had to be two thermals, nothing less.” She reached Tanzania on October 10 and met the three trainers who would accompany the team; she was briefed about the following day: “They took it one day at a time and never overloaded us with information. I focussed on one step at a time and concentrated on my breathing during the eight-day hike — six days of ascent and two days of descent.” Mental preparation played a key role during the journey. There was no room for negativity or anxiety. “Shekhar told me that each mountain requires a different preparation and that the mountain has to choose you and allow you to scale it.” Slow and steady Over the next eight days, Nivetha would learn a lot of new words: ‘pole, pole,’ (slowly in Kiswahili, an East African language). Taking it slow makes it easier for the body to acclimatise to the altitude and diminishing oxygen levels. The other thumb rule was to stay hydrated to ward off altitude sickness. “Severe headaches, nausea, diarrhoea and insomnia are common symptoms. Luckily, I did not experience those,” she says. The terrain changed every day: rainforests on day one, moor land on day two, dry moor land giving way to rocks on day three, rocky terrain on day four, a desert on day five and the glacial summit on day six. “The weather changed by the hour, from sunny to foggy, rains to chill,” adds Nivetha. On the first two days, the team hiked for seven hours. Later, it would increase to 12 and the summit day involved 18 hours of walking. Wanting to see the sunrise, sunset and the stars from the mountain was one of the reasons for her expedition. “At the end of the day, you feel like running to a pile of snow and playing with it, but your body will want you to rest. You have to pay heed, eat well and rest if you want to wake up the next morning and walk for hours.” Keep moving The journey to the summit began late evening and turned out to be arduous: “The guideline was to keep moving, even if very slowly, but never stop. At minus 12 to 15 degrees, you risk cramps and frostbites. The guides were extremely patient. As my oxygen saturation was good, they allowed me to go ahead.” The descent was quicker and she found herself in a cheerful mood, sometimes taking over the reins of guiding the team down the slopes: “You have to watch where you put your feet because you can come down pretty quickly.” She has already decided her next expedition, though she doesn’t spill the beans. She terms the expedition a life-changing experience, where nothing else mattered apart from being close to Nature: “No amount of money or fame can match that experience of scaling a mountain.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/atop-mount-kilimanjaro/article37223904.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Biryani in my backpack||When event manager Punithan B decided to launch a brand of his own after years of aiding others’ quest for the spotlight, he knew one thing for sure. In Chennai, it had to be biryani — chicken, mutton and egg. The question was, in a city brimming with biryani, how can a new business stand out? “I needed a unique idea, and I knew it had to be in the packaging — everyone tries creative packaging — and I knew it had to help better the experience of receiving and eating delivered biryani. Customers are looking for something experiential now,” he says. During lockdown earlier this year the idea finally struck him: tubes. “I looked it up online, and found that globally, other than some liquor brands and FMCG foods like biscuits, no one is giving food in tubes.” Launched a little over a month ago, Punithan’s The Tube Biryani has six components: four containers, a paper tube, and a net. The outer tube has a height of 310 milimetres and an inner radius of 105 milimetres. Inside it are stacked food-grade plastic containers holding enough biryani for two people (“the rice in it alone is a kilogram,” says Punithan), brinjal gravy, a sweet, and onion raita. Initially, this made up the entire contraption — but early feedback told Punithan that some changes would have to be made. “It is tightly packed, and we were told that it is very difficult to take the containers out of the tube. So now we put the boxes in a net bag first, the kind that people carry fruit in. It is easy for customers to just pull up the net, and bring all the containers out with it. In the five weeks since its launch, this different sort of offering has begun to garner attention on social media. It helps that the food itself is holding up to the expectations of biryani lovers. Operations are spread over two locations: a kitchen in Ramapuram, and a separate office in Ashok Nagar. “We transport freshly made biryani from the kitchen to Ashok Nagar, where the packaging and despatch is handled,” says Punithan. The Tube Biryani is now delivered within a 20-kilometre radius around Ashok Nagar, “but we are working on scaling it up to 30 kilometres soon,” adds Punithan. Till then, the rest of the city will have to wait its turn.  Place orders a day in advance, on www.thetubebiryani.com. Prices range from Rs. 200 to Rs. 350 for two people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/biryani-in-my-backpack/article37223881.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Storytelling on the cards||Artist Banamalli Mohapatra is busy creating decks of cards for Deepavali, with cotton saris, squirrel hair brushes and crushed stone colours.  Athrangi ganjifa , with 96 cards hand-painted by Banamalli, puts the spotlight on ganjifa this festive season. One of the world’s oldest playing cards, ganjifa traces its origin back to the 16th Century. Though Persian in origin, over a period of time, the art form embraced the pantheon of Hindu mythology in its expressions. Each card is made through an intricate and long process using old cotton saris that are painted with squirrel hair brushes in crushed stone colours. In the past, ganjifa cards featured paintings of wrestlers, acrobats, swordsmen, musicians, animals and birds. The iconography, however, has changed today and is now largely centred around devotional themes. “It was introduced by the Mughals but the motifs then were influenced by their culture,” says Neeta Shah, GM of Bangalore-based GoCoop, which showcases the cards on its website along with artisan partner organisation, Potli. “They bring to life, mythology, history and social mores,” she adds. As card games are popular on Deepavali, sales are targeted at this time of the year. The cards lend themselves to variations of modern games such as poker and teen patti; the three-card version popular in India. Each suit consists of one king, one wazir, and 10 numbered cards. After shuffling, the cards are placed face down on a white cloth, then divided equally among the players. It also builds a sense of community as these cards tell stories. While the playing ganjifa cards are typically circular, depending on the artist’s imagination, there are rectangular decks too. The cards were originally used for storytelling, but now are marketed as wall panels and coasters as well. “The dasavatar collection did very well during Navratri.  The cards are still hand-painted, but we are trying to find a utilitarian value to it, since they highlight a tradition,” says Neeta. Today, though ganjifa has disappeared into the annals of history, in some pockets across the country, people still make the cards and play this game. Says Neeta, “We have created a modest revival in the game amongst museums, craft aficionados and traditional game enthusiasts which is currently a source of sustained income for the artisans.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/storytelling-on-the-cards/article37223870.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Sweets to spinach||When Sri Krishna Sweets, established in 1948, reinvented the traditional Mysore Pak sweet, their creamy, melt-in-the mouth version, named Mysurpa quickly dominated the market. Now, Muralis Market, a new concept food store on Venkatnaraya Road in T Nagar is attempting to change the way you shop for groceries, Sprawled across 5,500 square feet, the store heaves with fruits, vegetables, dairy products, baked goodies and spices, as well as ready to eat food that includes vegetable biryani, momos and, of course, that Chennai staple: idlis with chutney. Conceptualised and launched by Sneha Murali, the project has been a work in progress for four years, which includes the inevitable delays caused by the challenges of the pandemic. “The lockdown period proved to be valuable as we learnt a lot about changing lifestyles and consumer requirements,” says Sneha, who joined the family owned firm eight years ago, and trained under her father, M Murali, chairman, Muralis Market and managing director, Sri Krishna Sweets. Discussing the renewed focus on eating healthy, Murali says they “cater to this new normal lifestyle,” adding that the response has been encouraging. The store offers value added services such as ‘shop and chop’ in the vegetable section, which is popular with senior citizens. And there is a ‘fast food’ counter serving traditional snacks from kozhukattai to mor kali.  Sneha adds, “This has been envisaged to be a one stop shop for quality coffee powder, asafoetida, pickles, podis, thokkus and more.” Their shelves of freshly-made, local products are where they stand out from other gourmet stores. “We identified small manufacturers across Tamil Nadu. We source it from them, and do the branding at our factory in Chennai. We offer 85 types of appalams , vadams , pickles from across Tamil Nadu and Andhra, cold pressed oils, butter and more” says Sneha. If you are in the mood for International cuisine, try the Korean bun or continental bakes from the deli, which offers freshly baked breads through the day. They also offer handcrafted preservative free wheat pasta and noodles, flavoured with carrots, beetroot and spinach. Intimidated by the spread? Sneha says you just need to ask for help: We not only stock exotic ingredients but also teach customers who wish to know how to use them.” Murali adds that the vision is to create a space for families: “My one-and-a -half year old grand kid can already identify quite a few spices and legumes,” he says, adding “Families should come and shop together with their children as a fun way of teaching them to identify vegetables and fruits.  Muralis Market is on Venkatnarayana Road, T Nagar and in Venus Colony, Alwarpet.   WHAT’S IN YOUR BOX Known for their range of festive hampers, SKS, presents the Naivedyam and Thala Deepavali hamper. They also have launched the Ramayana series of gift boxes, which depict scenes from seven segments of the epic. Apart from this there will be a counter offering freshly made chakka pradhaman and ada pradhaman on Deepavali day on pre-order. For pre-order, call: 9500510999.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sweets-to-spinach/article37223879.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Rajini’s rural avatar||The first trailer for Rajinikanth’s upcoming action-drama Annaatthe has been recently released. Directed by Siva, the film will hit screens on Deepavali day, next week. The trailer introduces Rajinikanth in the role of Kaalaiyan, a village president who is devoted to his village folk and family, especially his sister, played by Keerthy Suresh. When their peaceful existence comes under threat from the villain (Jagapathi Babu), all hell breaks loose, as Kalaiyan seeks revenge. Rajinikanth was recently conferred the Dadasaheb Phalke Award at the 67th National Awards ceremony. The actor dedicated the award to his family, friend and fans.  Annaatthhe , produced by Sun Pictures, is touted to be a family entertainer on the lines of the star’s earlier films like Muthu, Arunachalam and Padayappa. It has an ensemble cast comprising actors like Nayanthara, Khushbu, Meena, Prakash Raj and Soori.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rajinis-rural-avatar/article37223897.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Badshah in love mode||“I want to shock my fans with a new sound and song,” says Badshah, a day after the release of his new single ‘Jugnu’ with Nikita Gandhi and featuring Akanksha Sharma. He probably has. Packed with VFX effects, the musician’s latest, which has him singing about love and dancing without his trademark jacket and cap, has garnered more than 10 million views within two days of its release. “The sound is different,” affirms Badshah, who earlier sung ‘Tareefaan’ from Veere Di Wedding . The love song is part of a bigger ‘gameplan’, in a bid to do something that fans do not expect. “The love song is not a shock for me because I don’t want to be predictable any more,” he says. He gives a big shout out to the Red Chillies team for the VFX effects. While some portions of the track were shot in Ladakh, special effects were used while shooting in a studio in Mumbai. “The team did the work in 20 days. I would consider it as the ‘Bahubali’ of music videos.” It has only been a month since he launched ‘Bad BoyXBad Girl’ song with Nikita. Earlier, he would wait for at least eight months before he released a new song. Is there a constant urge to release music now? “After the pandemic, yes,” responds Badshah, stating that this phase has made him more focussed. “We are living in unpredictable times. I don’t want to hold on to my music,” he adds. This hunger to explore is one of the many lessons that he learnt from the pandemic. He explains, “One cannot afford to waste time now. Whether it is wanting to spend time with family or learning a new skill... we has to just do it. Some people want to relax now after the pandemic phase, but I have a dream to achieve.” He will also be seen on television as a judge along with Shilpa Shetty for India’s Got Talent Season 9. While the shooting has not yet begun, he is eager to catch up with the young talent on the show. Describing his journey as ‘crazy’, he says, “I tell the youth to not get inspired by my music, lifestyle or what I drive or drink. I want them to see how I gave up on my personal life to be what I am today.” For now, he’s content with the kind of reception ‘Jugnu’ is receiving. The video also ends with a ‘to be continued.’ Keeping fans guessing, he says, “It is a part of a bigger story, and I will let audiences connect the dots,” says Badshah, who is hoping to dominate global music charts in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/badshah-in-love-mode/article37223906.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Crafts of the land||National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT), Chennai, organises a craft bazaar titled, Pokkisham. As part of this programme, NIFT will present creations by artisans of Tamil Nadu. You can meet artists who make papier mache products from Singaperumal Kovil; textiles from Thirubhuvanam Handloom Society; ari embroidery from Kavarepettai, natural fibre saris from Anakaputhur, bead craftsmen from the Narikurava community of Gugai, cane and kora grass craft from Thaikkal and palm craft from Pulicat.  Pokkisham is on till October 31, 10 am to 7 pm, at NIFT Chennai campus, Taramani. For details, call 044 22542755||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/crafts-of-the-land/article37223889.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Silken splendour||The Central Cottage Industries Emporium, Chennai presents an collection of tussar silk saris from Chattisgarh, chanderi saris from Madhya Pradesh, kantha embroidered saris from West Bengal and Kota saris from Rajasthan. @CCIC, Anna Salai, till November 3. 10am to 7 pm. For details, call 9445421968.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/silken-splendour/article37223887.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Rockstar paceman||More than the number of wickets Brett Lee got — and he did get quite a few, it is how he bowled that impressed one more. He was... fast. Not 135 kmph fast; not 140 kmph fast; he was 150 kmph fast, often. Occasionally, 155 kmph. A few times even breaching 160 kmph. Batters get less than half a second to react to that kind of speed. In other words, they hardly saw it coming. Brett breathed fire. Sometimes, after shattering the stumps, he would pummel his fists down thrice in celebratory fury. He called it The Chainsaw. It was like a frenzied guitar riff at a hard rock concert. Brett could, however, also play the screeching guitar riff at a rock concert — his rock band Six & Out has made it to the top-100 of the Australian music chart. The fury on the field belies his soft-natured persona off it. He is polite, mostly smiling. Now, though, we mostly see him in the commentary panel. The former Australian pacer discusses pace bowling, the importance of a cricketer having multiple interests, and India’s chances in the ongoing World T20. Excerpts:-  International cricketers usually retire when they are between 35 and 40. Their autobiographies, which get released soon after, mostly deal with their playing career. So, we rarely get to know the second half of their lives. How has it been for you?  It has been a lot of fun. I have spent the first half of my life travelling around the world, playing the sport I loved, and making a lot of friends. Now it is about enjoying the hard work that has been done. I still enjoy doing my fitness. What I love about the second phase of my life is that I am actually allowed to do things I have always wanted to. I want to enhance my music career, have some fun with it, or enjoy and learn more about wine [Lee is an ambassador of the Australian winemaker Jacob’s Creek].  Speaking of music, what is happening with Six & Out?   Our band was formed in the late ‘90s. We have done over 250 shows around Australia. So, that is a lot of music. We still have it. We have not played a lot of gigs for a while because of COVID-19. (Lee sings and plays bass guitar for the band).  Was it difficult to get used to a life without playing cricket in the initial few years after retirement?   It was not that hard. Throughout my career I made sure I did a number of things. I always had a full-time job. I have been in menswear sales for 25 years. Even after playing a Test match against India, I would come home and be straight back in the menswear store selling suits and shirts and ties and socks. The next job I had was commentary. I took it up even while I was still playing in the Big Bash League. Then there are my interests in music and wine. So, I was actually upskilling myself in other areas and picking up interests so that when cricket was over, I had these things to fall back on.  Do you advise youngsters to pursue other interests as well?   Absolutely. I think it is very important to have other interests. It does not matter what you do — reading or writing books, or music or fashion or photography, but have a second, third, fourth, and fifth passion, because cricket will not last forever. They also help to take pressure off yourself. Playing music, being outdoors and fishing took the pressure off cricket when I was away from the field. So once I was on the field, I was relaxed and enjoying myself.  You, like many other former cricketers, are now a commentator. I am assuming you find it easier to talk about the game than to play it.   Well, sometimes it is harder to get inside a player's mind and see what they are trying to do. I would rather get out on the field and do it myself. Cricket came pretty naturally to me because I enjoyed it. Commentary, meanwhile, can be harder because you are trying to understand another person.  Let’s talk about fast-bowling. Almost every country in the top-five or top-six has at least two good quality fast-bowlers. Would you say this is the best era for pacers?   You think about how much the game has improved. How the batsmen are hitting balls further, how they are playing different shots, running fast. But when you look at the bowler's pace, no one is going past 155 kmph. I wonder if we are training correctly. I want the guys to hit that 160 kmph mark.  What do you make of the young crop of fast bowlers? Who has impressed you the most?   I liked Kartik Tyagi from this IPL. He is got some really good pace, a beautiful action, and a nice run up. So he is one guy that I was impressed with. Anrich Nortje from South Africa has got good pace. Then, there is Kagiso Rabada, of course.  And, finally, who is your pick for the World T20?   I think India has a very good chance. They did not play their best cricket against Pakistan in their first game. But they are the team to beat. Australia also has a great chance to bring home the trophy for the very first time. It is going to be exciting.  It does not matter what you do —have a second, third, fourth, and fifth passion, because cricket will not last forever||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rockstar-paceman/article37223871.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Suriya, Bala team up||Actor Suriya and director Bala have collaborated on two memorable films in the early 2000s: Nandha and Pithamagan . The two are coming back together for a project now. Suriya announced it on Thursday, tweeting, “He is a person who had more belief in me that I did. He made me experience new worlds. 20 years later, with the blessings of my father (Sivakumar), I am embarking on yet another beautiful journey with Bala with the same enthusiasm.” Director Bala, well known for his offbeat style of cinema, gave Suriya a big break and an image makeover in the Nineties with his films. Since then, the filmmaker has gone on to work with many other stars, including Suriya’s wife Jyotika ( Paradesi ). His last outing was Dhruv Vikram’s debut offering Varmaa . Suriya, meanwhile, is looking forward to the release of Jai Bhim on Amazon Prime Video next week. He also has the Pandiraj-directed Etharkum Thuninthavan and the Vetrimaaran-directed Vaadivasal lined up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/suriya-bala-team-up/article37223895.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Wow, what a m||Letting go is hard. No wonder Gayatri Gandhi sometimes finds herself in a tug of war with her clients, trying to make them get rid of possessions that do not serve them any more. This could be anything from an empty box of detergent to rusted kadais that are half a century old, says Gayatri, a professional organiser and India’s first certified KonMari consultant. Gayatri has trained to professionally organise homes using the KonMari method propagated by Japanese organising consultant, author and host Marie Kondo (who first became famous for her book The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up in 2011). She launched Joy Factory in 2017 to help people “detach and discard” items they no longer need. “The level of attachment people have with their items is too much,” she says, discussing the most challenging aspect of her job over a call from Delhi, where she is based. “They have 100 reasons as to why they should keep an item,” she laughs. Prachi Chowla, a former chartered accountant who started Smiling Spaces, a decluttering and organising service in Bengaluru agrees. “As Indians we get attached to our belongings and see decluttering as a waste of money. Counselling the client is the hardest task. This is why before I start with any new client, I first do complimentary sessions to discuss hoarding and talk about how decluttering can benefit them,” says Prachi. Inspired by the Netflix series Tidying up with Marie Kondo , Prachi says she decided to apply the principles to organise her clothes first, and then her home. “I was amazed at how my guests visiting us felt peaceful in the house. My family never has to spend time looking for things as there is a home for everything in the house. Many of my friends asked for my help to organise their homes too and that is when I found my true calling as a consultant under Marie Kondo,” says Prachi who trained under Marie’s senior consultants in Los Angeles. Marie herself conducted one session. “Before I could enrol, I had to organise my entire house as per Marie’s principle and share photos of the reorganisation. After the course I had to organise two homes and share detailed reports on that with the trainers. And finally before becoming a KonMari consultant in 2019, I had to write an exam and attend an interview,” she explains. These consultants help clients get rid of unwanted things, organise their homes and label designated areas for belongings. “It involves a bit of counselling as sometimes people hold on to hand-me-downs for emotional reasons. I always tell them to retain an item if it sparks joy, else give it away,” explains Gayatri, who trained with Marie in New York in 2017. “One of the most wonderful aspects was how 110 of us from different parts of the world had come together to find a common goal with such a simple act of decluttering and tidying,” she says. Professional organisers and decluttering experts are getting increasingly popular across the world, especially after the pandemic and lockdowns, which resulted in people spending more time at home. It has also given rise to virtual decluttering sessions. Via video calls, professional organisers help clients tidy their home, as they talk them through the process. Continued on page 6 Continued from page 1 “With people confined within four walls for the last year-and-a- half, they want to make their homes the best space. I was receiving two to three requests a week and started helping virtually. Not just homes, I also work with hotels and offices. The philosophy is the same.” Ironically, as someone who practises, and preaches, minimalism, Gayatri loves mess. “I love it because when I see it, I start imagining what it would look like once I am done,” she says, adding, “Often there are homes that look beautiful from the outside with a nice living room. Then, I see the private space and think, ‘Oh God, This is going to be a mammoth task’.” When she launched in India, Gayatri says even her own family did not quite understand the concept. “ Safai karne ja rahi hai ? (Are you going clean a house?)” they would ask. And she would explain, it is decluttering not cleaning. “I had to bring in a change in their mindset,” says Gayatri. Initially there was no market but fortunately, with OTTs playing a number of series on the subject, ( Get Organized With The Home Edit , and more recently The Minimalists: Less is Now ) the concept has been picking up. De-cluttering vs deep cleaning “Now India has nearly 15-20 professional organisers,” says Gayatri, adding that she got her first client in December 2017 in Mumbai. It was a family of four. The lady of the house had just had her second child and needed help organising clothes. Since a lot of homes are smaller in Mumbai, she felt a space crunch. “Once we told her how to fold clothes, she was so fascinated to see how much space she could save. Four months later, she sent pictures of how she had changed all her shelves to drawers as the latter is more conducive to the KonMari style of folding,” explains Gayatri. With Deepavali round the corner, Chennai-based Service Square has seen an uptake in requests for decluttering. Started by Babu Vincent in 2000, Service Square initially offered 150 plus concierge services for 50,000 employees of different companies, but since 2010, its focus has been on providing cleaning services. Early this year, he introduced decluttering services, after he himself embarked on a journey of minimalism. “According to the Pareto principle, 20% of the most important things give us 80% of the results. It is a vital few and trivial many,” he says. Over the years Babu noticed that even though people repeatedly got their homes cleaned, they did not stay that way because of the clutter. “If people really want to keep their homes neat and organised, they need to declutter. Then the place remains tidy for at least six to seven months,” he says, adding that his clientele consists of executives from Chennai, in the 30-to-50 age bracket. Decluttering takes time: the process can take anywhere between six hours to a few days. Expect to get rid of anything from 30% to 50% of your belongings to create wardrobes and cupboards that are more compact, and functional. Sometimes it can also be a 12-hour shift at a stretch. The prices vary depending on the size and space, with some starting at Rs. 3,000 for an hour, while some charge a fixed amount for the whole process. Other than the aesthetic appeal, decluttering has several other benefits. A lot of the things discarded in good condition are sent to charities. “It is a humbling experience when clients truly experience changes in their quality of life like sleeping better or have more time for their hobbies, or even cooking a variety of food,” says Prachi. For Geetha Prasanna, a client of Prachi’s, the whole process of letting go has made her feel lighter. “I was a bit ashamed of my clutter but Prachi never made me feel bad about it,” says 61-year-old Geetha, who has still managed to maintain the house as Prachi arranged it almost two years back. She follows the tweaks, advice and methods shared by the professional organiser. “During the process, I found so many things that were missing for months,” laughs Geetha. Now, her specific kitchen implements are neatly laid out in a drawer, her books are stacked a certain way, and even her petticoats are arranged in a colour-coded manner. Clutter competes for attention. Something as simple as searching for car keys can be stressful when in a hurry. Which is why, decluttering and organising can have a deep impact on our mental and physical state. As Gayatri consults a spate of new clients approaching her to help organise their homes for Deepavali, she explains to them the benefits of decluttering. “It lets you focus on tasks that you want to accomplish. It is a way to control your surroundings. When we take a positive action like organising or decluttering a cupboard or a shelf, we feel more in charge and that is very reassuring.”  Clutter competes for attention. Which is why, decluttering and organising can have a deep impact on our mental and physical state||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/wow-what-a-m/article37223875.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The Biennale’s back||In 2019, Chennai’s heritage buildings, libraries and MRTS stations doubled up as unexpected art galleries: prints spread across station walls, exhibits in college campuses and videos projected on Indo-Saracenic buildings. Chennai Photo Biennale’s second edition put the city on the global map through its multi-disciplinary exhibits spanning mediums. In 2020, though the global pandemic stalled the festival’s much-anticipated edition III, the planning never stopped. Now, exactly a year after CPB announced its theme — Maps of Disquiet — for edition III, the festival will begin: on December 9. Spaced out across 60 days, till February 6, 2022, the festival will take a hybrid route this time: in the form of physical exhibits and virtual experiences, says Varun Gupta, festival director and co-founder of CPB. Maps of Disquiet plans to address the “exigencies of our times”: Everything from resistance to majoritarian impositions, ecological collapse and technological dystopia, by building “new networks of solidarity”. The four-member curatorial team, comprising Bhooma Padmanabhan, Arko Datto, Boaz Levin and Kerstin Meincke remains the same, as does the theme. But some artists have reimagined their projects to fit the virtual component that forms the core of this edition. “We decided that it’s important to go ahead with our plans. We are rethinking the biennale into one that you can basically watch from home, office or even a tea shop on your mobile phone. We went back to the drawing board around six to eight months back with the curators. And, we have been working with the artists to custom-develop a website that is going to be an online exhibition experience,” says Varun. To help people engage with the theme, as a precursor, two research-driven journals will also be published. While venues like Senate House and the Government College of Fine Arts, Egmore, were “jewels in the crown” for the second edition, this edition’s physical component gives these venues a miss, considering COVID-related challenges. But the upside, Varun believes, is that the world is now their audience. “It’s no longer an option for us to do ‘physical’ on such a big scale. But we are presenting at three galleries in Chennai — Ashvita Art Gallery, Forum Art Gallery and Roja Muthiah Research Library. Apart from this, we have the Goethe-Institut, which lends itself as a viewing room,” says Varun. Renditions of video art through single-screen and dual channel projections are expected at the venue. Key attractions There are two major commissioned projects on the subject of the excavation site and village in Tamil Nadu, Keezhadi. “Andreas Langfield and Sarabhi Ravichandran are working on a project together — a video, with interviews of scholars on the subject. In parallel, we also have Saranraj, a young, Madurai-based artist from the Government College of Fine Arts, who has been working on the site for the past one-and-a-half years. He will be presenting his project at the Roja Muthiah Research Library.” This edition has a more regional flavour thanks to the focus on projects from Tamil Nadu. Student showcases are an important component of all CPB editions — “This time too, the students’ showcase is going to be physical. The venue is yet to be decided,” says Varun. He adds that they believe there is something on offer for everyone, both outstation visitors and city residents, who wish to visit the festival. “It’s not going to be just prints on a wall, there will be installations too, presented in an immersive manner,” says Varun. Over the course of the pandemic, thanks to screen fatigue coupled with the need to step out, virtual art viewing has taken a significant hit. Many also argue that experiencing art through a screen will never match up to walking through a space to relish it up close. “We are aware that it’s sort of an odd experience where you are there more for the gimmick than the art,” says Varun, adding, “So we wanted to create something that’s focussed on presenting the art, the narrative, actually in a way that can’t be done in a physical exhibition where it is very sequential.” A narrative that is scroll-driven, keeping in mind the mobile and the desktop user, can be expected, he adds. With the festival, CPB also hopes to push the nature of hybrid events in the arts space. “We would love for people to come to Chennai,” concludes Varun.“But it’s no longer a limitation.”  CPB is looking for volunteers, donors and collaborators for this edition. Reach out at contact@chennai photobiennale.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-biennales-back/article37223908.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Remember, Hanks was here||After two Academy Awards, seven Emmys and a host of other international accolades, the most recent being the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award, it is tempting to wonder what more could challenge Tom Hanks. The answer to that can be seen in his latest film, Finch , for Apple TV+, where he plays the only actor (well, almost) in the entire project. Tom plays the titular character, a robotics engineer who is one of the few survivors of a cataclysmic solar event that has left the world a wasteland. Sounds a bit like Hanks’ own Cast Away , the classical survival drama that released 21 years ago? “Well, yes, and no. Part of it is because the countenance is much the same, and there you could probably take an aspect of the story element. The difference — something Miguel Sapochnik [director] and I talked about — is thatFinchbegins with the desire to create the next version of what life is going to be,” explains Hanks over a video call. “Whereas in Cast Away , it was about the discovery of what was needed in order to live a full life... and that was company, and getting off that island! So that desire, and the emotional, philosophical superstructure ofFinchis very different from Chuck, because there is no attempted rescue.” Last man standing Hanks admits that the complexity of Finch is what attracted him. “He is in an immediately precarious position right from the get-go, and there is all sorts of questions for the audience. Who is this guy? Where is he at this point? His daily struggle is the one between life and death. When I was first reading it, I thought okay, there is a familiar science-fiction trope, but it is going to be different.” The film’s director, Miguel Sapochnik, is renowned for his work on shows like Game of Thrones (for which he won an Emmy), House and is also one of the showrunners for the upcoming House of the Dragon . His attention to detail was “fascinating and ridiculous fun,” adds Hanks. “Miguel and I had to figure it out, and honestly, it was a blast. If you have ever seen a one-man show on Broadway, you know what I am talking about. The camera moves around a lot, and does an awful lot of the storytelling for you; that is Miguel’s role. But I still had to discern what Finch’s behaviour and procedure was like. Miguel was very specific, and he had a great sense of the fidelity of these moments.” “Every movie comes along, and the challenges are unique every time. There is a type of communication that goes on in a screenplay that is always verbal. But Finch is almost like a silent film, so it was a tantalising prospect. The task was, how do we communicate everything that needs to be said, when it is just me on film?” Did he feel like he had anything in common with Finch at all? “I don’t have any of the smarts in common with Finch! ( laughs ) I have the grey hair and tired bones, but that is about it. The man himself is much more linear than I am; he is a guy who is able to weigh what his needs are, methodically slowly live up to them, acquire everything they want with thoroughness, and so on, without the aid of good luck or serendipity,” says Hanks. “I have far too much ADHD in order to operate like that. This is one of the reasons I was so selfishly attracted to the role; the great thing about being an actor is, I get to play somebody cooler, much more intelligent and more a student of the big picture than I am,” he smiles. Next up, the 65-year-old has two hotly-anticipated projects: Disney’s live-action animated film Pinocchio , as well as Baz Luhrmann’s Elvis biopic. After being the only actor on set in Finch , he does admit he is looking forward to acting with an ensemble cast. “I would like my next character to be part of an ongoing ensemble, in which there is 18 people in the room at the same time, that we all get to talk and listen to one another. The discipline and pleasure of interacting with other people in a big movie, is a lot easier since you are playing characters; their emotions and story beats. It is an easier way to stay sane too!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/remember-hanks-was-here/article37223941.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Wow, what a m||Letting go is hard. No wonder Gayatri Gandhi sometimes finds herself in a tug of war with her clients, trying to make them get rid of possessions that do not serve them any more. This could be anything from an empty box of detergent to rusted kadais that are half a century old, says Gayatri, a professional organiser and India’s first certified KonMari consultant. Gayatri has trained to professionally organise homes using the KonMari method propagated by Japanese organising consultant, author and host Marie Kondo (who first became famous for her book The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up in 2011). She launched Joy Factory in 2017 to help people “detach and discard” items they no longer need. “The level of attachment people have with their items is too much,” she says, discussing the most challenging aspect of her job over a call from Delhi, where she is based. “They have 100 reasons as to why they should keep an item,” she laughs. Prachi Chowla, a former chartered accountant who started Smiling Spaces, a decluttering and organising service in Bengaluru agrees. “As Indians we get attached to our belongings and see decluttering as a waste of money. Counselling the client is the hardest task. This is why before I start with any new client, I first do complimentary sessions to discuss hoarding and talk about how decluttering can benefit them,” says Prachi. Inspired by the Netflix series Tidying up with Marie Kondo , Prachi says she decided to apply the principles to organise her clothes first, and then her home. “I was amazed at how my guests visiting us felt peaceful in the house. My family never has to spend time looking for things as there is a home for everything in the house. Many of my friends asked for my help to organise their homes too and that is when I found my true calling as a consultant under Marie Kondo,” says Prachi who trained under Marie’s senior consultants in Los Angeles. Marie herself conducted one session. “Before I could enrol, I had to organise my entire house as per Marie’s principle and share photos of the reorganisation. After the course I had to organise two homes and share detailed reports on that with the trainers. And finally before becoming a KonMari consultant in 2019, I had to write an exam and attend an interview,” she explains. These consultants help clients get rid of unwanted things, organise their homes and label designated areas for belongings. “It involves a bit of counselling as sometimes people hold on to hand-me-downs for emotional reasons. I always tell them to retain an item if it sparks joy, else give it away,” explains Gayatri, who trained with Marie in New York in 2017. Professional organisers and decluttering experts are getting increasingly popular across the world, especially after the pandemic and lockdowns, which resulted in people spending more time at home. It has also given rise to virtual decluttering sessions.“With people confined within four walls for the last year-and-a- half, they want to make their homes the best space. I was receiving two to three requests a week and started helping virtually. Not just homes, I also work with hotels and offices. The philosophy is the same.” Ironically, as someone who practises, and preaches, minimalism, Gayatri loves mess. “I love it because when I see it, I start imagining what it would look like once I am done,” she says, adding, “Often there are homes that look beautiful from the outside with a nice living room. Then, I see the private space and think, ‘Oh God, This is going to be a mammoth task’.” De-cluttering vs deep cleaning When she launched in India, Gayatri says even her own family did not quite understand the concept. “ Safai karne ja rahi hai ? (Are you going clean a house?)” they would ask. And she would explain, it is decluttering not cleaning. “I had to bring in a change in their mindset,” says Gayatri. Initially there was no market but fortunately, with OTTs playing a number of series on the subject, ( Get Organized With The Home Edit , and more recently The Minimalists: Less is Now ) the concept has been picking up. “Now India has nearly 15-20 professional organisers,” says Gayatri, adding that she got her first client in December 2017 in Mumbai. It was a family of four. The lady of the house had just had her second child and needed help organising clothes. Since a lot of homes are smaller in Mumbai, she felt a space crunch. “Once we told her how to fold clothes, she was so fascinated to see how much space she could save. Four months later, she sent pictures of how she had changed all her shelves to drawers as the latter is more conducive to the KonMari style of folding,” explains Gayatri.With Deepavali round the corner, Chennai-based Service Square has seen an uptake in requests for decluttering. Started by Babu Vincent in 2000, Service Square initially offered 150 plus concierge services for 50,000 employees of different companies, but since 2010, its focus has been on providing cleaning services. A journey of minimalism Early this year, he introduced decluttering services, after he himself embarked on a journey of minimalism. “According to the Pareto principle, 20% of the most important things give us 80% of the results. It is a vital few and trivial many,” he says. Over the years Babu noticed that even though people repeatedly got their homes cleaned, they did not stay that way because of the clutter. “If people really want to keep their homes neat and organised, they need to declutter. Then the place remains tidy for at least six to seven months,” he says, adding that his clientele consists of executives from Chennai, in the 30-to-50 age bracket. Decluttering takes time: the process can take anywhere between six hours to a few days. Expect to get rid of anything from 30% to 50% of your belongings to create wardrobes and cupboards that are more compact, and functional. Sometimes it can also be a 12-hour shift at a stretch. The prices vary depending on the size and space, with some starting at Rs. 3,000 for an hour, while some charge a fixed amount for the whole process. Other than the aesthetic appeal, decluttering has several other benefits. A lot of the things discarded in good condition are sent to charities. As Gayatri consults a spate of new clients approaching her to help organise their homes for Deepavali, she explains to them the benefits of decluttering. “ It lets you focus on tasks that you want to accomplish. It is a way to control your surroundings. We feel more in charge and that is reassuring.”    Clutter competes for attention. Which is why, decluttering and organising can have a deep impact on our mental and physical state   Clutter competes for attention. Which is why, decluttering and organising can have a deep impact on our mental and physical state||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/wow-what-a-m/article37223913.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Atop Mount Kilimanjaro||“My eyes welled up when I reached the summit. It took me three hours to hike the last 50 metres,” says actor Nivetha Thomas, who scaled Mount Kilimanjaro a few days ago. At 5,895 metres above sea level, Mt Kilimanjaro in Tanzania, East Africa, is the highest single free-standing mountain in the world. Nivetha was accompanied by Telangana mountaineer Poorna Malavath, her coach Shekhar Babu Bachinepally and 15 crew members. Speaking from her father’s home in Dubai, where she landed after the summit, the 25-year-old actor says the seeds for the expedition were sown in September 2019, when she presented a TED talk. At the event, Nivetha listened in rapt attention as Poorna spoke about mountaineering. In 2014, at the age of 13, Poorna became the youngest Indian and the youngest female in the world to scale Mt Everest. “I felt an unknown interest in mountaineering surging within me. Poorna and I stayed in touch and I met her coach, Shekhar. I began reading up about mountaineering,” says Nivetha. Over the last year, Nivetha upped her fitness regime for Saakhini Daakhini , the Telugu remake of the Korean film Midnight Runners . She trained in judo, jujutsu, running, kickboxing and endurance training, all of which helped her cope with the varying terrain and altitude-related issues during the expedition. Call of the mountains Attempting to scale Mt Everest, says Nivetha, would have involved disciplined training for two years, which was tough given her filming schedules. However, when Poorna informed her about an expedition to Kilimanjaro, Nivetha was keen to join. “Shekhar felt I was fit enough to take up the expedition. I was on the sets of the Telugu film until five days prior to the trip. I barely told six people who are close to me about my plans. Minutes before I lost Internet connectivity in Tanzania, I put out a story on Instagram that I will be off the radar for 10 days.” Nivetha was aware that, however much she studied about mountains, there would be surprises: “I had never gone on hikes, forget climbing mountains. But I was determined to do this. I followed instructions strictly. If they said pack two thermals, it had to be two thermals, nothing less.” She reached Tanzania on October 10 and met the three trainers who would accompany the team; she was briefed about the following day: “They took it one day at a time and never overloaded us with information. I focussed on one step at a time and concentrated on my breathing during the eight-day hike — six days of ascent and two days of descent.” Mental preparation played a key role during the journey. There was no room for negativity or anxiety. “Shekhar told me that each mountain requires a different preparation and that the mountain has to choose you and allow you to scale it.” Slow and steady Over the next eight days, Nivetha would learn a lot of new words: ‘pole, pole,’ (slowly in Kiswahili, an East African language). Taking it slow makes it easier for the body to acclimatise to the altitude and diminishing oxygen levels. The other thumb rule was to stay hydrated to ward off altitude sickness. “Severe headaches, nausea, diarrhoea and insomnia are common symptoms. Luckily, I did not experience those,” she says. The terrain changed every day: rainforests on day one, moor land on day two, dry moor land giving way to rocks on day three, rocky terrain on day four, a desert on day five and the glacial summit on day six. “The weather changed by the hour, from sunny to foggy, rains to chill,” adds Nivetha. On the first two days, the team hiked for seven hours. Later, it would increase to 12 and the summit day involved 18 hours of walking. Wanting to see the sunrise, sunset and the stars from the mountain was one of the reasons for her expedition. “At the end of the day, you feel like running to a pile of snow and playing with it, but your body will want you to rest. You have to pay heed, eat well and rest if you want to wake up the next morning and walk for hours.” Keep moving The journey to the summit began late evening and turned out to be arduous: “The guideline was to keep moving, even if very slowly, but never stop. At minus 12 to 15 degrees, you risk cramps and frostbites. The guides were extremely patient. As my oxygen saturation was good, they allowed me to go ahead.” The descent was quicker and she found herself in a cheerful mood, sometimes taking over the reins of guiding the team down the slopes: “You have to watch where you put your feet because you can come down pretty quickly.” She has already decided her next expedition, though she doesn’t spill the beans. She terms the expedition a life-changing experience, where nothing else mattered apart from being close to Nature: “No amount of money or fame can match that experience of scaling a mountain.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/atop-mount-kilimanjaro/article37223942.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Teal sweatsuits, pink overalls...||When Mumbai cosplayer Medha Srivastava — known for her viral renditions of Loki, Khaleesi from Game Of Thrones and Dhanush in Jagame Thandhiram — watched Squid Game on Netflix, she knew the show would be a success and wasted no time in channelling her inner-Kang Sae-byoek, a North Korean defector who is one of hundreds competing in the series of deadly games, to win money. The first season of the Korean-language survival-thriller series has become Netflix’s “biggest series launch” till date after it hit the mark of 111 million views in less than a month since its debut on September 17. And this further contributed to the hallyu boom across India that now sees more people recreating the marbles and the Red Light Green Light game or eating Dalgona candy, as well as leaning further into Korean culture. The biggest appeal of the fashion in Squid Game is its simplicity and borderline-neon colour-blocking as well as its gender-neutral statement. Medha is one of many creatives around the world who has started cosplaying as the show’s characters. So far, we have seen cosplays of the players in their teal-green retro-inspired sweat-suit, the giant singing doll in her yellow and orange tunic ensemble, and the pink overall-donning guards with their full-face masks. “Luckily, this costume didn’t require too many intricate details compared to what we do for Comic Con,” she says with a laugh. The real challenge lay in finding that teal-green jumpsuit that the Squid Game players wear. Residing in Andheri in Mumbai, she ventured out to the bustling Lokhandwala market but could neither find a set of that particular colour in the market nor online. So she bought a hoodie jacket online that did colour-match and she cut off the hood, painted on some white stripes and added a sticker that reads ‘067’ (Sae-byeok’s contestant number in the tournament) on the front. For hair and makeup, Medha did the bare minimum without wanting to culturally appropriate the look of Sae-byeok. With a light brush of the brows and a stained lip, she was done. She also added clip-on bangs for good measure and crafted the Squid Game calling card with the triangle, circle and square on it. She posted the cosplay to her Instagram account on October 11 to more than 1,600 likes and hundreds of comments of praise. Colour of the moment Teal-green, a colour long ignored by many, is now the talk of the town, and within the last two weeks, fast fashion houses acted fast to create their own sweat-suit pieces of that colour. While Zara has two zipper jackets, H&M’s Conscious line offers a simple pullover. Accessories such as the Front Man’s matte black mask and the guards’ porous masks with one of the calling card shapes painted on it are also quickly becoming available on e-commerce platforms like Amazon and Flipkart, just in time for Halloween. Meanwhile, Bengaluru-based makeup artist Sakshi Chaturvedi could not decide between the Front Man (the enigmatic host of the games) with his alluring matte black geometric mask and the guards — so she went for a half-and-half look, choosing a bright pink hoodie. She added wounds on her face to mimic the Squid Game shapes on one side and the other side had a painted mask and a blackout contact lens, proving you can add your own flavour to your recreation while staying true to the show. Even the white sneakers worn by the players — which many suspect are Vans — have been in high demand.   Just like in Mumbai, the open markets in the older parts of major metro cities are a great place to find resources for cosplay and Halloween costumes. Hyderabad’s Begam Bazaar and Delhi’s Chandni Chowk markets are choc-a-bloc with costume stores and kiosks that have face paints, overalls that can be dyed, liquid latex and other materials great for a Squid Game ensemble — but not the exact apparel. In early October, events manager Manohar Sriram scoured Begam Bazaar and recalled a conversation with a seller, “He told me that many people were asking him if he had anything from Squid Game and they showed him pictures on their phones. It had barely been two weeks since the release but an average of five people per week would come enquire.” Probably the easiest costume to draw from Squid Game is a simple red wig; towards the end of the series, lead character Seong Gi-hun sports bright red hair while wearing a simple navy business suit. Wigs of the same colour with a side bang are now popping up on Amazon, Ubuy and Flipkart.  There will, of course, be trolls looking to make fun of the series. Vidya Ramraj in Hyderabad, who has not seen the show, explains her plans, “My cousin, who is a hardcore Squid Game fan, is hosting a Halloween party, so I have bought a squid costume and I’ll carry a kid’s chess board — to literally embody ‘Squid Game’ because there have been so many memes of the same online from people who haven’t seen the show.”  Dalgona offerings Just as Auroville’s Korean restaurant Nowana started Dalgona candy in their dessert repertoire, Bengaluru’s Freddie’s Cookies (9148256505) have also kicked off the same. In Squid Game, the contestants are tasked with carefully cutting out a traced shape from a Dalgona candy disc — if contestants broke into the shape, they are eliminated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/teal-sweatsuits-pink-overalls/article37223935.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A voice for the world||On December 12 last year, when Superstar Rajinikanth wanted to tweet about his political entry, he was unsure about how to phrase it. From the sets of Annaatthe , which he was shooting for at that time, he sent a voice note to his daughter, Soundarya Rajinikanth. She heard the recording with interest. It was a voice she had heard since childhood, but that particular recording sparked a business idea: of a voice-based social media platform. Subsequently, she discussed the concept with a friend (Sunny Pokala of Amptech Technologies) to set up the technological background for it. Today, the duo’s brainchild, called Hoote, is available in 15 native Indian languages and 10 international languages. Users can post 60-second live voice recordings or upload a recorded voice on the app. Rajinikanth posted the first audio message on the platform from Delhi, where he recently received the Dadasaheb Phalke Award. “I am convinced that voice is the future of communication,” said Soundarya, during the recent launch event, “With voice notes, one can deliver critical messages and communicate clearly.” Adds Sunny, who has earlier worked on mobile citizen safety application Kavalan, “Hoote will make all voices, from celebrities to common people, heard. It is relevant in today’s times when people want to be connected all the time, and yet want to reduce screen time.” Soundarya, who entered the film industry as a graphic designer, went on to direct two Tamil films: the 2014 animated film Kochadaiyaan , starring Rajinikanth, and the 2017 film Vellailla Pattadhari 2 , starring Dhanush and Kajol. With Hoote, she hopes to explores new pastures. The team also hopes to partner with music labels to bring out audio teasers for films.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-voice-for-the-world/article37223934.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Storytelling on the cards||Artist Banamalli Mohapatra is busy creating decks of cards for Deepavali, with cotton saris, squirrel hair brushes and crushed stone colours.  Athrangi ganjifa , with 96 cards hand-painted by Banamalli, puts the spotlight on ganjifa this festive season. One of the world’s oldest playing cards, ganjifa traces its origin back to the 16th Century. Though Persian in origin, over a period of time, the art form embraced the pantheon of Hindu mythology in its expressions. Each card is made through an intricate and long process using old cotton saris that are painted with squirrel hair brushes in crushed stone colours. In the past, ganjifa cards featured paintings of wrestlers, swordsmen, musicians, animals and birds. The iconography, however, has changed today and is now largely centred around devotional themes. “It was introduced by the Mughals but the motifs then were influenced by their culture,” says Neeta Shah, GM of Bangalore-based GoCoop, which showcases the cards on its website along with artisan partner organisation, Potli. “They bring to life, mythology, history and social mores,” she adds. The cards lend themselves to variations of modern games such as poker and teen patti; the three-card version popular in India. Each suit consists of one king, one wazir, and 10 numbered cards. After shuffling, the cards are placed face down on a white cloth, then divided equally among the players. Today, though ganjifa has disappeared into the annals of history, in some pockets across the country, people still make the cards and play this game. Says Neeta, “We have created a modest revival in the game amongst museums, craft aficionados and traditional game enthusiasts which is currently a source of sustained income for the artisans.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/storytelling-on-the-cards/article37223907.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Rajini’s rural avatar||The first trailer for Rajinikanth’s upcoming action-drama Annaatthe has been recently released. Directed by Siva, the film will hit screens on Deepavali day, next week. The trailer introduces Rajinikanth in the role of Kaalaiyan, a village president who is devoted to his village folk and family, especially his sister, played by Keerthy Suresh. When their peaceful existence comes under threat from the villain (Jagapathi Babu), all hell breaks loose, as Kalaiyan seeks revenge. Rajinikanth was recently conferred the Dadasaheb Phalke Award at the 67th National Awards ceremony. The actor dedicated the award to his family, friend and fans.  Annaatthhe , produced by Sun Pictures, is touted to be a family entertainer on the lines of the star’s earlier films like Muthu, Arunachalam and Padayappa. It has an ensemble cast comprising actors like Nayanthara, Khushbu, Meena, Prakash Raj and Soori.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rajinis-rural-avatar/article37223940.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Badshah in love mode||“I want to shock my fans with a new sound and song,” says Badshah, a day after the release of his new single ‘Jugnu’ with Nikita Gandhi and featuring Akanksha Sharma. He probably has. Packed with VFX effects, the musician’s latest, which has him singing about love and dancing without his trademark jacket and cap, has garnered more than 10 million views within two days of its release. “The sound is different,” affirms Badshah, who earlier sung ‘Tareefaan’ from Veere Di Wedding . The love song is part of a bigger ‘gameplan’, in a bid to do something that fans do not expect. “The love song is not a shock for me because I don’t want to be predictable any more,” he says. He gives a big shout out to the Red Chillies team for the VFX effects. While some portions of the track were shot in Ladakh, special effects were used while shooting in a studio in Mumbai. “The team did the work in 20 days. I would consider it as the ‘Bahubali’ of music videos.” It has only been a month since he launched ‘Bad BoyXBad Girl’ song with Nikita. Earlier, he would wait for at least eight months before he released a new song. Is there a constant urge to release music now? “After the pandemic, yes,” responds Badshah, stating that this phase has made him more focussed. “We are living in unpredictable times. I don’t want to hold on to my music,” he adds. This hunger to explore is one of the many lessons that he learnt from the pandemic. He explains, “One cannot afford to waste time now. Whether it is wanting to spend time with family or learning a new skill... we has to just do it. Some people want to relax now after the pandemic phase, but I have a dream to achieve.” He will also be seen on television as a judge along with Shilpa Shetty for India’s Got Talent Season 9. While the shooting has not yet begun, he is eager to catch up with the young talent on the show. Describing his journey as ‘crazy’, he says, “I tell the youth to not get inspired by my music, lifestyle or what I drive or drink. I want them to see how I gave up on my personal life to be what I am today.” For now, he’s content with the kind of reception ‘Jugnu’ is receiving. The video also ends with a ‘to be continued.’ Keeping fans guessing, he says, “It is a part of a bigger story, and I will let audiences connect the dots,” says Badshah, who is hoping to dominate global music charts in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/badshah-in-love-mode/article37223943.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A safe Deepavali for your pets||Ensure your pets are indoor in a familiar space, or in a restricted space away from loud noises. Pets have a heightened sense of hearing, so be sure to close all doors and windows when it gets very noisy outside. You may also try using pillows and blankets to help reduce the impact of loud sounds and vibrations, or switching on calming music or the television to provide a distraction. Several pets usually go missing during Deepavali. Ensure that your pets are wearing collars and identification tags around their necks with important information such as a family member’s contact number, in the event that they go missing. If you have stray animals around, let them hide under cars, makeshift shelters or in other covered spaces. Never burst crackers near or in front of an animal. Ensure that your pet has access to adequate food and water to make them feel comfortable. You may also do this for stray animals you feed, or those that take shelter in your homes or spaces. Avoid taking dogs out for walks during Deepavali, especially in the evening and in crowded areas. If you are choosing to burst crackers, use crackers that are within permissible decibel limits. Ensure that burnt crackers are not lying on the ground or on the streets. Animals and birds may step on them or ingest them, which will be injurious to their health. Check on your pets from time to time to ensure that they do not feel deserted. Be around to comfort them and let them know you are with them. Consult a qualified veterinarian prior to Deepavali in case your pet needs anti-anxiety medication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-safe-deepavali-for-your-pets/article37223917.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Lying eyes||“There is a dark alley within each of us, no matter how polished we may appear on the outside; a side that is disturbed and fascinated by the morbid,” says author Novoneel Chakraborty, talking about his latest book, Whisper To Me Your Lies (Penguin Random House). While Whisper To Me... might be his 17th novel, Chakraborty says it was his first attempt at penning a murder mystery. “Most of my books have been romantic thrillers and the plot for a hardcore crime thriller had eluded me till now. I always wanted to write one of these because I am a fan of crime movies and novels myself.” “What excites me as a story teller is the emotional quotient of my characters and it took me a while to visualise a plot with this angle for this genre. I believe whenever a crime happens, the trigger, motive or cause is usually a fractured relationship.” Chakraborty says the buzz behind the morbid Debjani De case in Kolkata a few years ago had lingered on in his mind. “I could not stop thinking about that case and though Whisper To Me... is not based on that crime, I pondered on the story of a family and how I could couch it in a crime thriller.” “Within a family the relationship between a mother and son is very different from that of a father and daughter. There is an innate, visceral quality to these relationships and that is what I decided to explore in my book. I’ve also looked at the disarray that ensues when there is an absentee parent and a lack of communication within the members of a family.” Ekantika Pakrashi, the protagonist of Whisper To Me... , is a UPSC hopeful from a small town, who finds herself to be a person of interest in a murder that seems to be the work of a serial killer. “On a visit to Delhi, I noticed a subculture of sorts surrounding the UPSC, its aspirants and coaches. I thought it would be nice to set a story in this background as a deliberate departure from my previous books.” Chakraborty, 36, is a full-time writer and says his process of creating is a bit chaotic. “I figure things out as I go along. Writing has helped me understand myself better. I feel it is important that whatever line of work we are in, we should have evolved a bit from what we last created. I can’t be the same person who wrote my last book — that would be pointless.” His next book which is already underway, is a sequel to his 2010 novel, That Kiss in the Rain . “The book had an open ending and it wasn’t until now that I was ready to explore the fate of those characters.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lying-eyes/article37223938.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||pet pals||More pooches looking for love and sponsorship, with Mac as special pet, and Kutti as our happy adoption tale:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pet-pals/article37223924.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Rockstar paceman||More than the number of wickets Brett Lee got — and he did get quite a few, it is how he bowled that impressed one more. He was... fast. Not 135 kmph fast; not 140 kmph fast; he was 150 kmph fast, often. Occasionally, 155 kmph. A few times even breaching 160 kmph. Batters get less than half a second to react to that kind of speed. In other words, they hardly saw it coming. Brett breathed fire. Sometimes, after shattering the stumps, he would pummel his fists down thrice in celebratory fury. He called it The Chainsaw. It was like a frenzied guitar riff at a hard rock concert. Brett could, however, also play the screeching guitar riff at a rock concert — his rock band Six & Out has made it to the top-100 of the Australian music chart. The fury on the field belies his soft-natured persona off it. He is polite, mostly smiling. Now, though, we mostly see him in the commentary panel. The former Australian pacer discusses pace bowling, the importance of a cricketer having multiple interests, and India’s chances in the ongoing World T20.  Excerpts:-   International cricketers usually retire when they are between 35 and 40. Their autobiographies, which get released soon after, mostly deal with their playing career. So, we rarely get to know the second half of their lives. How has it been for you?  It has been a lot of fun. I have spent the first half of my life travelling around the world, playing the sport I loved, and making a lot of friends. Now it is about enjoying the hard work that has been done. I still enjoy doing my fitness. What I love about the second phase of my life is that I am actually allowed to do things I have always wanted to. I want to enhance my music career, have some fun with it, or enjoy and learn more about wine [Lee is an ambassador of the Australian winemaker Jacob’s Creek].  Speaking of music, what is happening with Six & Out?  Our band was formed in the late ‘90s. We have done over 250 shows around Australia. So, that is a lot of music. We still have it. We have not played a lot of gigs for a while because of COVID-19. (Lee sings and plays bass guitar for the band).  Was it difficult to get used to a life without playing cricket in the initial few years after retirement?  It was not that hard. Throughout my career I made sure I did a number of things. I always had a full-time job. I have been in menswear sales for 25 years. Even after playing a Test match against India, I would come home and be straight back in the menswear store selling suits and shirts and ties and socks. The next job I had was commentary. I took it up even while I was still playing in the Big Bash League. Then there are my interests in music and wine. So, I was actually upskilling myself in other areas and picking up interests so that when cricket was over, I had these things to fall back on.  Do you advise youngsters to pursue other interests as well?  Absolutely. I think it is very important to have other interests. It does not matter what you do — reading or writing books, or music or fashion or photography, but have a second, third, fourth, and fifth passion, because cricket will not last forever. They also help to take pressure off yourself. Playing music, being outdoors and fishing took the pressure off cricket when I was away from the field. So once I was on the field, I was relaxed and enjoying myself.  You, like many other former cricketers, are now a commentator. I am assuming you find it easier to talk about the game than to play it.  Well, sometimes it is harder to get inside a player's mind and see what they are trying to do. I would rather get out on the field and do it myself. Cricket came pretty naturally to me because I enjoyed it. Commentary, meanwhile, can be harder because you are trying to understand another person.  Let’s talk about fast-bowling. Almost every country in the top-five or top-six has at least two good quality fast-bowlers. Would you say this is the best era for pacers?  You think about how much the game has improved. How the batsmen are hitting balls further, how they are playing different shots, running fast. But when you look at the bowler's pace, no one is going past 155 kmph. I wonder if we are training correctly. I want the guys to hit that 160 kmph mark.  What do you make of the young crop of fast bowlers? Who has impressed you the most?  I liked Kartik Tyagi from this IPL. He is got some really good pace, a beautiful action, and a nice run up. So he is one guy that I was impressed with. Anrich Nortje from South Africa has got good pace. Then, there is Kagiso Rabada, of course.  And, finally, who is your pick for the World T20?  I think India has a very good chance. They did not play their best cricket against Pakistan in their first game. But they are the team to beat. Australia also has a great chance to bring home the trophy for the very first time. It is going to be exciting.  It does not matter what you do —have a second, third, fourth, and fifth passion, because cricket will not last forever||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rockstar-paceman/article37223933.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||My kolam goes with my sari||Colour fills the residence of Mumbai-based Usha Kunisetty. Earlier this year, Usha’s pictures created a flutter on social media and WhatsApp groups; for, her kolam designs during Navaratri exactly matched the sarees she wore. So much so that you could not tell them apart. The idea hit the 46-year-old one day during the preparation to the festive season. “In Bombay, there’s a tradition of wearing nine colours for each of the nine days of Navratri. I always do that. This year, I was mulling about something else that would stand out, which is when I came up with this concept: of matching my saree with the kolam .” Usha was convinced about the novelty in the concept, but what she was not expecting was the response it has received. “I shared it with a few friends, who in turn shared it on social media. I didn’t realise it going viral till I received the photos myself, from someone in Dubai!” Her biggest learning has been ‘patience’. “Even a single error means that I have to start all over again. The process is meditative,” she says. “However grand a kolam I draw one day, I’ll have to erase it the next morning.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/my-kolam-goes-with-my-sari/article37223937.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Coimbatore fillers||Chocko Choza brings specially-crafted gourmet goodies like baked Turkish delicacies, Couverture Belgian chocolates, and desserts like basbousa, baklava, truffles, French macarons, biscottis, wands and more. There are also handmade wooden hampers to choose from. All desserts come without preservatives, artificial flavours, hydrogenated vegetable fat, palm fat or taste enhancers. Home delivery is available and you can also get customised hampers. Call or WhatsApp: 8220400100||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/coimbatore-fillers/article37223916.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Sari and style||Can you pair a sari with sneakers, boots, shirts, kurtas or jackets? Sari stylist Ashwini Narayanan will tell you how at a workshop organised by FICCI FLO. You can learn to style and drape your sari and how to re-interpret it at the workshop. On October 29, 5 pm @The Residency Towers, Avanashi Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sari-and-style/article37223926.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Butter murukku, anyone?||GK Services offers varieties of traditional sweets and savouries for Deepavali. You can choose from butter murukku , seer bakshanam, thaen kuzhal, adirasam , and more. Located at Tatabad, Sivanandha Colony.  944324903||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/butter-murukku-anyone/article37223928.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||One with Nature||The Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON) holds a series of competitions as a part of the annual Salim Ali Trophy Nature Competition 2021. The competition will test students’ knowledge on environment, birds and their ability to identify various species, among others. There will be an elocution and painting competition on the topic of social distancing in tune with Nature. There is also a competition for teachers from across the country. Those who teach junior, middle and senior level students can come up with a lesson plan and hands-on teaching activities on the subject. There will be a virtual celebration on November 12 (Dr Salim Ali’s 125th birth anniversary) where the winners will be announced. To know more, 0422- 2203120 or email salimali.socialmedia@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/one-with-nature/article37223930.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Suriya, Bala team up||Actor Suriya and director Bala have collaborated on two memorable films in the early 2000s: Nandha and Pithamagan . The two are coming back together for a project now. Suriya announced it on Thursday, tweeting, “He is a person who had more belief in me that I did. He made me experience new worlds. 20 years later, with the blessings of my father (Sivakumar), I am embarking on yet another beautiful journey with Bala with the same enthusiasm.” Director Bala, well known for his offbeat style of cinema, gave Suriya a big break and an image makeover in the Nineties with his films. Since then, the filmmaker has gone on to work with many other stars, including Suriya’s wife Jyotika ( Paradesi ). His last outing was Dhruv Vikram’s debut offering Varmaa . Suriya, meanwhile, is looking forward to the release of Jai Bhim on Amazon Prime Video next week. He also has the Pandiraj-directed Etharkum Thuninthavan and the Vetrimaaran-directed Vaadivasal lined up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/suriya-bala-team-up/article37223939.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A bit of everything||On The Go presents House of Champa, a two-day pop up that brings together six young entrepreneurs showcasing their unique range. The brands include Riha, a contemporary clothing brand with a twist of Indian designs, Jarganic, which brings fresh pulp spreads with a combination of fruits and flavours, Micasa Designs’ decorative cushions, home linen, and accessories and Urbanitii, a line of jewellery with contemporary designs. On October 30 and October 31, 12 noon and 9 pm. Call: 0422 4520116/117||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-bit-of-everything/article37223932.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Code green||Gallery 78, a contemporary art space in Hyderabad’s Izzat Nagar in Kothaguda has reopened with a group show for the first time after an 18 month gap caused by the pandemic. The show, ‘An Eclectic Embrace’ at the gallery (on till October 31) showcases artworks of Atul Mahajan, Anirban Mishra, Goutam Pal, J. Joseph Dhayalan, Monty Senarath Colombage, Sanjeewa Liyanage, Subrata Ghosh, Tanmay Santra, Tapasi Nath, and Vijayaraghavan S. The 56 artworks with varied themes and styles, by 10 artists are socially engaging and a response to the times that we live in. Brush with Nature Artist Vijayaraghavan says the show was conceptualised in 2019 with a proposal to display works of only 24 artists. “Then COVID-19 happened,” he recalls. With Nature as the main theme, the works are a response to the pandemic. The show is ‘culturally deserving and vibrant’ says Vijayraghavan. He adds, “Tolerance, identity politics and displacement have been some of the issues faced by everyone during the pandemic. Observe and you realise that we as a society are moving away from Nature.” Born and brought up in Madurai, Vijayraghavan’s Traversing Reminiscences series in mixed media on paper incorporates different elements including a BR code on a gold border design signifying cultural elements. “We see many technological advancements but one has to stay connected to the tradition; Be rooted,” he affirms. Mundane objects turn into art in another image of a scene on a metro station outside India with upwards facing arrow marks and a bar code. Transforming landscapes Tanmay Santra’s Homeland series in watercolours depicts the transformation of landscapes on the suburbs. The painting has rock-like objects and houses far from one another on a barren land highlighting the human habitat. “They are my observations, dreams and a metaphor for home; during the pandemic, we were isolated,” says Tanmay, who began working on the works in 2020. A native of Kolkata, Tanmay is a teacher at the Sarojini Naidu School of Arts & Communication, University of Hyderabad. Art is a form of introspection for the artist who enjoys solitude and music. Changing cityscapes inspire Goutam Pal who has been practising art in Hyderabad for a decade. His works depict birds in flight over broken rocks. Painted in a horizontal format, the birds look like they have been hanged. Goutam says, “I have observed that lakes and water bodies in the city are slowly turning into dumpyards for broken rocks.” While the pollution of lakes could represent any city in India, the artist says, “The rocks belong to the Deccan landscape of Hyderabad.” Chennai-based J. Joseph Dhayalan’s five abstract works in acrylic are influenced by music and Nature. “I am inspired by any material, even by a piece of paper. I convey my experiences of what I see, hear or touch, on canvas,” says Joseph who has a keen interest in abstract art. “I do not want to limit the experience of viewers by creating representative or figurative art,” he says. The artist also says that he hopes to create installations and performance art. He quotes his favourite artist Arshile Gorky, “When something is finished, that means it's dead, doesn't it ? I believe in everlastingness. I never finish a painting — I just stop working on it for a while.” The element of air Hailing from Ajanta village of Aurangabad in Maharashtra, Atul Mahajan’s focus has been on the element of air in Nature. He works in Baroda and does installations, performance art and interactive installation (people are also part of it) and also draws on acid-free paper made with alkaline paper technology that helps it sustain longer. “Nature gives oxygen and protects us but human beings only destroy Nature,” he says. His Positive Negative series was conceptualised when the pandemic began in 2020. “Being positive acquired a new connotation after COVID-19 when people died due to lack of Oxygen. Nature generates oxygen but we deplete its resources,” says Atul. Artist Tapsi Nath has fond memories of the natural surroundings of Santiniketan. Now in Hyderabad, the artist finds solace in her garden and recreates Nature’s moods, its flora and fauna in fibreglass sculptures. Unknown Stranger in fibreglass is a reflection of her experience of watching her shadow on a wall blending with the shadow of a leaf to create a new form. The King Bird pays tribute to an eagle she watched during lockdown. She says, “The eagle sat like a ruler in the garden.” With different styles and mediums, artists have come together to explore social issues even as they express concern for Nature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/code-green/article37223978.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Naga Shaurya on the rom-com ‘Varudu Kaavalenu’ and the physical transformation for sports drama ‘Lakshya’||A girl who is pushing 30 and perceived to be headstrong, is under pressure from family to get married. She detests conventional matchmaking and crosses paths with an NRI who thinks likewise. When actor Naga Shaurya heard the story of Varudu Kaavalenu narrated by director Lakshmi Sowjanya, he was reminded of conversations in his friends’ circles. The actor describes Varudu Kaavalenu , which releases in theatres on October 30, as a romantic comedy that is reminiscent of real life happenings. In his decade-long career, Shaurya has been a part of a handful of romance dramas, notable among them being Oohalu Gusagusalade, Kalyana Vaibhogame and Jyo Achyutananda . “I had made a conscious decision to move away from love stories and my chocolate boy image with Aswasthama (2020), but when Lakshmi narrated this story, it felt real. Men and women nearing 30 come under pressure to get married. The chatter around them doesn’t stop until they get married. Such a story has the potential to appeal to every family,” says Shaurya. He plays an NRI architect who visits India and meets the family of the girl (Ritu Varma). Shaurya is in appreciation of how the parents’ characters have been written, particularly of the father played by Murali Sharma: “My favourite scene is how the father reacts to the girl’s choices, with an understanding that she should be happy with it in the long run. It would be lovely if every woman had such an understanding parent.” Lakshmi had instructed Shaurya to be himself for Varudu ...: “I think for about 60% of my character, I just had to be myself.” Shaurya admits that writers and directors often approach him with urban rom-coms and shrugs, “I don’t consider myself romantic. But when I get these stories, I decide depending on whether a story entertains me.” Shaurya had beefed up for Aswathama but shed 16 kilograms to turn lean and fit for Varudu Kaavalenu : “I wanted to look like a young groom, not a bodybuilder. When I tuck in my shirts and tees, I didn’t want to look bulky.” The process would have been simple but for the sports drama Lakshya (releasing on November 12) , directed by Santhossh Jagarlapudi,  he was working on simultaneously. “ Lakshya is the first Indian film on archery, to my knowledge. I have four different looks in the film and during the four-month lockdown in 2020, I hit the gym regularly,” says Shaurya. He had worked out on and off for Aswathama , but wanted to look agile and muscular with eight-pack abs for Lakshya : “I got addicted to working out. If I don’t spend two to three hours in the gym, I would feel miserable. The lockdown kept getting extended and whenever it ended, I wanted to look different,” he laughs. The transformation warranted a change in lifestyle. Shaurya would wake up at 4.30 a.m., stick to his workouts that were tailored to include strength, conditioning and cardio, and his diet included home-cooked proteins and vegetables, and he would hit the bed by 9 p.m: “I enjoyed the disciplined lifestyle.” Learning archery, says Shaurya, was not challenging. He had been a state-level cricket player and a national-level basketball player in his younger days: “I have the knack of picking up the basics of any new sport within a few days.” Before signing off, he reverts to talk about Varudu Kaavalenu and says wistfully, “I would love to be a part of a film like A Star is Born if it were to be made in Telugu.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/naga-shaurya-on-the-rom-com-varudu-kaavalenu-and-the-physical-transformation-for-sports-drama-lakshya/article37223946.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Teal sweatsuits, pink overalls and geometric face masks...||When Mumbai cosplayer Medha Srivastava — known for her viral renditions of Loki, Khaleesi from Game Of Thrones and Dhanush in Jagame Thandhiram — watched Squid Game when it first dropped on Netflix, she knew the show would be a success and wasted no time in channelling her inner-Kang Sae-byoek, a North Korean defector who is one of hundreds competing in the series of deadly games, to win money. The first season of the Korean-language survival-thriller series has become Netflix’s “biggest series launch” till date after it hit the mark of 111 million views in less than a month since its debut on September 17. And this further contributed to the hallyu boom across India that now sees more people recreating the marbles and the Red Light Green Light game or eating Dalgona candy, as well as leaning further into Korean culture. The biggest appeal of the fashion in Squid Game is its simplicity and borderline-neon colour-blocking as well as its gender-neutral statement. Medha is one of many creatives around the world who has started cosplaying as the show’s characters. So far, we have seen cosplays of the players in their teal-green retro-inspired sweat-suit, the giant singing doll in her yellow and orange tunic ensemble, and the pink overall-donning guards with their full-face masks. “Luckily, this costume didn’t require too many intricate details compared to what we do for Comic Con,” she says with a laugh. The real challenge lay in finding that teal-green jumpsuit that the Squid Game players wear. Residing in Andheri in Mumbai, she ventured out to the bustling Lokhandwala market but could neither find a set of that particular colour in the market nor online. So she bought a hoodie jacket online that did colour-match and she cut off the hood, painted on some white stripes and added a sticker that reads ‘067’ (Sae-byeok’s contestant number in the tournament) on the front. For hair and makeup, Medha did the bare minimum without wanting to culturally appropriate the look of Sae-byeok. With a light brush of the brows and a stained lip, she was done. She also added clip-on bangs for good measure and crafted the Squid Game calling card with the triangle, circle and square on it. She posted the cosplay to her Instagram account on October 11 to more than 1,600 likes and hundreds of comments of praise. Colour of the moment Teal-green, a colour long ignored by many, is now the talk of the town, and within the last two weeks, fast fashion houses acted fast to create their own sweat-suit pieces of that colour. While Zara has two zipper jackets, H&M’s Conscious line offers a simple pullover. Accessories such as the Front Man’s matte black mask and the guards’ porous masks with one of the calling card shapes painted on it are also quickly becoming available on e-commerce platforms like Amazon and Flipkart, just in time for Halloween. Meanwhile, Bengaluru-based makeup artist Sakshi Chaturvedi could not decide between the Front Man (the enigmatic host of the games) with his alluring matte black geometric mask and the guards — so she went for a half-and-half look, choosing a bright pink hoodie. She added some wounds on her face to mimic the Squid Game shapes on one side and the other side had a painted mask and a blackout contact lens, proving you can add your own flavour to your recreation while staying true to the show. Even the white sneakers worn by the players — which many suspect are Vans — have been in high demand. A call for marketplaces Just like in Mumbai, the open markets in the older parts of major metro cities are a great place to find resources for cosplay and Halloween costumes. Hyderabad’s Begam Bazaar and Delhi’s Chandni Chowk markets are choc-a-bloc with costume stores and kiosks that have face paints, overalls that can be dyed, liquid latex and other materials great for a Squid Game ensemble — but not the exact apparel. In early October, events manager Manohar Sriram scoured Begam Bazaar and recalled a conversation with a seller, “He told me that many people were asking him if he had anything from Squid Game and they showed him pictures on their phones. It had barely been two weeks since the release but an average of five people per week would come enquire.” Probably the easiest costume to draw from Squid Game is a simple red wig; towards the end of the season, lead character Seong Gi-hun sports bright red hair while wearing a business suit. Wigs of the same colour with a side bang are now popping up on Amazon, Ubuy and Flipkart.  There will, of course, be trolls looking to make fun of the series. Vidya Ramraj in Hyderabad, who has not seen the show, explains her plans, “My cousin, who is a Squid Game fan, is hosting a Halloween party, so I have bought a squid costume and I’ll carry a kid’s chess board — to literally embody ‘Squid Game’ because there have been many such memes from people who haven’t seen the show.”  Dalgona offerings Just as Auroville’s Korean restaurant Nowana started Dalgona candy in their dessert repertoire, Bengaluru’s Freddie’s Cookies (9148256505) have also kicked off the same. In Squid Game, the contestants are tasked with carefully cutting out a traced shape from a Dalgona candy disc — if contestants broke into the shape, they are eliminated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/teal-sweatsuits-pink-overalls-and-geometric-face-masks/article37223954.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Telling stories of love||As an RJ, singer, comedian, anchor and television host, Aparshakti Khurana wears multiple hats with elan. What remains constant in all his endeavours is his sense of humour. His laughter precedes his conversation — full-throated and happy. After a hiatus of six years, he is back on radio to host a show called Ishq Mein Kabhi Kabhi . Launched recently on Ishq FM, the show features 24 stories on radio and six digital episodes. The series will have Aparshakti taking listeners through an array of emotions traversing love in many forms. “This is majorly storytelling through my voice. Though they are essentially love stories, they have narratives on betrayal, heartbreaks and second chances,” he explains. The stories, though fictional, are relatable, especially for people working in the corporate sector, says Aparshakti. “We have a story on long-distance relationships that most people can relate to. The stories are about the people around us; even the names and professions are as real as they could get.” Aparshakti adds, “I never thought of becoming an actor. Whatever little creativity I have in me is only because of my upbringing in radio. My eight-year stint with the radio gave me the confidence to face the camera. I am happy to be back in this space.” He bagged the lead role in Helmet , a comedy film on condoms, which released last month. His elder brother Ayushman Khurana set a trend of sorts through Vicky Donor . “We relate to such stories though the subject is considered taboo. Even now it is awkward for many to ask for a pack of condoms at a medical store. In the times we are living in, we cannot be awkward about it,” he says. Aparshakti adds that audiences are now drawn towards the new-age content-driven cinema. “Vicky Donor has, in a way, changed the way we see films in our country. Not only Helmet , I think the films made after that, especially by young filmmakers, are inspired by such subjects.” As much as he enjoys his multiple roles in showbiz, Aparshakti admits it is a challenge to strike a balance. “Music requires a different kind of training, video requires a different thing. For anchoring, you have to look right into the eye of the camera and talk to it, while acting, you have to be the character and believe there is no camera and and not think about the one filming it. There is a creative base that’s common but the process is different. I have been a busy artist for the past five years and I can’t be happier. Having said that, I try to be a multi-tasker. I try to do things that make me happy and radio is one of them. Taking out time for all the creative platforms is difficult, but I make it a point to take out time to each one of them.” The father of a three-month-old baby girl, Aparshakti is happy to forego his workouts to spend that time with his daughter. “During the pregnancy, I announced to my family that I will continue to be the baby of the house,” he signs off, breaking into his trademark hearty laugh.  I never thought of becoming an actor. Whatever little creativity I have in me is only because of my upbringing in radio||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/telling-stories-of-love/article37223956.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Wow, what a m||Letting go is hard. No wonder Gayatri Gandhi sometimes finds herself in a tug of war with her clients, trying to make them get rid of possessions that do not serve them any more. This could be anything from an empty box of detergent to rusted kadais that are half a century old, says Gayatri, a professional organiser and India’s first certified KonMari consultant. Gayatri has trained to professionally organise homes using the KonMari method propagated by Japanese organising consultant, author and host Marie Kondo (who first became famous for her book The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up in 2011). She launched Joy Factory in 2017 to help people “detach and discard” items they no longer need. “The level of attachment people have with their items is too much,” she says, discussing the most challenging aspect of her job over a call from Delhi, where she is based. “They have 100 reasons as to why they should keep an item,” she laughs. Prachi Chowla, a former chartered accountant who started Smiling Spaces, a decluttering and organising service in Bengaluru agrees. “As Indians we get attached to our belongings and see decluttering as a waste of money. Counselling the client is the hardest task. This is why before I start with any new client, I first do complimentary sessions to discuss hoarding and talk about how decluttering can benefit them,” says Prachi. Inspired by the Netflix series Tidying up with Marie Kondo , Prachi says she decided to apply the principles to organise her clothes first, and then her home. “I was amazed at how my guests visiting us felt peaceful in the house. My family never has to spend time looking for things as there is a home for everything in the house. Many of my friends asked for my help to organise their homes too and that is when I found my true calling as a consultant under Marie Kondo,” says Prachi who trained under Marie’s senior consultants in Los Angeles. Marie herself conducted one session. “Before I could enrol, I had to organise my entire house as per Marie’s principle and share photos of the reorganisation. After the course I had to organise two homes and share detailed reports on that with the trainers. And finally before becoming a KonMari consultant in 2019, I had to write an exam and attend an interview,” she explains. These consultants help clients get rid of unwanted things, organise their homes and label designated areas for belongings. “It involves a bit of counselling as sometimes people hold on to hand-me-downs for emotional reasons. I always tell them to retain an item if it sparks joy, else give it away,” explains Gayatri, who trained with Marie in New York in 2017. Professional organisers and decluttering experts are getting increasingly popular across the world, especially after the pandemic and lockdowns, which resulted in people spending more time at home. It has also given rise to virtual decluttering sessions. “With people confined within four walls for the last year-and-a- half, they want to make their homes the best space. I was receiving two to three requests a week and started helping virtually. Not just homes, I also work with hotels and offices. The philosophy is the same.” Ironically, as someone who practises, and preaches, minimalism, Gayatri loves mess. “I love it because when I see it, I start imagining what it would look like once I am done,” she says, adding, “Often there are homes that look beautiful from the outside with a nice living room. Then, I see the private space and think, ‘Oh God, This is going to be a mammoth task’.” When she launched in India, Gayatri says even her own family did not quite understand the concept. “ Safai karne ja rahi hai ? (Are you going clean a house?)” they would ask. And she would explain, it is decluttering not cleaning. “I had to bring in a change in their mindset,” says Gayatri. Initially there was no market but fortunately, with OTTs playing a number of series on the subject, ( Get Organized With The Home Edit , and more recently The Minimalists: Less is Now ) the concept has been picking up. De-cluttering vs deep cleaning “Now India has nearly 15-20 professional organisers,” says Gayatri, adding that she got her first client in December 2017 in Mumbai. It was a family of four. The lady of the house had just had her second child and needed help organising clothes. Since a lot of homes are smaller in Mumbai, she felt a space crunch. “Once we told her how to fold clothes, she was so fascinated to see how much space she could save. Four months later, she sent pictures of how she had changed all her shelves to drawers as the latter is more conducive to the KonMari style of folding,” explains Gayatri. With Deepavali round the corner, Chennai-based Service Square has seen an uptake in requests for decluttering. Started by Babu Vincent in 2000, Service Square initially offered 150 plus concierge services for 50,000 employees of different companies, but since 2010, its focus has been on providing cleaning services. Early this year, he introduced decluttering services, after he himself embarked on a journey of minimalism. “According to the Pareto principle, 20% of the most important things give us 80% of the results. It is a vital few and trivial many,” he says. Over the years Babu noticed that even though people repeatedly got their homes cleaned, they did not stay that way because of the clutter. “If people really want to keep their homes neat and organised, they need to declutter. Then the place remains tidy for at least six to seven months,” he says, adding that his clientele consists of executives from Chennai, in the 30-to-50 age bracket. Decluttering takes time: the process can take anywhere between six hours to a few days. Expect to get rid of anything from 30% to 50% of your belongings to create wardrobes and cupboards that are more compact, and functional. Sometimes it can also be a 12-hour shift at a stretch. The prices vary depending on the size and space, with some starting at Rs. 3,000 for an hour, while some charge a fixed amount for the whole process. Other than the aesthetic appeal, decluttering has several other benefits. A lot of the things discarded in good condition are sent to charities. As Gayatri consults a spate of new clients approaching her to help organise their homes for Deepavali, she explains to them the benefits of decluttering. “ It lets you focus on tasks that you want to accomplish. It is a way to control your surroundings. We feel more in charge and that is reassuring.”  Clutter competes for attention. Which is why, decluttering and organising can have a deep impact on our mental and physical state||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/wow-what-a-m/article37223957.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Atop Mount Kilimanjaro||“My eyes welled up when I reached the summit. It took me three hours to hike the last 50 metres,” says actor Nivetha Thomas, who scaled Mount Kilimanjaro a few days ago. At 5895 metres above sea level, Mt Kilimanjaro in Tanzania, East Africa, is the highest single free-standing mountain in the world. Nivetha was accompanied by Telangana mountaineer Poorna Malavath, her coach Shekhar Babu Bachinepally and 15 crew members. Speaking from her father’s home in Dubai, where she landed after the summit, the 25-year-old actor says the seeds for the expedition were sown in September 2019, when she presented a TED talk. At the event, Nivetha listened in rapt attention as Poorna spoke about mountaineering. In 2014, at the age of 13, Poorna became the youngest Indian and the youngest female in the world to scale Mt Everest. Call of the mountains “I felt an unknown interest in mountaineering surging within me. Poorna and I stayed in touch and I met her coach, Shekhar. I began reading up about mountaineering,” says Nivetha. Over the last year, Nivetha upped her fitness regime for Saakhini Daakhini , the Telugu remake of the Korean film Midnight Runners . She trained in judo, jujutsu, running, kickboxing and endurance training, all of which helped her cope with the varying terrain and altitude-related issues during the expedition. Attempting to scale Mt Everest, says Nivetha, would have involved disciplined training for two years, which was tough given her filming schedules. However, when Poorna informed her about an expedition to Kilimanjaro, Nivetha was keen to join. “Shekhar felt I was fit enough to take up the expedition. I was on the sets of the Telugu film until five days prior to the trip. I barely told six people who are close to me about my plans. Minutes before I lost internet connectivity in Tanzania, I put out a story on Instagram that I will be off the radar for 10 days. Nothing more.” Nivetha was aware that, however much she studied about the mountains, there would be surprises: “I had never gone on hikes, forget climbing mountains. But I was determined to do this. I followed instructions strictly. If they said pack two thermals, it had to be two thermals, nothing less.” She reached Tanzania on October 10 and met the three trainers who would accompany the team; she was briefed about the following day: “They took it one day at a time and never overloaded us with information. I focussed on one step at a time and concentrated on my breathing during the eight-day hike — six days of ascent and two days of descent.” Mental preparation played a key role during the journey. There was no room for negativity or anxiety. “Shekhar told me that each mountain requires a different preparation and that the mountain has to choose you and allow you to scale it, which I realised is true.” Slowly, slowly Over the next eight days, Nivetha would learn a lot of new words: ‘pole, pole,’ (slowly in Kiswahili, an East African language). Taking it slow makes it easier for the body to acclimatise to the altitude and diminishing oxygen levels. The other thumb rule was to stay hydrated to ward off altitude sickness. “Severe headaches, nausea, diarrhoea and insomnia are common symptoms. Luckily, I did not experience those,” she says. The terrain changed every day: rainforests on day one, moor land on day two, dry moor land giving way to rocks on day three, rocky terrain on day four, a desert on day five and the glacial summit on day six. “The weather changed by the hour, from sunny to foggy, rains to chill,” adds Nivetha. On the first two days, the team hiked for seven hours. Later, it would increase to 12 and the summit day involved 18 hours of walking. Wanting to see the sunrise, sunset and the stars from the mountain was one of the reasons for her expedition. “At the end of the day, you feel like running to a pile of snow and playing with it, but your body will want you to rest. You have to pay heed, eat well and rest if you want to wake up the next morning and walk for hours.” Keep moving The journey to the summit began late evening and turned out to be arduous: “The guideline was to keep moving, even if very slowly. At minus 12 to 15 degrees, you risk cramps and frostbites. The guides were extremely patient. As my oxygen saturation was good, they allowed me to go ahead.” The descent was quicker and she found herself in a cheerful mood, sometimes taking over the reins of guiding the team down the slopes: “You have to watch where you put your feet because you can come down pretty quickly.” She has already decided her next expedition, though she doesn’t spill the beans. She terms the expedition a life-changing experience, where nothing else mattered apart from being close to Nature: “No amount of money or fame can match that experience of scaling a mountain.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/atop-mount-kilimanjaro/article37223964.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||to happiness||To the grateful residents of Hill Top Colony in Mahendra Hills, Secunderabad, the young team of students from Aurora’s Design Institute are ‘builders.’ Fourth year students Punna Nithish, Manish Anand, Yedla Surender, Bhati Divyansh, Alankritha Khoshekay and Srija Diddi of Jalam Team from the Habsiguda-based college are also akka and anna to the children in the colony, who admiringly follow their every brush stroke. Meanwhile, residents look forward to seeing them report at 8am every morning, as the students are improving their lives, one step at a time. One step at a time For years, the run down colony has been accessed via a treacherous unpaved path, climbing up a steep incline. A network of leaking pipelines posed an additional challenge. Dirty, dangerous and dingy, the area was a sore spot for all. Until the Jalam team stepped in. With the guidance of their professor Naga Praveen Pingali, the team began work six months ago. They began with photo documentation, talking to community stakeholders. Bhati Divyansh says, “We had to overcome quite a few hurdles as the site posed challenges at every stage. Also, it was our first on-site execution project, so things were new to all the team members.” The students first replaced the slippery slope with a flight of easily negotiable steps. Alongside they also built a channel for the network of pipelines and connected it to a common storage area so water runoff could be stored and used for plants. Next, they set about painting the walls lining the pathway, beautifying it with lively art. Finally, as the project neared completion, the team brought a projector and suggested that residents use one of the blank walls as a projection screen. The aim, in short, says Srija Diddi, is to “create meaningful communities”. Costing Rs. 1.75 lakh, the work was funded by Wipro Foundation and formed part of Hyderabad Urban Labs’ ‘intervention with water’ challenge, where 18 groups of students from different colleges participated. Team Jalam finally bagged the project because of the choice of area and the proposed solution. Yedla  Surender says, “When we saw the Hyderabad Urban Labs poster calling for Water +-(plus and minus) we took this as an opportunity to look at water situations in the city. The search included going around the city and talking to people.” Manish Anand discovered the Hill Top Colony area, close to Mahendra Hills, which faced water wastage and difficulties arising from the terrain, particularly during the rainy season. The Hill Top Colony had eight such slopes: The Jalam team chose this particular one as it looked manageable to tackle within the given time frame of four months. Explaining the importance of the project, Praveen says, “Design programme for students is cut off from communities, so when they work with an interactive community it helps them work on practical solutions and not just aesthetics.” Water+- took shape at a Round Table on water a few years ago. Anant Maringanti of Hyderabad Urban Lab says, “At the Round Table we discussed surface, pipe, ground, sewage, storm water and the interconnection. This resulted in a series of stories of water.” Explaining the condition of these slopes, which were approximately 110 degrees, the students say that most residents had some personal story of distress, and some senior residents stopped leaving their homes. Once the path was smoothed and steps built, life changed for everyone. Manish cites the example of 60-year-old Maku Lakshmaiah who couldn’t stop appreciating the work: “I came out of my house to see the neighbourhood after eight years. I felt like a prisoner, I couldn’t dare to get out because of the dangerous terrain.” Other families hope to have more visitors now. Jankuti Siva , a 30-year-old marketing executive, believes the stairs can change his life. “Because the approach to my house looked dangerous, no one wanted to risk giving their daughter to me,” he says. Now, he is hopeful of finding a bride.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/to-happiness/article37223973.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Remember, Hanks was here||After two Academy Awards, seven Emmys and a host of other international accolades, the most recent being the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award, it is tempting to wonder what more could challenge Tom Hanks. The answer to that can be seen in his latest film, Finch , for Apple TV+, where he plays the only actor (well, almost) in the entire project. Tom plays the titular character, a robotics engineer who is one of the few survivors of a cataclysmic solar event that has left the world a wasteland. Sounds a bit like Hanks’ own Cast Away , the classical surivial drama that released 21 years ago? “Well, yes, and no. Part of it is because the countenance is much the same, and there you could probably take an aspect of the story element. The difference — something Miguel Sapochnik [director] and I talked about — is thatFinchbegins with the desire to create the next version of what life is going to be,” explains Hanks over a video call. “Whereas in Cast Away , it was about the discovery of what was needed in order to live a full life... and that was company, and getting off that island! So that desire, and the emotional, philosophical superstructure ofFinchis very different from Chuck, because there is no attempted rescue.” Hanks admits that the complexity of Finch is what attracted him. “He is in an immediately precarious position right from the get-go, and there is all sorts of questions for the audience. Who is this guy? Where is he at this point? His daily struggle is the one between life and death. When I was first reading it, I thought okay, there is a familiar science-fiction trope, but it is going to be different.” Last man standing The film’s director, Miguel Sapochnik, is renowned for his work on shows like Game of Thrones (for which he won an Emmy), House and is also one of the showrunners for the upcoming House of the Dragon . His attention to detail was “fascinating and ridiculous fun,” adds Hanks. “Miguel and I had to figure it out, and honestly, it was a blast. If you have ever seen a one-man show on Broadway, you know what I am talking about. The camera moves around a lot, and does an awful lot of the storytelling for you; that is Miguel’s role. But I still had to discern what Finch’s behaviour and procedure was like. Miguel was very specific, and he had a great sense of the fidelity of these moments.” “Every movie comes along, and the challenges are unique every time. There is a type of communication that goes on in a screenplay that is always verbal. But Finch is almost like a silent film, so it was a tantalising prospect. The task was, how do we communicate everything that needs to be said, when it is just me on film?” Did he feel like he had anything in common with Finch at all? “I don’t have any of the smarts in common with Finch! ( laughs ) I have the grey hair and tired bones, but that is about it. The man himself is much more linear than I am; he is a guy who is able to weigh what his needs are, methodically slowly live up to them, acquire everything they want with thoroughness, and so on, without the aid of good luck or serendipity,” says Hanks. “I have far too much ADHD in order to operate like that. This is one of the reasons I was so selfishly attracted to the role; the great thing about being an actor is, I get to play somebody cooler, much more intelligent and more a student of the big picture than I am,” he smiles. Next up, the 65-year-old has two hotly-anticipated projects: Disney’s live-action animated film Pinocchio , as well as Baz Luhrmann’s Elvis biopic. After being the only actor on set in Finch , he does admit he is looking forward to acting with an ensemble cast. “I would like my next character to be part of an ongoing ensemble, in which there is 18 people in the room at the same time, that we all get to talk and listen to one another. The discipline and pleasure of interacting with other people in a big movie, is a lot easier since you are playing characters; their emotions and story beats. It is an easier way to stay sane too!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/remember-hanks-was-here/article37223944.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Badshah in love mode||“I want to shock my fans with a new sound and song,” says Badshah, a day after the release of his new single ‘Jugnu’ with Nikhita Gandhi and featuring Akanksha Sharma. And he probably has. Packed with VFX effects, the musician’s latest, which has him singing about love and dancing without his trademark jacket and cap, has garnered more than 10 million views within two days of its release. “The sound is different,” affirms Badshah, who earlier sang ‘Tareefaan’ from Veere Di Wedding . That he has sung a love song is all part of a bigger ‘gameplan’, to do something that fans wouldn’t expect him to. “The love song is not a shock for me because I don’t want to be predictable any more,” he says. He gives a big shout out to the Red Chillies team for the VFX effects. While some portions of the track were shot in Ladakh, the special effects was done at a studio in Mumbai. “The team did the work in 20 days. I would consider it as the ‘Bahubali’ of music videos.” It was only a month ago that he launched ‘Bad BoyXBad Girl’ song with Nikhita. Earlier, he would wait for at least eight months before he released a new song. Is there a constant urge to release songs now? “After the pandemic, yes,” responds Badshah, stating that this phase has made him more focussed. “We are living in unpredictable times. I don’t want to hold on to my music,” he adds. This hunger to explore more is one of the many lessons that he learnt from the pandemic phase. He explains, “One cannot afford to waste time now. Whether it wanting to spend time with family or learning a new skill... we just have to do it. Some people want to relax now after the pandemic phase, but I have a dream to achieve.” He will also be seen on television as a judge alongside Shilpa Shetty for India’s Got Talent Season 9. While the shooting has not yet begun, he is eager to catch up with the young talent on the show. Describing his journey as a ‘crazy’, he says, “I tell the youth to not get inspired by my music, lifestyle or what I drive or drink. I want them to see how I gave up on my personal life to be what I am today.” For now, he’s content with the kind of reception ‘Jugnu’ is receiving. The video also ends with a ‘to be continued.’ Keeping fans guessing, he says, “It is a part of a bigger story, and I will let audiences connect the dots,” says Badshah, who hopes to dominate global music charts in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/badshah-in-love-mode/article37223967.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Climb like a champ||After her maiden climb to Mount Kilimanjaro in Africa this year (September 28 to October 9), 13-year-old Muriki Pulakita Hasvi from Hyderabad treated herself to a bar of Snickers at the peak and brought the wrapper back with her as a memento. Back in the city after the five-day climb, the thrilled teenager is already working on her next mission — to climb Mount Kosciuszko in Australia next year. Hasvi says she felt having a bar of chocolate at the summit was the best treat after a three-month-long diet restriction before the climb. “I love chocolates, so not being able to indulge for three months was a big deal for me,” she says. Hasvi, a student of Class IX at Excellencia Infinitum is also a national skater and badminton player. It was watching Everest (2015) in February this year that motivated her to climb six summits. The challenges of the climb in the movie made her want to give it a shot. She expressed her desire to her parents and began looking for professionals who could help her train online for the 5,895-metres climb. Hasvi says, “I didn’t have to search hard. My dad was already training with Boots and Crampons for fitness. It is an adventure and mountaineering company with specialisation in mountaineering expeditions to daunting peaks around the world .” Before she began her training, she made a quick trip to the Everest base camp in April when travelling restrictions were eased. Being a sportsperson, she did not have to work a lot on her physical fitness, instead she had to train her breathing, gain a few kilograms of weight, change her diet and train on slow yet lengthy treks. Hasvi explains, “As a sportsperson, I am used to speed, quick movements. Mountaineering is about long hours of strenuous slow walking. Consistency is the key to a climb. I was put on yoga for my breathing. I had to stop eating foods that do not build stamina like chocolate and instead eat foods like carrots and peas.” Hasvi’s fitness routine included 30 to 40-kilometres walks with weights on her back and ankles; sprints for 200-300 meters and night walks for six hours. “Since it was not safe to go anywhere for training, endurance training was within the community we live in. I would walk my target kilometres and night walk between 11 pm to 5 am there. My parents accompanied me at some distance to keep me company,” recollects Hasvi. As a student, Hasvi loves Biology and Chemistry and her parents made sure she did not miss many classes while on the expedition. “Online classes for school and holidays made it very convenient for me,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/climb-like-a-champ/article37223981.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Rajini’s rural avatar||The first trailer for Rajinikanth’s forthcoming Tamil action-drama Annaatthe has been recently released. Directed by Siva, the film will hit screens on Deepavali day, next week. The trailer introduces Rajinikanth in the role of Kaalaiyan, a village president who is devoted to his village folk and family, especially his sister, played by Keerthy Suresh. When their peaceful existence comes under threat from the villain (Jagapathi Babu), all hell breaks loose, as Kalaiyan seeks revenge. Rajinikanth was recently conferred the Dadasaheb Phalke Award at the 67th National Awards ceremony. The actor dedicated the award to his family, friend and fans.  Annaatthe , produced by Sun Pictures, is touted to be a family entertainer like the star’s earlier films like Muthu, Arunachalam and Padayappa. It has an ensemble cast comprising actors like Nayanthara, Khushbu, Meena, Prakash Raj and Soori.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rajinis-rural-avatar/article37223958.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Rockstar paceman||More than the number of wickets Brett Lee got — and he did get quite a few, it is how he bowled that impressed one more. He was... fast. Not 135 kmph fast; not 140 kmph fast; he was 150 kmph fast, often. Occasionally, 155 kmph. A few times even breaching 160 kmph. Batters get less than half a second to react to that kind of speed. In other words, they hardly saw it coming. Brett breathed fire. Sometimes, after shattering the stumps, he would pummel his fists down thrice in celebratory fury. He called it The Chainsaw. It was like a frenzied guitar riff at a hard rock concert. Brett could, however, also play the screeching guitar riff at a rock concert — his rock band Six & Out has made it to the top-100 of the Australian music chart. The fury on the field belies his soft-natured persona off it. He is polite, mostly smiling. Now, though, we mostly see him in the commentary panel. The former Australian pacer discusses pace bowling, the importance of a cricketer having multiple interests, and India’s chances in the ongoing World T20. Excerpts:-  International cricketers usually retire when they are between 35 and 40. Their autobiographies, which get released soon after, mostly deal with their playing career. So, we rarely get to know the second half of their lives. How has it been for you?  It has been a lot of fun. I have spent the first half of my life travelling around the world, playing the sport I loved, and making a lot of friends. Now it is about enjoying the hard work that has been done. I still enjoy doing my fitness. What I love about the second phase of my life is that I am actually allowed to do things I have always wanted to. I want to enhance my music career, have some fun with it, or enjoy and learn more about wine [Lee is an ambassador of the Australian winemaker Jacob’s Creek].  Speaking of music, what is happening with Six & Out?   Our band was formed in the late ‘90s. We have done over 250 shows around Australia. So, that is a lot of music. We still have it. We have not played a lot of gigs for a while because of COVID-19. (Lee sings and plays bass guitar for the band).  Was it difficult to get used to a life without playing cricket in the initial few years after retirement?   It was not that hard. Throughout my career I made sure I did a number of things. I always had a full-time job. I have been in menswear sales for 25 years. Even after playing a Test match against India, I would come home and be straight back in the menswear store selling suits and shirts and ties and socks. The next job I had was commentary. I took it up even while I was still playing in the Big Bash League. Then there are my interests in music and wine. So, I was actually upskilling myself in other areas and picking up interests so that when cricket was over, I had these things to fall back on.  Do you advise youngsters to pursue other interests as well?   Absolutely. I think it is very important to have other interests. It does not matter what you do — reading or writing books, or music or fashion or photography, but have a second, third, fourth, and fifth passion, because cricket will not last forever. They also help to take pressure off yourself. Playing music, being outdoors and fishing took the pressure off cricket when I was away from the field. So once I was on the field, I was relaxed and enjoying myself.  You, like many other former cricketers, are now a commentator. I am assuming you find it easier to talk about the game than to play it.   Well, sometimes it is harder to get inside a player's mind and see what they are trying to do. I would rather get out on the field and do it myself. Cricket came pretty naturally to me because I enjoyed it. Commentary, meanwhile, can be harder because you are trying to understand another person.  Let’s talk about fast-bowling. Almost every country in the top-five or top-six has at least two good quality fast-bowlers. Would you say this is the best era for pacers?   You think about how much the game has improved. How the batsmen are hitting balls further, how they are playing different shots, running fast. But when you look at the bowler's pace, no one is going past 155 kmph. I wonder if we are training correctly. I want the guys to hit that 160 kmph mark.  What do you make of the young crop of fast bowlers? Who has impressed you the most?   I liked Kartik Tyagi from this IPL. He is got some really good pace, a beautiful action, and a nice run up. So he is one guy that I was impressed with. Anrich Nortje from South Africa has got good pace. Then, there is Kagiso Rabada, of course.  And, finally, who is your pick for the World T20?   I think India has a very good chance. They did not play their best cricket against Pakistan in their first game. But they are the team to beat. Australia also has a great chance to bring home the trophy for the very first time. It is going to be exciting.  It does not matter what you do —have a second, third, fourth, and fifth passion, because cricket will not last forever||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rockstar-paceman/article37223949.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A pat for the Patola||Weaving is such a precise and mathematical process that textile revivalist Belaa Sanghvi is in the process of creating a new series of Gujarat’s famous Patola sari using the Fibonacci number series. “It will be a weft-only Patola and creates asymmetrical designs,” says Belaa on her recent visit to Bengaluru. Various weavers the world over have used the Fibonacci series before for various textiles, but it is probably a first for the Patola. Belaa collaborated with Bengaluru-based cultural activist Chandra Jain and fashion entrepreneur Yashodhara Shroff for a discussion on The Mystery of the Patola at the BIC. Belaa also later showed her label at the ffolio store just in time for the Deepavali festive season. The Mumbai-based handloom revivalist and researcher at present works with eight weaver clusters across Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. She came into the limelight for her revival of the Ashawal weave, but is a name synonymous with the Patan Patola saree. She broke into the patriarchal weaving community by offering them weaving challenges for which they had to come back to her for solutions, she says. “Consumers are becoming more aware of handloom. That is vital for ensuring markets. If the consumer has information, they understand and are willing to pay more to the karigar (weaver), which translates to better skills and execution.” Newer experiments A tie-up with jewellery brand Voylla resulted in a series of Patola textile-based jewellery. “I’m a purist until the number of weavers practising Patola is limited,” says Belaa, indicating that she is open to experimentation. She is still in the initial phase of around three collaborative projects to produce upholstery, jewellery, and bed linen using the Patola weave. “For creating bed linen, we will first have to calculate changes and manufacture larger looms.” Where are weavers headed? “We live in a country where employment schemes to break stones pay four times more money than spinning khadi. This is an issue plaguing the entire handloom industry,” she says. Belaa gives an example of the situation in Kanchipuram district (the hub of Kanjeevaram silk saree weaving), where automobile factories pay more with free meals and transport. “Why will anyone not take up such a job?” she argues, stating that hardly 20% of the weavers in the district remain now in the weaving profession. She admits it is also not right to stop a weaver from aspiring for a better quality of life. She talks of a similar situation in Gujarat with new technologies and options available. Weavers around her are dabbling online in stocks and shares — an easier and faster way of making money. She elaborates with the example of Patola weavers — on an average a weaver, depending on his skill, earns a minimum of Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 per month and a maximum of around Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000. When they create a better quality piece, they get a better price. The raw material for the yarn to make a Patola silk saree costs Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 30,000. Making a Patola is a complex and mathematical precision process where once the design is decided, the yarn has to be tie-dyed pre-weaving, according to the entire pattern. A good quality double (warp and weft) Patola sari takes sometimes over a year to weave. She says, “At present there are about five weaving families in Patan district in Gujarat who work with me. They are teaching others. Most of them have one of the three necessary skills — yarn making, tying and dyeing, and weaving. It is rare for a weaver to have all three.” Belaa also points out how we have such misnomers when we say that Patola is only Gujarati. “It is world heritage. No weaver outside this small region can weave a Patola,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-pat-for-the-patola/article37224378.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Pump up the volume||The latest album by violinist Kumaresh R. and veena artiste Jayanthi Kumaresh, Run with SA , with its thumping rhythms and cadence is perfect for workouts. The five-track, 36-minute-long album has warm-up tracks, fast-paced and cool down pieces based on Carnatic ragas, garnished with a dash of African Malian phrases, and some Cuban and Brazilian pop. The album was born when someone in the Kumareshs’ walking group spoke of the need to have a playlist while on the run. “The music is composed specially for workouts using the Carnatic raga and tala format,” says Kumaresh. “We perceive rhythm everywhere, including in the way our heart beats. It was interesting to match the speed of the music with the rhythm of a workout.” The SA in the name of the album is an acronym for Strings Attached (the Kumareshs’ production house), says Jayanthi. ‘“Sa’ is also a musical note.” The musical duo researched fashioning melody into diverse tempos. “We also researched the exact workout requirements — the duration, varied pace and stages of workout to ensure the music fitted into the BPM (beats per minute) followed during workouts,” says Kumaresh. Apart from Jayanthi and Kumaresh, percussionist Pramath Kiran on recording, mixing, editing and Shadrach Solomon on the keyboards have brought out the right texture and arrangements for the album. “With regard to the different instruments used, there are about 40 to 50 tracks in each song. They are all sample sounds of various instruments, both melodic and rhythmic, to enhance the soundscape of each track,” says Kumaresh. Carnatic music by default is accommodative to human emotions and expressions, says Kumaresh. “The genre has no restrictive, time-bound or seasonal ragas. We can play or practise any raga at any given time. When we sat to compose for this album, all the phrases, melodies, rhythmic cycles fell into place.” The couple made use of the lockdown to go into a creative overdrive. Jayanthi used the veena to tell stories in her Cup O Carnatic series and Kumaresh set upfiddlingmonk.comwith more than 600 videos on the art of playing the Indian violin.  Track list   ‘Getting in Tune’ – Hamsadwani for a warm-up   ‘Swing with Strings’ – Jazzy Shudha-dhanyasi   ‘Follow the Notes’ – Keeping pace with Nattakurunji   ‘Run with SA’ – Upbeat with shades of Keervani and Simmendramadhyama  ‘Kool with Kamaas’ – For winding up||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pump-up-the-volume/article37224411.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Rockstar paceman||More than the number of wickets Brett Lee claimed — and he did grab quite a few, it is how he bowled that impressed one more. He was... fast. Not 135 kmph fast; not 140 kmph fast; he was 150 kmph fast, often. Occasionally, 155 kmph. A few times even breaching 160 kmph. Batters get less than half a second to react to that kind of speed. In other words, they hardly saw it coming. Brett breathed fire. Sometimes, after shattering the stumps, he would pummel his fists down thrice in celebratory fury. He called it The Chainsaw. It was like a frenzied guitar riff at a hard rock concert. Brett could, however, also play the screeching guitar riff at a rock concert — his rock band Six & Out has made it to the top-100 of the Australian music chart. The fury on the field belies his soft-natured persona off it. He is polite, mostly smiling. Now, though, we mostly see him in the commentary panel. The former Australian pacer discusses pace bowling, the importance of a cricketer having multiple interests, and India’s chances in the ongoing World T20.  Excerpts:   International cricketers usually retire when they are between 35 and 40. Their autobiographies, which get released soon after, mostly deal with their playing career. So, we rarely get to know the second half of their lives. How has it been for you?  It has been a lot of fun. I have spent the first half of my life travelling around the world, playing the sport I loved, and making a lot of friends. Now, it is about enjoying the hard work that has been done. I still enjoy doing my fitness. What I love about the second phase of my life is that I am actually allowed to do things I have always wanted to. I want to enhance my music career, have some fun with it, or enjoy and learn more about wine [Lee is an ambassador of the Australian winemaker Jacob’s Creek].  Speaking of music, what is happening with Six & Out?  Our band was formed in the late ‘90s. We have done over 250 shows around Australia. So, that is a lot of music. We still have it. We have not played a lot of gigs for a while because of COVID-19. [Lee sings and plays bass guitar for the band].  Was it difficult to get used to a life without playing cricket in the initial few years after retirement?  It was not that hard. Throughout my career, I made sure I did a number of things. I always had a full-time job. I have been in menswear sales for 25 years. Even after playing a Test match against India, I would come home and be straight back in the menswear store selling suits and shirts and ties and socks. The next job I had was commentary. I took it up even while I was still playing in the Big Bash League. Then there are my interests in music and wine. So, I was actually upskilling myself in other areas and picking up interests so that when cricket was over, I had these things to fall back on.  Do you advise youngsters to pursue other interests as well?  Absolutely. I think it is very important to have other interests. It does not matter what you do — reading or writing books, or music or fashion or photography, but have a second, third, fourth, and fifth passion, because cricket will not last forever. They also help to take pressure off yourself. Playing music, being outdoors and fishing took the pressure off cricket when I was away from the field. So once I was on the field, I was relaxed and enjoying myself.  You, like many other former cricketers, are now a commentator. I am assuming you find it easier to talk about the game than to play it.  Well, sometimes it is harder to get inside a player's mind and see what they are trying to do. I would rather get out on the field and do it myself. Cricket came pretty naturally to me because I enjoyed it. Commentary, meanwhile, can be harder because you are trying to understand another person.  Do you get more time to explore different countries as a commentator than you did as a player?  Not really. As a player, you probably get there six or seven days prior to the first match. As a commentator, you might get there just the night before. So it depends on the scheduling. If you get to the venue, six days prior to commentating, we get to go out and explore of course. But that does not always happen. And, that is good too because, at the end of the day, you want to spend as much as you can with the family.  Who do you spend time with the most during your commentary stints?  A lot of guys. When I am in India, Irfan Pathan, Parthiv Patel, Ajit Agarkar, Scotty Styris, Graeme Swann, the late Dean Jones… It just depends on who is on your commentary panel. I usually go go-karting or have a glass of wine with them.  Dean Jones' passing away during last year’s IPL was among the saddest moments in cricket last year. You were pretty close to him. How did you cope with his loss?  He is very sorely missed. He was a wonderful guy and has left behind an incredible legacy. He was adored in India as well as Pakistan. [His loss] is still quite raw. I'll probably not talk too much about that.  Let’s talk about fast-bowling. Almost every country in the top-five or top-six has at least two good quality fast-bowlers. Would you say this is the best era for pacers?  You think about how much the game has improved. How the batsmen are hitting balls further, how they are playing different shots, running fast. But when you look at the bowler's pace, no one is going past 155 kmph. I wonder if we are training correctly. I want the guys to hit that 160 kmph mark.  Is it possible for today’s pacers to have a long career in all three forms of the game?  It is important that everyone has the opportunity to try to play all three formats. There might be some players that do not want to play test cricket. There might be some who are specific to T20s. At the end of the day, it comes down to what they want to achieve. And, it is already happening. Players are picking one format of the game.  What do you make of the young crop of fast bowlers? Who has impressed you the most?  I liked Kartik Tyagi from this IPL. He is got some really good pace, a beautiful action, and a nice run-up. So he is one guy that I was impressed with. Anrich Nortje from South Africa has got good pace. Then, there is Kagiso Rabada, of course.  And, finally, who is your pick for the World T20?  I think India has a very good chance. They did not play their best cricket against Pakistan in their first game. But they are the team to beat. Australia also has a great chance to bring home the trophy for the very first time. It is going to be exciting.  It does not matter what you do — have a second, third, fourth, and fifth passion, because cricket will not last forever||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rockstar-paceman/article37224377.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready for take off!||Nala and Hanuman are playing in the garden, while Hanuman’s mother Anjana prepares snacks, including Hanuman’s favourite vada and puttu (steamed rice cake), for them. Hanuman gets excited when he hears the cooker whistle.  Hanuman: Hey, Nala! Did you that yummy sound?  Nala: Ha ha! Yes. Did you know that’s the world’s first rocket?  Hanuman: The cooker is world’s first rocket?  Nala: Not exactly; but, technically, yes.  Hanuman: Let me get some snacks and then you can tell me in detail... Hanuman brings back a plate full of dishes and the cooker as well.  Hanuman: Is this really the world’s first rocket?  Nala: Something similar to this. It’s called the wooden pigeon and was invented by Archytas in 400 BC.  Hanuman: Tell me more!  Nala: It is based on Newton’s Third Law of Motion: every action has an equal and opposite reaction. The pressure that builds up inside the cooker pushes against the top and moves it up.  Hanuman: Just like how it pushes the cooker’s pressure regulator, or what mom calls the ‘weight’!  Nala: That’s right.  Hanuman: Can we try building one? But mom may not allow it as it involves fire.  Nala: Don’t worry. We can build similar rockets using the principle of air pressure without fire. (See ‘Balloon rocket’ experiment)  Hanuman: What will happen to the rocket’s movement if we bend the straw?  Nala: That will give you the world’s second rocket technology called “Aeolipile” or Hero’s Engine.  Hanuman: Really? Can you tell me more?  Nala: It was invented by a scientist called Heron of Alexandria. People started calling it as Hero’s engine. Did you know it is also the basic technology behind steam engines?  Hanuman: Wow! I am going to replace regular straws with bendable straws. Hanuman bends the ends and blows into the balloon. When he releases it, it spins instead of travelling straight!  Nala: The principle behind this is the Newton’s Third Law again. The balloon produces an action by squeezing the air inside causing it to rush out of the straw. The air travelling around the bend in the straw, exerts a reaction force at a right angle to the straw. This force causes the balloon rocket to spin.  Hanuman: Amazing! Hanuman plays with it for a few times  Hanuman: Nala, is there a way to build a super fast rocket without mom worrying about our safety?  Nala: How about we use some ingredients from the kitchen to power our rocket then?  Hanuman: Really? We can do that?  Nala: Yes. But first please ask your mother’s permission and also ask her to supervise. Then, let’s move to an open space because this experiment will be messy and the rocket will shoot up. (See‘Soda Rocket’experiment)  The author is the founder and CEO of Vaayusastra Aerospace, an IIT-Madras incubated ed-tech startup that offers Air Science workshops for children between five and 14 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/ready-for-take-off/article37224609.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Four-legged and frightened||Deepavali isn’t the greatest time of the year for our pets. The loud noises of fireworks can make them anxious, uneasy and frightened. Dogs and cats have a hearing ability that is much stronger than ours. This means that loud sounds tend to be unbearable and torturous for them. What you can do Before the celebrations begin, make sure your pet is well fed and hydrated. If its tummy is full, it might be less anxious later. When the noise begins, keep it in a room and close the doors and windows to shut out the noise as much as possible. Anxious pets may also find ways to escape from the place without realising the dangers on the streets, so keep them confined to a room. As a precaution, make your pet wears a tag with your contact number on it, so that people can reach out to you in case it runs away in panic. If your pet cooperates, cover its ears with earmuffs or soft cloth. This might help reduce the impact of the noise. You could also try masking the noise by turning up the TV volume or playing some music. If you feel you can cheer them up by giving a favourite treat to eat, don’t hold back. Keep some of its favourite toys around as a distraction. If your pet tries to retreat to a corner or hide under a bed or other furniture, don’t force it to come out. Take turns with your family members to give your pet company so that it doesn’t feel lonely and abandoned. Keep all your fireworks and lamps out of its reach. If you are bursting crackers at home, clean up properly after you are done. Crackers contain chemicals and your pet might stamp on burnt crackers that are still hot or lick or sniff the debris by mistake. This might be the time you binge on sweets and treats but make sure your pet doesn’t eat anything that may not agree with it. While you care for your beloved pets, spare a thought for stray animals too. Give them shelter if possible. Remind grown-ups around you to check under their cars before starting them, because scared stray animals tend to hide under cars. Consider having a cracker-free Diwali for the sake of our animal companions. Think about whether the festival of lights needs to necessarily be a festival of noise as well.  Before the celebrations begin, make sure your pet is well fed and hydrated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/four-legged-and-frightened/article37224566.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Vineet’s Magic Mantra Grounded!||Story so far: For no fault of his, Vineet gets into trouble with his neighbour, who complains to his father.  “Sorry Dad,” Vineet apologised softly. “It’s too late for apologies. You will spend the entire holidays helping the staff clean the house for  Deepavali. Dadi will supervise you.” Dadi nodded. “No Deepavali crackers for you,” Mr. Malhotra said. Vineet gasped. Being grounded was no big deal. He could play computer games. The cleaning could be avoided by coaxing the staff to cover up for him. But no crackers! Every member of the house was scared of Vineet’s father, so the staff didn’t succumb to Vineet’s pleas. A terrible time The next few days were torturous. His dadi watched him like a hawk, seldom leaving him alone. Mr. Malhotra confiscated his cell phone and laptop. His allowance and outings were stopped, and friends banned from visiting the house. Deepavali cleaning was a chore Vineet disliked. He hated cleaning his cupboard every year. Now, due to Mrs. Sen’s complaint, he lined up for his share of the chores. He was furious and had a scowl on his face, as he went through his chores. He climbed up on stools to remove cobwebs, dusted elaborate chandeliers, and wiped fans and tube-lights. For a lady with weak eyesight, his dadi was quick to spot a string of cobwebs left on the wall or a small spot of dust on the tube-light. The old lady made him scrub until his hands ached. Vineet silently cursed Mrs. Sen. He had been working non-stop from morning. It was now time for lunch. He was sure that his father wouldn’t deprive him of food. Though his favourite dishes — matar paneer, dum pulao, v egetable raita and g ulab jamun — were  on the table , the sight failed to delight. He watched his family enjoy their lunch. Vineet felt sad that his dad had stopped talking to him. While cleaning the windows, Vineet tried to hide from the neighbours. But, it was not possible. Mrs. Sen watched him with a satisfied look on her face. “After lunch we will clean the puja room,” his dadi smiled, as though she was offering him a treat. He grimaced at the thought of dusting the holy books preserved by his grandmother.  ... to be continued   It’s too late for apologies. You will spend the holidays helping the staff clean the house for  Deepavali||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/vineets-magic-mantra-grounded/article37224571.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Have a cracking celebration||The festival season is well on its way, and what better time to burst crackers, right? Wrong. There’s everything wrong with firecrackers. Why? Primarily, it causes extensive air pollution and fills the air with metal particles, dangerous toxins, harmful chemicals and smoke. Some of the toxins never fully decompose or disintegrate, poisoning everything they come in contact with. So, how can we celebrate Deepavali without crackers, you ask? Here’s the solution. Green crackers. The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has developed crackers that are kind to the environment and to you. Green vs regular crackers 1.They are made using less polluting raw materials. While they use chemicals like aluminium, barium, potassium nitrate and carbon, the quantity is less and this, in turn, lowers the emission by about 30%. 2.The noise level is lower. While regular crackers emit about 160 decibels, the latter emit only 110-124 decibels. 3.Manufacturers have to sign a deal with CSIR if they wish to produce these crackers. 4.Three types are available in India — Safe Water Releaser (SWAS), Safe Minimal Aluminium (STAR), and Safe Thermite Cracker (SAFAL). In today’s climate, where health is a primary concern for all, it is best to say no to firecrackers or burning waste, especially dry leaves. Carbon particles from the fumes, and chemical vapours from firecrackers can aggravate pre-existing allergic conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/have-a-cracking-celebration/article37224603.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Happy Deepavali||Across 1 Illumination (5) 3 “Bhai ____” is celebrated during Deepavali (4) 6 Sugary treats (6) 7 The number of days Deepavali is celebrated for (4) 8 Stock markets carry out “_____ trading” on Deepavali (7) 10 The Earth’s light (3) 11 We light ____works on Deepavali (4) 14 The colour of vermilion (3) 15 Sikhs celebrate Deepavali for the release of Guru ___gobind Singh (3) 16 We ____ you a Happy Deepavali (4) 17 ____ Chaturdashi: Second day of Deepavali (6) Down 1 The Goddess worshipped during Deepavali (7) 2 Rangoli is drawn at the entrance of your ____ (4) 3 Deepavali falls 20 days after Vijaya _____ (7) 4 They celebrate Deepavali as the day Mahavira attained Nirvana (5) 5 Mehendi, used to decorate hands (5) 9 They celebrate Deepavali as triumph of good over evil (6) 11 Have ___, but stay safe! (3) 12 This king returned to Ayodhya on Deepavali (4) 13 Opposite of bright (4) 14 The word Deepavali translates to “___ of lights” (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/happy-deepavali/article37224582.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Soda rocket||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/soda-rocket/article37224579.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article37224587.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article37224617.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The life of a dancer||Theatre Nisha’s online play, Margazhi , portrays chapters from a dancer’s journey through learning, recognition, stage performances, compliments and criticism, struggles and compromise. Though the protagonist is a Bharatanatyam artiste,Margazhicould be the story of any classical dancer. Vaidehi faces the usual dilemma. She realises that skill and hard work alone will not get her performance opportunities at major festivals in India and abroad. Should she then do the proverbial round of handshakes to get what she deserves or risk becoming one of the numerous capable also-rans relegated to being unknown and unsung? The play’s highlight is a believable portrayal of the various types of people and situations an artiste might encounter and the industry’s fuzzy communication style and stereotypical responses. Costumes and props are realistic and understated, rightfully turning the spotlight on the incisive dialogue.  Margazhi effectively brings out subtle aspects of behaviour — Vaidehi’s feigned humility, for instance, or the NRI organiser’s understanding of Indian culture being limited to the assumption that the dancer will not eat egg — that many in the arts sphere might recognise at once. Woven in so seamlessly, they might even pass by unnoticed. Vaidehi’s guru, the archetypal ‘Akka’ (the universal moniker for all female Bharatanatyam gurus), is temperamental and erratic (one is reminded of Meryl Streep’s character in The Devil Wears Prada ). And by never showing akka, who controls every aspect of Vaidehi’s life, viewers are left free to imagine a variety of gurus in their minds.  Absorbing story Several lines and situations leave the viewer feeling thoughtful, even disturbed. As when a young girl student remarks that she wishes she could be a boy during tutelage or when akka’s friendly, dance-trained husband offers to teach Vaidehi abhinaya “without akka knowing”. Then there’s the NRI organiser’s brainchild of 30-minute programmes for select small audiences “akin to salon or parlour dances.” And the sabha secretary’s comment, “Didn’t kings take care of the temple dancers? We are the new kings.” From real life The title and other references lead us to infer Chennai as the locale. Is the play a reflection of the world of Bharatanatyam or does it apply to all dance forms? Each artiste has individual trajectories, and one would think there are positive stories too. V. Balakrishnan, Theatre Nisha’s director (and winner of The Hindu Playwright Award, 2019) who wrote the script, explains, however, that every anecdote and incident in the play was derived from his extensive interactions with many dancers over the years and from his sister, who learned Bharatanatyam and currently teaches the art. Each chapter of the play is announced by a compère as a piece in a dance recital and sung. A seemingly nice touch but the music is sub-par and often detracts from the dialogue. One is also left wondering why the narrator, though unobtrusive, is seated in every scene. The play has been recorded twice with two lead characters replaced in each cast. Vaidehi is played by Shakthi Ramani and Anuradha Venkataraman. Meera Sitaraman plays two roles in both casts. All three male characters are essayed by the same actor in each cast (Karthik Gowrisankar and Ganapathy Murugesan) which was, at times, confusing. Balakrishnan says it is inspired by Adhe Adhure , a play by the late Hindi playwright Mohan Rakesh. Perhaps the distinction among the characters would have been more apparent had the play been viewed physically. The 85-minute English play was intended to be performed live last year but the pandemic changed it to a recording. “We thought it could reach a worldwide audience this way,” says Balakrishnan. The play is available on Eventscape till November 15. For details, visitwww.theatrenisha.com  The Chennai-based reviewer writes on art and culture.    Margazhi effectively brings out subtle aspects of behaviour that many in the arts sphere might recognise at once||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-life-of-a-dancer/article37223800.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Clothes maketh the story||In her introduction to ‘A King’s Gambit’, a one-of-a-kind exhibition showcasing the original costumes of Satyajit Ray’s Shatranj Ke Khiladi , curator Indrani Majumdar fondly describes the opening sequence of the film where a hand reaches across the chessboard and makes a move. A second later, another hand from the opposite end appears to counter it. “The woven silk sleeves and ornate rings of the players are the only indication that the scene is set in a bygone era,” says Indrani. As the camera zooms out to bring the two players, nawabs Mir Roshan Ali and Mirza Sajjad Ali, into focus, what strikes you first is the grandeur of it all — the lavish decor and the magnificent costumes worn by the indolent royals. Faithful representation After Mughal-e-Azam , this was perhaps the only period film where costumes and architecture played a central role and like K. Asif, Ray too indulged in painstaking research. However, unlike Asif’s magnum opus, Ray’s film was a historical, based on a Premchand story, that captured the last days of Wajid Ali Shah on the throne of Awadh. Apart from the beleaguered poet-king, Lt. General Sir James Outram, Captain Weston, and Doctor Fayrer also find faithful representation in the clothes they don. The costumes reflect the fastidious research that Ray put into the life and times of the characters. On display at the exhibition are a wide range of achkans, angrakhas, jamas, pyjamas, shararas, cholis, turbans, pagris, silver ornaments, and footwear from producer Suresh Jindal’s personal collection, preserved over the years in steel boxes with camphor squares. Suresh says that when it came to research and learning anything new, Ray had the “curiosity and inquisitiveness of a child”. Indrani points out that Ray drew from the English translation of Abdul Halim Sharar’s Lucknow, The Last Phase of an Eastern Culture . “It took a Agra-based master craftsman three months to do the embroidery on Wajid Ali Shah’s green robe. The shararas that Shabana Azmi wore were stitched by poet Ali Sardar Jafri’s sisters. A whole collection of priceless heirloom shawls was loaned to us by Thakur families of Calcutta,” says Suresh. A lot of credit for rendering the authentic feel goes to Shama Zaidi, who not only transliterated Ray’s English script with Javed Siddiqui but also took care of the costumes. “Apart from her grooming in theatre, Shama, of course, hails from the milieu. She had the first-hand experience of seeing and handling the costumes that was required,” says Suresh, who knew her from her theatre days. A lot of information, he says, came from the paintings of the era. According to Ray, the Kathak scene, in particular, was inspired by an engraving of that period. Significant resources Salar Jung Museum, Falaknuma Palace of the Nizams in Hyderabad and the City Palace Museum in Jaipur were primary sources for the film’s research. Archival images available at the erstwhile Bourne & Shepherd photographic studio in Calcutta were another significant resource. The Victoria Memorial offered an oil painting of Wajid Ali Shah, which acted as the primary reference for the king’s physical appearance. “All British costumes were hired from Nathan and Berman in London, the largest costume hirers for film and stage in Europe,” says Suresh. After an elaborate consultation with the National War Museum, London, Andrew Mollo, a British expert, did the sketches for the military costumes. “Richard Attenborough (who played James Outram) brought them with him as personal baggage and carried them back with him. He found out that Outram smoked cheroots and purchased them himself from a famous tobacconist in London,” recalls Suresh. However, there were blips. Indrani quotes Ray’s biographer Marie Seton, who wrote, “For the sake of accuracy, the ADC uniforms were ordered in London. When they arrived they were found to be summer uniforms but the order was for winter! Even the helmet was incorrect. It was Shama Zaidi who made them look nearly right.” Also on view are letters exchanged by Ray and Suresh; sketches prepared for the dresses along with their fabric swatches; as well as sketches of the jewellery made by Manju Saraogi. Two volumes of kheror khata (clothbound notebook) digitised by the National Digital Library of India are also exhibited. “The letters show that Ray was a great correspondent. He had many pen friends and used to reply to his fans, I don’t know how he got so much time,” says Indrani. Finally, the exhibition showcases the shining crown worn by the king of Awadh, which is central to the story. Many casually label Shatranj Ke Khiladi as a Hindi film, but it is in Urdu and Awadhi dialect and that is reflected in the censor certificate. It also means that Ray, for the first time, was working with a language and culture that was not exactly his own. “Of course, he was concerned about making his first non-Bengali film, but in Shama and Javed, he had the right support to guide him on the diction and mannerisms. Ray was a giant of a man in all possible terms, but he was equally humble and open to suggestions.” Suresh, who co-produced Gandhi, says Attenborough also had a team to guide him on diction and mannerisms. Saeed Jaffery was Ray’s choice, while Suresh suggested Sanjeev Kumar and Amjad Khan for their star value and theatre background. “It was not that Ray was not aware of their strengths. He watched all kinds of cinema and was a regular at the International Film Festival of India in Delhi.” It is reflected in his choice of casting veteran actor Veena as Wajid Ali Shah’s mother. The film set could have become a wrestling ring between competent actors, but Suresh says “Saeed and Sanjeev were too secure in their craft to get into a wrestling match.” The film manages to bring out the conflicting layers in Wajid Ali Shah’s personality, which English historians often fail to appreciate. When the Company was berating him as incompetent, Wajid’s poetry was being sung on the streets of Awadh. “During his time, Awadh was the biggest contributor to the Company’s coffers. Lucknow and Muslims, in general, loved the film, as Wajid is a very loved figure in their history,” says Suresh, who also produced the two landmark films, Rajnigandha and Katha . Suresh says such exhibitions are rare in India. “I hope more can be held to inspire pride in our incomparable heritage in fabric design and related crafts.” ( A King’s Gambit: Chess, Costumes and a Crown is on display at India International Centre, New Delhi until November 5)  Salar Jung Museum, Falaknuma Palace of the Nizams in Hyderabad and the City Palace Museum in Jaipur were primary sources for the film’s research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/clothes-maketh-the-story/article37223809.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Meet the ‘camera ma’am’||If cinematography is the art of making the invisible visible, then Savita Singh has mastered it. Her short film Sonsi is not only winner of this year’s National Award for Best Cinematography, it is India’s entry for the Oscars in the short film category, Savita, who hails from a family of farmers in Hisar and is the first female graduate from her village, has gradually emerged as an ambassador of the growing tribe of women cinematographers in the country. With support from her father, who works in a bank, Savita did a stint as a journalist in Delhi, then went on to study at Film and Television Institute of India, where she collaborated with her senior, Amit Dutta, on Kramasha, an experimental film that he directed and she shot for her thesis. The film, which created waves in the festival circuit, won Savita her first national award and made Amit a name to reckon with in experimental filmmaking. Savita, meanwhile, moved to Mumbai and collaborated with Ram Gopal Varma on Phoonk and Prawal Raman on 404 . But alongside, she kept nurturing her love for the avant-garde. With Sonsi , she has turned writer-director. The film follows eight-year-old Nadi, who wanders somewhere between the conscious and the unconscious, to meet her dream-etched shadow bird. A second character, the mysterious timekeeper, who has a clock fitted inside his heart, unfailingly follows. Every day upon his arrival, the sleepy village wakes up. But one morning, neither the shadow bird nor the timekeeper arrive, and Nadi ventures alone into the deep, mysterious woods in search of them. The film feels like a fraternal twin of Kramasha, and Savita agrees. “Amit loved the film. Sonsi starts with the shot of the same temple top, which is in the last shot of Kramasha. ” Savita says the visual grammar of Kramasha is bound to continue, but “the dream is a coincidence!” Edited excerpts from an interview: What inspired Sonsi ? I have always found refuge in films. I started watching cinema at a very young age and I inevitably felt at home watching films that had a unique way of telling a story. The form always intrigued me. I was drawn to folklores, oral storytelling traditions, fantastical stories, science fiction, and fables. This idea was germinating in my head for a really long time. In many ways, it is me revisiting my childhood and all the influences and my collective memories of growing up. So I wove a fable of my own of a timeless world, a village where it never stops raining, where you won’t see any human footprint, except for the four characters in the film. It appears to be a mystical parable. The camera literally follows the timekeeper. How did you arrive at the form?  I call it a film fable. My effort was to create an experiential and immersive film that transports everyone to a phase in their life when time moved slowly. I intuitively arrived at this form, where poetry, images, memory, melancholia, senses, early morning dreams are explored through experimenting with time and space. References from my favourite authors, filmmakers, painters came in beautifully. For example, the name of the bird sonsi comes from the female protagonist of Vinod Kumar Shukla’s Deewar Mein Ek Khidki Rehti Thi . I was struggling to find an apt name for the shadow bird till the night before the shoot. I wanted the name to be phonetic and not very deep and metaphorical. I was glad that the name came organically and I could give my little tribute to Shukla ji, whose work has had a big impact on me. Andrei Tarkovsky’s cinema has always been very close to my heart, and you will see the reflections of his language in my form. Right from the first, you have gone beyond the obvious. How did that happen?     I was always drawn towards films that challenged the form, so I sought those kinds of stories. I was fortunate to work with Amit Dutta, whose films have created a new language in filmmaking and I am grateful that I was a small part of that movement.     Tell us about the time you spent with Vilmos Zsigmond.    After graduating from FTII, I was selected for ‘Budapest Master Class’, the famous workshop for cinematographers. Vilmos was a quiet teacher, non-judgemental, someone who encouraged everyone to learn from practice, hard work and from making their own mistakes. I distinctly remember that on my shoot day, I had 39 cinematography students telling me that their light meter is reading an error message because I had kept such a low lighting and certain areas were so heavily over-exposed that the highlights were burnt out way beyond what the film latitude could handle. I smiled and said that it’s by design. And Vilmos did like my scene and lighting, but also said that our generation is always in a hurry to break rules. It took me a few years to understand that statement. He meant that it’s great to break rules, but equally important to master the rules as well.  Have things changed for women practising cinematography?    When I was shooting Ventilator in a small village in Konkan, every day the women from the village would walk up to me and tell me that they felt so proud to see a woman ‘cameraman’. What struck me was that these women did not approach me with disbelief but sheer pride. It was equally endearing when a setting boy started calling me ‘camera ma’am’ during the shooting of Hawaizaada . And before I knew it, everyone on the set, including the actors, was calling me ‘Camera ma’am’. How does it feel to be selected for the Oscars?  One can’t really say what works for a global audience. We recently won Best Film at Lady Filmmakers Film Festival, Los Angeles, and the jury there absolutely loved the film. It was amazing to know how films cut across cultures and languages. When I got a call from Anand Varadraj, the director of Bangalore International Short Film Festival, to tell me we had won Best Film, I had no idea that this win would automatically qualify us as India’s entry for the Oscar Shorts. To be honest, it felt good. All artistes work for validation. It’s always great to know that your film is speaking to people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/meet-the-camera-maam/article37223791.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||When Sita speaks for herself||While in our current intellectual domain there are debates around India’s identity — geo-political versus civilisational — in the area of creative writing there is a feverish search to locate contemporary meanings in the two defining Indian epics — the Ramayana and the Mahabharata . Marginalised characters from both these texts are being brought to the centre and subterranean readings are being foregrounded either to attack a hegemonic reading of the text or to explore the multiple possibilities of a tale. In the bargain, the reader has been fortunate to get two versions of Sita’s life in the last two years: Chitra Banerjee’s The Forest of Enchantment and now, Bhanumathi Narasimhan’s Sita: A Tale of Ancient Love . Both versions match each other equally in craft, depth and purpose. In a sense, the latter is in a dialogic space with the political retellings of ‘Sitayana’. Bhanumathi’s story begins with Sita already in the Ashoka Vatika captured by Ravana. From here on, it is a journey of memories where the title of the first chapter ‘A Garden in the Mind’ sets the tone. The novel is a rhythmic interplay between the mind and the world of the senses. Rama and Sita are this young couple in love — there are tender moments of Rama combing Sita’s hair and pulling her to his chest — and soon they easily dissolve into metaphors of wisdom and love. In one instant, Ravana is this powerful man whose very footsteps shake the earth and in the next, he melts into the abstraction of arrogance. None of this happens directly or didactically. This interplay of human form and abstract ideas happens subtly, suggestively. Rama’s journey into Lanka When Rama marches with his army into Lanka, the writer modestly describes Sugriva leading from one entrance, Angada from another, and Hanuman from the third. She ever so gently leaves it to the discerning reader to notice the metaphorical fire, wind and water circling around Lanka. You wonder about Earth and Space. And you realise that Sita is Earth and all these elements play their parts against the Space called Rama. This method of storytelling offers the writer ample scope to explain the problematic politics of Sita’s life. Why the agni pariksha? What kind of an uttama purusha would kill Vaali on the sly? Less significant, why does the dutiful wife walk a few steps behind her husband? The noteworthy part is that it is Sita who answers these questions in this rendering. She offers, through her reminiscences, a metaphorical justification of a subtlety called ‘Rama’. And the story ends with Sita sharing with the reader that the problem was with the people of Ayodhya — who in their ignorance could not see Rama and Sita as one. Rama belongs to all equally, Sita has to give up the ‘I’ to become one with the ‘you’. Speaking about the book, Bhanumathi says, “There’s a popular Gujarati song which says, ‘My dear Rama, Ravana was defeated by Ma Sita even before you came with your army to fight him.’ Even though Sita was alone amidst the asuras, surrounded by negativity, she never allowed it to enter her mind. There was no place for anger, anguish or hatred or any bitterness to lodge itself in her mind because it was only filled with Rama. When your love is so strong, then these emotions may come and go but they don’t leave any impression. Ravana was already defeated because he could not make even a tiny impression on her mind.” Sita’s story is the power of the mind in which the world appears and dissolves. Such a mind does not seek external empowerment. Sita’s agni pariksha The strength of this version lies in the manner in which the writer captures philosophical essences by focussing steadfastly on the materiality of Sita’s life. Sita’s going into the earth is the movement into the deepest states of consciousness. Her agni pariksha that cleanses the fire of doubt is a backhand critique of a rationalist world that is conditioned into thinking that ‘seeing is believing’. Perhaps it is in the nature of these timeless stories that we can invest our own meanings in them. And perhaps it is the power of our storytellers who are able to tell us the same story with a new meaning each time. In Chitra Banerjee’s tale, Sita reclaims her agency through a powerfully dramatic monologue as she refuses to submit to an unfair trial by Rama; in Bhanumathi’s tale, Sita locks her eyes with Rama’s in loving silence, in complete understanding. Banerjee seeks to interpret Sita; Bhanumathi’s Sita seeks to be understood. One gives her a voice; the other seems to say ‘if you listen to me, you don’t have to speak for me.’ One unleashes her anger; the other surrenders her love. One seeks justice; the other, union. In Bhanumathi’s version, Rama and Sita are one — if you see them as separate, then you are reading another story. To quote from the poetic epilogue: ‘To merge is not possible, For there are no two.’  The writer, a Sahitya Akademi translation award winner,   teaches English at Christ University, Bengaluru.   Sita: A Tale Of Ancient Love Written by Bhanumathi Narasimhan Published by EBURY Press Penguin Random House India 2021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/when-sita-speaks-for-herself/article37223804.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Two for joy||Having performed together for long, the Mambalam Sisters, Vijayalakshmi and Chitra, have a perfect understanding of each other’s strengths and individual expertise. Their concert at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan’s Navaratri music festival was marked by an enjoyable and unhurried kalapramanam from start to finish. They displayed remarkable maturity in their handling of kritis and kalpanaswaras, particularly in Sankarabharanam, the main raga of the evening, with Vijayalaksmi revealing its grandeur through her imaginative approach. Syama Sastri’s ‘Sarojadala netri’ in a relaxed pace followed. In the niraval and kalpanaswara segments in the charanam line ‘Samagana vinodini’, the sisters divided and sang the portions that suited each one’s strengths, with the swarakshara and the occasional panchama varjitha phrases adding beauty. Another notable part of the concert was the imposing prelude to the Lalitha Sahasranamam dhyana shloka, ‘Sinduraruna vigraham’, in Saveri and Dharmavati, sung individually by the sisters, followed by Dikshitar’s ‘Parandhamavathi jayati’ in Dhamavati raga, as it is known in Dikshitar’s school. Madhyama kala kalpanaswaras at the phrase ‘brhadeesa ranjani’, with one of them ending the phrases at mel sthayi ‘sa’ and the other in ‘ni’ were interesting. In the opening kriti, ‘Pahimam Sri Rajarajeswari’ in Janaranjani, a composition by Maha Vaidyanatha Sivan, the sisters delved into an elaborate sequence of kalpanaswaras apart from the chittaswaram that is a staple to the composition. This exercise did give their violinist-sister R. Hemalatha an opportunity to showcase some creative flashes at the very beginning of the concert while being a perfect warm-up for percussionists Poongulam Subramaniam on mridangam and G. Harihara Sarma on kanjira. Spontaneous repartees Hemalatha’s spontaneity through the concert felt like a breath of fresh air, while the repartees between singers and percussionists in the kalpanaswara segments enhanced the musical experience. Choosing to present Dikshitar's ‘Kamalamba samrakshathumam’ in Anandabhairavi without a detailed raga alapana helped one immerse in the layered lyrics. Tyagaraja’s ‘Dharini telusukonti’ (Suddhasaveri, Adi) in a controlled, subdued tempo gave the two the scope to explore some nicer variations in the sangatis. Subramaniam provided an absorbing tani avarthanam with Harihara Sarma. A rarely heard Tamil kriti by Harikesanallur Muthaiah Bhagavatar, ‘Maavur valar maharani’, in Jhonpuri was a nice choice for the post-thani session. The concert was rounded off with a Thiruppugazh in Nattakurinji and a mangalam in Kedaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/two-for-joy/article37223795.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Pulling the right strings||Odisha’s lone woman filmmaker Lipika Singh Darai is in the news again. The four-time National Award winner’s latest film Backstage, on Odisha’s fading forms of puppetry, has been chosen for four major international film festivals in Italy, the U.S., Taiwan and India. The 85-minute documentary, produced by the Films Division, premiered last August at the 39th Asolo Art Film Festival in Italy. It portrays the life and struggles of the puppeteers of Odisha, the only State where all four forms of puppetry — glove, string, rod, and shadow — are practised.  Backstage, according to Lipika, is not just the story of the puppeteers, it echoes the emotions of folk artistes from around the country who are fighting to save their craft. The filmmaker spent nine years researching and documenting the life of the puppeteers. “It is not easy to capture an art in its entirety on camera unless you get to know every aspect of the tradition and culture it is part of,” she says. Unexplored tradition Her first film, as a student at the Film & Television Institute of India, fetched her the National Award in 2010 for Sound Recording. After graduating from FTII, when she began working with the legendary Mani Kaul, she wanted to return to her homeland and her tribal roots. Lipika recorded the fast-fading songs of the Ho community, to which she belongs. And thus began her cinematic exploration of Odisha’s cultural canvas. “My research into Odisha’s puppetry began in 2013. The film has important footage of my research. Over a period of time, I built a rapport with the puppeteers and interacted with them closely. In the earlier part of the film, the conversations sound like interviews; in the latter half, they sound like warm, friendly chats.” The title, Backstage, is meant to show how a puppeteer lives a life in the shadows. “As I slowly built the narrative, the name seemed more justified than ever,” says Lipika. The director recollects her first meeting with the 80-year-old rod puppeteer, Maguni Charan Kuanr, in Keonjhar. “His dedication and passion left a deep impact on me. He wanted desperately to save the art form from fading into extinction.” And that aroused her desire to film the art and its traditions. Lipika travelled to Angul to explore shadow puppetry, then to Ganjam, known for string puppetry, and finally to Kendrapara district for glove puppetry. “I met Rabi Das, a shadow puppeteer, whom I have featured in the film. His troupe had stopped performing several years ago, since he could not cope with the challenges. He sold his entire collection for just Rs. 500, bringing an end to a tradition.” During her travels across Odisha, Lipika met Gouranga Charan Das and Sabitri Das in a village in Angul district. “Committed to preserving the art form, Gouranga learnt shadow puppetry; the couple even shifted base to a village to be in close touch with the puppeteers. Investing their entire savings into the art, the couple is building a unique puppetry museum, where research, documentation and training in all the four puppetry forms will be available. “The film shows how art thrives in a community through individual artistic journeys,” says Lipika.   The Bhubaneshwar-based writer focuses on art and culture.    Backstage is not just the story of the puppeteers, it echoes the emotions of folk artistes from around the country who are fighting to save their craft||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/pulling-the-right-strings/article37223777.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Creativity on display||The Chinmaya Sisters, Uma and Radhika, who have youthful and melodious voices, presented a lively concert. Singing at a high sruti, the sisters managed to move across octaves without sounding shrill at any point. The first song of the evening was ‘Sarasiruhasana priye’, composed by Puliyur Duraisami Iyer in Nattai. With swift kalpanaswaras at the phrase ‘Saraswati’ in the charanam, Uma showcased her skill in moving from the lower rishabam to its counterpart in the upper octave and touching the mel sthayi panchamam effortlessly. The kriti was preceded by the shloka ‘Yakundendu’. Launching straight away theMuthuswamy Dikshitar’s ‘Sri Saraswathi' in Arabhi, the singers presented the composition with the samashti charanam without any unnecessary frills. The elaborate Kiravani that followed was sung by Radhika and had interesting creative flashes. The karvai at madhyamam and the movement to upper rishabam framed the graceful characteristics of the raga well. ‘Amba vani’ by Harikesanallur Muthaiah Bhagavatar with niraval at ‘Vara veena pani’ and a shower of kalpanaswaras earned them applause. The soothing notes by seasoned violinist M.A. Krishnaswamy made it a pleasant listening experience. Vijay Natesan’s interesting korvais on the mridangam for this piece encouraged Sunil Kumar on the kanjira to come up with similar patterns. Melodic appeal Both percussionists anticipated and kept pace with the singers through the concert. Dikshitar’s Ghanta raga Kamalamba navavaranam ‘Sri Kamalambike avava’ rendered with a good sahitya bhava carried the melodic effect that was needed for the kriti. A sprightly ‘Sudha madhurya bhashini’, composed by G.N. Balasubramaniam, which reflects his singing style, came next. Though the fleet of sangatis demand a racy pace, a little restraint could have rendered it more delectable.  The laya patterns exhibited by Vijay Natesan and Sunil Kumar at the lines ‘Kamalalaya tata nivasini’ embellished the lyrics. The Mohana raga alapana by Uma was an expedition across the spectrum of the raga. Krishnaswamy’s violin in typical Parur style provided freshness to the delineation. The main segment was not a kriti, but a few lines from the Lalitha Sahasranamam. Beginning with the line ‘Bhavani bhaavanagamya,’ the singers rendered a two-line shloka as the pallavi, the next shloka as anupallavi, the following two shlokas as charanam, and the next two in madhyamakala pattern. They set the kalpanaswaras at the first line of the shloka and piled up the swaras sumptuously in both the slower and faster paces. Some delightful dhattu phrases by the singers matched with similar passages by the violinist spoke for their creative abundance. Adi tala in two kalais and the swara patterns established by the singers must have triggered the percussionists’ imagination too, which resulted in an energetic tani avarthanam. Subramania Bharati’s ‘Thedi unnai saranadaindhen’ in Sindhubhairavi was breezy with beautiful ornamentation at the line ‘Nambinar keduvadhillai’. Thoughtful pauses by the percussionists revealed the song’s lyrical elegance. The sisters presented one song from Oothukadu Venkatakavi’s Kamakshi Navavarana kritis, ‘Bhajasva Sri Tripurasundari’, in Nadanamakriya with verses in madhyama kalam both in anupallavi and charanam, followed by Papanasam Sivan’s ‘Karpagame’ in Madhyamavati to wrap up the concert.  The Chennai-based reviewer writes on classical music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/creativity-on-display/article37223793.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Impressive raga exercises||‘Ode to PSN’, a tribute concert dedicated to guru P.S. Narayanaswamy, was organised by Aalaap and premiered on Shaale.com recently. Vocalist T.V. Ramprasadh, PSN’s disciple, performed on the occasion, displaying what a vital role Guru P.S. Narayanaswamy played in passing on his impeccable musical legacy to a number of students who are well-known musicians today. Ramprasadh, gifted with a robust and pliable voice, presented a well-structured concert. He began with a succinct preface of Begada raga with ‘Tanavari tanamu’, the Tyagaraja kriti. The swarakalpana in the pallavi at the end of the kriti was a perfect package that highlighted the signature phrases exclusive to Begada. Bhava-rich renditions The Ritigowla that came next was a poignant melody, detailed with careful focus on the raga bhava. The akaras and extensive kaarvais added extra sheen to the alapana. Ramprasadh chose ‘Seethanayaka shritha jana palaka’, from Tyagaraja’s Divyanama Sankeertanam and his swara sequences in the pallavi were impressive. The pièce de resistance of the concert was the comprehensive Thodi raga alapana and the kriti was Kumara Ettendra’s ‘Gajavadana sammodita’. Ramprasadh’s raga essay and the kriti presentation perfectly matched the grandeur of the piece. Using the anupallavi line ‘Vijayaollasa valli kataaksha patra’, a stately niraval was followed by brilliant swara matrices. The finale of the swara exercise ended with several strands smoothly landing on ‘shadjam’. Srinidhi Mathur, who accompanied Ramprasadh on the violin was equally creative in her raga essays, and had a mature approach to the swaraprastaras. Her responses in Ritigowla and Thodi were neatly executed. H.S. Sudhindra on the mridangam played with perfection and embellished the concert with his softly-structured tani avarthanam. Ramprasadh concluded the concert with ‘Tharuni nyan’ a padam in Dwajavanti by Swati Tirunal and ‘Parulanna mata’ in Kapi, the popular javali by Dharmapuri Subbarayar.  The Chennai-based reviewer writes on classical music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/impressive-raga-exercises/article37223797.ece
29 October 2021||October 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Pushkaram festival at Pandarpur||The Pushkaram festival, dedicated to the worshipping of rivers, will be celebrated next month. It is celebrated at shrines along the banks of one of 12 major sacred rivers, and takes the form of discourses, devotional music and cultural programmes. The festival marks the planet Jupiter transcending from one house to another. It will be celebrated this year on the banks of River Chandrabhaga (Bhima) at Pandarpur, Maharashtra, for a period of 12 days (November 21-December 2). Rituals will take place at Sri Ram Dhan, Udupi Sri Palimaru Mutt, Sangola Road, Pandarpur and on the banks of the river. For details, contact 98400 53289 (Chennai) or 88876 51536 (Pandarpur).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/pushkaram-festival-at-pandarpur/article37223773.ece
29 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Congress demands SIT probe into Odisha teacher’s murder||The Congress on Thursday demanded the immediate sacking of Odisha Minister of State for Home Dibya Shankar Mishra and the constitution of a special investigation team (SIT) under the supervision of the Chief of Justice of Orissa High Court for an impartial probe into the murder of a woman teacher. Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, who led a high-level party delegation, comprising Congress legislative party leader Narasingha Mishra, party in charge of Odisha affairs A. Chella Kumar and Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee president Niranjan Patnaik, to the victim’s village in Balangir district, came down heavily on the Biju Janata Dal Government. Mamita Meher, teacher at Sunshine English Medium School, Mahaling in Kalahandi district, was reportedly strangulated to death by Gobina Sahu, promoter of the school. ‘Extramarital affairs’ Police said the murder accused killed Meher in order to prevent her from revealing his extramarital affairs. Opposition political parties have alleged that MoS Home Mr. Mishra, who had close links with Sahu, was protecting him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/congress-demands-sit-probe-into-odisha-teachers-murder/article37224388.ece
29 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||An honourable, scientific farewell to pet dogs||A memorial park has come up for pet dogs on the outskirts of Guwahati. The first of its kind in the northeast, the canine cemetery offers a scientific burial and an epitaph wall for their owners to remember them by. The memorial park covers 2 bighas (A bigha is equivalent to 14,400 sq. ft) adjoining a pet hospital run by Just Be Friendly (JBF), an NGO, at Mairakuchi. The place is about 30 km east of Guwahati. “Many people throw the carcasses of their pets in water bodies or garbage dumps. We decided to provide a space where their bodies can be disposed of honourably and scientifically,” JBF’s Sashanka Sekhar Dutta told The Hindu on Tuesday. The burial ground adjoins the JBF Integrated Care and Resource Centre for Animals, inclusive of a pet hospital that the NGO runs on 7.5 bighas. “We shall soon be putting up a wall where pet owners can write the details about the dogs buried and can visit periodically in remembrance,” he said. Opened a month ago, about 10 dogs have been buried in the park. But work on the park was stopped in between because of the rains. The JBF members said the process of burying a dog scientifically costs at least Rs. 3,000 but they have not fixed any charge for the service. Pet owners have the option of donating to the NGO for the maintenance of the ground and associated services. 44 kennels The JBF started with a rabies control programme a few years ago and followed it up with the pet hospital project. The hospital has 44 kennels with each having space for up to three dogs that undergo surgery. The hospital expects to have a few catteries in a month or so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/an-honourable-scientific-farewell-to-pet-dogs/article37224391.ece
29 October 2021||Pune,||‘Probe on, no clean chit to Jal Yukt Shivar scheme’||Denying the BJP’s claims of a clean chit being given to the Jalyukt Shivar scheme — a flagship project of the former Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government — the Maharashtra government on Thursday clarified that investigations by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) were still on. The multi-crore drought-proofing scheme, a pet project of Mr. Fadnavis, had been slammed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) in its report which was tabled in the Assembly in September last year. The clarification said that the Additional Chief Secretary of the Department of Soil and Water Conservation had testified before the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) on Tuesday. “The news carried by a section of press and media was based on the information submitted by the Secretary at that time. However, the Secretary recorded his testimony on the issues raised by the CAG and these figures have been provided by the implementing agency itself. The chairman of this committee [PAC] is BJP MLA Sudhir is Mungantiwar,’’ the clarification said. It further noted said that the Secretary had submitted before the PAC that the SIT, which was appointed by the government to conduct a detailed inquiry into the Jalyukt Shivar scheme, had said in its report (to the government) that the respective District Collectors had not yet submitted the inquiry reports into the JSY scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/probe-on-no-clean-chit-to-jal-yukt-shivar-scheme/article37224396.ece
29 October 2021||Kolkata,||BJP rakes up Bangladesh violence in bypoll pitch||The West Bengal unit of the BJP expects that the recent communal violence in Bangladesh will have an impact on bypolls to four Assembly seats on October 30. In the past few weeks, the State BJP leadership has repeatedly raised the issue during campaigns in Shantipur, Dinhata, Khardah and Gosaba constituencies. While the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has accused BJP of trying to polarise the voters, a section of political observers feel it will not have any impact. Leader of the Opposition and BJP MLA from Nandigram Suvendu Adhikari was among the the first to rake up the issue and link it to the election outcome. Questioning the alleged silence of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, he said “Sanatani Hindus” would express their disapproval by voting against the ruling party. Ms. Banerjee has stayed away from campaigning in the four constituencies, leaving the work to party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee. He has severely criticised the BJP “for trying to polarise the electorate”. He countered the BJP’s charge of “alleged silence” of Ms. Banerjee by asking why has Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who made trips to Bangladesh during the State polls, maintained a silence on the issue. “It is true that people across sections of society participated in the rallies in West Bengal to protest against violence in Bangladesh but the phenomenon is not likely to have any major impact on the byolls, which will be fought on local issues,” political observer Biswanath Chakraborty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-rakes-up-bangladesh-violence-in-bypoll-pitch/article37224395.ece
