30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||No money left in MGNREGA coffers; 21 States in the red||The Centre’s flagship rural employment scheme has run out of funds halfway through the financial year, and supplementary budgetary allocations will not come to the rescue for at least another month when the next Parliamentary session begins. According to its own financial statement, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme shows a negative net balance of Rs. 8,686 crore. This means that payments for MGNREGA workers as well as material costs will be delayed, unless the States dip into their own funds. Activists say the Centre is condemning workers to “forced labour” by delaying wage payments at a time of economic distress. However, the Centre is now accusing many States of “artificially creating demand” for work on the ground. The MGNREGA is a demand driven scheme, guaranteeing 100 days of unskilled work to any rural household that wants it. During last year’s COVID-19 lockdown, the scheme was ultimately given its highest budget of Rs. 1.11 lakh crore and provided a critical lifeline to a record 11 crore workers. However, the scheme’s 2021-22 budget was set at just Rs. 73,000 crore, with the Centre arguing that the nationwide lockdown was over, and that supplementary budgetary allocations would be available if the money ran out. As on October 29, the total expenditure, including payments due had already reached Rs. 79,810 crore, pushing the scheme into the red. Already, 21 States show a negative net balance, with Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal faring the worst. Poorest worst hit “We are facing a situation of MGNREGA closing down halfway through the year. Who is going to absorb the cost? The poorest and most vulnerable communities, who have already been crushed by the pandemic’s impact,” said Nikhil Dey, a founder of the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan. He cited a 2016 judgment of the Supreme Court, which described pending wage payments under MGNREGA as “a clear constitutional breach committed by the State” and “a modern form ofbegar[forced labour]”. “The Government of India is, on the face of it, pushing crores of people into forced labour, as held by the SC,” added Mr. Dey.  “It is somewhat early this year [to run out of funds],” admitted a senior official of the Rural Development Ministry, who did not wish to be named. “People will continue to get work. Only thing that might happen is that the payment will only be made once funds are available. But many States can provide temporary funds out of their own kitty and then once the fund is available, it can be reimbursed [by the Centre].” The official blamed the State governments for the current situation. “My apprehension is that the States are using it not as a demand driven scheme, but as a supply-led scheme. The States are asking their field authorities to artificially create demand,” said the official. “The nature of the scheme is that once people turn up and demand jobs, then the demand is provided. It’s not that someone in the administrative hierarchy organises work and then asks people to join. That is what is happening in many States,” added the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-money-left-in-mgnrega-coffers-21-states-in-the-red/article37245389.ece
30 October 2021||Vijayawada,||HC pulls up CBI for tardy pace of investigation in judges’ abuse case||Expressing displeasure at the tardy progress of the CBI inquiry into the cases booked against individuals who allegedly waged a vitriolic campaign against High Court Judges, Andhra Pradesh High Court Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra questioned if the country’s premier investigating agency was disinterested or incapable of bringing the culprits to justice. He directed the CBI to file an affidavit giving details of the outcome of the investigation, which it claimed to have done in the last one year purportedly with the support of agencies like the Interpol. “You seem to be negligent in acting against the persons who are bringing disrepute to the judiciary, in cases where the High Court itself is a petitioner. What then will be the fate of the common citizen under such circumstances? Let us not be under the impression that you people are either lying or simply passing the buck by citing technicalities. If you can’t identify and trace the accused, make a mention of the same,” the Chief Justice fumed at CBI counsel P. Subhash and the CBI SP who appeared before the Division Bench virtually. Friday’s hearing of the cases of abuse of judges, by a Division Bench comprising the Chief Justice and Justice Kanneganti Lalitha, revolved around the maze of controls of the Social Media Intermediaries (SMI) namely Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, WhatsApp, YouTube etc. (whether their parent entities headquartered abroad can deal with complaints lodged in India or their local arms have autonomy in dealing with the malicious content), the dynamics involving the creation of fake accounts, difficulty in zeroing in on culprits using the URL (Uniform Resource Locators), availability of metadata as opposed to basic subscriber data, photo DNA technology, SMI Rules-2021 etc. High Court standing counsel Aswini Kumar said these cases needed to be taken seriously as at stake was not only the image of the judiciary but also the reputation and rights of citizens of the entire country. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal, Sajan Poovayya and L. Ravichander and advocates Tejas Karia and Saransh Jain presented arguments on behalf of the SMI while P. Subhash appeared for the CBI, which came in for flak from both the Chief Justice and Justice Lalitha, who said they wanted concrete action but not further excuses for the sluggishness of investigation, to be tendered during the next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tardy-progress-in-abuse-of-judges-case-riles-hc/article37245323.ece
30 October 2021||KUPPAM,||Tension mars Naidu’s Kuppam tour||Tension gripped Kuppam on Friday with activists of the ruling YSR Congress Party and the Telugu Desam Party pulling down the publicity flexis and banners of the other party at several places along the roadshow of TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, who arrived at Kuppam in the afternoon on a two-day visit. The stretch between the R&B Road and the arterial junctions in the town witnessed intense activity with cadres of both parties removing the publicity material. Tragedy struck the tense development after a supporter of the TDP was reportedly electrocuted at Pandhyalamadugu village after coming in contact with an overhead power line while trying to tie a party flag atop a private bus ferrying party workers to Kuppam. In spite of the tense moments, the police were conspicuous in their absence at several junctions. It was pandemonium along the roadshow of Mr. Naidu from Karnataka border to Kuppam town, with his convoy getting blocked repeatedly, with a surge of party cadres from across Kuppam region and the neighbouring constituencies. The TDP workers complained to Mr. Naidu that the YSRCP leaders in Kuppam had deliberately not left any corner in the town to erect welcome banners for him (Naidu). A couple of days ago, the YSRCP cadres had put up giant publicity material at several places in Kuppam to welcome Rajampet MP P.V. Mithun Reddy for the Phase II of Asara programme. High drama High drama prevailed at the public meeting venue at RTC bus stand area, when Mr. Naidu was addressing the gathering from the stage. A man, along with a few others crashed into the crowds, carrying a bag. This unnerved TDP workers, who caught hold of him and allegedly thrashed him. The cadres suspected he was carrying country bombs in the bag. The police identified the person as Mohan, an employee of the Tourism department who took charge there on Friday. He is a native of Chandragiri mandal, who went to Kuppam on transfer. The police rescued the man and sent him to Government Hospital at Kuppam.   Power Meanwhile, the TDP cadres alleged that the electricity department officials deliberately disconnected power supply to the R&B Guest House in Kuppam, the scheduled venue for Mr. Naidu’s stay. However, the officials rejected the allegations, and clarified that a generator had also been kept as a standby. The police heaved a sigh of relief with no major untoward incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tension-mars-naidus-kuppam-tour/article37245328.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Suicides among farm workers rose 18% in 2020||The number of agricultural labourers who died by suicide in 2020 was 18% higher than the previous year, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report released on Thursday. However, suicides among landowning farmers dropped slightly during the pandemic year. The farm sector was one of the few bright spots in the Indian economy last year, recording growth on the back of a healthy monsoon and the continuation of agricultural activities during a lockdown that crippled other sectors. However, landless agricultural labourers, who did not benefit from income support schemes such as PM Kisan, may have faced higher levels of distress during the pandemic. The NCRB report does not include any indication of the specific causes of suicide among the farm community. Overall, 10,677 people engaged in the farm sector died by suicide in 2020, slightly higher than the 10,281 who died in 2019. They made up 7% of all suicides in the country. Most of these deaths were among those whose primary work and main source of income comes from labour activities in agriculture or horticulture. In 2020, a total of 5,098 of these labourers died by suicide, an 18% rise from the 4,324 who died last year. However, among farmers who cultivate their own land, with or without the help of other workers, the number of suicides dropped 3.7% from 5,129 to 4,940. Among tenant farmers who cultivate leased land, there was a 23% drop in suicides from 828 to 639. Maharashtra tops chart The worst among the States continues to be Maharashtra, with 4,006 suicides in the farm sector, including a 15% increase in farm worker suicides. Other States with a poor record include Karnataka (2016), Andhra Pradesh (889) and Madhya Pradesh (735). Karnataka saw a dismal 43% increase in the number of farm worker suicides in 2020. Andhra Pradesh was among the few States that saw an improvement, with 14% fewer people in the farm sector dying by suicide. Tamil Nadu also bucked the national trend; although the total number of farm suicides in the State was slightly higher, most of the increase came from landowning cultivators rather than labourers. In comparison to just six landowning farmers who died by suicide in Tamil Nadu in 2019, 76 died in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/suicides-among-farm-workers-rose-18-in-2020/article37245391.ece
30 October 2021||KARIMNAGAR,||Huzurabad turns into a garrison for today’s byelection||The Huzurabad Assembly constituency, spanning five mandals — four in Karimnagar district and one in Hanamkonda district — virtually turned into a police garrison as the stage is set for the high stakes byelection on Saturday. Of the total 306 polling stations, a staggering number of 127 polling stations (41.50%) have been classified as ‘critical’. Large contingents of State police as well as the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) comprising a total of 3,865 police personnel have been deployed to ensure a free and fair byelection and 1,715 polling staff have been pressed into service for the bypoll duty. As many as 2,37,022 voters are expected to decide the fate of a total of 30 contestants. The constituency is slated to witness one of the toughest electoral battle ever as the stakes are high for the ruling TRS, the BJP and the Congress. The bypoll was necessitated following the resignation of former Health Minister and sitting MLA Eatala Rajender, who quit TRS and subsequently joined the BJP following his expulsion from the Cabinet. He is locked in a keen contest with the TRS’s Gellu Srinivas Yadav and the Congress party’s Balmoori Venkat Narsing Rao. The campaign was marred by grave allegations of widespread distribution of money by some politicians to lure voters. It saw the biggest seizure of more than Rs. 3.31 crore cash as part of the election model code of conduct (MCC) enforcement drive. More than 130 cases of violation of MCC were registered in the five mandals of the constituency. A record number of 2,284 “history-sheeters” and “trouble-mongers” were bound over to ensure peaceful conduct. Meanwhile, District Election Officer and Collector R. V. Karnan, along with Karimnagar Police Commissioner V. Satyanarayana reviewed the byelection arrangements in Huzurabad on Friday. Speaking to the media, Mr. Karnan said elaborate arrangements have been made as per the Election Commission guidelines in all the 306 polling stations to ensure free and fair byelection. Voting will be allowed from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Saturday. He called upon people to report any violation of the MCC and other electoral malpractices, including inducement and intimidation of voters, through the Election Commission’s c-VIGIL mobile app to ensure prompt action against the violators. Tight security arrangements have been made to prevent untoward incidents during the polling, he said, adding that an adequate number of flying squads, static surveillance teams have been deployed. Every voter should wear a face mask and follow COVI D protocols during polling, he said, adding that COVID-19 patients can cast their votes by wearing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, kept at the polling stations, in the last hour of polling. Returning Officer Ravinder Reddy said three cases were booked based on complaints of distribution of money in some villages in the last two days. Stern action will be taken against those spreading rumours on social media and indulging in malpractices, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/huzurabad-turns-into-a-garrison-for-bypoll/article37245658.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi/ Ghaziabad,||Barriers go from farmers’ protest sites||Months after barbed wires and layers of barricades were put up at Delhi’s borders, the police have begun removing them from Ghazipur and Tikri borders. Farmers protesting at the sites said the move vindicated their stand in the Supreme Court and paved the way for their entry into the Capital. Bharatiya Kisan Union general secretary Yudhvir Singh said the farmers never wanted to create problems for the general public and only wanted to enter Delhi to raise their voice against the three laws. Mr. Singh said the move was not an indication of the government reaching out to farmers for the peaceful resolution of the protest against the contentious farm laws and that the protest would continue at the Ghazipur border with “even more vigour”. “My 40 years of experience in holding protests for farmers’ cause tells me that the government wants to stretch it [the impasse] further rather than arriving at a decision,” he said. Notably, at Ghazipur border, the police chose to remove the barricades from the lanes which lead to the main stage and the langar of the protesting farmers. Sources said it had been done to put the onus of blockade on farmers who removed only a tent from the service lane after the SC order. Nirav Patel, ACP, Mayur Vihar, who supervised the removal of the barricades, said the idea was to clear the main lane for traffic. The ACP said the Delhi Police had done its part and now it was up to the U.P. Police to ensure the movement of traffic from U.P. to Delhi. The process that started at 7 a.m. took almost the entire day for two cranes and two bulldozers to cut through the concrete slabs. Rashid, a worker, said as the barricades were welded, it consumed a lot of time to separate them. Earlier, BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who was not present at the border on Friday, told a news agency that after the removal of barricades, farmers would move to Parliament where the contentious farm laws were passed. His nephew Gaurav Tikait said farmers were ready for any eventuality. “Farmers from West U.P. have been told to be ready to reach Ghazipur border at a short notice,” he said, adding they were waiting for the SKM’s directive to move towards Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-remove-barriers-at-protest-sites-near-delhi-borders/article37245392.ece
30 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Four die, five injured as lorry rolls down Agumbe Ghat||Four persons died on the spot and five were injured after a lorry in which they were travelling rolled down Agumbe Ghat under Hebri Police limits in Udupi district on Friday. The police gave the names of the deceased as Yajnesh (24), Manjunath (21), Mani (21) and Srijith (21), all from Karkala taluk of Udupi district. The police said that Yajnesh was driving the lorry from Shivamogga to Udupi. There were four persons seated inside the lorry. While negotiating the fifth curve at around 1 p.m., Yajnesh reportedly lost control over the vehicle and it went down the gorge. Yajnesh and three of the men died on the spot. The bodies were taken to the mortuary of the government hospital in Hebri. The injured persons were admitted to the government hospital at Karkala. They are all said to be out of danger. The police said that they are yet to establish the reason for the accident. Opinion of the vehicle inspector from the Transport Department has been sought to know whether the accident was because of brake failure, overspeeding or any other reason. Hebri Sub-Inspector of Plice Mahesh T.M. visited the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-die-as-lorry-rolls-down-agumbe-ghat/article37245448.ece
30 October 2021||vijayawada,||15 candidates in fray for Badvel bypoll today||Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) K. Vijayanand has said that tight security arrangements with 15 companies of the CRPF, the CISF and the BSF and 1,606 personnel from the A.P. Police has been made for the byelection to the Badvel (SC) Assembly constituency, scheduled to be held on Saturday. Fifteen candidates are in the fray and the polling will be held from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Voters infected with COVID-19 can exercise their franchise between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. Material worth Rs. 2.10 crore, including Rs. 1.08 crore in cash and gold worth Rs. 50 lakh, were seized in the run-up to the bypoll, the CEO told the media at the Secretariat on Friday. Mr. Vijayanand said that 281 polling stations had been set up and the poll proceedings would be monitored by one general observer, one police observer and two expenditure observers. The polling process would be webcast from all 281 polling stations. Besides, 271 videographers had been engaged to keep track of the activity outside the polling stations. The CEO said that 19 cases pertaining to violation of Model Code of Conduct had been booked and FIRs registered in eight cases. Nine non-bailable warrants had been issued. The borders with Kurnool and Nellore districts had been sealed to prevent the entry of outsiders into the constituency. As many as 145 sensitive booths had been identified and all of them would be under the watch of the Central security forces. Volunteers had been barred from the election duty and polling activity to ensure that voters were not influenced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/15-candidates-in-fray-for-badvel-bypoll-today/article37245380.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||UIDAI seeks indemnity from Data Bill||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has asked for exemption from the Personal Data Protection (PDP) Law. In an interaction with the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Data Protection Bill 2019 on Thursday at its office in Bengaluru, UIDAI functionaries said the authority is already being governed by the Aadhaar Act and there cannot be duplicity of laws. Ironically, it was making Aadhaar compulsory for many key services including the banks that first triggered the data privacy debate. The genesis of this Bill lies in the report prepared by a Committee of Experts headed by Justice B.N. Srikrishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uidai-seeks-indemnity-from-data-bill/article37245548.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,||HC gets one more judge||The Madras High Court on Friday got one more judge, with Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee administering the oath of office to Justice J. Sathya Narayana Prasad, who has been elevated from the Bar. The oath was administered on the basis of the authorisation given by Governor R.N. Ravi to the Chief Justice. In his welcome address, Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram said Justice Prasad was born in Thanjavur on March 15, 1969. He was a second-generation lawyer and a judge in his family. After completing his schooling in Vellore, Justice Prasad pursed his bachelor’s degree in history from Loyola College in Chennai. He then moved to study a master’s course and law. He enrolled with the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on January 27, 1997. He has practised on writ, criminal and civil jurisdiction, and has represented Chennai Port Trust, Greater Chennai Corporation and Food Corporation of India, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-gets-one-more-judge/article37245504.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC says it won’t interfere with Karnataka Govt. order on RT-PCR||The Supreme Court on Friday made it clear that insistence by a State Government on negative RT-PCR results, for public health reasons, from people travelling in from another State cannot be construed as a “restriction of movement of citizens”. The Constitution upholds a citizen’s fundamental right to move freely across the length and breadth of India. However, a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao did not agree with A.K.M. Ashraf, a legislator from Kerala, who faulted Karnataka’s rule that people entering it from his constituency of Manjeshwaram in Kasargod district in Kerala should have a negative RT-PCR certificate taken within 72 hours of their trip. The lawmaker called it a violation of their right to free movement. Mr. Ashraf, represented by advocate Haris Beeran, said people travel daily across the border to Karnataka from Manjeshwaram to Mangaluru in Karnataka for education, medical care and other essentials. Karnataka’s rule “inhibits” the right to movement of these daily commuters. Mr. Ashraf said his constituents, in fact, depend on Mangaluru for their basic needs. Mr. Beeran argued that the Centre had advised States against placing restrictions on inter-State travel. But the court disagreed with Mr. Beeran’s submissions for the Kerala legislator. ‘No violation’ “There is no violation of any fundamental right of persons living in Kasaragod district to travel to Mangaluru or other parts of the State of Karnataka. Circulars issued by Karnataka cannot be interfered by this court in the interest of public health,” the Supreme Court recorded in its order. The court concluded there was “no restriction of movement of citizens from Kerala to Karnataka”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-says-it-wont-interfere-with-karnataka-govt-order-on-rt-pcr/article37245822.ece
30 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||All set for polling in Sindgi, Hangal today||The stage is set for polling in the byelections to Sindgi and Hangal Assembly constituencies which have been projected as a “litmus test” for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s leadership. After the high decibel public campaign spanning over a fortnight, there was a lull in door-to-door campaign in both the constituencies, as the candidates and their followers chose to focus more on closed door meetings rather than visiting households for the final appeal for votes. On the eve of polling also, there was no active campaigning on Friday. Byelections, being held after the change of leadership in the State BJP from B.S. Yediyurappa to Basavaraj Bommai, would be remembered for the hectic campaigning by political leaders of all parties, particularly the ruling BJP. A host of Ministers from the ruling party camped in these poll-bound constituencies for several days and in some cases, extending to over a week before the deadline for public campaigning ended. For most of the leaders, including those of the Congress, Hubballi, the heart of North Karnataka, became a nodal centre from where they travelled to the two constituencies. Politically, these bypolls are crucial for Mr. Bommai, who has to prove his leadership after taking over from Mr. Yediyurappa. And, he also has to prove his mettle to be “eligible” for leading the party in the general elections in 2023. This would be remembered as an election which saw hectic campaigning by the Chief Minister who spent over eight days in the region for the purpose. And, this would also be remembered as a campaign wherein leaders depended heavily on caste-based vote appeal. If the local electorate and party workers are to be believed, the bypolls also saw the highest circulation of money. While the Congress, the BJP and the Janata Dal(S) leaders made allegations of money being spent in crores, no specific complaints were made. There were also no reports of money seizure. Meanwhile, the Vijayapura and Haveri district administration have made elaborate arrangements for polling scheduled to be held from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Saturday. Deputy Commissioners and District Election Officers for Haveri and Vijayapura Sanjay Shettennavar and P. Sunilkumar spent the day overseeing the preparations and visited mustering centres from which election teams were despatched to various polling stations. For the record, Hangal has 2,04,481 voters, 263 polling stations and 13 candidates, while Sindgi has 2,34,584 voters, 297 polling stations and six candidates in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-set-for-polling-in-sindgi-hangal-today/article37245435.ece
30 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||State’s interests compromised: Oppn.||The debate over the Mullaperiyar dam cropped up in the State Assembly on Friday with the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) accusing the Left Democratic Front (LDF) Government of failing to protect the State’s interests. Tamil Nadu had made effective use of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s remark that there was no need for concern regarding the safety of the dam, former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said, while taking part in a discussion on Bills pertaining to the finance sector. Mr. Vijayan’s remark had weakened the State’s position regarding the water levels in the dam, according to him. In defence Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve countered that the Chief Minister had merely intended to prevent false information from spreading on social media. The strong stand taken by the State Government in the Supreme Court had led to the upper rule level being maintained at 139.5 feet rather than 142 feet, the Minister said. Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan of the Congress blamed the LDF Government of backtracking on the State’s demand that the water level be fixed at 136 feet. Bills passed The Assembly passed the Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, the Kerala General Sales Tax (Amendment) Bill, and the Kerala Fiscal Responsibility (Amendment) Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-interests-compromised-oppn/article37245719.ece
30 October 2021||IDUKKI,||Three spillway shutters of Mullaperiyar dam opened||The spillway shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam were opened at 7.30 a.m. on Friday, releasing 544 cusecs (cubic feet per second) of water into the Periyar. The dam was last opened during the floods in August 2018. The third and fourth gates were opened up to 35 cm in the presence of Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine, Revenue Minister K. Rajan and Idukki District Collector Sheeba George. At 9 p.m., one more shutter was opened, releasing 275 cusecs of water. Upper rule curve level Officials manually opened the spillway shutters after issuing two warnings in the wake of the water level reaching 138 ft, the upper rule curve level. Life remained quite normal downstream of the dam, though the district administration had made elaborate arrangements to shift people close to the riverbanks and opened relief camps in Peerumade, Udumbanchola and Idukki taluks. According to revenue officials, they opened six relief camps at Manjumala, Elappara, Periyar, Upputhara, and Anavilasam. They said 288 people from 98 families were still staying in the relief camps.  Sebastian, a resident at Vallakkadavu, the first residential area downstream of the Mullaperiyar dam, said he did not see an increase in water flow in the Periyar after the opening of the spillway shutters. However, in 2018, there was heavy flow in the Periyar and the opening of the spillway shutters had caused wide damage. Mariappan, a resident at Chappathu, said the water had overflowed the main bridge across the river connecting Kottayam and Kattappana a few days ago. “Now there is only normal flow and only those noticed the water flow just before the opening of the spillway shutters could gauge if there was an increase in the water flow,” he said. The water released through the spillway shutters moved through Manjumala, Vandiperiyar, Mlamala, Santhipalam, Chappathu, Alady and Upputhara to join the Idukki reservoir at Ayyappancoil, which is 35 km away from the Idukki arch dam and Cheruthoni dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-spillway-shutters-of-mullaperiyar-dam-opened/article37245699.ece
30 October 2021||Vijayawada,||HC permits farmers’ Amaravati padayatra||Justice Ch. Manavendranath Roy of the Andhra Pradesh High Court gave permission to the 45-day “Maha Padayatra” proposed to be organised by Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti (APS) and Amaravati Farmers’ Joint Action Committee beginning November 1. The Samiti and the farmers’ JAC have resolved to take out the padayatra from Amaravati to Tirumala to highlight their apprehensions about the government’s decision to divide the capital into legislative, executive and judicial capitals (Amaravati, Visakhapatnam and Kurnool). They approached the High Court after the police had refused to permit the Maha Padyatra citing a threat to law and order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-permits-amaravati-padayatra/article37245383.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Top officials liable for sale of toxic crackers: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday said Chief Secretaries and top administrative and police officials will be held personally liable if banned varieties of firecrackers are found to be used in any of the States. “Celebration cannot be at the cost of others’ health… Nobody can be permitted to play with the life of others, more particularly that of senior citizens and children,” a Bench of Justices M.R. Shah and A.S. Bopanna underscored. The order is significant, coming just days before the Deepavali celebrations. “Any lapse on the part of the State Governments/ State Agencies and Union Territories shall be viewed very seriously. If it is found that any banned firecrackers are manufactured, sold and used in any particular area, the Chief Secretary of the State(s), the Secretary (Home) of the State(s) and the Commissioner of Police of the area, District Superintendent of Police of the area and the SHO/police officer in-charge of the police station shall be held personally liable,” the top court ordered. The court said nobody, however high, should be permitted to flout the directions of the Supreme Court. “Any wilful and deliberate disobedience shall have to be viewed very seriously,” the Supreme Court emphasised in the 19-page order. The order came on a plea, represented by senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, that manufacturers were blatantly flouting the court’s ban on using toxic chemicals, such as barium salts, in firecrackers. The court had allowed the use of ‘green’ or environment-friendly crackers made without toxic ingredients. The court said an equal blame should lie on the authorities who turn a blind eye to the violation of the law. Justice Shah said how ‘joined firecrackers’, a product banned by the court, could be found displayed in market stalls and celebrations. “The manufacturing, selling and using of joined firecrackers have continued in blatant violation of the directions issued by this court. It is reported that even under the guise of ‘green crackers’, firecrackers made of banned chemicals are sold. There is mislabelling on the boxes. Even the QR codes provided on the boxes of ‘green crackers’ are alleged to be fake,” the court referred to a CBI report about the violations. The court however made it clear there was no total ban on use of firecrackers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/top-officials-liable-for-sale-of-toxic-crackers-sc/article37245387.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Remove objectionable posts on deity: Delhi HC to Twitter||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked Twitter to remove objectionable posts on a Hindu deity from its platform, observing that the social media giant should respect the sentiments of the general public as it was doing business for them. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said: “You should respect sentiments of general public as you are doing business for public at large. Their sentiments shall be given due importance... Why you should do things like this. You should remove this.” Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, representing Twitter, said the platform would remove the posts once the court mentions it in its order. The court has posted the matter for further hearing on November 30. The petitioner, Aditya Singh Deshwal, said he saw obnoxious posts on Goddess Kali put up by an account with the username @AtheistRepublic and the deity was represented in a disgraceful and outrageous manner. “The said objectionable posts shook the collective conscience of the followers and practitioners of Hinduism,” the plea said. “It would not be out of place to mention here that the said Twitter user @AtheistRepulic has put filthy and degrading content about every religion, let alone Hinduism. The said posts have the potential to disturb the tranquillity of society,” it added.  ‘Violation of IT Rules’ The petitioner said he informed Twitter’s grievance officer that the posts were in grave contravention of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, and non-compliance of rules would make Twitter lose legal immunity provided under the Information Technology Act. He said Twitter stated the posts cannot be removed as the content was not of a category for which it takes action. The plea sought direction to Twitter to remove the posts and permanently suspend the user’s account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/remove-objectionable-posts-on-hindu-deity-delhi-hc-to-twitter/article37245549.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping dengue at bay||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/keeping-dengue-at-bay/article37245750.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Lighting up hopes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lighting-up-hopes/article37245944.ece
30 October 2021||bengaluru,||PAI 2021: Karnataka bags overall rank of 7||Karnataka dropped to the seventh rank in the Public Affairs Index 2021 with a score of 0.121. It was in the fourth position last year. PAI looks at governance performance in the context of sustainable development defined by equity, growth and sustainability pillars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pai-2021-karnataka-bags-overall-rank-of-7/article37245421.ece
30 October 2021||MANGALURU,||Govt. to set up Centre of Excellence for Fintech||Minister for Higher Education, Information Technology and Bio-technology, Science and Technology and Skill Development C.N. Ashwath Narayan said here on Friday that the government will set up a Centre of Excellence for Fintech or Financial Technology in the city. He was addressing the inaugural session of Mangaluru Technovanza organised by Karnataka Digital Economy Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-set-up-centre-of-excellence-for-fintech/article37245818.ece
30 October 2021||Chennai,||AY.4.2 variant not found in Tamil Nadu: Minister||No sample has been found infected with AY.4.2, a sub-lineage of the Delta variant, in Tamil Nadu so far, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. However, health officials have been told to intensify screening along the border areas of Karnataka and Kerala, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ay42-variant-not-found-in-tamil-nadu-minister/article37245568.ece
30 October 2021||HUBBALLI,||Accelerate vaccination drive, officials told||Emphasising on the need for further acceleration of COVID-19 vaccination drive, district-in-charge secretary for Dharwad Ravikumar Surpur has asked officials to continue holding mega vaccination drives and extensive awareness programmes on the significance of two doses of vaccine. He lauded the achievement made so far by the district administration and the Health Department in inoculating people at a vaccination review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/accelerate-vaccination-drive-officials-told/article37245644.ece
30 October 2021||Hubballi,||‘Halal products being imposed on Hindus’||Sri Ram Sene and Hindu Janajagruti Samiti have said that despite having government agencies such as FSSAI (Food Safety and Standards Authority of India), halal-certified products are being imposed upon Hindus in the country. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Friday, national president of Sri Ram Sene Pramod Mutalik and national spokesperson of Hindu Janajagruti Samiti Ramesh Shindhe said that halal certification, which was earlier restricted to meat, has now been extended to vegetarian products too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/halal-products-being-imposed-on-hindus/article37245647.ece
30 October 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata makes her pitch against BJP||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday began her political engagements in Goa by targeting the Congress. She said the party could not be trusted to fight the BJP. She assured voters in Goa that her party would never compromise with the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-makes-her-pitch-against-bjp/article37245751.ece
30 October 2021||Mumbai,||Aryan Khan to spend another night in jail||Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, will spend one more night in Arthur Road Jail as his release papers did not reach the authorities in time. Mr. Khan, 23, was arrested on October 3 by the Narcotics Control Bureau from a cruise ship after some other individuals on board were found with contraband.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aryan-khan-to-spend-another-night-in-jail/article37245752.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Crucial byelections in 11 States today||Saturday will see bypolls across 11 States for three Lok Sabha and 29 Assembly seats that will have implications for the politics of each of these States. Haryana, the State closest to Delhi, will see an Assembly bypoll in Ellenabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crucial-byelections-in-11-states-today/article37245753.ece
30 October 2021||Mumbai,||Aryan Khan to spend another night in jail||Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, will spend one more night in the Arthur Road Jail as his bail papers did not reach the authorities in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aryan-khan-to-spend-another-night-in-jail/article37245550.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Crucial byelections in 11 States today||Saturday will see bypolls across 11 States for three Lok Sabha and 29 Assembly seats that will have implications for the politics of each of these States. Haryana, the State closest to Delhi, will see an Assembly bypoll in Ellenabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crucial-byelections-in-11-states-today/article37245551.ece
30 October 2021||Hyderabad,||P1-Nearby-4||The NGT rejected the plea of TS that the petition against carrying out work on Palamuru-RR LIS is not maintainable and stayed work till the green nod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/p1-nearby-4/article37245660.ece
30 October 2021||mysuru,||Minister to hold meeting on Nov. 1 on deluge issue||The damage caused by the recent rain and the losses suffered in the deluge in Mysuru will be discussed at a meeting, to be presided over by Minister in charge of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts S.T. Somashekar, here on November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-to-hold-meeting-on-nov-1-on-deluge-issue/article37245841.ece
30 October 2021||Hyderabad,||P1-Nearby-1||Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has announced that the State government is willing to develop a dedicated industrial cluster for French companies, particularly small and medium enterprises. “Companies intending to invest in India can mention what other States are offering. Telangana will meet their offer, if not beat it,” he averred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/p1-nearby-1/article37245659.ece
30 October 2021||Hyderabad,||P1-Nearby-2||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar called the Dharani portal a game changer, “as can be seen from the radical changes it has brought in land administration system in the State”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/p1-nearby-2/article37245901.ece
30 October 2021||Hyderabad,||P1-Nearby-3||Another 174 positive cases were added to the COVID-19 tally in Telangana during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Friday, taking the cumulative total to 6,71,174 so far. Two more deaths were also reported during the day taking their total to 3,954.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/p1-nearby-3/article37245902.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Crucial byelections in 11 States today||October 30 will see bypolls across 11 States for three Lok Sabha and 29 Assembly seats that will have implications for the politics of each of these States. Haryana, the State closest to Delhi, will see an Assembly bypoll in Ellenabad and is important for the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) led by former Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala after his release from jail after nearly a decade and the breaking away of his grandson, Dushyant Chautala, who floated a new outfit calling on the same support base as the INLD. Abhay Chautala, son of Chautala senior, resigned from the seat in protest against the three contentious Central farm laws. Therefore, this is not just a turf war within the Chautala family for the Jat vote base. It’s also on just how much political hit the BJP has taken over the farm laws. The BJP has fielded controversial MLA Gopal Kanda’s brother Govind Kanda. Bihar is seeing bypolls to two Assembly seats. This follows the death of the Janata Dal (U) MLAs and is crucial for the NDA government’s stability, as the majority of the government rests on a slender margin with just four more than the required mark. Allies Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress have each announced candidates for the seats after much verbal sparring between them. The RJD feels that the Congress’s low strike rate in the Assembly polls brought the alliance low, while the Congress thinks it needs to assert itself. The bypolls are, therefore, crucial for the ruling as well as the Opposition alliance. While the news from Maharashtra has been all about the cruise chip drug bust, a tough bypoll contest is on in Deglur in Nanded district. It was necessitated by the death of MLA Raosaheb Antapurkar, considered close to former Chief Minister Ashok Chavan. The Congress has fielded his son, Jitesh Antapurkar. The seat, a reserved one, was won by the Shiv Sena in 2014 and the Congress in 2019. The BJP has decided to challenge the Maha Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA) dominance in the area by fielding former Shiv Sena man Subhash Sabne. The implications of this contest for the personal career of Mr. Chavan are significant, but the question of whether or not the MVA as a grouping can have a complimentary electoral equation will be put to test. As the second wave of COVID-19 was barely on the wane earlier this year, the BJP managed to gain a big catch- former Health Minister in the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS)-led government Eatala Rajendra. This necessitated a bypoll in the Huzurabad seat. Mr. Rajendra is being fielded by the BJP and the TRS has put up Gellu Srinivas Yadav. The Congress has joined the battle by placing Venkat Balmoor as its candidate. Grudge match It is, however, at the basic level, a grudge match between the TRS and the BJP over Mr. Rajendra’s defection. Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhara Rao in fact launched the Dalit Bandhu scheme, with Huzurabad as the site of the pilot project for distribution of grants upto Rs. 10 lakh to Dalit entrepreneurs. For Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, bypolls to five Asembly seats will be his first test after being sworn in to the top job. While two seats fell vacant due to the death of MLAs, the three vacancies arose due to the defection of two Congress and one All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLAs to the BJP. The BJP has fielded all the defectors in the three seats, with two seats given over to allies. If the BJP wins the three seats it is contesting, it will be two seats short of a full majority in the Assembly sans allies. In Karnataka, bypolls to Sindagi and Hanagal will be a similar test for the newly-appointed Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who replaced strongman B. S. Yediyurappa recently. But the test is also for the latter, as his son, B.Y. Vijayendra, is one of the party in charge of the Hanagal poll. The outcome of the bypoll will affect the chemistry of power in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crucial-byelections-in-11-states-today/article37244900.ece
30 October 2021||Rome,||Modi holds talks with top EU leaders||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday held wide-ranging talks with the top leaders of the European Union here during which the two sides discussed deepening the India-EU friendship, particularly in areas such as political and security relations, trade, culture and the environment. Prime Minister Modi, who arrived here earlier in the day to participate in the G20 Summit, began his official engagements in Rome with a “productive interaction” with President of the European Council Charles Michel and President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen. Later, Mr.Modi described his meeting with the EU leaders on the sidelines of the 16th G20 Summit here as “wonderful”. "Wonderful meeting with @EU_Commission President @vonderleyen and @eucopresident Charles Michel. We had wide-ranging talks on deepening the India-EU friendship, particularly in areas such as trade, commerce, culture and the environment,” Mr.Modi tweeted after the meeting. In a tweet, European Council President Michel said India has a key role to play in green transition."India has a key role to play in green transition. We discussed global health and fighting the pandemic, the strong EU-India Strategic Partnership, the situation in Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific,” he said, amid China creating tensions in the region. European Commission President Leyen said it was “good to meet” Prime Minister Modi. "Good to meet @narendramodi. Our strategic agenda is on the right track. We agreed that our trade negotiators will start to work. We‘ll deepen our cooperation on climate including on innovation & technology. Looking forward to cooperating in the Indo-Pacific,” she said in a tweet. She also congratulated India for its “excellent progress” on vaccination and for resuming the export of vaccines. “We need to join forces to help vaccinate the world and beat the global pandemic,” Ms. Leyen said. Her remarks came as India achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme. After their meeting, Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said that a number of key issues were discussed. “An extensive discussion covering trade & investment ties, climate change, COVID-19, global & regional developments,” Mr.Bagchi tweeted. They also reviewed India-EU cooperation in covering political and security relations, trade and investment as well as the Roadmap 2025 agreed at the last India-EU Summit. In a press release, the MEA stated that they “recalled their productive virtual engagements in the form of India-EU Leaders’ meeting in the form of EU+27 in May 2021 and 15th India-EU Summit in July, 2020.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-holds-talks-with-top-eu-leaders-ahead-of-g20-cop26/article37245296.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Some PF staffers moonlight for private sector: vigilance report||Officials entrusted with the safekeeping of workers’ retirement corpus worth lakhs of crores have been found to be working on the side to further private employers’ interests instead, in a blatant and widespread violation of civil services rules in PF offices across the country. The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has “discovered” that several officers and staff are offering their “services” to private firms in return for monetary remuneration routed directly to them or to their family members. While one officer has been arrested after being caught red-handed “negotiating and accepting illegal payments” from an employer, 16 staffers were found involved in such activities at a single PF office. In a separate case, a social security assistant was trapped in the act of helping a firm secure a PF code number. “In some of the offices, the practice of PF consultancy is so entrenched that it has come to be viewed as normal. Recent joint surprise check in one office yielded incriminating evidence against as many as 16 officials, which demonstrates how pervasive the malaise has become,” the vigilance wing pointed out in a missive to top PF Commissioners across regions on Thursday. “Instances of staff actively engaging in consultancy abound and have only increased over the years with no fear or understanding of the consequences,” said the communiqué, urging senior officers to stop “ignoring or taking a lenient view” on such matters and take prompt action with “requisite gravity” against all such officials. Coming on the back of a multi-crore fraud in a Mumbai EPF office, where several staffers connived to siphon out funds from the country’s largest retirement fund’s corpus, the letter approved by the Central PF Commissioner (CPFC) Mukhmeet Singh Bhatia stressed that the “reputational risk to the organisation” by the conduct of employees moonlighting for the private sector is “incalculable”. “It is observed that the disciplinary authorities often tend to ignore or take a lenient view when such misconduct is noticed and the delinquent officials are allowed to get away without disciplinary action,” the directive, dated October 28, recorded. Mr. Bhatia is the Director General of the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) but has been given additional charge of the EPFO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/some-pf-staffers-moonlight-for-private-sector-vigilance-report/article37245321.ece
30 October 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata makes her pitch against BJP||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday began her political engagements in Goa by targeting the Congress. She said that party could not be trusted to fight the BJP. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) chairperson assured the voters of the western coastal State that her party would never compromise with the BJP. “Somebody can tell us why are you contesting. Let the Congress contest. They contested for 70 years, what have they done... Last time Congress MLAs went to the BJP to help them form government. You [Congress] cannot control your MLAs. You cannot take a decision in proper time. You allowed the BJP to form government. Who can say it won’t be repeated. How do we trust them?” she told TMC workers. The remarks by Ms. Banerjee, who is on a three-day visit to Goa, assumes significance as questions were raised that a split of votes will only help the BJP. A section of Congress leaders has alleged that by dividing Opposition votes in Goa, Ms. Banerjee is helping the BJP. “If you can trust us, I can tell you that the Trinamool Congress will fight the battle. They are ready to give blood but will not compromise with the BJP. It’s our promise,” she asserted. Earlier in the day, tennis legend Leander Paes and Congress leader Nafisa Ali joined the Trinamool Congress. “Leander is my sweet and cute younger brother. He will be an inspiration for the younger generation,” Ms. Banerjee stated. The 48-year-old tennis veteran stressed that he had retired from tennis and wanted to serve people through the vehicle of politics. Ms. Ali observed that the “Congress has let its voters down and the Trinamool Congress is the new Congress of India”. During her interactions with media persons and party workers, Ms. Banerjee spoke of a number of issues, including the similarities between Goa and West Bengal and how her party has given maximum representation to women. “There are three similarities between Goa and Bengal — fish, football and folk culture,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-makes-her-pitch-against-bjp/article37245284.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||UIDAI seeks indemnity from Data Bill||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has asked for exemption from the Personal Data Protection (PDP) Law. In an interaction with the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Data Protection Bill 2019 on Thursday at its office in Bengaluru, UIDAI functionaries said the authority is already being governed by the Aadhaar Act and there cannot be duplicity of laws. Ironically, it was making Aadhaar compulsory for many key services including the banks that first triggered the data privacy debate. The genesis of this Bill lies in the report prepared by a Committee of Experts headed by Justice B.N. Srikrishna. The committee was constituted by the government in the course of hearings before the Supreme Court in the right to privacy case ( Justice K.S. Puttaswamy v. Union of India ). The Personal Data Protection (PDP) Bill 2019 has a contentious section 35, which invokes “sovereignty and integrity of India,” “public order”, “friendly relations with foreign states” and “security of the state” to give powers to the Central government to suspend all or any of the provisions of this Act for government agencies. The UIDAI during the interaction with the Joint Parliamentary Committee, sources said, demanded that it should get a blanket exemption from the act under this section. It further argued that it already is being governed by the Aadhaar Act and the PDP bill could be counter productive. The 2019 Bill already has clauses which are open to interpretation. As Prasanth Sugathan, Legal Director, Software Freedom Law Centre pointed out, “Section 12 of 2019 Bill gives UIDAI some leeway from the rigours of the Bill as it enables for processing data for provision of a service or benefit to the data principal. However, even then prior notice has to be given.” Sources indicate that UIDAI might not be the only one to seek exemption. “Our fear is that the Bill, if implemented in the present form, may create two distinct ecosystems. One with the government agencies who will be completely out of the ambit of the law, giving them complete freedom to deal with the personal data. And the second will be private data fiduciaries who will have to deal with every letter in the law,” one of the members said. The committee is on a tour to meet various data fiduciaries for a last round of discussion on “operational issues” in the implementation of the law. The panel which has already got five extensions has to submit its report at the upcoming session of Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uidai-seeks-indemnity-from-data-bill/article37245285.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||South, North blocks to turn museums||The Central Government has informed the Supreme Court that the South and North Blocks, which house the Prime Minister’s Office and core Ministries, will be turned into “national museums” based on a theme called “India in making prehistoric to present date” as part of the Central Vista redevelopment plans. The future museums would be a “public space”. Presently, the nation’s most important decisions are made in these buildings, where access is limited. “The North and South Blocks, which cover nearly 27 acres, are proposed to be converted into national museums showcasing ‘India in making’ prehistoric to present date... Museums will be open to the public at large and serve important public purposes,” an affidavit submitted by the Central Public Works Department, which is part of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, disclosed to the top court. The affidavit was in response to a petition questioning the proposed change of land use in a plot in the Central Vista area. Initially, the plot was allotted for a recreational park and bus terminal. The Government replied that ‘plot number one’ had housed Government offices for 90 years. It had never been opened for the public or sported recreational space. On the other hand, shifting the residence of the Vice-President to the plot was a wise move. It would be close to Parliament. “This will help ease traffic situation in Central Vista,” the Government reasoned. ‘Defence Enclave’ Besides, the proposed residence would have the best of technology and security. The current Vice-President’s residence would become the “Defence Enclave”. All the Central Ministries would be relocated in the Common Central Secretariat buildings developed on the two sides of the Rajpath. The Government assuaged apprehensions that the Central Vista plans do not take into account the public’s need for space. “Central Vista Master Plan has increased, qualitatively and quantitatively, public areas and added numerous recreational facilities for the larger benefit of the public,” the affidavit stated. Nearly 118 hectares on the eastern and western banks of the Yamuna, near the Akshardham temple on the eastern bank and near the IP thermal power station on the western bank, are being developed as AMRUT biodiversity park to commemorate 75 years of Independence, fulfilling the recreational purpose aspirations of public at large, the Government explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/south-north-blocks-to-turn-museums/article37245311.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC prefers to wait and watch for Covaxin’s WHO approval||The Supreme Court on Friday decided to wait and see if the World Health Organization (WHO) gives emergency use authorisation to Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin before considering a plea to allow people vaccinated with Covaxin to be administered two doses of Covishield. “Let us see if authorisation from the WHO comes or not,” a Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna told petitioner-in-person Kartik Shah. However, the court was sceptical about intervening in the issue. “You want us to order people who were given Covaxin to be given Covishield... Revaccination of fully vaccinated people? We cannot play with the lives of people,” Justice Chandrachud addressed Mr. Shah. The petitioner said students and professionals travelled out of India every day. If they were inoculated with Covaxin, they were forced to be under quarantine abroad. Justice Chandrachud observed that the court would not be made a forum for competitors to battle each other for the market. In his petition, Mr. Shah stated that the government “at the time of rolling out Covaxin for use in the market, failed to make the public aware that it was not approved by the WHO and that it had not even submitted an application for approval... This was submitted as late as in April 2021”. Until May 1, the Government did not allow people to choose their vaccine, Mr. Shah submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-prefers-to-wait-and-watch-for-covaxins-who-approval/article37245313.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi bans Chhath Puja on Yamuna banks||The celebration of Chhath Puja will be allowed at public places except on the banks of the Yamuna and cinema halls can run with 100% capacity, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said on Friday. Puja at some sites The ceiling on the number of attendees at weddings and funerals has also been increased, the DDMA said, adding that due caution is needed to be taken even though the number of COVID-19 cases and the positivity rate have declined considerably. The Chhath celebrations will be permitted only at designated sites located outside the containment zones. Chhath Pooja samitis or organisers will have to submit an undertaking to the respective District Magistrate. Such designated sites will be identified by the Revenue Department in coordination with Delhi Police and civic bodies, along with other land-owning agencies. Devotees can offer such pooja material which can then be collected by municipal workers and other agencies for proper disposal under the supervision of the District Magistrate. No sites will be notified on the banks of the Yamuna, the DDMA order said. According to the order, while all educational institutions will be permitted to open up to 50% of their capacity, cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes are allowed to operate with 100% of their seating capacity, subject to strict adherence of the standard operating procedures and COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Weddings as well as last-rite ceremonies, the order said, will have the maximum 200 people in attendance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-bans-chhath-puja-on-yamuna-banks/article37245755.ece
30 October 2021||LUCKNOW,||Elect Yogi again if you want Modi as PM in 2024: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday said that if people of Uttar Pradesh want to see Narendra Modi as their Prime Minister again in 2024, they must elect Yogi Adityanath as their Chief Minister for a second term in 2022. While Mr. Shah lavished praised on Mr. Adityanath on several fronts, especially law and order and making Uttar Pradesh mafia mukt (free of mafia), he also said that it was “impossible” in five years to fill the “large pothole” left behind by previous governments. “If you want to make Modiji PM again in 2024, then in 2022 you will have to make Yogiji CM once again. Then, the country’s development can move forward. Because without development of Uttar Pradesh, the country cannot develop,” said Mr. Shah while launching the BJP’s fresh membership drive in the State ahead of next year’s Assembly election. Mr. Shah said that under Mr. Modi as PM all wishes of Uttar Pradesh were fulfilled just like a child visiting his or her maternal house got all he or she desired. Victory in the 2022 Assembly election would serve as the foundation stone for a win in 2024 Lok Sabha election under the leadership of Mr. Modi, said Mr. Shah. Mr. Adityanath and his team had fulfilled 90% of the promises made by the BJP in its manifesto released in 2017, said Mr. Shah, expressing the wish that in the coming two months the Chief Minister would work to take it to 100% as much as possible. “So that people believe that the BJP does what it promises,” said Mr. Shah. Mr. Shah said Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav would mock the BJP over the date of the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. “Akhilesh babu, the foundation stone of the mandir has already been laid. But you missed out from even donating Rs. 5,000,” said the Home Minister.  Without the development of U.P., the country cannot develop Amit Shah Home Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/elect-yogi-again-if-you-want-modi-as-pm-in-2024-shah/article37244902.ece
30 October 2021||Mumbai,||Aryan Khan to spend another night in Arthur Road jail||Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, will spend one more night in the Arthur Road Jail as his bail papers did not reach the authorities in time. Mr. Khan, 23, was arrested on October 3 by the Narcotics Control Bureau from a cruise ship after some other individuals on board were found with contraband. He was sent to Arthur Road Jail on October 8. After 25 days in prison, he was granted bail by the Bombay High Court on Thursday but the detailed bail order, citing bail conditions was made available only on Friday. One of the advocates appearing for Mr. Khan told The Hindu that there was a delay in taking the papers to the jail and as per protocol no inmate is released after 5.30 p.m. He will be released on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aryan-khan-to-spend-another-night-in-arthur-road-jail/article37245298.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Document with NPR form removed from Census site||The Registrar General of India (RGI) under the Union Home Ministry pulled down a document with the latest form of the National Population Register (NPR) from its website. The NPR schedule (form) generated through an online system on August 18 was part of a handbook, Census of India 2021 - Handbook for Principal/District Census Officers and Charge Officers, that was shared with all the States. After The Hindu reported on October 26 that the form had retained contentious questions such as the “mother tongue, place of birth of father and mother, and last place of residence,” the handbook was removed from the website censusindia.gov.in. A Home Ministry official, however, said on Friday that “the NPR proforma was yet to be finalised.” Though NPR was first compiled in 2010 and updated in 2015, the new questions were added during a trial exercise in September 2019. The exercise has been opposed by some States and citizen groups as NPR is the first step toward compilation of the National Register of Indian Citizens (NRC) according to Citizenship Rules, 2003. NPR already has a database of 119 crore residents. The NPR is to be conducted along with the first phase of Census. The House listing and Housing Census and NPR update were to be conducted simultaneously from April-September 2020 but the exercise was postponed indefinitely due to the COVID-19 pandemic. New dates are yet to be announced. In January 2020, Rajasthan Chief Secretary D. B. Gupta while attending a meeting convened by the RGI in Delhi had said that many States objected to the new fields in the NPR, particularly the place of birth of parents. “This is impractical, sometimes in villages and even in cities people are not aware about their own place of birth. What is the objective of adding such a column? We asked them (Home Ministry) to remove the column. The Ministry officials replied that it was not mandatory for the respondents to provide information, if he or she wants, they could deny or say that they are not aware. They cannot be forced to respond,” Mr. Gupta had told reporters after the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/document-with-npr-form-removed-from-census-site/article37245300.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Remove objectionable posts on Hindu deity: HC to Twitter||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked Twitter to remove certain objectionable tweets relating to a Hindu Goddess from its platform, observing that the social media giant should respect sentiments of general public as it was doing business for them. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said, “You should respect the sentiments of general public as you are doing business for public at large. Their sentiments shall be given due importance ... Why you should do things like this.” “You should remove this,” the court added. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, representing Twitter, said it would remove the post once the court gave the order. The court posted the case to November 30. Advocate Aditya Singh Deshwal said he came across some highly obnoxious posts on Twitter about Hindu Goddess Maa Kali put up by a user with the name @AtheistRepublic and the deity was represented in a disgraceful and outrageous manner. ‘Collective conscience’ “The said objectionable posts shook the collective conscience of the followers and practitioners of Hinduism,” the plea said. He claimed that Twitter repudiated that the content in the account was not of a category for which it would take action and therefore it could not be removed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/remove-objectionable-posts-on-hindu-deity-hc-to-twitter/article37245304.ece
30 October 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Rahul Gandhi appears before Surat court||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday appeared before a magistrate’s court in Surat to record his statement in connection with a criminal defamation case filed against him for his remark on the “Modi surname” during a speech in Karnataka in 2019. This was his third appearance before the court in connection with the case filed by Surat BJP legislator and now Cabinet Minister Purnesh Modi. On October 26, the court directed Mr. Gandhi to appear before it between 3 p.m. and 6 p.m. to record his statement. ‘I don’t know’ On Friday, while recording his statement; Mr. Gandhi stated “I don’t know” to most of the questions asked by the court on the basis of recent testimonies of two witnesses — then electoral officer of Kolar in Karnataka where the leader made the speech, and a videographer appointed by the Election Commission of India to shoot that rally as per the normal campaign protocol. He said “I don't know” when Chief Judicial Magistrate A.N. Dave asked if he knew about the appointment of Arun Kumar as the official videographer to shoot the rally that he addressed. To other queries posed by the court, his replies were in the negative. Mr. Gandhi’s second appearance before the court was in June last and the previous one was in October 2019, when he pleaded not guilty. In the midst of parliamentary polls in 2019, Mr. Purnesh Modi, in April, filed the case against Mr. Gandhi. He alleged that the latter, while addressing a poll rally on April 13, defamed the entire Modi community by saying “how come all the thieves have Modi as the common surname?” Last month, Mr. Purnesh Modi was inducted as a Cabinet Minister in the new government led by Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-gandhi-appears-before-surat-court/article37245315.ece
30 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam woman gets Foreigners’ Tribunal notice again||A Foreigners’ Tribunal in western Assam’s Bongaigaon has issued a prove-your-citizenship notice to a woman it had declared an Indian citizen more than two years ago. The Bongaigaon-based FT No. 1 had in March 2019 declared Bharati Sarkar of No. 2 Jamdoha village in the Bongaigaon district “as not being a foreigner of the stream post-1971 or any other stream”. The Assam police’s Border wing, suspecting her to be a Bangladeshi national, had referred her case to the FT in July 2005. Foreigners in Assam are determined on the basis of the Assam Accord that seeks the detection, detention and deportation of people who entered the State illegally after March 24, 1971. But the same FT issued a notice to her again on September 30 on the basis of a Border police investigation that said she had entered Assam illegally. “This is a clear case of harassment. How can an Indian woman established as an Indian be served notice as a suspected foreigner again?” Amritlal Das, general secretary of All Assam Bengali Oikya Mancha said. Bongaigaon’s SP Swapnaneel Deka said the notice to the same person twice in two years could have been a case of oversight. “The case can be disposed of if a copy of the earlier order is attached to the reply to this notice,” he told The Hindu . Senior police officials said there have been cases where a person was issued ‘D-voter’ (doubtful voter) or suspected foreigner notice more than thrice. Pressure to achieve “targets” is said to be the primary reason.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-woman-gets-foreigners-tribunal-notice-once-more/article37245553.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Surat wins award for best public transport||Surat won the award for the city with the best public transport system, while Kochi was judged the city with most sustainable transport system by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry. The awards were given out by Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri at the end of the day-long Urban Mobility India conference here. Delhi received the award for the city with the best non-motorised transport system for the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project. Delhi also won the best Metro passenger services and satisfaction award, while Nagpur’s multi-modal integration with Metro rail was found to be the best in the country. During the conference, Mr. Puri announced the theme of next year’s conference, which will be the 15th edition, as “Azadi@75: Sustainable Atmanirbhar Urban Mobility” to be held in Kochi. Earlier in the day, Mr. Puri inaugurated the conference, which was held online for the second year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Puri said that the urban population of the world was expected to increase to 60% by 2030, from 56% in 2020, and about 90% of this increase was expected in Asia and Africa. He said the need for sustainable mobility and universal access was crucial for achieving the 2030 Agenda of Sustainable Development Goals. In his keynote address, Daniel Moser, the head of Transformative Urban Mobility Initiative, Germany, said the world had 15 years to address the pressing issues. He said more urban areas would be constructed in the first the three decades of the 21st Century than all of history. “Urban transport is the make and break of the global climate agenda,” he said, adding that it accounted for 23% of carbon emissions and 61% of global oil demand..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/surat-wins-award-for-best-public-transport/article37245290.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Top officials liable for sale of toxic crackers: SC||“Any wilful and deliberate disobedience shall have to be viewed very seriously,” the Supreme Court emphasised in the 19-page order. The order came on a plea, represented by senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, that manufacturers were blatantly flouting the court’s ban on using toxic chemicals, such as barium salts, in firecrackers. The court had allowed the use of ‘green’ or environment-friendly crackers made without toxic ingredients. The court said an equal blame should lie with the authorities who turn a blind eye to the violation of the law. “The manufacturing, selling and using of joined firecrackers have continued in blatant violation of the directions issued by this court. It is reported that even under the guise of ‘green crackers’, firecrackers made of banned chemicals are sold. There is mislabelling on the boxes. Even the QR codes provided on the boxes of ‘green crackers’ are alleged to be fake,” the court referred to a CBI report about the violations. The court, however, made it clear there was no total ban on the use of firecrackers. “Only those firecrackers are banned which are found to be injurious to health and affecting the health of citizens,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/top-officials-liable-for-sale-of-toxic-crackers-sc/article37244898.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||No money left in MGNREGA coffers||This provided a critical lifeline to a record 11 crore workers. However, the scheme’s 2021-22 budget was set at just Rs. 73,000 crore, with the Centre arguing that the nationwide lockdown was over, and that supplementary budgetary allocations would be available if the money ran out. As on October 29, the total expenditure, including payments due had already reached Rs. 79,810 crore, pushing the scheme into the red. Already, 21 States show a negative net balance, with Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal faring the worst. “We are facing a situation of MGNREGA closing down halfway through the year. Who is going to absorb the cost? The poorest and most vulnerable communities, who have already been crushed by the pandemic’s impact,” said Nikhil Dey, a founder of the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan. “The Government of India is, on the face of it, pushing crores of people into forced labour, as held by the SC,” added Mr. Dey. “It is somewhat early this year [to run out of funds],” admitted a senior official of the Rural Development Ministry, who did not wish to be named. “People will continue to get work. Only thing that might happen is that the payment will only be made once funds are available. But many States can provide temporary funds out of their own kitty and then once the fund is available, it can be reimbursed [by the Centre].” The official blamed the State governments for the current situation. “My apprehension is that the States are using it not as a demand driven scheme, but as a supply-led scheme. The States are asking their field authorities to artificially create demand,” said the official. Activists say the exact opposite is happening on the ground. MGNREGA data shows that 13% of households who demanded work under the scheme were not provided work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-money-left-in-mgnrega-coffers/article37244903.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Suicides among farm workers rose 18% in 2020||This is slightly higher than the 10,281 who died in 2019. Most of these deaths were among those whose primary work and main source of income comes from labour activities in agriculture or horticulture. In 2020, a total of 5,098 of these labourers died by suicide, an 18% rise from the 4,324 who died last year. However, among farmers who cultivate their own land, with or without the help of other workers, the number of suicides dropped 3.7% from 5,129 to 4,940. Among tenant farmers who cultivate leased land, there was a 23% drop in suicides from 828 to 639. The worst among the States continues to be Maharashtra, with 4,006 suicides in the farm sector, including a 15% increase in farm worker suicides. Other States with a poor record include Karnataka (2016), Andhra Pradesh (889) and Madhya Pradesh (735). Karnataka saw a dismal 43% increase in the number of farm worker suicides in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/suicides-among-farm-workers-rose-18-in-2020/article37245356.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. steps up attack on former CAG Vinod Rai||A day after former Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) Vinod Rai tendered an apology to former Congress Lok Sabha member Sanjay Nirupam for making an incorrect allegation against him, the Congress on Friday accused the former of being ‘conspirator’ to destabilise the Manmohan Singh-led UPA government. “We demand that Rai apologise to the entire nation in the same manner in which he unconditionally apologised to Nirupam,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera told reporters at a press conference. He said the former CAG needs to issue an unconditional apology to the country as he owes one “for making a fool of everyone”. Stating that the CAG’s reputation as a watchdog has been ‘tarnished,’ the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Choudhury tweeted, “Vinod Rai the former CAG has proved himself as a stooge of BJP, who was entrusted upon playing a sinister design to tarnish the image of UPA govt by his quixotic, wilful and deliberate observations in the CAG paras. He should be punished for his dereliction of duty”. On Thursday, Mr. Rai had tendered an unconditional apology to Mr. Nirupam in an affidavit filed in the Patiala House court for “wrongly mentioning” him as one of the MPs who had pressured him not to name former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in the CAG report on 2G spectrum allocation. “Imagine a man who can lie to sell a book; what all can he do to push his own agenda and the agenda of his masters,” Mr. Khera said, adding the former CAG needs to issue an unconditional apology to the country as he owes one “for making a fool of everyone”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-steps-up-attack-on-former-cag-vinod-rai/article37244904.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Barriers removed from farmers’ protest sites||“As the service lane leads to farmers’ camps, we felt their safe stay is more important than the stage.” The ACP said the Delhi Police had done its part and now it was up to the Uttar Pradesh Police to ensure the movement of traffic from U.P. to Delhi. Sources in the U.P. Police said they were waiting for orders from higher authorities. The process that started at 7 a.m. took almost the entire day for two cranes and two bulldozers to cut through the concrete slabs. Rashid, a worker, said as the barricades were welded, it consumed a lot of time to separate them. Earlier, BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who was not present at the border on Friday, told a news agency that after the removal of barricades, farmers would move to Parliament where the contentious farm laws were passed. His nephew Gaurav Tikait said farmers were ready for any eventuality. “Farmers from West U.P. have been told to be ready to reach Ghazipur border at a short notice,” he said, adding they were waiting for the SKM’s directive to move towards Delhi. On farmers still holding up traffic on three lanes on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, Rajveer Singh, State vice-president of the BKU said, “We are not looking for a confrontation. Dialogue is the only way out and I hope the government will reach out to us. There is still a month for the next date in the top court,” he said. At the Tikri border, the police started removing the layers of barbed wire on Thursday and the process was still under way on Friday. No barricades have so far been removed from the Singhu border, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/barriers-removed-from-farmers-protest-sites/article37244906.ece
30 October 2021||Pune,||Women to be trained on par with men at the NDA||Remarking that the “theaterisation  process” of India’s military was underway, Chief of the Army Staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday said that new technology was being inducted into the country’s Armed Forces keeping in view the changing character of wars. “The character of war has been changing over the years. The theaterisation process (integration of the capabilities of the Army, Air Force and Navy for optimal resource utilisation) is going on” Gen. Naravane said, adding that India was not lagging behind any other country in the world as far as induction of technology in the Armed Forces was concerned. Gen. Naravane said he expected women cadets to be welcomed with the same sense of fair play and professionalism that the IAF were known for all over the world. He said that the training of women will be on par with the men. He was speaking here after reviewing the passing out parade of the 141th course of the National Defence Academy (NDA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/women-to-be-trained-on-par-with-men-at-the-nda/article37245301.ece
30 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sputnik’s clinical trails on children in the works||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories plans to approach the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking permission to conduct clinical trials of Russian COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik in children as well as a booster shot for vaccinated adults. “Planning to do this soon and expect we will be able to commence the trials in November,” CEO-API and Services Deepak Sapra said. Next month is also when the marketing partner and brand custodian of Sputnik V in India expects to submit results of clinical trials for Sputnik Light, the single dose vaccine, to the regulator for approval. Asserting that the vaccine — the DCGI had accorded EUA for the two-dose Sputnik V in April — continued to be relevant for India’s inoculation programme, Mr. Sapra said 1.1 million doses had been administered thus far. He, however, admitted that a mismatch in the availability of the two different components of the vaccine and supplies from Russia getting impacted posed challenges previously. However, with a clutch of firms in the country getting into manufacturing of the vaccine, majority of products would be made in India, he said during a virtual media interaction on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trial-of-sputnik-vaccine-on-children-in-the-works/article37245316.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Greatness of Dravida Veda||Scriptures are the source of esoteric knowledge but it is also very clear that the path to God realisation is not through mere Vedanta study or practice of yagas and yagnas. It is an intuitive perception that shines in the inner being through divine grace. In this context, Vedanta Desika pays tribute to the Nalayira Divya Prabandha that has come to be acknowledged as Dravida Veda in the spiritual tradition, pointed out Vanamamalai Sri Padmanabhachariar in a discourse. These hymns are the unique compositions of the Azhwars, who are held to be specially endowed by the Lord to reveal the esoteric truths hidden in the Vedas in simple Tamizh. The Vedas, that are the very life breath of the ineffable Supreme Brahman, are compared to the boundless ocean that is truly unfathomable. Both are repertoires of innumerable and invaluable treasures. Vyasa has provided us with the garland of sutras, the Brahma Sutra which contains the essential truths in the Upanishads. But even this needs to be unravelled with the extraordinary scholarship. Just as the rain bearing clouds extract the palatable sweet water from the ocean and shower it as rainwater on the lands to benefit and sustain life, Azhwar’s hymns very clearly and without any ambiguity present the inaccessible meanings of the Vedas for the benefit of humanity. Known as ‘arulicheyal,’ these hymns speak about what is important for the jiva to get out of samsara. Alavandar, Ramanuja and other acharyas have formulated the Visishtadvaita philosophy based on the study of these hymns. Contradictory viewpoints such as the question of supremacy among the Trimurtis are resolved in the hymns that go in accordance to the Upanishad statement that speaks of the supremacy of Narayana in relation to Brahma and Siva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/greatness-of-dravida-veda/article37245309.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Jaishankar seeks inclusive Indo-Pacific||India believes that for common prosperity and security in the Indo-Pacific region there is a need to evolve through dialogue, a common rule-based order that respects sovereignty, territorial integrity and equality of all nations, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar has said. His remarks come amid growing global concern over China’s military muscle-flexing in the region. Addressing the 4th Indo-Pacific Business Forum on Thursday, Mr. Jaishankar said the Indo-Pacific reflects the reality of globalisation, the emergence of multipolarity and the benefits of rebalancing. “It underlines both our interdependence and interpenetration. As we speak of common good and common efforts, it is natural that this is addressed amongst other means through a business forum,” he said. India sees the Indo-Pacific as a free, open and inclusive region which embraces all in a common pursuit of progress and prosperity, Mr. Jaishankar said. It includes all nations in this geography and also draws others who have a stake in it, he said. “It envisages that countries should have access to the use of common spaces on sea and in the air that would require freedom of navigation and overflights, unimpeded commerce and peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with international law,” he said. Jaishankar asserted that India stands for a fair, open, balanced, rules-based and stable international trade regime in the region. India’s approach is based on cooperation given the need for shared responses to shared challenges, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-seeks-inclusive-indo-pacific/article37245294.ece
30 October 2021||Patna,||Power being misused in Bihar: RJD||A day before the bypolls for two seats in Bihar, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Friday accused the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the State of putting pressure on officials to influence voters in favour of the Janata Dal-United (JD-U) candidate. Mr. Yadav also alleged that the Nitish Kumar government had been distributing liquor, sarees and money to voters. Both the ruling JD(U) and the principal Opposition party, the RJD, are locked in close contest for Tarapur in Munger and Kusheshwarsthan in Darbhanga district. The Congress and the Lok Janshakti Party too have put up their candidates for the bypolls. Earlier, Mr. Tejashwi Yadav had filed a complaint with the Election Commission against a particular police officer’s posting in Kusheshwarsthan by the government to influence voters there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/power-being-misused-in-bihar-rjd/article37244895.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC to examine pleas against HC order||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine appeals against the Kerala High Court’s decision to strike down the 80:20 ratio in the allotment of minority scholarships among Muslims and Christians in the State. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao issued notice on the State government’s plea that the May 28 judgment of the High Court was erroneous. The High Court had held that the action of the State government to sub-classify minorities and provide them scholarship at an 80:20 ratio was legally unsustainable. The government was also directed to issue orders guaranteeing scholarships to members of notified minority communities on an equal basis. The top court also issued notice on two other connected petitions filed by MSM Kerala State Committee and Minority Indians Planning and Vigilance Trust, represented by advocate Haris Beeran, challenging the High Court decision. Three GOs quashed One of the petitions pointed out that the High Court had quashed three Government Orders of the Kerala Government passed in 2008, 2011 and 2015. The 2008 Government Order had decided to implement the recommendations made by the Rajinder Sachar Committee to “make affirmative action aimed at economic and social upliftment and empowerment of the Muslim community, which is a designated backward community in Kerala”. In 2011, the government decided to give 20% of the total scholarships and hostel stipends, which are given to Muslim students, to Latin Catholic and converted Christian girl students. In 2015, the State government accorded sanction for the scholarship scheme for minority students pursuing Chartered Accountancy, Company Secretaryship courses on merit-cum-means basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-examine-pleas-against-kerala-hc-order/article37244897.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Chidambaram slams Centre on ‘snooping’||Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Friday targeted the Government over the snooping allegations, claiming that the Israeli envoy’s statement on the Pegasus spyware made it clear that “the buyer was Government of India [GoI]”. “After the Supreme Court’s wise and bold order in the Pegasus controversy, the first skeleton has tumbled out. Yesterday, Israel’s Ambassador publicly stated that Pegasus spyware was sold only to government. So, in India’s case, the buyer was certainly the Government of India,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chidambaram-slams-centre-on-snooping/article37244905.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Israel to boost military cooperation||To further advance the bilateral defence cooperation, India and Israel have agreed to form a task force to formulate a comprehensive 10-year roadmap to identify new areas of cooperation. This was agreed at the 15th India-Israel Joint Working Group (JWG) meeting on bilateral defence cooperation held on October 27 in Tel Aviv, Israel, a Defence Ministry statement said on Friday. The JWG is the apex review body of the Defence Ministries of the countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-israel-to-boost-military-cooperation/article37245291.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||NOC must for admission in Pak.: AICTE||Indian nationals and Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) need to obtain a no-objection certificate (NOC) before admission to engineering and technology courses in Pakistan, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has said. The technical education regulator has said that aspiring students should apply for clearance in the format specified by the council.The council has also cautioned students to ensure the validity of a degree before applying to foreign universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/noc-must-for-admission-in-pak-aicte/article37245293.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nationwide PCV drive launched||Union Health Minister Dr. Mansukh Mandaviya launched a nationwide expansion of Pneumococcal 13-valent Conjugate Vaccine (PCV) under the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) as a part of ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, here on Friday. He also released communication and awareness packages on PCV to create awareness. They will be shared with all the States/Union Territories for further adaptation and utilisation. It was for the first time in the country that PCV would be available for universal use. Pneumonia was a leading cause of death among children under five, globally and in India, he said. “Pneumonia caused by pneumococcus is the most common cause of severe pneumonia in children. Around 16% of deaths in children occur due to pneumonia in India. The nationwide roll-out of PCV will reduce child mortality by around 60%”, he stated. ‘Children are future’ Highlighting the importance of healthy children in a country’s growth, productivity and development, he pointed out that children were the future of the country and ‘it is our responsibility to provide them a healthy life’. “Mission Indradhanush, launched by the Prime Minister, is one such endeavour in this regard,” Mr. Mandaviya said. “The vision of ‘Sabko vaccine, Muft vaccine’ by the Prime Minister is guiding the COVID-19 vaccination programme and it has ensured that the eligible population gets access to the vaccines across the country,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nationwide-pcv-drive-launched/article37245308.ece
30 October 2021||Kolkata,||Leander Paes and Nafisa Ali join party||Tennis legend Leander Paes and Congress leader Nafisa Ali joined the Trinamool Congress on Friday. “Leander is my sweet and cute younger brother. He will be an inspiration for the younger generation,” Ms. Banerjee stated. The 48-year-old tennis veteran stressed that he had retired from tennis and wanted to serve people through the vehicle of politics. Ms. Ali observed that the “Congress has let its voters down and the Trinamool Congress is the new Congress of India”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/leander-paes-and-nafisa-ali-join-party/article37244893.ece
30 October 2021||Mumbai,||HC rejects plea by Anil Deshmukh to quash summons against him by ED||In no relief to former home minister of Maharashtra, Anil Deshmukh, the Bombay High Court on Friday rejected his plea to quash the summons issued against him by the Enforcement Directorate. A Division Bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and S.V. Kotwal granted him liberty to move the appropriate court under Section 438 (direction for grant of bail to person apprehending arrest) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The ED is investigating a money laundering case against Mr. Deshmukh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-rejects-plea-by-anil-deshmukh-to-quash-summons-against-him-by-ed/article37245287.ece
30 October 2021||Chandigarh,||SAD stages protest against BSF’s jurisdiction enhancement in Punjab||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) members on Friday held a rally in Punjab’s Amritsar to oppose the Centre’s notification extending the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15 km to 50 km along the international border. The protest rally by SAD workers and leaders was carried out on motorcycles from the Wagah-Attari border to Amritsar’s ‘Golden Gate’. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the people of Punjab have sent out a clear signal that they will not tolerate any dilution of the federal structure by extending the jurisdiction of the BSF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sad-stages-protest-against-bsfs-jurisdiction-enhancement-in-punjab/article37245288.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Farm laws, protests not our business: Agri parliamentary panel chair||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Agriculture will not discuss the three contentious farm reform laws nor the 11-month long agitation by farmers demanding that the laws be repealed. The newly reconstituted panel held its first meeting on Friday, to discuss and select subjects for examination this year. Chairperson and BJP MP P.C. Gaddigoudar told The Hindu that the agricultural marketing reform laws and the protests against them would not be among the subjects to be looked into by the Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farm-laws-protests-not-our-business-agri-parliamentary-panel-chair/article37245355.ece
30 October 2021||Rome,||Sitharaman meets Singapore FM, discusses opportunities for collaboration||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday met her Singapore counterpart Lawrence Wong to discuss opportunities for boosting economic and trade relations between the two Asian countries. Ms. Sitharaman reached Rome to participate in the G20 Joint Finance and Health Ministers' meeting, ahead of the G20 Leaders' Summit. This is the first meeting of the G20 Finance and Health Ministers under the Italian G20 Presidency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sitharaman-meets-singapore-fm-discusses-opportunities-for-collaboration/article37245358.ece
30 October 2021||Jaipur,||Congress wins panchayat polls in two Rajasthan districts||The ruling Congress won the majority of seats in the panchayat body elections held in three phases in Rajasthan’s Alwar and Dholpur districts on Friday, registering victory at 42 Zila Parishad and 208 panchayat samiti seats. The BJP was at a distant second position, winning 26 and 158 seats, respectively, in the two districts. Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra said the party’s Zila Pramukhs would take over in both the districts and the Pradhans would be elected in 15 of the 22 panchayat samitis in the two districts. The BJP has obtained the majority of votes in only two panchayat samitis where its Pradhans are likely to be appointed. The Congress has emerged victorious in the panchayat polls just a day ahead of the polling for the Assembly by-elections at Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad seats in Udaipur division scheduled for Saturday. Mr. Dotasra said the people in the rural areas had voted in favour of the Congress on the basis of good governance and an effective management of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-wins-panchayat-polls-in-two-rajasthan-districts/article37245359.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||CBI books Gujarat firm, directors for bank fraud||The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked Gujarat-based Shri Jalaram Rice Industries and its directors for allegedly cheating a consortium of three banks to the tune of Rs. 114.06 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-gujarat-firm-directors-for-bank-fraud/article37245360.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||ED attaches land worth Rs.74 crore||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached land worth Rs. 74 crore owned by Mohammed Iqbal, a former Member of Legislative Council from Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur, and his family members in a money laundering case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-land-worth-rs74-crore/article37245361.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||U.N. tool to facilitate requests for e-evidence in counter-terror probes||The UN Office on Drugs and Crime and the Security Council Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate have launched Data Disclosure Framework, a tool that outlines the practices developed for responding to data requests from foreign criminal justice authorities for counter-terrorism investigations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/un-tool-to-facilitate-requests-for-e-evidence-in-counter-terror-probes/article37245362.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Treat vaccination as global public good, India tells at G20 pre-summit||Vaccination against COVID-19 should be considered a “global public good”, India argued at the pre-summit discussions at the G20, said Minister for Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal in Rome. Mr. Goyal, who is serving as the Sherpa for India, said the country had made strong interventions for securing vulnerable communities and for the ease of travelling and business in a post-COVID scenario.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/treat-vaccination-as-global-public-good-india-tells-at-g20-pre-summit/article37245363.ece
30 October 2021||Ahmedabad,||Dalit family assaulted in Kutch for entering temple||Six members of a Dalit family were allegedly attacked and assaulted by a mob of around 20 people for visiting a temple in a village in Gujarat’s Kutch district. The incident occurred in the village of Ner on October 26, the police said. Two separate FIRs have been lodged in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dalit-family-assaulted-in-kutch-for-entering-temple/article37245292.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||ED freezes BELL 214 helicopter||The Enforcement Directorate has frozen a BELL 214 helicopter in connection with a case registered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security over its alleged end use in a prohibited country. Shipped via Thailand The helicopter belonged to Hameed Ibrahim and Abdulla of Marilog Avion Services Co. Limited (Bangkok). It was shipped from AAR Corporation, U.S. to India, via Thailand, in 2019 and stored on the premises of J. Matadee Free Trade Warehouse Zone (FTWZ) in Chennai. The action has been taken under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The U.S. Department of Justice had made a request for assistance in executing the warrant for arrest in rem (action against a property) on the helicopter located in Chennai. The order was issued by the United States District Court, Columbia. The helicopter was kept at a warehouse on monthly rental basis and had been dismantled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-freezes-bell-214-helicopter/article37245302.ece
30 October 2021||Kolkata,||HC sets aside CAT order transferring Alapan’s plea to Delhi||The Calcutta High Court on Friday set aside the Central Administrative Tribunal’s Principal Bench order to transfer a petition by former West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-sets-aside-cat-order-transferring-alapans-plea-to-delhi/article37245365.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Abu Salem’s plea not made out: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Friday said the habeas corpus plea by the extradited gangster Abu Salem, serving life imprisonment since 2002 for his role in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case, was not made out, as as he was found guilty in the case by a court of law. A Bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani stated that once a court of law held Salem guilty, he could not say that the custody was illegal. Referring to a previous Supreme Court judgement, the Bench observed, “even if initially your detention was bad in law, after your conviction by a court of law, your custody does not remain illegal”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/abu-salems-plea-not-made-out-delhi-hc/article37245317.ece
30 October 2021||PUNE,||Trial in Dabholkar case begins in Pune court||A special court here finally commenced trial in the Narendra Dabholkar case on Friday, eight years after the eminent rationalist was shot dead with a 7.65 mm calibre country-made pistol by motorcycle-borne assailants while he was out on a morning stroll in Pune. The trial began with the cross-examination of the first witness — a former neighbour of the slain rationalist — who lived in a flat adjacent to the one that was intermittently used by Dr. Dabholkar. The former neighbour, a salesman with an ayurvedic company, was one of the two witnesses in the original FIR registered by the Pune police in the case in 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trial-in-dabholkar-case-begins-in-pune-court/article37245319.ece
30 October 2021||BENGALURU,TAMIL NADU||Bitcoin scam allegations will boomerang on Cong.: CM||Launching a counter-attack on Congress which has accused the BJP government of trying to protect prominent politicians in the alleged bitcoin scam, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said such ‘baseless’ allegations will boomerang on the party and Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah. Speaking to mediapersons in Bengaluru, the Chief Minister said that the key accused in the case, hacker Sri Krishna, could have been arrested back in 2018, but the then Siddaramaiah-led government had not done so. It was the BJP government which later arrested the kingpin, he maintained. “Should I now say that the then Chief Minister was responsible for money laundering?” he asked. “Being in a responsible position as a Chief Minister, I do not want to say anything which will lower the dignity of this post.” He urged Mr. Siddaramaiah not to indulge in “kite flying.” Mr. Bommai said the bitcoin issue that was part of money laundering had come to be known when Sri Krishna was arrested in connection with a drug trafficking case in 2020. During the investigation, it turned out that he was also a hacker and was involved in money laundering with bitcoins, he said. Prior to this, Sri Krishna was involved in the vandalising case related to UB City in Bengaluru in February, 2018, when the Congress led by Mr. Siddaramaiah was in power. But the then Congress government had not taken measures to either arrest him or interrogate him though there was a clear evidence against him, the Chief Minister said. “I urge Mr. Siddaramaiah to produce an iota of evidence to support his allegations. If he does, we will conduct a thorough probe,” he said, while accusing the Congress of trying to deliberately rake up the issue to gain political mileage during the bypolls. Reiterating that there was no question of protecting anyone irrespective of their clout, he said the investigation was going on in an efficient manner. “We have filed three separate cases against the accused in 2020 and filed chargesheets in all of them. We have also referred the cases to ED on March 3, 2021, and sought assistance from the CBI’s Interpol wing on April 28, 2021, while another one is being investigated by CID,” the Chief Minister said. “All these things have come to light because of our war against drugs. In the last two-and-a-half years, we have booked a series of cases and made the highest seizures which is a record for the country,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bitcoin-scam-allegations-will-boomerang-on-cong-cm/article37245332.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ASI seeks funds to renovate Pallava period temple||The Vanadurga temple in Pakkam village near Gingee, which is in ruins and belongs to the Pallava period, is likely to get a new lease of life as the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Chennai Circle, has sought funds for its restoration. “The temple is very worthy on the aspect of its historicity and uniqueness. As the temple is dilapidated and also in much ruined condition, it is in urgent need of conservation on priority basis,” said M. Kalimuthu, Superintending Archaeologist, in his letter to the Director-General, ASI. He has requested funds “under non-protected monument category to preserve the temple and its paintings without altering its originality and authenticity.” The pathetic condition of the temple was brought to the attention of the ASI by Raj Panneerselvam, president of the Tiruvannamalai Heritage Foundation. Subsequently, the ASI deputed an assistant archaeologist to inspect the site and prepare a report. “The important feature of this temple is it could be an early brick temple of Pallava period, so far documented in Tamil Nadu after Talagiriswara temple, Panamalai in Villupurm district and Kailasanatha temple, Kancheepuram,” Mr. Kalimuthu said. D. Ramesh, Assistant Professor, Government Arts and Science College, Villupuram, said the diety of godess Durga in the temple had four hands. “The deity, also known as Nilagiriamman, possesses a shanku and chakram in two hands and the other two hands are depicted as abayam and thodaikaram,” said Mr. Ramesh, who studied the structure of the temple. Valuable wall paintings He said though additions and alterations had been made to the original structure, the bricks used for the construction actually belonged to the Pallava period. “Moreover, the paintings on the wall share similar features with those in Kailasanatha temple in Kancheepuram,” Mr. Ramesh said. Mr. Kalimuthu, in his letter, said traces of Pallava period paintings were found on the wall of the temple located on a flat surface of a huge rock atop the hill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asi-seeks-funds-to-renovate-pallava-period-temple/article37245518.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s case tally crosses 27-lakh mark||The State’s tally of COVID-19 cases crossed the 27-lakh mark on Friday, with 1,039 more people testing positive for the infection. The State added one lakh cases in 68 days. So far, 27,00,593 people have tested positive. Fresh cases dropped to 126 in Chennai and 118 in Coimbatore. There were 88 cases in Chengalpattu and 79 in Erode. Tiruppur and Salem recorded 63 and 60 infections respectively. There were 46 cases in Namakkal, 42 in Thanjavur and 40 in Tiruchi. Eight districts logged under 10 cases each, with Theni logging just one. There were 11 deaths and this took the toll to 36,083. Only eight of the 38 districts reported fatalities — there were two deaths each in Coimbatore, Namakkal and Thanjavur; Chennai, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Pudukottai and Vellore saw one fatality each. As many as 1,229 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,52,660. Active cases fell to 11,850. Of these, Chennai accounts for 1,477 cases, followed by Coimbatore (1,312), Chengalpattu (966) and Erode (837). As many as 1,23,084 samples were tested, taking the total count to 5,09,11,486. As per Thursday’s data, the State’s positivity rate stood at 0.9%. Ten districts had positivity rates of over 1%. Krishnagiri and Tiruppur accounted for the highest rates at 1.5% each. The number of people vaccinated on Friday fell below one lakh — 99,500 people, including 60,062 aged 18 to 44 and 28,264 in the 45-59 age group — got jabs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-case-tally-crosses-27-lakh-mark/article37245488.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Approval given for 150 seats each in four new medical colleges: Minister||The Union Health Ministry has granted approval for 150 seats each at the new government medical colleges in Krishnagiri, Dindigul, Nagapattinam and Ariyalur. With 850 seats already approved, this would take the total number of seats approved in the 11 new government medical colleges to 1,450, according to Health Minister Ma. Subramanian. At present, Tamil Nadu has 26 government medical colleges with an intake of 3,750 students, 16 self-financing medical colleges with a total of 2,350 seats and nine deemed universities with 1,550 seats. The 1,450 seats in the 11 colleges would take the total number of medical seats in the State to 9,100, the Minister told reporters on Thursday. Earlier, permission was granted for an intake of 150 each in the new medical colleges at Virudhunagar, Kallakurichi and the Nilgiris. The medical colleges at Ramanathapuram, Namakkal, Tiruvallur and Tiruppur were permitted to admit 100 students each, with another 50 seats each pending for approval. During inspections, the team had pointed out to minor deficiencies, such as furniture and books for library. The deficiencies were rectified and the Director of Medical Education visited Delhi three times in the last 15 days, he said. The Minister said that he along with officials met the Union Health Minister in Delhi and stressed on the need to grant approval for the remaining seats in this academic year. “Now, we have received the nod for 150 seats each at the new medical colleges in Krishnagiri, Dindigul, Nagapattinam and Ariyalur. Already, 850 seats were approved, and now 600 have been approved, taking the total number of seats to 1,450. The State government has sought another 100 seats at the Coimbatore Medical College, which presently has an intake of 150 seats. This is under consideration and the chances are high to get the nod this year,” he added.   At present, Tamil Nadu has 26 government medical colleges with an intake of 3,750 students, 16 self-financing medical colleges with a total of 2,350 seats and nine deemed universities with 1,550 seats||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nod-for-150-seats-each-in-four-new-medical-colleges-minister/article37245586.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin’s milk packets carry ads of festival sweets||Perhaps for the first time, Aavin milk packets are carrying advertisements on special sweets it is making for the Deepavali festival. The four varieties of milk packets carry the message with prices and images of the sweets. The dairy major usually prints greeting messages on the milk packets on the day of the festivals. “This year, we are using the space on our covers for this purpose till Deepavali. It will help us save money on advertisement,” said a source. Till Thursday morning, Aavin nearly crossed last year’s sales quantity. The Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers Federation had sold 112 tonnes of special sweets in Chennai city and 160 tonnes in the other districts for Rs. 8.2 crore totally. Similarly, Aavin had sold 340 tonnes of ghee in Chennai and 270 tonnes in the districts. The total sale value was Rs. 57 crore, including Rs. 25 crore for ghee. This year so far, 90 tonnes of special sweets have been sold in the retail market in Chennai and 95 tonnes in other districts. The Federation sold 308 tonnes of ghee in the city and 340 tonnes in the districts, worth Rs. 31 crore. Thanks to the government’s directive, Aavin has received an additional order of 70 tonnes of sweets worth Rs. 3 crore from the Transport Department. Extensive use of butter Aavin has used around 800 tonnes of butter to produce ghee for retail sales and for making sweets. “Due to increase in sale of milk too, the accumulation of skimmed milk powder and butter have come down,” said a source. Special sweets, which are produced by a private contractor at Aavin’s Ambattur dairy, would be made till November 2 when heavy sales is expected through stalls at railway stations and bus stands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavins-milk-packets-carry-ads-of-festival-sweets/article37245886.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Decision on melting temple jewellery after nominating trustees, says HC||The Madras High Court on Thursday permitted Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department to take inventory of jewellery and other valuables which form part of offerings made by devotees to various temples in the State. However, it ordered that a decision on melting the gold jewellery must be taken only after appointment of trustees. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu passed the interim orders on a batch of public interest litigation petitions filed by Indic Collective Trust. The petitioner had challenged the department's decision to melt unwanted gold jewellery and articles at a Mumbai based mint facility owned by the Centre, convert them into bars and earn interest by pledging them in banks. The litigants contended that any decision on melting valuables donated to temples must be taken only by the trustees concerned and not by the HR&CE department officials who exercise only supervisory jurisdiction. They brought it to the notice of the court that trustees had not been appointed in many temples for long. On the other hand, advocate-general R. Shunmugasundaram said the process of constituting district-level committees for appointment of trustees had begun and that the committees were expected to be in place within a month. He said the process of melting gold jewellery and articles donated to temples was not new. According to the A-G, the HR&CE department had earned roughly Rs. 11.5 crore by way of interest from gold bars deposited in banks and that the money had been utilised to renovate many temples. However, in the last 10 years, the valuables dropped in temple hundials (donation boxes) had not even been inventorised, he said. The State government had created three panels headed by one retired Supreme Court judge and two former judges of the Madras High Court to oversee the work of melting the gold jewellery and other articles. These panels would continue to take inventory but a decision on melting would be taken only after the appointment of trustees, he said. After recording his submission and passing an order on similar lines, the judges directed the court Registry to list the cases on December 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decision-on-melting-temple-jewellery-after-nominating-trustees-says-hc/article37245888.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Will Sasikala factor impact AIADMK organisational polls?||The ongoing debate within the AIADMK on the readmission of its former interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala has raised a question whether this will come in the way of the party holding organisational elections and conducting the general council. A cross-section of leaders and functionaries of the party is emphatic in saying that the present developments will not have any impact on the commitments to be fulfilled by the party. At present, the membership drive has been completed. D. Jayakumar and R.M. Babu Murugavel, members of the legal team, separately explain that the party is getting ready for holding elections at the level of the rural hamlet. After that, elections at the level of panchayat unions, town panchayats/municipalities/municipal corporations and districts will be covered. Once the motion is set in, the entire exercise can be completed in a few months, they say. The party has already taken from the Election Commission several rounds of extension for the organisational polls and the last is getting lapsed in December. It was on January 9 that the general council met last. Ordinarily, the next meeting has to be held within a year. A senior leader from the western belt, who has identified himself with the camp of Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, is confident that the two leaders — Mr. Palaniswami and coordinator O. Panneerselvam — will “sort out all their issues among themselves.” The leadership has to find a suitable candidate for the post of chairman of the party’s presidium, which is vacant following the death of E. Madhusudhanan. Names of different leaders have been doing rounds and they include Mr. Jayakumar, former Fisheries Minister, and J.C.D. Prabhakar, former Villivakkam legislator. Even though the post is largely ceremonial, the occupant gets limelight at the time of meetings of the general council and the executive. Meanwhile, Mr.Jayakumar reiterated the position being pursued by the camp of Mr. Palaniswami that Ms. Sasikala could not be accommodated in the AIADMK. In another development, a release issued by the coordinator and co-coordinator announced the expulsion of J.M. Basheer, deputy secretary of the minorities wing, for his reported remarks against Mr. Palaniswami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-sasikala-factor-impact-aiadmk-organisational-polls/article37245887.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GI tag sought for Vellore Spiny Brinjal||The South India Multi State Agriculture Cooperative Society Ltd has filed an application seeking Geographical Indication (GI) tag for Vellore Spiny Brinjal, known as Elavambadi Mullu Kathirikai in Tamil. This particular breed grown in villages in and around Vellore has spines in all parts of the plant, including the leaf, stem, peduncle and calyx. “They say the thorns are its unique identity,” P. Sanjai Gandhi, IP Attorney and Advocate, Nodal Officer, Geographical Indication Registration of Products, Government of Tamil Nadu, mentioned in his filing. Since the entire plant is covered with thorns, it makes the harvesting process very difficult and also poses risk of injury. With several years of experience, farmers in this area do it with ease. These brinjals are cultivated from June to July and November to December. The spiny brinjal is harvested in 80-90 days. Currently, around 1,400 farmers are involved in the cultivation of this brinjal variety. Historical documents and evidence gathered by the applicants show that this variety of brinjal has been around since 1940s and village records during the year 1989 shows cultivation of this brinjal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gi-tag-sought-for-vellore-spiny-brinjal/article37245918.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Order on medical, dental fee irks parents||A government order from the Higher Education Department has upset parents of wards studying in Annamalai University’s medical and dental colleges. The G.O., signed by the department’s Secretary D. Karthikeyan and issued on Tuesday, has provided the details of fees fixed for MBBS and post-graduate programmes in the Government Medical College and Government Dental College, Cuddalore district for students admitted in 2016-17 onwards. The order states that students on the university’s roll during the academic year 2020-21 had approached the government and sought to re-fix the fee for PG and UG courses. Accordingly the department has given a break-up of fees fixed for students admitted since 2016-17. For instance, MBBS students currently doing their Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship (CRRI) will pay Rs. 5.44 lakh for the first year and subsequently Rs. 4 lakh/year. The same rule applies for students admitted in 2017-18. For those admitted from 2018-19 to 2020-21, the fee has been fixed at Rs. 4 lakh/year “on a par with self-financing college fees for the entire duration of their study” the order reads. “The government took over the colleges in 2013, but the fee collected was much higher than even that collected by SF colleges. We, the parents of students from the 2013-14 batch, have been fighting for refund. “When the fee for self-financing colleges was Rs. 2.3 lakh to Rs. 2.8 lakh, we paid Rs. 4.5 lakh and Rs. 5.04 lakh as per the (fee fixation) committee’s order, which too we have challenged,” said S. Viswanathan, a parent, who led the legal fight against higher fees fixed by the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/order-on-medical-dental-fee-irks-parents/article37245890.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Intense rain may lash southern districts||The slow-moving weather system may bring intense rain over some districts of south Tamil Nadu this weekend. Many other places are likely to receive moderate rain, and the wet spell may continue till Tuesday, according to the India Meteorological Department. On Friday too, rain lashed several places across the State. Parangipettai in Cuddalore district received 16.8 cm till 5.30 p.m. Puducherry recorded 11 cm. Many other places, including Chennai, Neyveli, Madurai and Karaikal, received good rain. IMD officials said one or two places in the districts of Tenkasi, Tirunelveli, Ramanathapuram, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari might record a heavy rainfall of up to 24.4 cm on Saturday. Some other districts, such as Madurai and Virudhunagar and the Cauvery delta districts, might get heavy rain and the rest of the State moderate rain. The low-pressure area over the south-west Bay of Bengal off Sri Lanka’s coast may move westwards and trigger fairly widespread rain till Monday. A trough from the weather system runs up to north coastal Andhra Pradesh, and this will have an impact on the northern parts too. From November 1, heavy rain may be restricted to one or two areas in south Tamil Nadu and coastal districts. Chennai may continue to receive moderate rain, which may be heavy at times in some areas, till Monday, officials said. The weather system is likely to weaken by Saturday, and intermittent rain may continue on Deepavali day. The State may end this month with an excess rainfall as it has already received 20.3 cm as against the monthly average of 17 cm. Erode is one of the districts with the highest amount of monthly rainfall. It has received 28.2 cm, twice the average.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/intense-rain-may-lash-southern-districts/article37245484.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sekarbabu ensures food for Narikurava woman at temple||Ashwini, a Narikurava woman at Mamallapuram, was all over the social media last week. She was angry at the denial of permission for her to partake of ‘Annadhanam’ served at the Sthalasayanaperumal temple. On Friday, she ate a full meal at the temple, seated between Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Minister P.K. Sekarbabu and Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran. “She was extremely happy and wanted to meet the Chief Minister. I told her that I would convey her wish to the Chief Minister,” Mr. Sekarbabu told The Hindu . Ashwini had alleged that she and other members of her community were not allowed to partake of ‘Annadhanam’ at the temple. “When I questioned the man who wanted us to leave, he beat me with a stick. How can he do that? It was not his family wedding. They deny us a place because we are not educated. One day my son will come up in life,” she had said. The Chief Minister’s Office brought the issue to the notice of Mr. Sekarbabu. Mr. Kumaragurubaran asked P. Jayaraman, Joint Commissioner, HR&CE, Kancheepuram, to trace her. “All we knew was that she had been denied food at a Perumal temple. We could spot her at Mamallapuram at last. She and her family are selling beads and bangles” Mr. Sekarbabu said. Mr. Jayaraman said she and others were allowed to eat at the temple on Monday itself. “When I decided to visit the temple, I wanted to see her. She told me that she was not able to believe that it would happen. We also distributed saris and dhotis to those who partook of ‘Annadhanam’,” Mr. Sekarbabu said. The government sanctioned Rs. 63 lakh for conducting ‘Samprokshanam’ of the temple. It was last conducted in 1998. The Minister also agreed to address the problems of the Narikuravas. Ms. Ashwini said she was born and brought up at Mamallapuram. “Now we are allowed to eat at the temple.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sekarbabu-ensures-food-for-narikurava-woman-at-temple/article37245511.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stroke can be reversed in elders with right diagnosis, treatment’||At Kauvery Hospital, two persons, aged 91 and 80, were recently treated for stroke and have since recovered. “The nonagenarian was brought to the hospital with a slight paralysis on the right side of his face, and we proceeded for a CT scan of the brain to rule out any bleeding,” said Sivarajan Thandeswaran, senior consultant, stroke and neurovascular medicine. “He presented with weakness on the right side of his body and was unable to speak or move his limbs freely. But within a couple of days, with treatment to remove clots in blood vessels and later physio- and speech therapy, he improved and was able to walk,” he said. “With advanced treatment and technology, a stroke can be reversed, but only with the right diagnosis and right treatment at the right time,” Dr. Sivarajan added. Prompt treatment The octogenarian woman, who had developed sudden weakness on the left side of her body and lost consciousness, was evaluated by her family doctor and transferred to the hospital in 35 minutes. A CT scan revealed she had a long clot that was removed using a stent retriever technology. She was discharged a week later and is now stable, Dr. Sivarajan said. Though stroke is associated with high blood pressure, uncontrolled diabetes and poor lifestyle patterns, such as smoking and alcohol consumption, age is also a major risk factor. People over 60 years are affected. “The symptoms include weakness of facial muscles, legs or hands, difficulty to move, inability to speak. The first 4.5 hours is the golden period to reverse a stroke attack,” he said. Hospital co-founder Aravindan Selvaraj said during a stroke, the individual should be rushed to the nearest hospital to begin treatment within the golden period. “Also, there’s a misconception that senior citizens, especially those above 80 years, have lower chances of surviving a stroke. But right diagnosis is required to provide the right treatment as anything which may go unnoticed can lead to further complications or turn fatal,” he said.  The symptoms include weakness of facial muscles, legs or hands, difficulty to move, inability to speak. The first 4.5 hours is the golden period to reverse a stroke attack Sivarajan Thandeswaran Senior consultant, stroke and neurovascular medicine, Kauvery Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stroke-can-be-reversed-in-elders-with-right-diagnosis-treatment/article37245477.ece
30 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Samudrayaan project for deep ocean exploration launched||Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Science and Technology Jitendra Singh launched the Samudrayaan project of the Ministry of Earth Sciences for deep ocean exploration for rare minerals on Friday. Ahead of this launch, the National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT) had developed a ‘personnel sphere,’ built of mild steel and tested it as an unmanned trial, two days back, using the Ocean Research Vessel Sagar Nidhi, in Bay of Bengal. G. A. Ramadass, director of NIOT said, the deep sea vehicle Matsya 6000 under the Samudrayaan project aims to send humans underwater for deep sea exploration; it is a five-year project at an estimated cost of Rs. 350 crore. Now, this unmanned trial done two days back with this ‘personnel sphere’ was carried out before sending humans on this deep sea mission. “This trial was a precursor and the sphere was lowered upto a depth of 600 metres, off Chennai coast. Now that we have received certification for this trial, we will work on the next one wherein a sphere of 2.1 diameter will be built in which three humans can sit and be sent off to a depth of 6,000 metres,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/samudrayaan-project-for-deep-ocean-exploration-launched/article37245501.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||In a model State, we have to be a model institution, CJ tells HC administration||“We are in a model State. We have to be a model institution in that model State so that the rest can emulate us,” Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee of the Madras High Court said on Friday, underscoring the need for opening up as many posts as possible at the High Court for the physically challenged. Presiding over the first Division Bench, along with Justice P.D. Audikesavalu, the Chief Justice ordered identification of all posts which would be suitable for the physically challenged, particularly the visually challenged, so that the fullest opportunity could be given to them to participate in the selection process. The orders were passed while the Bench disposed of a writ petition filed by the College Students and Graduates Association of the Blind against the High Court administration for not having allowed visually challenged candidates to be accompanied by scribes for the written test conducted in August for menial jobs at the court. In reply to the petition, advocate B. Vijay, representing the High Court administration, said the notification calling for applications for the posts of ‘chobdar’, office assistant, cook, waterman, room boy, watchman, book-restorers and library attendants was issued on March 14. The nature of the work to be performed by the recruitees included cooking, cleaning utensils, washing clothes, mopping floors, cleaning bathrooms, toilets, urinals, lavatories, attending to gardening work, on the need and exigency, either at the court or at the residences of judges or registrars. Therefore, the notification stated that only the visually challenged candidates who could write without the help of a scribe would be eligible. Then, no one challenged the stipulation. Hence, the examination was conducted across the State in August and the results were declared in September, he said. Now, if the examination had to be conducted afresh as sought for by the petitioner association, it would amount to waste of public money spent on the enormous exercise, counsel said. Finding force in his submissions, the judges said the association could have approached the court much earlier but decided to lay out a road map for future. “It is necessary that this High Court open up and allow persons with disabilities, including those suffering from any form of vision impairment, to have a level playing field and participate in the process of recruitment at various levels,” the Bench said. It ordered identification of posts suitable for the physically challenged. The judges requested R. Prabhakaran, counsel for the petitioner, and Mr. Vijay to put their heads together and forward their suggestions to the High Court’s Registrar-General by November 30. The Registrar-General was directed to depute a court official to assist the two lawyers and explain to them the details of all posts at the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-a-model-state-we-have-to-be-a-model-institution-cj-tells-hc-administration/article37245506.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. gets this year’s highest monthly realisation of Cauvery water||With October witnessing the highest monthly realisation of Cauvery water during the current water year (June 2021-May 2022), Tamil Nadu’s shortfall in realisation of its share of the river water has gone down to about seven thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft). On September 30, the deficit was around 32 tmc ft. But with rainfall in the withdrawal phase of southwest monsoon being heavy over several parts of the southern States, including the catchment of the Cauvery this month, the difference between realisation and the stipulated quantity has got drastically narrowed. The realisation during October alone, as on October 27, was around 24 tmc ft higher than the prescribed quantity for the month. The cumulative realisation of Cauvery water since June 1 was about 133.4 tmc ft. Considering the average rate of realisation during November-May between 2013 and 2020, the State is expected to get about 40 tmc ft more in the next seven months. But if the average rate from 1991, when the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal gave its interim order, to 2020 is taken into account, around 69 tmc ft of water is likely to be realised during the rest of the water year. Going by the pattern of flows in the two sets of years, the overall realisation of water for the entire year will not, in any way, exceed the 200-tmc ft mark. On Friday, the Mettur dam recorded an inflow of about 25,560 cubic feet per second of water. Its storage was around 76.6 tmc ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-gets-this-years-highest-monthly-realisation-of-cauvery-water/article37245490.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras varsity launches 10 online courses||The University of Madras has launched 10 online certificate and diploma courses on Friday. The courses, which include English education, economics, commerce, mathematics and journalism, will be offered in collaboration with Consortium for Educational Communication (CEC), an inter-university centre set up by the University Grants Commission. The CEC will share resources and learning material in the form of e-courseware and short learning objects and students will receive the course material in the form of high quality videos. The courses are designed with a focus on knowledge and skill expansion, career promotion, opportunities and entrepreneurship. CEC director Jagat Bhushan Nadda, who launched these courses said they would enable students to gain certain credits that they can store in the Academic Bank of Credit and use them when they return to learning later. “At present when students leave a university after a year they have nothing to show. These courses will have credits that they can bank and use when they return to university at a later date,” he said. On the occasion, an app for digital notice board, virtual meetings and classrooms was also launched. Officials said the innovation would be used to share text messages, text files, audio and video, data securely among the administrators. According to Vice-Chancellor S. Gowri, the app is being offered to the University free of cost by the CEC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-varsity-launches-10-online-courses/article37245509.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||60-year-old man undergoes surgery to remove skull base vascular tumour||A 60-year-old man underwent advanced skull base vascular tumour resection at a private hospital in the city. The man from Dubai had right-sided progressive hearing loss, ringing sensation over the years and experienced unprovoked bleeding from the right ear and persistent headache. At MGM Healthcare, clinical examination revealed a soft mass popping out of the right external auditory canal. Radiology findings confirmed the presence of a large, highly vascular skull base tumour occupying the region of the right jugular foramen, compressing the vital cranial nerves that aid in the physiology of speech, swallowing and breathing, a press release said. A diagnosis of glomus jugulare tumour was arrived at. “Skull base surgery is a real challenge for ENT surgeons due to the intricate anatomy. Glomus tumours are extremely rare. It has very high levels of perioperative morbidity in most cases,” said Sanjeev Mohanty, head, Institute of ENT, Head and Neck Surgery at the hospital. Dr. Mohanty added that surgical access was difficult as there were major blood vessels nearby, and it was extremely close to the brain’s vital parts. A modified transtemporal and transmastoid surgical approach with facial nerve transposition and blind sac closure was adopted, and the tumour was completely excised. The surgery lasted for 13 hours, and the patient was discharged after a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/60-year-old-man-undergoes-surgery-to-remove-skull-base-vascular-tumour/article37245475.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||65-year-old woman treated for tumour||A 65-year-old woman from Nellore recently underwent a 12-hour surgery in a hospital here to remove a tumour in the brain. She is doing well now. For four months, she had exhibited symptoms such as poor memory, behavioural changes and loss of balance while walking. The doctors she consulted initially interpreted it as age-related changes. On the advice of one doctor, she underwent an MRI scan that revealed an 8-cm tumour in the frontal lobe of her brain, but doctors were hesitant to operate and remove the complex tumour. She approached Gleneagles Global Health City, where neurosurgeons found that the tumour was compressing the brain, and causing severe intracranial pressure.  The tumour was compressing the patient’s brain, and causing severe intracranial pressure||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/65-year-old-woman-treated-for-tumour/article37245476.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GI credit sought for Sholavandan betel leaf||An application seeking Geographical Indication (GI) tag for the famous Sholavandan betel vine (vetrilai) has been filed by the Centre for Rural Education and Development, Madurai. The application process was facilitated by MSME Intellectual Property Facilitation Centre, NABARD Madurai Agri Business Incubation Forum (MABIF), and was filed by P. Sanjai Gandhi, IP Attorney and Advocate, Nodal Officer, Geographical Indication Registration of Products. This betel leaf is grown in places like Sholavandan, Irumpadi, Karuppatti, Mattaparai, Mannadi Mangalam, Mullipallam, Thiruvedagam, Thenur and Thuvariman, all in Madurai district. Sholavandan and Vadipatti blocks are situated along the Vaigai basin, and the soils of the region are fertile. The farmers of the region assert that the soil was one of the factors contributing to the betel quality, Mr.Gandhi mentioned in his filing. “Betel leaf chewing and consumption are very common and has been in practice here since ancient times,” he added. Betel cultivation in Madurai is mentioned in the famous Tamil literary piece, ‘Maduraikanchi’ dated between the 2nd and the 4th centuries AD. An inscription at Janagai Narayana Perumal Temple, one of the famous temples in Sholavandan, built by Kulasekara Pandian in the 5th century AD, says, “The betel farmers in Sholavandan area should donate the income of betel cultivation to Janagai Narayana Perumal Temple and can get three times the amount donated to the temple from the King of Pandya, Madurai”. P. Sivakumar, CEO, NABARD MABIF, told The Hindu that this particular betel leaf had a huge market. Commenting on the overall betel market in India, he said, “The country has exported 6,159.39 tonnes of betel leaves worth Rs. 26.18 crore in 2020-21.” In November last, an application for the grant of GI tag was filed for Authoor vetrilai, a betel leaf that comes in three different variants – Nattukodi, Pachaikodi and Karpoori. The market price of the betel leaf fluctuates from time to time: it falls between June–September and shoots up during special occasions like wedding seasons and festivals. The prices hover anywhere between Rs. 55 and Rs. 170 per kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gi-tag-sought-for-sholavandan-betel-leaf/article37245604.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Medical Superintendent suspended||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Friday ordered the suspension of the Medical Superintendent of the Government RSRM Lying-in Hospital for poor maintenance of the facility. According to a press release, the Minister conducted an inspection at the hospital, and found that it lacked proper maintenance and had poor sanitation. He sought an explanation from R. Venkateswari, medical superintendent of the hospital. As she did not provide a satisfactory explanation, and due to complaints of patients being treated badly, the Minister ordered the suspension, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-superintendent-suspended/article37245480.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Life sentence of CISF constable who shot 3 colleagues set aside||The Madras High Court has set aside the conviction and life sentence imposed on Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) head constable Vijay Pratap Singh, who shot down three of his colleagues with a machine gun at Kalpakkam Atomic Power Plant in 2014. The court ordered that he be shifted to a mental hospital in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh, since he suffered from schizophrenia and auditory hallucinations. Justices P.N. Prakash and R.N. Manjula passed the orders while disposing of an appeal preferred by him in 2018 against the conviction and punishment imposed by a Sessions Court in Chengalpattu. The judges felt that it would be better if the appellant was treated in his home State and said the authorities in Uttar Pradesh could take a call on letting him go with his family as and when the latter takes out an application. The judges expressed surprise over the CISF brass not having known about the mental illness suffered by Mr. Singh, who, according to the Director of Institute of Mental Health in Kilpauk, turns violent when he is not on medication. His family had claimed that he used to skip medication because he felt sleepy whenever he took the pills and therefore could not concentrate on his work due to frequent change in the shifts. “Oblivious of this fact, they have allowed him to bear firearms, resulting in the loss of three precious lives and injuries to two,” the Bench lamented and recorded the submission of the CISF that even his buddy pair was not aware of the illness. Delivering the verdict, Justice Prakash said: “It is true that none would easily accept that he has some mental illness and requires treatment. People will normally go on a denial mode.” Taking note that the families of the three victims alone had been paid ex-gratia of Rs. 10 lakh and nothing was paid to the two injured CISF personnel, the judges ordered payment of Rs. 3 lakh each to the three widows from State government’s victim compensation scheme and Rs. 2 lakh each to the injured. The court made a recommendation to the Centre to sanction extraordinary family pension to the families of the deceased. The judges recorded their appreciation for CISF inspector Shoba for exhibiting extraordinary courage by confronting the appellant when he was on a killing spree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/life-sentence-of-cisf-constable-who-shot-3-colleagues-set-aside/article37245507.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Smartphones distributed to the visually impaired||Smartphones were handed over to 10 visually impaired persons at an event conducted by Sankara Nethralaya on October 28. According to a press release, Vision-Aid, an international NGO that works for the welfare of the visually impaired, in partnership with a NGO, Trees for Life India, distributed the smartphones for patients of the Low Vision Care Clinic and Vision Enhancement Clinic. This was the first phase of a larger roll-out planned in the coming weeks. This will be followed by a period of intensive training conducted jointly by Sankara Nethralaya and Vision-Aid, during which the beneficiaries would learn how to use smartphones. Sankara Nethralaya president Girish Rao and vice-chairman T.S. Surendran; Pramod S. Bhende, head of department, Vitreo Retina; hospital consultant Vijay Francis; and V.L. Narasimhan of Vision-Aid were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smartphones-distributed-to-the-visually-impaired/article37245474.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Implement GO 293 soon, demand doctors||Members of the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) staged a demonstration on Thursday to urge the State government to implement Government Order 293 at the earliest. About 200 office-bearers of TNGDA from across the State gathered at Madras Medical College for the “attention-seeking dharna”. Association State general secretary N. Ravishankar, said the government had issued GO 293 that would grant speciality allowances for doctors. Those who had completed diploma, masters and superspeciality courses would get allowances based on the skill and also their qualification, Mr. Ravishankar said. “However, the GO has not been implemented for almost three to four months. We had already represented the issue to the government and decided to hold this attention-seeking dharma,” he said. Payment of incentive  The association demanded the government to grant the COVID-19 incentive announced for doctors. “We met the Health Minister in the evening and they have assured that the incentives will be released soon. We have insisted that the GO 293 should be implemented and the 50% quota for service doctors in postgraduate courses should be retained,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/implement-go-293-soon-demand-doctors/article37245883.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Suththam Sugaatharam’ launched in Chennai||Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi launched a virtual awareness programme called ‘Suththam Sugaatharam’ at the Corporation Girls’ Higher Secondary School, West Saidapet, Chennai. The event was organised by The Hindu Tamil Thisai, in association with Dettol under its Banega Swasth India initiative, Collective Good Foundation and Avvai Village Welfare Society, with the support of the Tamil Nadu government. The Minister for School Education said it was important for students to take care of their health and hygiene especially during COVID-19 times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suththam-sugaatharam-launched/article37245592.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New rules for family cards to destitute women||The State government has revised the procedure to issue family cards to destitute women and those who have left their homes. So far, on submission of a request to remove their names from the family card, they had to get the consent from the head of their family, who will then get an OTP and the name would be deleted. “However, this is not possible in many cases since the women might have stepped out under adverse situations. We have directed fair price shops to accept an undertaking from women along with details and we would remove the name from their original cards and issue fresh cards,” said an official source. The ration of 5 kg rice, 500 g sugar, a pack of palm oil and one kg of tur dal would be removed from that card and added to the new one,” the source added. An order in this respect was issued recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-rules-for-family-cards-to-destitute-women/article37245884.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||11 more dogs taken out of IIT-M shelter||Eleven more dogs that were ill and malnourished were taken out of the shelter maintained by IIT-Madras on its campus on Thursday by a few animal rights activists. Last Friday, three dogs were moved out of the campus for better care and treatment. Activists said that 14 dogs in total have been taken out as per directions of the Madras High Court in an ongoing public interest litigation regarding the handling of community dogs by IIT Madras administration. The activists, who moved the dogs, said that many were anaemic, malnourished while some were injured and sick.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-more-dogs-taken-out-of-iit-m-shelter/article37245889.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Waterbodies in districts near Chennai filling up fast||Northeast monsoon has just arrived over the State. But, many tanks in Kancheepuram are fast filling up and have already touched more than 50% of their storage. According to data from the Water Resources Department (WRD), of the 381 tanks in the district, 62 have filled up, and the storage in 109 has reached between 76% and 99% already. Moreover, nearly 67 tanks have more than half of their storage. “Nearly 14.5 thousand million cubic feet of water has been stored so far in the tanks, which are more than half full or full in the city’s three neighbouring districts and in Tiruvannamalai district,” an official said. Officials of the WRD said rain during the southwest monsoon that brought good flow into the Palar, including near Kaveripakkam, was the major reason for the tanks in Kancheepuram quickly filling up. Many of the check dams, such as those in Palayaseevaram and Esur Vallipuram, had also filled up and nearly 1,000 tmc feet of water had drained into sea. “We cannot entirely call it a waste of resources as it contributes to the river ecology, and such flows are needed in rivers. There is more scope for constructing regulators and storage structures in various portions of the river. More water could be saved and diverted for Chennai’s growing water needs,” an official said. Tanks in Sriperumbudur and Pillaipakkam, located upstream of the Chembarambakkam reservoir, also have nearly 75% of storage now. Similarly, 34 out of 578 tanks in Tiruvallur district have been filled so far. These are mainly located upstream of the Poondi reservoir and Tiruttani. Most of these tanks got inflow as the Ammapalli dam, upstream in Andhra Pradesh, was opened during various occasions earlier this month, the official said. Some tanks that are full include Pallipet, Perumanallur, Agoor and Tiruttani big tank, the official said. While seven of the 28 tanks in Chennai limits have 75% of their total capacity, several tanks in Chengalpattu are waiting for northeast monsoon rain to boost their storage. So far, only 21 of the 564 waterbodies in Chengalpattu district are 100% full, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tanks-in-kancheepuram-and-nearby-districts-filling-up-fast/article37245479.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. to set up wildlife rescue centres||The State government has decided to set up three ‘rescue, treatment and rehabilitation centres’ (RTRCs) for wildlife in Coimbatore, Tiruchi and Tirunelveli districts. As a first step, a detail project report (DPR) will be prepared soon. In an order, Environment and Forests Secretary Supriya Sahu said RTRCs would be equipped with state-of-the-art facilities and trained staff to provide specialised treatment with operation theatres, laboratories and other essential diagnostic equipment. The centres will also train rescue teams. Its objectives are to rescue injured, orphaned and sick wild animals, including those that stray into human habitations, and provide expertise and service for scientific quarantine, rehabilitation and release of wild animals in identified habitats. The centre will provide consultation and guidance to address man-animal conflicts. A DPR will be prepared in consultation with the experts and field teams. The announcement on setting up of the centres was made in the Assembly by the Forest Minister in September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-to-set-up-wildlife-rescue-centres/article37245482.ece
30 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||EPS: govt. staff are working under stress||Leader of the Opposition and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday said several employees of departments in charge of local bodies were working under stress and fear. Mr. Palaniswami, in a statement, referred to reports about a block development officer in Mayiladuthurai district, who applied for leave as he could not withstand pressure brought upon him by the panchayat union council’s chairman, who belonged to the ruling DMK. Stating that his party had hoped that the DMK regime’s “anarchic tendency” would come down after his party presented a memorandum to then Governor Banwarilal Purohit, against the government, he said members of the DMK should mend their ways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-govt-staff-are-working-under-stress/article37245496.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Procedure done, Rajini recovering’||Actor Rajinikanth, who was admitted to the Kauvery Hospital on Thursday, underwent carotid artery revascularisation on Friday and is recovering well, according to a medical bulletin issued by the hospital. He was admitted to the hospital after an episode of giddiness. An expert panel of doctors evaluated him and advised him to undergo carotid artery revascularisation. The procedure was performed successfully on Friday and he is recovering well. The actor is likely to be discharged from the hospital after a few days, the bulletin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/procedure-done-rajini-recovering/article37245499.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman researcher honoured||Kalpana Balakrishnan, Dean (Research) of Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, has been chosen for the Women in Research Award by Clarivate, as part of the India Research Excellence – Citation Awards. This year, eight researchers and 12 institutions in India have been awarded for their research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-researcher-honoured/article37245508.ece
30 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Suththam Sugaatharam launched||Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi launched a virtual awareness programme Suththam Sugaatharam at the Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School, West Saidapet, Chennai. The event was organised by Hindu Tamil Thisai in association with Dettol under its Banega Swasth India initiative, Collective Good Foundation and Avvai Village Welfare Society with the support of the Tamil Nadu government. The Minister said it was important for students to take care of their health and hygiene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suththam-sugaatharam-launched/article37245513.ece
30 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Scrap yard where fire broke out on Thursday continues to function despite Corpn. notice||The scrap yard off Nanjundapuram Road, where fire broke out on Thursday, has been functioning despite the Coimbatore Corporation issuing notice, records accessed by The Hindu show. In June this year, Town Planning wing officials from the Coimbatore Corporation served notice on the owner of the scrap yard asking him to vacate the place. The Corporation said that a case was pending before the Madras High Court, which in an interim order had ordered to maintain status quo. Neither the Corporation, which was the respondent in the case, nor the petitioner who had claimed ownership of a certain stretch of land, including the one where the scrap yard was set up, was allowed to make any changes. After serving the notice, the Corporation wrote to the Tangedco when it learnt that the scrap yard owner had moved an application for power connection. The Tangedco, however, did not give power connection. The officials said the scrap yard was on a 60-cent land that was earmarked playground in plans approved by the Directorate of Town and Country Planning. A part of the scrap yard also encroached upon the stretch of the land, identified as a scheme road to be built to connect Nanjundapuram Road to Trichy Road via Kannikaparameswari Layout, Veerappa Thevar Colony and a few other residential localities. The members of the Covai Ramanthapuram Veerappathevar Colony Residents’ Welfare Association had in fact written to the Corporation in August this year to draw its attention to the pendency of the court case, the need for maintaining the status quo and removal of encroachments, including the scrap yard. They said that when the Directorate of Town and Country Planning had in 2017 attempted to reduce the width of the 100 feet scheme road to 60 feet and de-reserve the site earmarked playground, they had moved the Madras High Court, which nullified the order. Consequent upon the order, the Local Planning Authority re-reserved the 60 cent site as playground and restored the width of the proposed road to 100 feet. When a few persons moved the court against this decision saying that they were not heard before the Local Planning Authority passed the order, the court had ordered status quo, the officials said. Civic activist and campaigner for protection of reserved sites S.P. Thiyagarajan said the Corporation should not have stopped with merely serving notice. It should have gone ahead by removing the encroachments. One of the encroachments was the scrap yard, which caught fire on Thursday morning. The president of the Sri Pathy Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association N. Manoharan said the residents, who were to benefit if the 100 feet scheme road was to be built, had petitioned the Corporation and Local Planning Authority several times. Their demand was that the agencies should at least remove all the encroachments, particularly the ones like the scrap yard that were established after the court had ordered status quo, get the court stay vacated and build the proposed scheme road. Mr. Thiyagarajan said the scrap yard owner had set up a similar yard in a neighbouring locality and was forced to move out only after the residents moved the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scrap-yard-where-fire-broke-out-on-thursday-continues-to-function-despite-corpn-notice/article37245530.ece
30 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two deaths, 118 fresh cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Friday reported 118 new COVID-19 cases, which took the overall tally to 2,46,544. The Health Department reported two new deaths, and the district’s toll rose to 2,412. The district had 1,312 active cases and 137 persons recovered from the viral disease on Friday. Tiruppur reported 63 fresh cases, which took the overall tally to 95,265. No new deaths were reported. The district had 708 active cases and 68 persons recovered on the day. Eighteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday and the overall tally stood at 33,529. A total of 210 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-deaths-118-fresh-cases-in-coimbatore/article37245533.ece
30 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Siruvani: Vanathi urges Stalin to talk to Kerala CM||Coimbatore South MLA Vanathi Srinivasan has sought Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s intervention in the issue concerning water level in the Siruvani reservoir. Water discharge In a statement issued here on Thursday, Ms. Srinivasan said the Kerala Government had been continuously releasing water from the reservoir and had not let the water touch the 44.50 feet mark, a level it promised to maintain. Though the full reservoir level was 49.50 feet, the Kerala Government had let the water level touch only up to 44.50 mark citing floods a few years ago. Then Mr. Stalin, who was the Leader of Opposition, had held protest in Coimbatore accusing the AIADMK government of sleeping on the issue. At the protest, he had also promised to protect Coimbatore’s interest saying the DMK would work of people’s welfare irrespective of whether it was in power or Opposition. But now, five months had passed since the DMK returned to power and the party seemed to be doing little to protect the State’s interest in the Siruvani issue. It was regrettable that the DMK was doing nothing despite the fact that its ally the Communist Party of India-Marxist was the ruling party in Kerala, Ms. Srinivasan said and wanted the Chief Minister to write to his Kerala counterpart to ensure that the Kerala Government did not reduce the water level in the reservoir, a major drinking water source for Coimbatore city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siruvani-vanathi-urges-stalin-to-talk-to-kerala-cm/article37245531.ece
30 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in elephant attack near Thondamuthur||A 62-year-old man was killed in an elephant attack inside a reserve forest near Thondamuthur in Coimbatore on Friday evening. Forest Department officials said that M. Velliangiri, a resident of Attukal tribal settlement in Coimbatore Forest Range, entered Boluvampatti Block-III reserve forest to collect broom leaves. As he walked about 500 metres inside the reserve forest, he was attacked by a wild elephant. He died on the spot. His body was recovered and sent to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for autopsy. The officials said that of the Rs. 4 lakh solatium provided by the State government, the deceased’s family would receive Rs. 50,000 as immediate relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-killed-in-elephant-attack-near-thondamuthur/article37245535.ece
30 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Measures sought to boost cotton production||The Southern India Mills’ Association (SIMA) has sought measures to increase cotton production in Tamil Nadu for the benefit of the textile mills here. Association chairman Ravi Sam and chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry T. Rajkumar met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in Chennai on Friday. They said with Tamil Nadu being the largest yarn producer in the country and since cotton was the main raw material for these mills, the State should increase cotton production. The current production of five lakh bales of cotton a year should be increased to 30 lakh bales. The Cotton Cultivation Mission should be brought under the Department of Textiles in the State and the Association’s cotton division (Cotton Development and Research Association) should be also be involved in these measures. Mr. Ravi Sam and Mr. Rajkumar also appealed to the Chief Minister to maintain status quo on the power front, especially regarding wind power evacuation and banking facility for the old wind mills too. The mills should be permitted to install rooftop solar panels upto the sanctioned demand, and should be able to continue third party power purchase for less than one MW too. All Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) that had upto 500 KW rooftop solar power should be permitted to have net metering. In a move to settle all disputes related to electricity, the government should come out with a “Samadhaan Scheme”, they said. Mr. Ravi Sam and Mr. Rajkumar also met the officials and Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu. The Association plans to felicilate the Chief Minister at a function planned here next month, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/measures-sought-to-boost-cotton-production/article37245642.ece
30 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for hate speech||The Coimbatore City Police arrested a functionary of Akhil Bharat Hindu Maha Sabha on charges of derogatory speech targeting a religion during a demonstration in the city. In a statement on Friday, the police said S. Premkumar aka ‘Boxer’ Prem (37) was the president of the organisation’s Kongu region youth wing. On October 23, he led 13 members of the outfit during a demonstration near the Coimbatore South Taluk office condemning the recent spate of communal violence targeting members of the Hindu minority community in Bangladesh. During the protest, the accused spoke in a manner that could “trigger hatred and enmity against Muslims living in India” and could “create panic between members” of both the religions, the police statement said. Besides, the demonstration was held without police permission and adherence to the COVID-19 safety protocols, the police alleged. Premkumar was remanded in judicial custody on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-hate-speech/article37245524.ece
30 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani welcomes HC verdict||State president of Hindu Munnani Kadeswara C. Subramaniam on Friday welcomed the Madras High Court verdict that barred the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department from melting temple jewellery till trustees are appointed in temples. In a statement, Mr. Subramainam said that the verdict was a “victory” for Hindu Munnani, which had staged State-wide demonstrations condemning the temple jewellery monetisation scheme. Mr. Subramaniam also condemned the organisations that were demanding restrictions on bursting of crackers for Deepavali and claimed that crackers were an important aspect of the festival. He also called for a ban on the Popular Front of India as he alleged that its members were engaging in “anti-national” activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-munnani-welcomes-hc-verdict/article37245525.ece
30 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Body recovered||Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services personnel on Friday recovered the body of a youth who was washed away in River Noyyal near Podanur. The police said that G. Vallarasu (23) and his friend were travelling on a two-wheeler on Vellalore – Nanjundapuram Road on Thursday night. He reportedly asked his friend to stop the motorcycle and got in to the river claiming that he was going to find gold particles. He was washed away in the river, following which Coimbatore South Fire Station was alerted. The body was recovered at 6 a.m. on Friday. Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-of-youth-recovered-from-river/article37245526.ece
30 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Clinic inaugurated||The Mirakle Wellness Clinic’s second centre at KGT campus in Varadharajapuram, Coimbatore, was inaugurated by Chairman of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan - Coimbatore Chapter B.K. Krishnaraj Vanavarayar, recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clinic-inaugurated/article37245527.ece
30 October 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Norms relaxed under NEEDS||The district has been allocated Rs. 895 lakh subsidy for entrepreneurial ventures for the 2021-22 fiscal year. According to the administration, this envisions, subsidy-linked credit support to 110 persons for the current fiscal. Various changes have been made in the New Entrepreneur cum Enterprise Development Scheme (NEEDS) to make it more accessible to the aspiring entrepreneur, according to the administration. Subsidy hiked The subsidy quotient has been hiked, the educational eligibility has lowered, more ventures have been added for covered for the subsidy-linked credit, additional subsidy for the differently-abled, adi dravidars, SCs/STs. Further, exemption has been granted for those given subsidy-linked credit from taking the mandatory 15 skill training under the NEEDS in view of the pandemic. The exemption has been granted up to March 2022. Applications are invited from interested entrepreneurs for grant of subsidy-linked credit under the scheme for the current fiscal. Applications may be submitted onwww.msmeonline.tn.g ov.in/needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/norms-relaxed-under-needs/article37245617.ece
30 October 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive held in Dharmapuri||Mass vaccination drive was carried out in 378 camps in the district on Friday. As a continuation of the mass vaccination drive, the mega campaign will be carried out in 488 camps in the district on Saturday. As of date, the district has a stock of 91,510 vaccines. First dose According to the administration, as of October 27, a total of 7,82,262 people have taken the first dose and 2,57,631 people have taken the second dose. A total of 10,39,893 people have been vaccinated in the district. Earlier, Collector S. Dhivyadarshini inspected the vaccination camps in select locations in Pennagaram block. The Collector has called upon those yet to take even a single dose of the vaccine to take the jab without fail and protect themselves against the severity of an infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-held-in-dharmapuri/article37245624.ece
30 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Schools gear up for reopening on Nov. 1||With classes 1 to 8 scheduled to be reopened on November 1, schools gear up for reopening and preparing schedules to avoid overcrowding to ensure COVID-19 norms are followed. There are 1,287 schools, including primary, middle, high and higher secondary schools in the district. Classes for students in 9 to 12 have resumed from October 1. Since high and higher secondary schools were functioning for the past one month, cleaning activities were already undertaken. But, the primary and middle schools were closed for 18 months and many schools were used as centres for vaccinating the public. Removing bushes, cleaning the classrooms and premises, repairing water pipelines, chopping of tree branches, and removing stagnated rain water on the premises and kitchen were undertaken in schools across the district. Disinfection was carried out and overhead water tanks were chlorinated. Timetable for each class was prepared. Officials said that instructions were issued to the schools to keep the premises clean and disinfect classrooms apart from keeping sanitisers ready. They said that based on the total school strength, classes would be conducted on alternative days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-gear-up-for-reopening-on-nov-1/article37245637.ece
30 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Office shifted to Erode||The Office of the Joint Commissioner of Labour that was functioning on Upper Church Road in Coonoor, was shifted to Erode and will function permanently at the new address from November 1. A press release said that the office with its jurisdiction over the Nilgiris, Erode and Namakkal districts was functioning in Coonoor, so far. As per the State government’s order, the office was shifted to Erode and will function at the Integrated Labour Department Offices premises on the rear side of the Government Industrial Training Institute, Chennimalai Road, Erode - 639 009. The release said that cases pertaining to compensation or cases related to labour laws can be filed with the office. Hence, the public, lawyers, trade unions and private and commercial establishments can contact the office for necessary information, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/office-shifted-to-erode/article37245634.ece
30 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power loom federation wants separate Commissionerate||The Tamil Nadu Federation of Power Looms Associations has urged the State government to either establish three separate Commissionerates for handloom, power loom and textiles or bring power loom sector under textile Commissionerate for overall development. In an email sent to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, federation coordinator T.S.A. Subramaniyan said the power loom sector was the second largest employer after agriculture in the country. About six lakh power looms provided jobs to 30 lakh workers in the State. Except for the 750 units of free electricity to the units, the government was not providing assistance, grants, subsidy, discounts or any welfare schemes for the power loom sector, the letter said and added that owners operated their units with their own investments. Fabrics worth Rs. 100 crore are being produced every day fetching a revenue of Rs. 5 crore as Goods and Services Tax (GST) to the government. The letter said that the State government had proposed to bifurcate the Department of Handlooms and Textiles. While power looms being proposed to be brought under the Department of Handlooms, mills would be brought under the Departments of Textiles. Bringing the power loom sector under the handlooms or textiles would affect its growth. Power looms should be brought under the Commissionerate of Textiles and not under handlooms, the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-loom-federation-wants-separate-commissionerate/article37245635.ece
30 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Awareness rally taken out to mark World Stroke Day||With stroke being a leading cause of death and disability, students of Nandha College of Physiotherapy, took out an awareness rally on the occasion of World Stroke Day here on Friday. Organised by the Department of Neurology of the college, S. Somasundaram, Deputy Director of Health Services, flagged off the rally in the presence of S. Thirumoorthi, secretary, Nandha Educational Institutions. The rally began from Kalingarayan Guest House and covered Perundurai Road before culminating at the Collectorate. Students held placards that said that 1.5 million Indians suffer from stroke every year of which one-fifth of the patients with first-ever stroke were less than 40 years. Common symptoms of a stroke include a weakness or numbness in the body, speech slurring or loss of it, sudden blurred vision or loss of memory. The theme for 2021 is ‘Minutes can save lives’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-rally-taken-out-to-mark-world-stroke-day/article37245621.ece
30 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in car-lorry collision||Three persons travelling in a car were killed on the spot after their vehicle collided with a lorry on Bhavani – Mettur Road here in the late hours of Thursday. The deceased were identified as Devanadan (53) of Udayanur in Mettur in Salem district, manager of a private company, his wife, Indirani (51), a doctor at the Government Primary Health Centre at Vanavasi in Mettur, and Sathyaseelan (24), who worked at the same hospital. They were returning from Coimbatore to Mettur when the accident took place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-in-car-lorry-collision/article37245638.ece
30 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power supply to two dyeing units disconnected||Officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) disconnected power supply to two textile processing units functioning in the city for discharging effluents in the open. The officials inspected the two dyeing units functioning at Vettukattuvalasu and Subramaniyam Nagar and found them discharging the effluents into the open drains. A report was submitted to Collector H. Krishnanunni who ordered disconnection of power to the units. He warned of action against unit owners if they discharged sledge and waste from effluents treatment plants in the open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-supply-to-two-dyeing-units-disconnected/article37245639.ece
30 October 2021||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal to get RT-PCR testing facility||Swab samples to determine COVID-19 infection through RT PCR (Real-time Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) testing can be handled in a government facility from November in Karaikal district. According to Health Department authorities, an RT-PCR machine would be installed in the District Public Health Laboratory in Karaikal on the premises of the Government General Hospital by then. So far, the Health Department had faced difficulties in arriving at real-time infection rate since the samples had to be sent to Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education (JIPMER), Puducherry; Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruvarur and two other places. Out of seven for the entire Puducherry Union Territory, the only private facility where the RT-PCR test could be conducted in Karaikal was at Vinayaka Mission's Medical College and Hospital. The long turnaround time taken for arriving at the infection-rate had, for so long, come in for criticism from public welfare organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karaikal-to-get-rt-pcr-testing-facility/article37245593.ece
30 October 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Collector suspends noon meal organiser||Collector T. Prabhushankar on Friday ordered the suspension of a noon meal organiser for failing to properly store eggs meant to be given to schoolchildren and for not giving the eggs on time to children in Krishnarayapuram panchayat union. Following complaints that eggs stored at the panchayat union middle school at Kavundampatti village in Thondamankinam panchayat and meant to be given to children had got rotten, Mr. Prabhushankar inspected the school. He ascertained information as to when the eggs were brought, who had brought them and whether they were rotten at the time of purchase. An official release said Mr. Prabhushankar ordered that the noon meal organiser Jayanthi be placed under suspension for not checking the eggs bought for children and not serving them for more than a week thereby displaying negligence while on duty. The Collector also ordered that notices be sent to Krishnarayapuram Block Development Officer and Deputy Block Development Officer demanding an explanation from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-suspends-noon-meal-organiser/article37245588.ece
30 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||193 petitions received during farmers’ grievances meeting||The monthly farmers’ grievances meeting was held here at the Collectorate after a hiatus of 19 months on Friday. The meetings that were stopped due to the pandemic, however, resumed virtually. Now, with the vaccination camps under way and resumption of normalcy albeit with caution, farmers for the first time in months arrived here to submit their petitions to Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy. A total of 193 petitions were received by the administration for resolution by the various line departments. Further, the Collector sought a report on the action taken on the 171 petitions that were given by the farmers at the previous meetings. The petitions included demands for the desilting of lakes, removal of weeds and encroachments in the water bodies, fertilizer subsidy, agricultural inputs subsidy, cooperative society credit, demands for localised irrigation schemes, status of check dam projects, hostile human-animal interactions on farmlands, road works, electricity, change of pattas etc. Earlier, a farmer, who had alleged that he had been alienated from his land by his own sons, approached the Collector seeking his intervention. The petition was forwarded for further action. District Revenue Officer S. Rajeshwari and District Forest Officer K. Kathikeyani were among the officials present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/193-petitions-received-during-farmers-grievances-meeting/article37245619.ece
30 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CM inspects projects under way in Madurai||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin, on Friday, inspected a slew of projects under implementation in the city. He inspected the grade separator work under way on Inner Ring Road - Sivaganga Road junction. It is being constructed at a cost of Rs. 53.12 crore to make the junction safe for vehicles plying on multiple directions. Out of the 28 spans, works have been completed on 26. The Chief Minister instructed the officials to complete the work by year-end. Later, he inspected the high-level bridges under construction across Vaigai river on Kurivikaran Salai (Rs. 23.17 crore) and at Obulapadithurai (Rs. 23 crore). Inspecting the Smart Cities Mission work on beautification of Vaigai river banks, Mr. Stalin planted a sapling at a park coming up under the project at a cost of Rs. 84.12 crore. Encroachments on both the banks between Raja Mill Road and Kuruvikaran Salai have been evicted and roads laid. Works for pedestrian walk with two parks along with decorative lights have been planned. Kalpalam across the Vaigai river would get a facelift with paintings related to Sangam literature. The officials have also planned to lay a walkers path and bicycle lane. The works have been scheduled for completion by January. Later, the Chief Minister inspected the site where Kalaignar Memorial Library along New Natham Road is to be established. The library will have a building with a carpet area of 2.22 lakh square feet on 2.61 acres of land at a cost of Rs. 70 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inspects-projects-under-way-in-madurai/article37245817.ece
30 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Community swaraj empowers people’||The five-day 10th edition of Madurai Symposium-2021, organised on the theme ‘Community swaraj’ by DHAN Foundation, came to a close on Friday. NABARD Chief general manager T.Venkatakrishna, in his address, said that community swaraj was the way to sustainable development which empowered people. While outlining various schemes and activities of NABARD, he said that it was at the doorstep of rural communities and provided grant and credit support for their livelihood and development. The Madurai Symposium hosted 50 events such as workshops, seminars and conventions related to community swaraj. Social scientist and development journalist Amit Mitra, in his address, reiterated the need for holistic development in health, education and other areas. DHAN Foundation executive director M P Vasimalai called for meticulous action in transforming the resolutions into reality. He suggested on wrapping up of the symposium proceedings with multilingual publications so as to make everyone understand the theme. Dhan’s A. Gurunathan proposed the vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/community-swaraj-empowers-people/article37245814.ece
30 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to establish State Information Commission Bench in Madurai||A Tirunelveli advocate has filed a public interest litigation petition before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday seeking a direction to the government to set up a Bench of the Tamil Nadu State Information Commission in Madurai. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought a response from the State government in the petition filed by S. Govind of Tirunelveli. He said that a Bench of the information commission in Madurai would benefit the people of southern districts. The petitioner said that the public preferred an application under the Right to Information Act to learn about the functioning of the government, the officials and get required information. In 30 days the information should be furnished. In case, the information is not provided within 30 days or an improper information is provided, an appeal can be preferred before the appellate authority of the department concerned. If no information is provided within 45 days, a second appeal can be preferred, he said. The second appeal is filed before the State Commission. Many Public Information Officers in the department concerned do not handle the RTI applications properly. The failure to provide the information leads to a second appeal. A number of cases are pending before the State Information Commission and the applicants are unable to receive the information within the stipulated time. At times, the applicants have to appear before the State Commission which is in Chennai. This causes hardship to the applicants and they have to travel all the way to Chennai for the hearing. As a result, some don't prefer a second appeal. Therefore, the State should take all necessary steps to establish a Bench of the State Information Commission in Madurai. This would be a boon for the people of the Southern districts, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-establish-state-information-commission-bench-in-madurai/article37245815.ece
30 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Advise prisoners on their right to file appeal against conviction’||Considering the fact that a large number of prisoners in the State have not preferred an appeal against their conviction, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday directed the Principal District Judges and the Chief Judicial Magistrates to provide suitable advice to the prisoners regarding their right to file an appeal against their conviction. A Division Bench of Justices V. Bharathidasan and S. Ananthi directed the PDJs and the CJMs to visit the prisons in the districts concerned once in a month, interact with the prisoners and give suitable advice to them. The court was earlier informed that 553 of the 3,538 prisoners currently lodged in central prisons, open-air prisons and special prisons for women had not preferred an appeal. During the course of the hearing, Tamil Nadu State Legal Services Authority (TNLSA) Member-Secretary K. Rajasekar submitted that following the legal awareness campaign in the prisons as per the direction of the court, 67 prisoners expressed their willingness to engage legal aid counsels. Another 85 prisoners engaged counsels on their own. But, 401 prisoners did not prefer an appeal against their conviction. The court appreciated the efforts taken by the TNLSA to provide legal awareness to the prisoners. The court was hearing the case of a Tirunelveli man who had been languishing in prison for over 25 years as no assistance was provided to him to file an appeal. Only in 2018, an appeal against his conviction was filed through legal aid. In 1996, the Additional Sessions Judge II in Tirunelveli had convicted him for committing sexual assault and murder. The TNLSA, with the assistance of all the District Legal Services Authorities, collected the details of the prisoners who had not preferred an appeal against their conviction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advise-prisoners-on-their-right-to-file-appeal-against-conviction/article37245605.ece
30 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||JD of Education Dept. transferred for NEP circular||The Education Department has transferred a Joint Director who had “unilaterally” sent a circular on an e-mail received from the Union government seeking details of teachers for a training programme based on the National Education Policy, 2020, Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said on Friday. “Since his action went against the State Government’s stand against the NEP, he has been transferred,” he told reporters here. The official did not get the consent of the Commissioner of School Education. He had sent the circular without the knowledge of his superior “in an attempt to reply to the e-mail from the Centre.” The e-mail, received on October 18, asked for the participation of Tamil Nadu teachers at a training programme at the Centre for Cultural Resources and Training. “The Chief Minister has been opposing the NEP since it was drafted in 2019, and there is no change in our stand,” Mr. Mahesh Poyyamozhi said. The DMK, he said, was opposed to the three language policy and the examination pattern laid out in the NEP. Contents of circular The circular, issued by the Joint Director to all Chief Educational Officers seeking district-wise details of teachers, was withdrawn immediately after the issue came to his knowledge on Friday, he said. But he denied that officials and the State Government were at cross purposes. “We have made changes in the Department in the last few months. This is a lesson for us.” Mr. Mahesh Poyyamozhi said the government had understood the opposition to a section of volunteers for the ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ project. “The volunteers will be selected based on their [political] background and qualifications for the pilot project that is to be implemented from November 1 to 14. We will seek the help of school management committees at four different levels.” He said the decision to reopen schools for Classes I-VIII was taken on the basis of the Chief Minister’s instruction that the health of students be the priority. Schools should not compel their students to attend in-person classes as physical attendance had not been made mandatory. PMK plea Earlier PMK founder S. Ramadoss said Tamil Nadu government must not send its teachers for the training in arts and culture as laid out in the NEP. Tamil Nadu’s autonomy, when it comes to education policy, should be preserved and this training programme should not be held, he said. Meanwhile, PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss urged the State government to ensure that promotions were given to arts and science college and university professors who have not been given any promotions for the last five years. “According to the University Grants Commission rules, the Committee should meet once in three months and decide on promotions of teachers in universities. When it comes to colleges, Zonal Joint Director will decide. But they have not been given a promotion for five years. This injustice must be corrected,” he said.  (With inputs from Chennai)   The e-mail, received on October 18, asked for the participation of Tamil Nadu teachers in a training programme at the Centre for Cultural Resources and Training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/joint-director-of-education-dept-transferred-for-nep-circular/article37245516.ece
30 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized from passenger||Sleuths of Air Intelligence Unit of Customs Department on Thursday seized five kg of gold from a passenger who arrived at Madurai airport from Dubai. Acting on a tip-off, the officials intercepted the suspect and found that he had hidden five bars of gold, each weighing one kg, by wrapping them with adhesive tapes. The gold is worth Rs. 2.44 crore. The accused has been arrested. Virudhunagar Vigilance and Anti-Corruption sleuths on Friday seized Rs. 1.53 lakh unaccounted cash from the residence of an Inspector of Police, K.V. Karuppasamy, in Virudhunagar. During a surprise check, the sleuths, led by Virudhunagar unit DSP K. Ramachandran found the cash in the rented house of the Inspector at Vachchakarapatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized-from-passenger/article37245812.ece
30 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Houses handed over to visually challenged||Minister for Registration and Commercial Taxes P. Moorthy handed over keys of houses to 15 visually challenged people at Sakkimangalam near here at a function organised recently by the Rotary Club of Madurai Star. When the speakers pointed out that because of fund crunch, many houses remained under construction, the Minister said he would donate Rs. 5 lakh, the cost of building one house, to the project as his personal contribution. Collector Aneesh Shekhar, DRO Senthil Kumari and Rotarians participated in the funciton.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/houses-handed-over-to-visually-challenged/article37245910.ece
30 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Friday stood at 138.70 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 4,194 cusecs and a discharge of 2,298 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 60.99 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 2,053 cusecs and a discharge of 963 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,962 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37245611.ece
30 October 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||German Consul General’s pat for Freudenberg Training Centre||Karin Stoll, Consul General, German Consulate in Chennai, visited Freudenberg Training Centre in Nagapattinam on Wednesday for a closer understanding of the service activities of Freudenberg’s vocational technical training for holistic development of children of families affected by the tsunami. A proponent of talent development, Ms. Stoll, who undertook the visit at the invitation of Georg Graf, Regional Representative, Freudenberg Regional Corporate Centre India and Trustee, Freudenberg Tsunami Victims Rehabilitation Foundation, analysed the impact of the centre’s goal to provide young people with apprenticeships and help them qualify for a technical profession that would shape their own and the country’s future. Accompanied by Chitrakala, Principal of the training centre, Ms.Stoll went around the shop and classrooms and interacted with the students. She appreciated the display of innovations/projects designed by the students as part of their training. The visiting dignitary, according to a spokesperson of the centre, reflected on the Indo-German commitment to work together for holistic development of talent in India. Freudenberg originally established the training centre in 2004 following the devastating tsunami and officially commenced in 2009. So far, the centre has provided professional training along the lines of dual vocational educational system in Germany to 1,000 young students to start off their careers as welders, fitters, machinists, mechanics (motor vehicle) and electricians. “Germany and India share a common vision of holistic development of technology and talent in India. The Freudenberg Training Centre is a strong reflection of this joint vision we share, and the relationship Germany has had with India. It is heartening to see that the centre has trained close to 1,000 young people in various career streams over the last few years,” Ms. Stoll said “Freudenberg is opening up opportunities for young people with the excellent training centre while also helping India’s economy. It is a beacon for the ‘Make in India’ national programme designed to foster innovation, enhance skills development and build best-in-class manufacturing infrastructure in the country,” she added. "Ninety per cent of trainees find work right after completing the courses. Most have found jobs in well-known organisations in Chennai area and other cities. Skill development is essential as part of the drive to build on India’s socio-economic infrastructure”, said Mr. Graf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/german-consul-generals-pat-for-freudenberg-training-centre/article37245569.ece
30 October 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Increase subsidy on fuel, say fishermen||Citing the inevitability of depending on deep-sea fishing amid escalation in the cost of diesel and mid-sea attack by Sri Lankan Navy, fishermen in Nagapattinam-Mayiladuthurai disricts have urged the State government to increase the extent of subsidy on fuel as also the annual quota. Periodic instances of mid-sea attack by Sri Lankan Navy have necessitated this demand by the fishermen owning motorised boats and mechanised trawlers. Also, since last year, the fishermen have been seeking intervention by the State government following an increase in the State VAT on diesel which was followed by a sharp hike in central excise. The State Government has subsidised the VAT for fishermen, but had not lessened the impact caused by the hike in central excise. The current allotment of 4,000 litres of diesel per year per motorised boat and 18,000 litres of diesel for mechanised trawlers is not sufficient, a representative of a fishermen organisation in Nagapattinam said. According to official sources, the demand by the fishermen in Nagapattinam for increase in fuel allotment has been conveyed to the higher authorities. The frequent stand-offs the fishers operating in Point Calimere area face with the Sri Lankan Navy have strengthened the case for higher allotment of diesel, Kumar, who operates a mechanised trawler said. According to officials, fishers have been instructed to carry Auto- Identification System enabled-Gl’S devices in their boats to facilitate easy tracking. Fisherfolk have been strictly instructed not to breach the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL), but some continue to lose track of their location mid-sea and face unsavoury situations. The State Government must prevail upon the Central Government to scale up the subsidy support on account of fuel to the fishermen in Tamil Nadu for deep sea fishing, under the Central Scheme: Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY), the fishermen in the district emphasised. The scheme aims to enhance fish production to 220 LMT with an investment of over Rs. 20,000 crore in next five years, and provides insurance coverage for fishing vessels for the first time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-subsidy-on-fuel-say-fishermen/article37245594.ece
30 October 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||TNJFU initiates postgraduate admission for 2021-22||Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University (TNJFU) started receiving online application for 2021-22 for postgraduate admission on Thursday. Applications will be received online till November 28 for M.F.Sc. (13 disciplines), M. Tech. (2 disciplines), M.B.A. (Fisheries Enterprises Management) and Ph.D. (13 disciplines). For this year, 56 seats in M.F.Sc., six seats in M.Tech., 30 seats in M.B.A. (FEM) and 35 seats in Ph.D. degree programmes are to be filled. Additionally, six seats in M.F.Sc. and four seats in Ph.D. are reserved for Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) students and two seats in M.F.Sc. and one seat in Ph.D. for foreign nationals. G. Sugumar, Vice-Chancellor, released the PG prospectus and launched the online admission portal. Prospectus and applications can be downloaded from the university website (www.tnjfu.ac.in). Students have been advised to submit their filled-in application online and not to send their completed application by post, a press release said. Entrance exams and in-person counselling will take place at Dr. MGR Fisheries College on December 9, and Research Institute, Ponneri, on December 10. Applicants could check the website for any updates. For further clarifications, they can contact the university by phone (04365-256430 / 9442601908) during office hours on all working days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnjfu-initiates-postgraduate-admission-for-2021-22/article37245587.ece
30 October 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘Over 40,000 persons benefit from health scheme in Namakkal’||A total of 40,217 persons benefited from the ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme that was launched in the district on September 15. Healthcare at doorstep A release from the Collectorate said that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin launched the scheme on August 5 that delivers essential healthcare at the doorsteps of the people in the districts. Under the scheme, persons above 45 years of age and others with infirmities will be screened by health staff through routine door-to-door check-ups. Also, staff will detect non-communicable diseases which cause sudden mortalities. The scheme was launched initially in Kollimalai taluk on August 8 during which 16 women health staff, a doctor and a nurse visited the residences of people in the hilltop. Later, the scheme was launched in 14 taluks on September 15. So far, 18,792 persons with blood pressure, 8,535 persons with diabetes and 6,746 persons affected by both blood pressure and diabetic were treated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-40000-persons-benefit-from-health-scheme-in-namakkal/article37245622.ece
30 October 2021||Pasumpon,TAMIL NADU||C.M. to visit Pasumpon today||Late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s friend V. K. Sasikala offered tributes at the ‘samadhi’ of Muthuramalinga Thevar here on Friday, ahead of the 59th guru puja and 114th birth anniversary being observed on Saturday. Accompanied by supporters from the AMMK and AIADMK, the crowd suddenly turned out-of-control and only after police rushed to regulate it that Ms Sasikala could walk to the memorial. After garlanding the statue, she sat in the corner and meditated for a while. She later left for Thanjavur by road in the vehicle, which was used by late Jayalalithaa for electioneering purpose, an AMMK functionary said. At many intersections leading to Pasumpon, enthusiastic supporters of both Ms Jayalalithaa and Ms Sasikala, had pasted huge wall posters hailing them as leaders of the masses. Security tightened Meanwhile, the police tightened security measures in and around the Pasumpon village as VVIPs led by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin were expected to visit the memorial to mark the guru puja and the birth anniversary of the late Muthuramalinga Thevar. “We have given specific time slots to all political parties beginning from the 10 a.m. till 5 p.m.,” police officers said and added that only five persons shall accompany the leaders and those with valid passes would be permitted inside the memorial. Led by Inspector General of Police (south zone) T. S. Anbu, Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat, Superintendent of Police E. Karthik and others inspected the venue. The police had also established a special control room here to monitor the movement through CCTV cameras. The surveillance teams are also equipped with drone cameras with high resolution, which was inspected by Mr. Anbu in the evening. Though the officials insisted on physical distancing and use of masks, it appeared to have been neglected as only very few adhered to the Standard Protocol issued in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-visit-pasumpon-today/article37245608.ece
30 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain leaves roads inundated in Puducherry||Heavy rain lashed various parts of Puducherry on Friday inundating several roads and low-lying areas and disrupting traffic on the thoroughfares. The city recorded 110 mm rainfall till 5.30 p.m., said a Revenue Department official. Waterlogging was reported from several areas across the city and motor pumps were used to bale out the water. Heavy inundation was reported in Bussy Street, Indira Gandhi square, Rajiv Gandhi square, Paavanar Nagar, Lawspet and the East Coast Road. At Boomianpet and the ECR, pedestrians were seen wading through knee-deep water. Revenue officials at the control rooms said apart from flooding in a few places, no other complaints had been received. The city was likely to receive light to moderate rainfall over the next two days under the influence of a low-pressure area, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-leaves-roads-inundated-in-puducherry/article37245882.ece
30 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Govt. employees must stay engaged with the best practices of governance: Chief Secretary||Puducherry Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar on Friday called for continuous engagement by government employees with the best practices of governance. Addressing government officials at a function organised to mark the observance of Vigilance Awareness Week at the Chief Secretariat, he said that though moral principles would remain constant over time, some people were still found to be lacking in key aspects of ensuring good governance. Mr. Ashwani Kumar pointed out that this was why re-emphasising the imperative to uphold moral principles might be repetitive, but not redundant. The Central Vigilance Commission has set ‘Independent India at 75; self-reliance with integrity’ as the theme for the Vigilance Awareness Week. Apart from focussing on reaffirming the commitment to promote transparency and probity in public life through citizen participation, the observance this year will raise awareness of the complaint mechanisms available under the Public Interest Disclosure and Protection of Informers Resolution that seeks to keep the identity of complainants guarded. ‘Adopt technology’ Officials were told to ensure that members of the public were motivated to fight corruption. As one way of achieving this, the administrative secretaries were told to strive for reducing public interface by adopting more technological tools and to deliver corruption-free services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-employees-must-stay-engaged-with-best-practices-of-governance-chief-secy/article37245641.ece
30 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Centre seeks feedback on changes to Forest Act||The Forest Department has appealed to the public to participate in the virtual consultations hosted by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change regarding amendments to the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. In a press note, Vanjulavalli Sridhar, Deputy Conservator of Forests, said the Ministry had posted a consultation paper in this connection on the website (www.parivesh.nic.inandwww.moef.nic.in) vide letter dated October 2. The Ministry has translated its content into many regional languages. The translated versions have been uploaded on the website. “We expect to receive a good response in this regard from the public, organisations and other stakeholders which will strengthen the efforts of the Ministry. Hence, it is requested that comments of the public and other stakeholders of the Union Territory of Puducherry may be directly sent to the Ministry’s email id fca.amendment@gov.in before November 1,” she said. According to the Ministry, the Centre proposed to amend the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, to streamline its provisions. In the last 40 years since the law was passed, there have been tremendous changes in the ecological, social and environmental regimes in the country. Efforts had been made to keep the provisions of the Act in tandem with the changes by introducing appropriate rules and guidelines. Yet, to effectively fit into the present circumstances, particularly for accelerated integration of conservation and development, it had become necessary to amend the Act, the Ministry added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-seeks-feedback-on-changes-to-forest-act/article37245891.ece
30 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No death reported for fifth successive day in U.T.||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory for the fifth successive day as 45 new cases were confirmed on Friday. Puducherry logged 28 of the new cases, which were detected from 2,918 tests, followed by Karaikal (7), Yanam (1) and Mahe (9). With patients recovering from COVID in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory aggregated to 446. Of these, 84 patients were in hospitals and 362 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.54%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.2%. The cumulative toll remained at 1,857. The Union Territory has registered a total of 1,27,936 cases against 1,25,633 recoveries. Meanwhile, 2,612 persons took the COVID shot in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has to date administered 11,24,257 vaccine doses. 19 cases in Cuddalore As many as 19 persons tested positive for novel coronavirus in Cuddalore on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 64,051. In Villupuram district, 10 persons tested positive while Kallakurichi district reported 11 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-death-reported-for-fifth-successive-day-in-ut/article37245880.ece
30 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||MP’s appeal to government||Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam has requested the government not to entertain registration of a ‘disputed,’ land belonging to Kamatchi Amman Temple. In a statement, he said the title deed has now been challenged in the court. The government should not allow the registration before the verdict, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mps-appeal-to-government/article37245879.ece
30 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP leader on a three-day visit to U.T.||BJP national general secretary D. Purandeswari is on a three-day visit to the Union Territory to “further strengthen the party at the grassroots level.” Ms. Purandeswari, who arrived in Puducherry on Thursday, met the party office-bearers and heads of various caste organisations separately. She also presided over a function in which a few functionaries of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam joined the party. On Friday, she visited Karaikal and held meetings with party leaders in the enclave. BJP Puducherry president V. Saminathan said the Central leadership was keen on further strengthening the party base in the Union Territory. “The visit was to further galvanise the party before the local bodies elections. On Saturday too she will hold discussions with office-bearers,” he added.  The visit is aimed at galvanising the party before the local bodies elections. On Saturday, BJP national general secretary D. Purandeswari will hold discussions with office-bearers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-national-leader-on-a-three-day-visit-to-ut/article37245878.ece
30 October 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Ration shops to function from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m.||All fair price shops in the district would supply essential commodities to all ration card holders from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. on November 1, 2 and 3 in view of the upcoming Deepavali festival that falls on November 4, said Collector Kavitha Ramu in a press release issued here on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ration-shops-to-function-from-8-am-to-7-pm/article37245590.ece
30 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Water level nearing 109 ft in Mettur||Water level at Stanley Reservoir in Mettur Dam is nearing 109 feet against the full reservoir level of 120 feet on Friday. Officials of the Public Works Department said that at 8 a.m., the inflow stood at 25,564 cusecs and the discharge at 500 cusecs into the canal and 100 cusecs into the River Bhavani. The water level stood at 108.72 feet while the storage was 76.60 tmc against the capacity of 93.50 tmc. At Bhavanisagar Dam in Erode district, the inflow was 4,416 cusecs while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs into the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal, 1,900 cusecs into the River Bhavani and 200 cusecs into the Arakkankottai - Thadappalli canals. At 8 a.m., the water level stood at 102 against the maximum storage level of 105 feet while the storage was 30.31 tmc against the capacity of 32.80 tmc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-nearing-109-ft-in-mettur/article37245623.ece
30 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Campaign focuses on ill-effects of illicit liquor||A vehicle with folk artists to create awareness among the public on the ill-effects of consuming illicit liquor was flagged off by Collector S. Karmegam at the Collectorate here on Friday. Flagging off the vehicle, Mr. Karmegam said that awareness is being spread to make the district free from illicit liquor and sought the cooperation of the public. He said that a toll free prohibition helpline 10581 is functioning and the public can lodge complaints against arrack distillation, sale of illicit liquor and running wine shops beyond the permitted hours. An awareness poster, prepared by the Department of Prohibition and Excise, was also released on the occasion. R. Jeyanthi, Superintendent of Police, Prohibition Enforcement Wing, Salem Zone, V. Alin Suneja, District Revenue Officer, and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaign-focuses-on-ill-effects-of-illicit-liquor/article37245633.ece
30 October 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister visits Keeladi and upcoming museum||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday visited the Keeladi archaeological site in Sivaganga district and reviewed in detail its excavation history and findings, which have established the existence of an urban civilisation of the Sangam era by the banks of Vaigai. Along with Ministers, bureaucrats and officials of the Archaeology Department, the Chief Minister walked around the quadrants from where several artefacts, unique to Keeladi, were unearthed this season. Archaeologist K. Rajan; Principal Secretary for Tourism, Culture and HR&CE B. Chandramohan, and Commissioner (FAC), State Archaeology Department R. Sivanandam did most of the explaining, as Mr. Stalin evinced interest in many of the displayed artefacts. The Chief Minister spent almost an hour at the site. He later sat through a presentation that gave an insight into Keeladi’s history as a site with a geographically advantageous location to develop trade links within and outside the country, the engineering skills of the settlers and the evidence of an urban industrial centre, spread across 110 acres. The chronology of the excavations, from the fourth to the seventh season, when the Archaeology Department took over the digging operations, and the antiquities unearthed were discussed during the presentation. Mr. Stalin also visited the upcoming museum, about a kilometre away, where several of the recently excavated items, including a punch-mark silver coin, carnelian ring and gold jewellery, are on display. Sources said Mr. Stalin was impressed with the empirical evidence of the past and spent time understanding the importance of some artefacts. Homage to Nanmaran Mr. Stalin later drove to the CPI(M) office in Madurai and paid homage to party functionary N. Nanmaran, whose body was kept for public view. The two-time MLA had died on Thursday. CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan, Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan and other leaders also paid tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-visits-keeladi-and-upcoming-museum/article37245498.ece
30 October 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Dalit panchayat union chairperson resigns||Due to suspected pressure from some quarters, the Dalit chairperson of Kadayam panchayat union (PU) resigned from the post on Friday evening. Of the 17 wards in Kadayam (PU), the DMK bagged 11 wards and a candidate of its ally, the Congress, got elected from one ward, while the AIADMK got five wards in the election held on October 9.  Since the panchayat union chairman post was reserved for a Scheduled Caste (General) candidate, the DMK decided to field 13th ward councillor Jayakumar, who had defected from the Puthiya Tamilagam a year ago, for the post. Since Mr. Jayakumar is a loyalist of DMK’s Tenkasi south district secretary Sivapadmanathan, party workers were under the assumption that the victory of Mr. Jayakumar was imminent in the indirect election that was held on October 22. However, M. Chellammal of ward 10, also belonging to the DMK, defeated Mr. Jayakumar in the election. While Ms. Chellammal polled 13 votes, Mr. Jayakumar got only four votes. This embarrassingly exposed the intra-party feud within the DMK. The DMK conducted an inquiry into the poll debacle and placed the party’s Kadayam union secretary Kumar under suspension. It is believed that Mr. Kumar had helped Ms. Chellammal get the votes of five AIADMK councillors too. Against this backdrop, Ms. Chellammal submitted her resignation to the Collector’s Personal Assistant Helen on Friday evening. When contacted, Ms. Chellammal’s husband Murugan said: “We don’t want to say anything about the resignation”. When asked if Ms. Chellammal had resigned from the post under pressure or due to threat from anyone, Mr. Murugan said: “Everything is in my reply”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dalit-panchayat-union-chairperson-resigns/article37245612.ece
30 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Malpractice in PACS alleged||The Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Thanjavur district, has alleged that crop loan waiver benefits have not been passed on to the members of the Rettaivayal Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society (PACS) in Peravurani taluk. In a memorandum submitted to the Collector, Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, on Friday, the association’s Thanjavur district secretary N.V. Kannan has stated that more than 200 farmers of this society were identified as the beneficiaries of crop loan waiver scheme announced in the year 2016 and 27 farmers again in 2020. However, the benefits were not passed on to them and the loan waiver amount totalling more than Rs. 1 crore had been usurped by the society administrators, it alleged. Hence, Collector, to whose knowledge the issue had already been brought to through a memorandum on October 13, should ensure that the beneficiaries of crop loan receive the benefits without fail and action against the usurpers was taken, he added. In another memorandum, the association urged the district administration to come to the rescue of a group of farmers who were on the verge of losing their rights over the lands allotted to them in lieu of the lands donated by them at Sengipatti in 1953 for setting up of the TB (tuberculosis) hospital. The land bearing the survey number 504 at Singipatti allotted to the donors of land for TB hospital which remained barren and uneven at the time of allotment was tilled and converted as a land suitable for cultivation by the farmers over the years. However, recently officials from the Animal Husbandry Department inspected the survey number 504 claiming ownership of the land much to the dismay of the farmers to whom the land was allotted as an alternative site. The officials two days ago installed a board claiming the ownership of the land in the survey number 504. The association urged the Collector to look initiate steps for issuance of patta to the affected farmers to avoid recurrence of such incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/malpractice-in-pacs-alleged/article37245595.ece
30 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted money seized from RTO office||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption personnel have seized unaccounted money of around Rs. 30,000 on the Regional Transport Office premises here on Friday. The team led by DSP Raju entered the RTO office premises around 2 p.m. and seized around the money from two agents and from three places on the office premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unaccounted-money-seized-from-rto-office/article37245589.ece
30 October 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Mullaperiyar issue raises hackles of Theni farmers||The monthly farmers’ grievance meet held here on Friday turned out to be a platform for airing their protest against the Kerala government over Mullaperiyar issue. Due to widespread rain in the Western Ghats and in many parts of Kerala, the inflow into the reservoir had been rising steadily. Even as the farmers were happy about it, the release of over 500 cusecs of water from the dam into Idukki reservoir on Friday morning in the presence of two Kerala Ministers irked the farmers. Since 1979, after an agreement was signed between the two States, till date only the Tamil Nadu government had released water from Mullaperiyar dam. Ministers from the State would release water for irrigation in the presence of the District Collector and PWD officials and the shutters would remain open for about 100 to 120 days for the benefit of five districts in Tamil Nadu, they said. However, the “unilateral” decision to release the water by the Kerala government showed scant respect for the T.N. government and its people. “We want Chief Minister M. K. Stalin to respond...If this grievance was not addressed immediately, then there may not be any necessity for farmers grievance meetings in future here as the lands may turn barren soon,” they claimed. The silence maintained by the elected representatives from Theni district also came as a rude shock, the farmers said and expressed their anger during the meeting. During the meeting, some of the farmers also threatened to go on protest from Monday onwards until the issue was resolved. “We expect the Supreme Court’s directive to be implemented. The apex court had ordered to maintain the status quo till November 11...That’s all we want,” they said. Collector K. V. Muralidharan, who presided over the meeting with officials from various departments assured that the concerns of the farmers would be taken up with the government. However, the farmers were in no mood to listen and after registering their protest, they staged a walkout from the hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mullaperiyar-issue-raises-hackles-of-theni-farmers/article37245610.ece
30 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Cherian Philip ends ties with LDF, to rejoin Cong.||Ending his two-decade association with the Left Democratic Front (LDF), Cherian Philip is poised to return to the Congress fold. Announcing his decision at a press meet after paying a visit to his ‘political mentor’ and Congress leader A.K. Antony, MP, at his home here on Friday, Mr. Philip said he had to take the plunge to preserve his political identity, which he stood to lose while remaining a Communist Party of India (Marxist) fellow traveller. “I have lost my political relevance. The LDF has used me for its political gains, but I had to withdraw from mainstream politics for 20 years,” he said. He bemoaning “the lack of critical freedom” in the CPI(M). “I could author books that were critical of the Congress during the Emergency and the liberation struggle.... Here, I could not write about the disagreements within the CPI(M) or even about the expulsions of M.V. Raghavan and K.R. Gouri,” he said. “Never have I uttered a word against any CPI(M) worker. Despite having frequented AKG Centre , I have neither revealed any secrets nor do I intend to do so,” Mr. Philip said. Dismissing the denial of a Rajya Sabha seat as the reason for his exit, Mr. Philip claimed it was the CPI(M) that had promised him positions in parliamentary politics. Mr. Antony, who expressed joy over the return of his protege, dismissed any possibility of Mr. Philip becoming his successor for his Rajya Sabha seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cherian-philip-ends-ties-with-ldf-to-rejoin-cong/article37245334.ece
30 October 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Collector checks school vehicles||Collector K. Senthil Raj and Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar inspected school buses and vans that were brought to the Regional Transport Office here on Friday ahead of school reopening for Class I on November 1. As the government had announced that Classes I to V will start functioning from November 1 following relaxation in COVID-19 restrictions, 157 school vehicles were brought to the Regional Transport Office on Friday for mandatory safety audit, which was done in the presence of Dr. Senthil Raj, Mr. Jayakumar and Regional Transport Officer S. Vinayagam. The officials, led by Motor Vehicle Inspector Felixon Masilamani, checked the operation worthiness of 87 of the 157 vehicles till Friday evening and 21 vehicles were sent back as CCTV cameras, GPS and speed governors were not fitted. Dr. Senthil Raj said the vehicles should have all mandatory equipment such as CCTV cameras, GPS, speed governors, first-aid box, emergency exit, COVID-19 awareness stickers, masks etc. Drivers of the school vehicles were advised to operate the vehicles at moderate speed even on the highways considering the safety of the children, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-checks-school-vehicles/article37245913.ece
30 October 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 1.84-crore loans given to SHGs in Thoothukudi||Loans to the tune of Rs. 1.84 crore were given to 53 self-help groups attached to the Eco Development Committees of Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve Trust (GOMBRT) for alternative livelihood of fishermen. Handing over the loan to beneficiaries at a function held at Maappillaiyoorani near here on Friday, Assistant Collector (Training) Srutanjay Narayanan said the public should join hands with the forest personnel in conserving the marine resources. He urged the beneficiaries to judiciously utilise the loans for improving their living conditions. Speaking on the occasion, District Forest Officer and Director, GOMBRT, Abhishek Tomar said the public should alert the forest personnel if they came to know about poaching of banned marine resources. Since the GOMBRT was working on providing alternative livelihood to the fishermen or their family members, due skill development training would be imparted to them for starting their business ventures. Steps were being taken to open a showroom near Sri Subramaniya Swami Temple in Tiruchendur for showcasing the products being manufactured by the self-help groups being nurtured by the GOMBRT, Mr. Tomar said. Forest Range Officer, GOMBRT, Raghuvaran, Deputy Regional Officers, GOMBRT, Rajkumar and Arun Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-184-crore-loans-given-to-shgs-in-thoothukudi/article37245911.ece
30 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin takes steps to revive sales in other States, abroad: Minister||Steps were being taken to revive export and sale of value added products of Aavin in other States and abroad, S.M.Nasar, Minister for Milk and Dairy Development, said here on Friday. “Aavin used to have commercial ties earlier to export its products to other states and foreign countries but they have been discontinued. We are now taking steps to revive sale of Aavin value added products to some South East Asian and Western countries. Besides, agents are being appointed in other States to sell Aavin products,” he said accusing the previous AIADMK regime of neglecting the department over the past 10 years. The Minister was speaking at a function to mark the disbursement of payment dues to members of cooperative milk producers societies supplying milk to Aavin and launch of a SMS/voice message service of the Aavin-IFFCO Kisan to farmers on animal husbandry. Steps were being taken to infuse fresh lease of life to Aavin and increase sales. For instance, about 922 tonnes of Aavin made sweets such as mysurpa and rasagulla have been sold this year so far against the total sale of just about 885 tonnes achieved last year. “We are expecting the sale to touch 1,500 tonnes after the festival sale,” he said. Aavin value added products (other than milk) worth Rs. 3 crore were sold in Chennai on Thursday, its highest single day sale ever. Mr.Nasar disclosed that Aavin’s milk production has increased to 41 lakh litres from 36 lakh litres a day. Milk sales has increased to 27.70 lakh from 26 lakh litres a day and the rest of the procured milk is used for making value-added products. About Rs. 329 crore of pending dues was being disbursed to milk producers across the State before Deepavali. Of this, the maximum of abuot Rs. 65 crore will be disbursed in Tiruchi district. Later answering a query from reporters, Mr.Nassar said action had been initiated against those, including former Milk and Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, who had committed irregularities during the previous regime. Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru said Aavin had managed to increase sale despite a stiff competition from private dairies. The State government had reduced retail price of milk even while hiking the procurement price, he observed. K.S.Kandasamy, Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation (Aavin), S.Sivarasu, Collector, and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-takes-steps-to-revive-sales-in-other-states-abroad-minister/article37245578.ece
30 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Occupancy picks up in railway retiring rooms at Tiruchi Junction||Occupancy in the railway retiring rooms at Tiruchi Junction has begun to pick up gradually after it was reopened once again in mid-July following decline in COVID-19 cases. Resumption of more express trains and the steady movement of rail passengers resulted in occupancy in the retiring rooms picking up gradually at Tiruchi Junction - a major station in the Southern Railway zone. The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited retiring rooms at Tiruchi Junction which reopened in December 2020 for passengers after being shut for a period of nine months in the wake of the pandemic was closed once again when the second wave of the pandemic struck in May this year. The retiring rooms reopened in mid-July following relaxations and decline in COVID-19 cases enabling rail passengers to have a short stay in the rooms once again. Sources said the occupancy had begun to pick up gradually in the retiring rooms at Tiruchi Junction since mid-July when it was reopened for travellers. The occupancy which was around 24 % in July gradually rose to 27 % in September. In the current month, the occupancy rose further and was about 43 % till now, the sources further said. With several express train services having been resumed on various sections on the Southern Railway zone, there has been a steady movement of passengers. Many of those who preferred to stay in the retiring rooms were those who came for admission of their wards to various educational institutions in and around Tiruchi besides pilgrims visiting shrines in Tiruchi and nearby towns. There have also been passengers who come to Tiruchi for brief business-related activities who preferred to stay in the retiring rooms, the sources said. Only bonafide railway passengers are permitted for a short stay in the retiring rooms with the bookings being made online. The short stay in the air-conditioned retiring rooms ranges from three hours to 48 hours. Necessary safety protocols put in place in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic were being adhered to at the retiring rooms. Passengers wishing to stay in the retiring rooms were being screened using thermal scanners and are required to wear face masks. Sanitisers were kept at the entrance leading to the retiring rooms. A team of house keeping staff were being deployed to clean the rooms periodically, the sources further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/occupancy-picks-up-in-railway-retiring-rooms-at-tiruchi-junction/article37245572.ece
30 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Murukku vendors ready for sales ahead of Deepavali||The famous Manapparai murukku makers have lit their stoves, and readied the batter for the upcoming Deepavali festival in the hope of better sales. The dip in the number of COVID-19 cases has led to increase in the number of tourists and travellers. At least 1,000 workers are dependent on the Manapparai murukku making units scattered across the town, many of whom are daily wage labourers. For them, life came to a standstill. "We have come back to work hoping that business will pick up," a worker said. This time around, some units, especially those along the Chennai-Theni Highway, have begun to increase production. "We usually make around 30 kg of murukku per day. We have started making around 50 kg now," said Isaipriya James, who owns a few units on the highway. While they are yet to get many orders, the vendors say that the purchases are usually only made a day or two before Deepavali. Tourists who travel to Dindigul, Kodaikanal and return along this road make sure to stop and purchase some murukku, he said. The months during which people take a pilgrimage to Sabarimala Sree Dharma Sastha Temple are also peak season, he added. The taste of the murukku comes from the salt content in the water. "Usually, people dislike salty water. However, for us, it is a blessing," Mr. James said. With uncertain weather patterns, the water has changed, but the makers continue to imitate it by adding salt to the batter. "If you taste the water mixed with dry ingredients, it will be very salty. When mixed with flour, it balances the taste of the murukku," he said. The makers of the murukku have a long-standing request of identifying the product with a geographical indication (GI) tag. "When the Kovilpatti Kadalai Mittai and Srivilliputhur Palkova can get one, why can't we? We have put forth a representation to our MLA and are hoping for positive results," they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murukku-vendors-ready-for-sales-ahead-of-deepavali/article37245575.ece
30 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rectify shortcomings in crop insurance scheme: farmers’ body||The Federation of Farmers Associations of Cauvery Delta Districts on Thursday urged the Centre to address certain shortcomings in the Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme (PMFBY) Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana. There are many shortcomings in the scheme, which favoured insurance companies rather than farmers, it contended. Raising the issue through a representation at the farmers’ grievances meeting at Mayiladuthurai, federation general secretary Arupathy Kalyanam urged the Prime Minister to fix the base compensation under the scheme at 20% of the insured amount so as to safeguard the interest of farmers. He alleged that over the past five years, only 28% of farmers, who had insured their crop, received compensation and suggested implementation of a new incentive-linked crop insurance scheme to ensure that they got at least 20% of the insured amount as compensation. The crop insurance scheme should be implemented by the government as a social obligation without being viewed as a business. Referring to the sanction of compensation to farmers in Tamil Nadu for the 2020-21 samba season, Mr. Kalyanam claimed that insurance companies mopped up a crop insurance premium of Rs. 3,176.53 crore from 13.01 lakh farmers, but paid compensation of Rs. 1,597 crore to about six lakh farmers. Farmers got a maximum compensation of 19%. He demanded that the last date for insuring samba/thaladi crops for the current season be extended up to November 30 from November 15. The transplantation would not be completed before November 15 in the delta and farmers should be allowed to insure the crop till the end of the month as was the practice earlier. In her address, Mayiladuthurai Collector R. Lalitha said kuruvai paddy harvest had been completed on about 97,825 acres and samba paddy was expected to be raised on about 1.62 lakh acres in the district. So far, samba paddy had been raised on 33,863 acres under direct sowing and on another 1.31 lakh acres through transplantation. Adequate quantity of fertilizer stocks was available in the district, she said, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rectify-shortcomings-in-crop-insurance-scheme-farmers-body/article37245591.ece
30 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers complain of short supply of fertilizers||Amidst complaints of short supply in fertilizers in the district, Collector S.Sivarasu has said the situation will ease within a week. “Consignments of fertilizers are scheduled to arrive here soon and the problem of short supply will be overcome by next week,” Mr.Sivarasu said responding to complaints from a cross-section of farmers regarding short-supply of fertilizers at the farmers’ grievance day meeting. According to the Agriculture Department, samba paddy has been raised on 27,500 acres so far in the district. Besides, minor millets have been raised on 81,832 acres, pulses on 4,617 acres, oil seeds on 17,460 acres and cotton on 22,920 acres. Raising the issue at the in-person monthly meeting held after a long break due to the pandemic, Koundampatti R.Subramanian, deputy secretary, Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, said there was a severe shortage of fertilizers, including urea, potash and complex fertilizer. “Farmers who had raised samba paddy crop were finding it difficult to apply basal fertilizers. The authorities should take steps for immediate supply of the fertilizers,” he said. Some of the farmers complained that some primary agriculture cooperative societies (PACS) were supplying fertilizers only to farmers who had taken loans and non-loanee farmers were being denied the same. P. Viswanathan, president, Tamil Nadu Tank and River Irrigation Farmers Association, urged the district administration to ensure availability of fertilizers through private retail dealers too. Mr.Viswanathan also pressed for timely sanction of crop loans without making farmers to run from pillar to post. While welcoming the announcement on procurement of minor millets, he urged the government to arrange for procurement of cotton and maize too. N. Veersekaran, coordinator, Ayyan Vaical Pasanatharar Sangam, condemned the Niti Aayog and the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices’ reported recommendation that sugar mills be allowed to pay the fair and remunerative price to sugarcane growers in a staggered manner. “Tamil Nadu government should not allow implementation of the suggestion to disburse the payment in three instalments,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-complain-of-short-supply-of-fertilizers/article37245596.ece
30 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||DVAC conducts check at RTO office||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption on Friday conducted a surprise check at the office of the Regional Transport Officer, Tiruchi West in Pirattiyur here, and seized unaccounted cash.  The check was conducted following public complaints that bribes were being collected at the office for carrying out official works, the DVAC sources said. Unaccounted cash amounting to Rs. 60,000 was seized and a tout was questioned, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-conducts-check-at-rto-office/article37245941.ece
30 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BDU releases salary dues for guest lecturers||Bharathidasan University has released pending salary for guest lecturers in the 10 newly-converted government arts and science colleges that were earlier its constituent units. Over 600 guest lecturers and 90 non-teaching staff in the government arts and science colleges at Aranthangi, Lalgujdi, Orathanadu, Perambalur, Srirangam, Veppur, Nannilam, Nagapattinam, Thiruthuraipoondi and Vedaranyam are to receive their pending salary for the months of July, August and September. According to university sources, the State Government will disburse the monthly salary to the guest lecturers and non-teaching staff from October. The University has released the salary amid funds constraint to comply with a directive of the Department of Higher Education. The university has been assured by the department that the salary dues released for guest lecturers will be reimbursed. In a letter to the principals of the 10 colleges on Thursday, Registrar in-charge G. Gopinath said the salary dues for the three months will be disbursed on receipt of the soft copy of the salary details with Men-on-Duty statement, at once. Expressing relief over the release of pending salaries before Deepavali, guest lecturers, however, expressed resentment over being denied the salary for the month of June. While releasing the pending dues on the basis of monthly salary for guest lecturers ranging from Rs. 12,000 to Rs. 15,000, Bharathidasan University has mentioned that June 2021 is one-month yearly break-up period, a practice usually followed for guest lecturers in the other government arts and science colleges. "The university has apparently sought to go by the rule book for deciding on settlement of salary dues. But then, the authorities ought to have as well given a thought to government order issued last year fixing Rs. 20,000 as the monthly salary," a guest lecturer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bdu-releases-pending-salary-dues-for-guest-lecturers/article37245571.ece
30 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||161 new cases of COVID-19 reported in central region||The central region reported 161 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday. Three deaths of the viral infection were registered, two in Thanjavur and one in Pudukottai district. Thanjavur continued to report a dip in the number of cases. On Friday, 42 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Tiruchi registered 40 fresh cases. The other seven districts in central Tamil Nadu reported less than 25 COVID-19 cases each. In Tiruvarur, 22 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Karur registered 17 fresh cases, and Pudukottai, 13. Nagapattinam district registered 10 cases and Mayiladuthurai eight. In Ariyalur, three COVID-19 cases were reported and in Perambalur, three patients tested positive- the least in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/161-new-cases-of-covid-19-reported-in-central-region/article37245580.ece
30 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at the Mettur dam stood at 109.07 feet on Friday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 17,871 cusecs and the discharge 100 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article37245576.ece
30 October 2021||TIRUCHI/THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rainfall in central, delta districts||Several parts of the central region, including Tiruchi and the Cauvery delta districts, received moderate to heavy rainfall on Friday morning as the northeast monsoon turned active. Tiruchi residents woke up to a steady drizzle, which turned heavy occasionally, till about 11 in the morning. There was a let up in the rain subsequently in the city. As a precautionary measure, the district authorities in Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam amd Mayiladuthurai, besides Karaikal in Puducherry, declared a holiday for schools in the respective districts. Precipitation of more than 30 mm was recorded in Thanjavur, Pattukottai and Budalur taluks in Thanjavur district on Friday while it hovered between 10 to 30 mm in other taluks. Steady rainfall accompanied by breeze in the morning hours of Friday caused a drop in temperature in Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai and Karaikal districts. Though the sky cleared up during the course of the day, Deepavali sale was affected as most people chose to remain indoors, according to the traders. Tiruvarur and Nannilam in Tiruvarur district received heavy overnight rainfall. Collector P.Gayathri Krishnan said efforts had been initiated to prevent further damage to the parapet of Kamalalayam tank. Disclosing this after inspecting the tank’s parapet in front of the municipal office which caved in due to heavy rain a few days ago, the Collector said that Public Works Department, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department and civic officials have been directed to monitor the condition of the damaged portion of the parapet and initiate steps to prevent further damage. Apart from keeping an eye on the Kamalalayam tank, the PWD, local body and Agriculture officials have been directed to ensure the samba/thaladi crop transplanted/raised in the district did not get affected by water logging due to the incessant down pour. As part of this exercise, the beneficiaries of `100-days work scheme’ were deployed in the works such as draining of excess water, clearing of weeds from drain channels and related works, she added. As a precautionary measure, the Nagapattinam district administration has kept ready 955 cyclone relief camps and identified nearly 6,500 first-level responders to act in emergency situations. Collector A. Arun Thamburaj said people could convey information of any untoward incident caused by rainfall to the Emergency Control Room by availing themselves of the utility of toll-free number 1077, and 04365-251922. The Mayiladuthurai district administration reviewed the level of preparedness of police, fire and rescue services, coastal security group, home guards and NCC units of colleges for ensuring rapid response to emergency situations. The Karaikal district administration on Friday completed a two-day training programme for 40 Civil Defence Volunteers to respond to emergency situations like collapse of buildings and rescuing people. A team from the National Disaster Response Force based in Arakonam imparted the training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-rainfall-in-central-delta-districts/article37245573.ece
30 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Paddy cultivation taken up on over 14,000 hectares||With favourable conditions prevailing in the district for a good ‘pisanam’ paddy season as reservoirs have decent storage of water even at the start of northeast monsoon, paddy has been cultivated on 14,607 hectares since April against the annual target of 43,000 hectares. Addressing the farmers’ grievance redress meet held at the Collectorate here on Friday, Collector V. Vishnu said the district had recorded 842.64 mm rainfall till October 27 against the normal rainfall of 495 mm – an excess rainfall of 70.23%. The five dams in the district, including Papanasam, Servalar and Manimuthar dam, have decent storage of 63.95% water – 8,237.48 mcft against the cumulative storage of 12,882 mcft. Of the 1,290 irrigation tanks in the district – 740 systemised tanks and 550 rain-fed tanks – 107 tanks had water sufficient for two months of irrigation while 827 ponds had water sufficient for a month. Agriculture Department had stocked 1,455 tonnes of urea after distributing 8,535 tonnes of the chemical nutrient. However, the district now had only 355 tonnes of Di-Ammonium-Phosphate (DAP) and 220 tonnes of complex fertilizers. Hence, agricultural operations on 17,005 hectares – paddy on 14,607 hectares (annual target 43,000 hectares), millets on 260 hectares (1,400 hectares), grams on 1,390 hectares (10,000 hectares), cotton on 503 hectares (1,000 hectares), sugarcane on 28 hectares and oilseeds on 217 hectares (1,300 hectares) – had been taken up. Since paddy could be insured for getting compensation in case of crop loss due to drought, flood, downpour etc., the farmers should insure it by paying Rs. 444 per acre before December 15, the Collector said. For installing micro-irrigation equipment in fields for getting more yield while using lesser quantity of water, the district had received Rs. 9.52 crore towards subsidy. Interested farmers could approach Assistant Directors of Horticulture or Agriculture for getting micro-irrigation equipment subsidy. Mr. Vishnu said 826 seed samples had been lifted from shops of 264 authorised sellers and 14 of these samples were found to be of inferior quality. Consequently, a ban has been imposed on selling 47.20 tonnes of these seeds, worth about Rs. 31.10 lakh. When the farmers urged officials to desilt a few irrigation channels and repair shutters in channels before the northeast monsoon intensified, the officials assured that the works would be completed shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paddy-cultivation-taken-up-on-over-14000-hectares/article37245915.ece
30 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Southern districts experience light drizzle||The heavy downpour weather predictions for the southern districts were belied on Friday as Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts witnessed only light to moderate drizzle. Though weather forecast had predicted heavy rainfall in the coastal southern districts from Friday onwards, this region experienced only moderate drizzle since Thursday evening. Since the weathermen had predicted moderate to heavy rainfall on Friday, a day’s holiday was declared for schools in these two districts. After 9 a.m., no drizzle was reported from any part of Tirunelveli district while light rain continued up to 10 a.m. in Thoothukudi district.  Rainfall in the district (in mm): Radhapuram – 41, Ambasamudram – 32, Cheranmahadevi – 29, Papanasam dam – 22, Manimuthar dam – 21, Palayamkottai – 20, Tirunelveli – 13 and Nanguneri - 7. Thoothukudi In Thoothukudi district, the widespread drizzle affected normal life. Fishermen abstained from fishing operations after they were cautioned in advance that the inclement weather would pose threat to their safety. Roads in this port town, which were in a bad shape due to the ongoing smart city project, have become unmotorable now. Though officials and public representatives claimed that the smart city project works would be completed before northeast monsoon, none of these works have finished. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Tiruchendur – 14, Kaayalpattinam – 16, Kulasekarapattinam – 38, Vilaathikulam – 2, Kaadalgudi – 3, Vaippaar, Vedanaththam and Kadambur – 5, Soorangudi, Keezha Arasadi, Kayathar, Kovilpatti – 1, Ottapidaaram – 9, Sattankulam – 31, Srivaikundam – 18 and Thoothukudi – 4. Kanniyakumari district that experienced downpours in recent days recorded widespread drizzle. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Kuzhuthurai and Bhoothapandi – 15, Chittar I – 12, Kaliyal – 26, Kannimar – 13, Kottaaram – 8, Mayilaadi – 14, Nagercoil – 28, Petchipaarai Dam – 16, Perunchaani Dam – 25, Puththen Dam – 22, Chittar II – 19, Surulacode – 27, Thuckalay – 60, Colachel – 22, Eraniel – 38, Balamore – 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-districts-experience-light-drizzle/article37245908.ece
30 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Pension pay orders handed over||Eight persons, including six workers of a beedi manufacturing unit, received pension pay orders from Ganesh Kumar Jani, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner I, on Friday as they retire from service on October 31. The remaining two beneficiaries are from DCW, Arumuganeri and Tuticorin Sarvodhaya Sangh. The Union Government, in a bid to ensure uninterrupted service delivery to subscribers of EPFO has introduced the plan, ‘Prayaas’ to grant pension to the retiring EPFO subscribers on their date of retirement under this programme. Hence, the EPFO – Tirunelveli organised a simple event on its premises on Friday to disburse the pension payment orders to the subscribers retiring on October 31, 2021. Mr. Ganesh Kumar, after handing over the pension pay orders, appealed to the employers to extend their cooperation for the successful implementation of this plan by duly following the pre-requisites required such as KYC of the employees, online updation of profile and nomination, advance payment of the contribution due for the retiring month and other documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pension-pay-orders-handed-over/article37245917.ece
30 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Ration shop employees fined||Surprise checks conducted in ration shops across the district on Thursday led to the imposing of fine to the tune of Rs. 43,500 on erring personnel. In a statement, Collector V. Vishnu said surprise check was conducted in ration shops across the district by 105 officers, including 12 Deputy Collectors, on Thursday. As discrepancies were found in good number of ration shops, fine of Rs. 43,500 was slapped on the personnel concerned. The public may also alert the officials by calling the control room in the Collectorate about the problems they were facing. The public may contact the control room at 93424 71314, Mr. Vishnu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ration-shop-employees-fined/article37245909.ece
30 October 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Noon meal organiser suspended in Tiruppur||Days after a Corporation school in Tiruppur reportedly distributed rotten eggs to the students, Tiruppur District Collector S. Vineeth placed a noon meal organiser under suspension on Thursday. The controversy began on Tuesday when reports of rotten eggs being distributed to the students of Corporation Primary School in Vavipalayam went viral on social media platforms. Sources in the district administration said an inquiry was launched into the allegation at the Vavipalayam school. It revealed that the noon meal organiser of the school, S. Maheswari, had found that 300 eggs, meant for distribution, were rotten and she had disposed them in a garbage bin outside the school. However, she did not maintain proper records on the number of eggs distributed, sources said. Following this, Ms. Maheswari was placed under suspension by the Collector on charges of bringing disrepute to the district administration. The 61 students of the school, who did not receive eggs amidst this controversy, received their share of fresh eggs on Thursday, according to the sources. Mr. Vineeth clarified to The Hindu that these eggs were never distributed to the children and denied media reports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/noon-meal-organiser-suspended-in-tiruppur/article37245528.ece
30 October 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Alternative route to chord line suggested||Revival of DEMU service between Tiruvarur and Karaikudi and proposed deployment of ex-servicemen as level-crossing gate keepers in newly laid Tiruvarur-Karaikudi BG section are being seen by rail users associations in delta districts as positive indications that the Mayiladuthurai-Tiruvarur-Karaikudi-Madurai section may emerge as a viable alternative to the busy chord line section under Southern Railway. Representations requesting MPs from delta districts to convince the Railway Board to operate new services connecting Karaikudi with Chennai and Tiruvarur with Madurai have been made from various associations in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts. Their plea for direct train service from Karaikudi to Chennai is backed by Nagore-Nagapattinam Rail Users Association. Introduction of a direct service from Karaikudi to Chennai via Tiruvarur, Mayiladuthurai and Villupuram will result in substantial reduction in the travelling distance hitherto experienced by commuters originating from Karaikudi and surrounding areas, say N. Jayaraman, president, Pattukottai Taluk Rail Users Association, and Abdul Razak, secretary, United Foundation, Adhiramapattinam. Sivaganga MP Karti P.Chidambaram has sought a new service from Tiruvarur to Madurai and an ‘antyodaya express’ service during the day between Tambaram and Nagercoil via. Tiruvarur, Karaikudi and Sivaganga.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alternative-route-to-chord-line-suggested/article37245570.ece
30 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||A garden rooted in conservation||The Tropical Gene Pool Garden at Nadugani near Pandalur is home to more than 1,500 plants, mostly the flora endemic to the Western Ghats. The orchids, ferns, creepers, climbers, hydrophytes, trees, shrubs and cacti, which now populate the entire garden, have for years been maintained by just a handful of workers and a botanist, with limited government funding. Now, with fresh efforts to revive the garden, there is a renewed optimism among officials that the garden’s biodiversity can become a centre for the conservation and research of indigenous flora in the Western Ghats. The garden is nestled in a green canopy of forest, comprising native flora including rare and endangered ferns and trees. People often fail to realise that the entire forest was raised after a eucalyptus plantation was removed, said botanist S.K. Gomathy. She has been working at the garden since 2000, and has helped to keep the garden functional with the help of a few staff members of the Forest Department. For many years, funding was minimal, with many species perishing for lack of manpower required for maintenance. Even now, the garden is maintained by only a handful of people. “At present, the garden is home to 70 species of ferns, 60 species of orchids, 15 hydrophytes, 90 medicinal plants and a variety of cacti,” Ms. Gomathy said. “There are some rare and endangered species, too, including Syzygium travancoricum and Crotalaria longipes , a species whose flowers attract a multitude of butterflies,” Ms. Gomathy said. Though the garden remains one of the Nilgiris’ least visited tourist spots, it is possibly one of the most ecologically important, with over 40 species of frogs seen alongside the flora. “Trees like Careya arborea , commonly called wild guava, are extremely important in local ecology. For instance, elephants consume the bark of this tree for digestion, while the tree itself can host many different species of orchids and epiphytic ferns,” she said. “Our ultimate goal is to collect more native plant species, including the more than 100 different species of native grasses, and all 120 species of orchids seen in the Nilgiris,” said a top official of the Forest Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-garden-rooted-in-conservation/article37245494.ece
30 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Kodanad case: police get custody of one more accused||The district sessions court in Udhagamandalam on Friday granted the police five days custody of R. Ramesh (34) in connection with the Kodanad heist-cum-murder case. Ramesh of Attur was arrested along with C. Dhanapal, brother of C. Kanagaraj, a prime accused in the case. Ramesh and Dhanapal were accused of destroying evidence related to the case. On Thursday, the police were granted custody of Dhanapal for five days. The main case also came up for hearing on Friday. Three of the accused, ‘Walayar’ Manoj, K.V. Sayan and Udayakumar, appeared before the court. The next hearing was posted for November 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kodanad-case-police-get-custody-of-one-more-accused/article37245643.ece
30 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Cultivation of protein-rich foliage for cattle begins||The Northeast monsoon has kickstarted the cultivation of protein-rich foliage for cattle, especially milch cows in Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts, as woman workers under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme have began to sow seeds on large tracts of land in these districts on Friday. Along with Ranipet Collector D. Bhaskara Pandian, and Assistant Project Officer (APO), Rural Development Madhumita, the Minister for Handlooms and Textiles, R. Gandhi, initiated the cultivation by sowing grass seeds for the season in Ladavaram village panchayat in Arcot panchayat union. The cultivation is being done under the State Fodder Development Programme (2020-2021), jointly implemented by the Department of Animal Husbandry and the Department of Rural Development (RD) in these districts. “Nutritious foliage is key to ensure more yield in milch cows and sustain the livelihood of poor farmers in drought-hit areas like Vellore, Ranipet and Dharamapuri. Each district is earmarked with one village to cultivate fodder and foliage for the entire district,” J. Navaneetha Krishnan, Joint Director (JD), Department of Animal Husbandry (Vellore Region), told The Hindu . A range of plant species, including glyceridia, agathi, drumstick and velvelam, pudding grass, rabbit spice, cenchrus ciliaris, stylosanthes, subabul and neem, will be cultivated on large tracts of land as cattle fodder in these districts. These are protein and vitamin rich species which would ensure a healthy diet for the cattle round the year. Besides, various greens such as Sirukeerai, Araikeerai, Mulaikeerai, Palak, Manathakkali, Vasalai, Paruppukeerai, Vendhayakeerai, Pulichakeerai, Mudakathan and Ponnangannikeerai will be cultivated to augment the income for marginal farmers in these districts. “During summer and heavy rain, we find it difficult to get adequate foliage for our animals. Such fodder farms with better storage facilities will help us in sustaining our livelihood by cattle rearing,” said K. Velpandi, a farmer of Anaicut near Vellore. Four lakh farmers At present, 6,350 acres of land are under foliage cultivation in Vellore region that includes Ranipet and Tirupattur districts with an average of around four lakh farmers depending on the free foliage available through this type of cultivation for their cattle. An additional 50 acres has been brought under foliage cultivation during this monsoon in Vellore region. Foliage will be cultivated in three villages such as Kondamangapalayam (Katpadi), Ladavaram (Arcot) and Mallakonda (Natrampalli) for the season. Women workers under the MGNREGA scheme will be taking care of these foliage farmlands in these districts during the monsoon. Farmers can allow their cattle to graze in these farmlands after three months as foliage turns mature for consumption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cultivation-of-protein-rich-foliage-for-cattle-begins/article37245920.ece
30 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 18 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,830 with 18 new cases reported on Friday. While 48,536 people have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 163. The district's death toll is 1,131. In Ranipet district, 12 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,412. In Tirupattur district, 10 new cases were reported. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 14, taking the total to 54,935.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-18-new-cases/article37245921.ece
30 October 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||‘No sale, bursting of joined crackers’||Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy on Friday evening instructed fireworks manufacturers in the district to not produce joined crackers ( sara vedi ) and also any crackers containing barium nitrate. In a statement, quoting Friday’s Supreme Court order, the Collector said the court had not banned bursting of crackers per se during Deepavali or any other functions. But, it had banned crackers with barium nitrate that could cause pollution and pose a danger to the health of people. The court had also banned manufacture, stocking, sale and bursting of joined crackers. Anyone violating the court order would face criminal action, he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-sale-bursting-of-joined-crackers/article37245613.ece
30 October 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 1.53 lakh unaccounted cash seized||Sleuths of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption on Friday seized Rs. 1.53 lakh unaccounted cash from the residence of an Inspector of Police, K.V. Karuppasamy, here. During a surprise check, the sleuths, led by Virudhunagar unit Deputy Superintendent of Police, K. Ramachandran, found the cash in the rented house of the Inspector of Police at Vachchakarapatti. The sleuths, including Inspectors of Police, R. Boominathan and N. Bharathi Priya, conducted search in his house from 3 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. The report on the incident would be sent to the State Government for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-153-lakh-unaccounted-cash-seized/article37245606.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kerala releases water from Mullaperiyar dam||In a statement, he wanted the State to defeat Kerala’s “false campaign” through solid arguments placed by the best lawyers at the next hearing before the Supreme Court on November 11. At the same time, it had been the expectation of farmers that cordial relations with Kerala should be maintained, he pointed out. Theni, Dindigul, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga and Madurai districts receive water for irrigation and drinking purposes from the Mullaperiyar and Vaigai dams. In 2014, the Supreme Court directed that the water be stored up to 142 feet. A three-member Supervisory Committee was formed to monitor the inflow and other aspects. The team has conducted periodic inspections since then. Speaking to reporters at Cumbum, farmers’ association leader K.M. Abbas alleged that the decision to release 514 cusecs into the Idukki dam through Vandi Periyar and Vallakadavu was “unilateral”. The Tamil Nadu Government had the right to release water from the reservoir, but the discharge was done by Kerala. This raised doubts among the farmers. By releasing the water at this stage, Kerala could insist on keeping the level at 136 feet, he said. The AIADMK MLAs from the southern districts have objected to the Tamil Nadu Government’s “stoic silence”. Briefing reporters in Theni on behalf of these MLAs, former Minister R.B. Udayakumar said the AIADMK Government, led by Jayalalithaa, took the storage issue to the Supreme Court and obtained a historic judgment that brought much hope among the farmers. But some “vested interests” in Kerala now spread false information about the dam’s safety. The Kerala Government and its Chief Minister should take stringent action against such people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-releases-water-from-mullaperiyar-dam/article37245500.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||79 new cases in Erode district||Erode district on Friday reported 79 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,04,164. While 92 persons were discharged, 837 continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 60 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 99,771. While 66 persons were discharged, 600 continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 46 cases taking the tally to 52,154. While 48 persons were discharged, 507 continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll to 498. Krishnagiri recorded 17 cases, and 28 cases discharged with one death registered. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 191 as of Friday. A total of 43,536 cases were reported in Krishnagiri. Dharmapuri recorded 13 fresh cases, and 26 cases discharged with one death registered. The total number of cases in the district was 211. As of date, a total 28,398 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/79-new-cases-in-erode-district/article37245626.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Poet felicitated||The Vishnupuram Literary Circle, Coimbatore, organised an event to mark the 90th birthday of Tamil poet Puviarasu at the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Hall here on October 24. A release said that author B. Jeyamohan was the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poet-felicitated/article37245536.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: Online webinar on ‘Journey of Mathematics in Python’, 2.30 p.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Alumni motivational talk, 12 p.m.  DJ Academy of Managerial Excellence: Global Connect, international lecture series, 11 a.m.  Maharani: Logo launch event of Maharani - a project dedicated to all the mothers living in old age homes, JK Hotel, NSR Road, Sai Baba Colony, 6 p.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Talk on ‘Knowledge Sharing Through Industry Forum’, 11 a.m.; career awareness programme on ‘Opportunities in Capital Markets’, 10.30 am.; Programme on corporate connect through industry forum - ‘Industry Expectation From Young Managers’, 2 p.m.  KPR College of Arts and Science: Programme - Get into IIM’s & Joy of Coding - Coding Connoisseurs, 10.00 am||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37245534.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CITY ENGAGEMENTS||GENERAL  Padmabhushan Sri. N. Ramaswami Ayyar Educational Complex: 125th Founders Day, chief guest address by A. Dhanalakshmi, former Professor of Physics, Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College; Usharani Krishnan, Member, Management, distributes scholarships and prizes, virtual programme, 9 a.m.  Bishop Heber College: Valediction of awareness programme on 'Juvenile Delinquency,’ A. Alagappa Moses, Principal in-charge, releases booklet, 9 a.m.  National College: Inauguration of Mathematics Association, E. Ramganesh, Professor, Department of Educational Technology, Bharathidasan University, and Director of IECD, delivers talk on 'Entrepreneurship in Mathematics', 12.05 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engagements/article37245940.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||For Puneeth Rajkumar, this was no time to die||Puneeth Rajkumar, Kannada film actor who died on Friday sending shockwaves across the State, was on screen most of his life as he made his debut when he was six months old. He had an emotional connect with the audience that was rare in a star-driven industry. His appeal as a leading actor across all age groups — from children to octogenarians — probably had its roots in how he literally grew up in front of the audience over the years and how he consciously kept to the legacy of his father, Dr. Rajkumar, in his choice of films as well as how he came across as a person. “His down-to-earth personality and humility endeared him to many,” said film critic and historian K. Puttaswamy. His stint in television by hosting “Kannadada Kotyadhipati” introduced him more intimately to the Kannada audience as a person that he was. Of his three sons, Dr. Rajkumar promoted Puneeth (then called Lohith) the most, producing several films and starring in them himself. “The family considered him a child prodigy and was keen on promoting him. Films such as Yarivanu , Bhakta Prahlada , Eradu Nakshatragalu , and Bettada Hoovu were produced explicitly to promote Puneeth,” recounted senior film-maker Bhagavan. He went on to win a National Award and two State awards for best child artist. The many songs he sang as a child artist, endeared him to people, especially given that he was the son of Dr. Rajkumar who was also a singer-actor. Most bankable stars After his stint as a child artist, Puneeth took a break from films only to re-emerge as a lead actor in 2002, with the film Appu and grew to be one of the most bankable stars of Kannada cinema in the last two decades. He acted as a lead actor in 29 films since then, with his last release being Yuvarathnaa . His collaborations with directors ‘Duniya’ Suri,Yogaraj Bhat, Jacob Varghese, and ‘Milana’ Prakash were looked forward to and produced big hits. Appu , Arasu , Milana , Jackie , Prithvi , Paramaatma , and Raajakumaara were some of his biggest hits. “He is one of those who sustained the industry and contributed to making its baseline healthy. His films always drew family audiences and had very high success rates,” said K.V. Chandrashekhar, president, Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association. Dr. Puttaswamy said Puneeth was always very conscious of the films he starred in and was in many ways “a chip of the old block” in the footsteps of his father in terms of his passion for cinema, professionalism, and selection of films.“Youths were drawn to him for his dancing skills and action sequences. But even his action sequences were never very violent. He consciously stayed away from ‘rowdyism films’, endearing himself to family audiences,”he observed.“But not many directors explored his talents, except in some films such as Prithvi ,” he lamented. Turning producer and encouraging new wave cinema, he had teamed up with Lucia- fame indie film-maker Pawan Kumar for a film. Puneeth was probably on the cusp of reinventing himself as an actor too with this film, before his life was cut short.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/for-puneeth-rajkumar-this-was-no-time-to-die/article37245452.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Heart attacks among youngsters on the rise||The death of Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar has again brought into focus the increasing incidence of heart attacks among the young. Doctors, who said the trend is on the rise in the last few years, pointed out that over 30% of such “unfortunate” victims do not have any conventional risk factors or family history. With several cases of people collapsing during a workout or after returning from the gym being reported, doctors said high-intensity exercise is a precipitating factor in such cases. Puneeth too complained of chest pain after his routine workout in the morning and was taken to their family doctor where an ECG was done. He was then referred to Vikram Hospitals. Doctors at Vikram Hospitals said the actor was non-responsive and was in cardiac asystole when he was brought there. Also referred to as cardiac flatline, asystole is the state of total cessation of electrical activity from the heart, which means no tissue contraction from the heart muscle and therefore no blood flow to the rest of the body. Sources said in Puneeth’s case, heart attack had set in just 30-45 minutes before he was rushed to the hospital. “He was talking till he was just 10 minutes away from the hospital, near Bengaluru Palace. Except for a family history, he had no risk factors or symptoms,” sources said. Some doctors, who pointed out that a dehydrated state after vigorous exercise is responsible for such deaths, said it would be prudent to get a proper cardiac evaluation done before signing up for a rigorous gym programme. C.N. Manjunath, director of the State-run Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, said he had recently seen two such young patients — a 17-year-old and a 23-year-old — who were brought to the hospital with a diagnosis of heart attack. “Both of them did not have conventional risk factors or a family history. We have also seen a few people suffer a heart attack two or three days after returning from trekking or temple visits on hills,” the doctor said. An analysis of over 2,500 patients at the institute has shown that 30% of the patients did not have conventional risk factors or a family history. “In young heart attack patients, incidence of diabetes and high blood pressure is less when compared with older patients,” the doctor said. Explaining the cause of the heart attacks in the young, Dr. Manjunath said: “During a heart attack, a few unfortunate patients develop ventricular fibrillation (electrical instability) and cardiac arrest within a few minutes, giving no time for them to reach a hospital or take treatment. This is because blood supply is cut off to the heart muscle. This is what happened in Mr. Puneeth’s case.” “This can happen when a plaque ruptures. Within a few minutes, blood clot formation occurs and the artery gets closed, resulting in heart attack. This comes without any warning signs,” Dr. Manjunath said. On the contrary, those who develop a gradual blockage will have warning symptoms for weeks to months prior to a heart attack. “When a person collapses, resuscitation should be done in the first three to four minutes. It is advisable that all public places, including gyms, bus/railway stations, malls, and multiplexes should have an emergency room with staff trained in advanced cardiac life support,” he said. “Conditioning the body before exercise, especially the warm-up, and cooling down post exercise is a must. In people with a family history of cardiac issues, cholesterol level should be checked regularly. In case of minor and major blocks of the heart, coronary angiograms can help in detection,” said Ranjan Shetty, interventional cardiologist at Manipal Hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heart-attacks-among-youngsters-on-the-rise/article37245447.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PAI 2021: State bags overall rank of 7||Karnataka dropped to the seventh rank in the Public Affairs Index 2021 with a score of 0.121. It was in the fourth position last year. The sixth edition of PAI was released on Friday. Apart from looking at governance performance in the context of sustainable development defined by equity, growth and sustainability pillars, PAI 2021 also features analysis of five Centre-sponsored schemes that aid in key development parameters of health, education and livelihoods (Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, National Health Mission, Integrated Child Development Services, Samagra Siksha Abhiyan, and Midday Meal Scheme). The report also includes ranking of the states on the basis of their performance during the COVID-19 pandemic, apart from a Delta Analysis measuring year-on-year performance and Cluster Analysis of states. As per the PAI 2021, Karnataka slipped four places and is at 16 in the pillar of equity. This, despite a positively moderate performance in the pillars of growth and sustainability. Karnataka is sixth in growth and fourth in sustainability. Samridhi Pandey, programme officer, Public Affairs Centre (PAC), who presented the study and analysis, said that due to relative ranking, other States have outperformed Karnataka, which performed very well in health by being more focussed in allocating resources for tackling the pandemic. The report shows that the States which have emerged as the top performers in the COVID-19 Response Index have shown better performance in the pillar of growth under sustainability development goals that deals with health and well-being which justifies their performance under the theme of ‘containment’. Four of the top five positions in the index are occupied by the southern States. Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh occupy the top three spots due to their consistent performance across both pillars, while Karnataka ranks fifth due to its moderately good performance in the theme of preparedness. A. Ravindra, chairperson, PAC, announced that Kerala had emerged as the best-performing in the ‘large States’ category, Sikkim among ‘small States’, and Puducherry in ‘Union Territory’. “When we reflect on the world that we live in today, it is difficult to miss the fact that widening income inequality is the defining challenge of our times. This is especially true in the backdrop of the severest pandemic that the world has faced in 100 years. While the States have responded in substantive measure, and we ought to be legitimately proud as a society, we remain a work in progress. The true measure of progress of a society is not measured at its apex but at its base. This is precisely what PAI 2021 demonstrates,” he said. G. Gurucharan, Director, PAC, said PAI 2021 provides State-specific rationale for strategic interventions in investing in those sectors and spaces that are most in need of help. “Using data analytics, it argues that the most sensible investment thesis for each State is one that centres on those development deficits taking longer and being more difficult to build,” he added.  PAI 2021 - Karnataka Overall rank: 7 Pillar of equity: 16 Pillar of growth: 6 Pillar of sustainability: 4 COVID-19 Response Index: 5||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pai-2021-state-bags-overall-rank-of-7/article37245428.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC to run additional 1,000 buses||To meet the Deepavali demand, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has decided to operate 1,000 additional buses. In a press release, the KSRTC has said that from Bengaluru, buses will be operated to destinations like Dharmasthala, Mangaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Pune and Tirupati. Additional buses will be operated between October 29 and November 7. The release states that no extra fares will be charged for the additional buses. For the benefit of passengers, the South Western Railway (SWR) has decided to “de-reserve” some of the second class seating coaches in 17 trains. A release from the SWR states that unreserved commuters can travel in these coaches. The trains that have unreserved coaches are Mysuru-Dharwad, KSR Bengaluru-Mangaluru, Mysuru-KSR Bengaluru, Yeshwanthpur-Shivamogga town, Bagalkote- Mysuru, Mysuru-Solapur and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-to-run-additional-1000-buses/article37245443.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ban on sale of liquor till tomorrow midnight in Bengaluru Urban district||In the interest of maintaining law and order, the city police and district administration have banned the sale of liquor in Bengaluru Urban district. An order issued by City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said the sale of liquor in all bars, restaurants, wine shops and other establishments has been banned from October 29 to October 31 midnight. The decision has been taken to protect the law and order situation and avoid any untoward incidents by anti-social elements, the order said. Bengaluru Urban district J. Manjunath also said he has announced a dry day till October 31 in his jurisdiction. After the death of actor Puneeth Rajkumar, commercial establishments in several parts of the city were closed. Many shopkeepers said they were forced to shut by some groups of people. Police message  Meanwhile, the Bengaluru City Police, in a social media message, appealed to the public not to believe any rumours and not to engage in any kind of rumour mongering. “Everything is under control. Bengaluru City Police assures peace and law and order in our city,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ban-on-sale-of-liquor-till-tomorrow-midnight-in-bengaluru-urban-district/article37245445.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lake rejuvenation: BBMP wins award||The Earth Day Network India, an environmental organization, gave the ‘Earth Day Network Star Municipal Leadership’ award to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) for rejuvenating 18 lakes in the city and taking up development of seven more. The civic body was nominated for the award by the Puttenahalli Neighbourhood Lake Improvement Trust. Usha Rajagopal from PNLIT said that the trust’s partnership with the BBMP began in 2009. “Our partnership has been fruitful and we were happy to nominate BBMP for the award,” she said. Neela Majumdar from the Earth Day Network India said it was a happy development that municipal bodies are turning cities green. “The theme this year is ‘Restore Our Earth’. We are happy to be giving away the award to BBMP for protecting lakes and biodiversity in the city,” she said. BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta, who accepted the award, said the civic body was happy that the citizens’ groups have reposed their faith in BBMP. The award should go to the civic officials who have worked with several citizens’ groups in rejuvenating lakes and their maintenance thereafter. The award, he said, encouraged BBMP to take up scientific rejuvenation of more lakes in the city. Some of the lakes The 18 lakes that have been developed by BBMP include Chikkabasthi lake, Gubbalala lake, Yellenahalli lake, Thalaghattapura ake, Sarakki lake, Begur lake, Horamavu Agara lake, Kothanuru lake and Nalluralli tank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lake-rejuvenation-bbmp-wins-award/article37245424.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC allows plea to release convict on parole for daughter’s wedding||Allowing a petition filed by the wife of a convicted person, the High Court of Karnataka has directed the Prison Department to release him, on parole from 15 days to perform the marriage of his daughter. He has been serving sentence since 1999 for killing three persons, “The sublime feelings of the spouse and children permeate the prison walls and reach out to the convict, however strong and unkindly they are built. Therefore, this court has to facilitate the presence and participation of the petitioner in the ensuing marriage ceremony. Otherwise the stand of the court, runs the risk of being branded ‘inhuman’ by the right thinking sections of society, to say the least, the court observed. November 1 to 15 Rejecting opposition of prosecution against his release on parole as he had earlier violated the conditions of parole, the court directed the prison authorities to release Shyam on parole from November 1 to 15 with strict conditions as are usually stipulated to ensure the return of convict to the gaol and that he shall not commit any other offence. Two months The petitioner, Suma, had contended that the prison authorities had not considered his representation for his release of parole for two months to perform marriage scheduled to be held on November 7 and 8. When a young daughter is getting married, the presence of her father is desirable, consistent with the humanitarian considerations which inhere in Article 21 of the Constitution of India, the court said, while pointing out that the main purpose of releasing a serving convict on parole is to afford to him an opportunity to solve his personal and family problems and to enable him to maintain his links with civil society, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-allows-plea-to-release-convict-on-parole-for-daughters-wedding/article37245438.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||He constantly challenged and reinvented himself||Puneeth Rajkumar was someone who constantly challenged and reinvented himself, industry insiders say. He was also one of the first marquee names to take to the small screen by playing the host of ‘Kannadada Kotyadhipati’, a quiz show modelled on “Kaun Banega Crorepati” and family game show ‘Family Power’. He backed new talents and encouraged new wave Kannada cinema as a producer. Production firm He set up his production firm PRK Productions and Kannada audio label PRK Audio in 2017. Contrary to expectations, he did not take to producing films starring himself and other actors in his family, a path taken by his parents’ production house Vajreshwari Combines. He took to producing new wave films and gave opportunities to many new talents. He produced Kavaludaari , Mayabazar 2016 , Law , and French Biriyani . He had three films under production — Family Pack, One Cut Two Cut An Flower is Came , and an untitled documentary about a mudskipper in coastal Karnataka. He was the first producer to release Kannada films — Law and French Biriyani — directly on OTT platforms during the pandemic. Hemanth Rao, director of Kavaludaari , said Puneeth was keenly interested in all kinds of films and had a larger vision for both the Kannada film industry and PRK Productions. “I remember way back during the filming of Prithvi , I used to give him world cinema which he used to watch and discuss with me. He always backed new talent and wanted all kinds of cinema to flourish,” he said. Pawan Kumar of Lucia fame, who was supposed to direct Puneeth Rajkumar’s next film Dvitva for which shooting was scheduled to begin in November, said he was keen to experiment even as an actor and accepting to act in Dvitva was proof of that. “I was at the reading of the script with other actors when we heard the sad news,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/he-constantly-challenged-and-reinvented-himself/article37245453.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Family donates Puneeth’s eyes||Following in the footsteps of his father, Dr. Rajkumar, the family of Puneeth Rajkumar donated his eyes on Friday. Soon after he was declared dead, Puneeth Rajkumar’s brother Raghavendra Rajkumar placed a request with Dr. Rajkumar Eye Bank run by Narayana Nethralaya to collect the actor’s eyes. K. Bhujang Shetty, chairman and managing director of Narayana Nethralaya, who personally monitored the eye retrieval process, told The Hindu that Dr. Rajkumar had pledged the eyes of his entire family during the inaugural function of the eye bank (which was named after him) in 1994. “Even during their grief, the family has kept their father’s word and donated Mr. Puneeth’s eyes. They had donated the eyes of their mother, Parvathamma Rajkumar, too,” Dr. Shetty said. Pointing out that eye donations had reduced by 80% during the pandemic, he said, “We hope this gesture by the family will give a boost to eye donations and inspire others to donate.” Although the Dr. Rajkumar Eye Bank has nearly 60,000 eye pledges, the number of people waiting for corneal transplants is only increasing by the day. “At Narayana Nethralaya itself we have around 100 patients waiting for corneal transplants. Eyes can be retrieved within six hours of death but earlier the better,” Dr. Shetty added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/family-donates-puneeths-eyes/article37245457.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘CM will decide on night curfew removal’||With the number of COVID-19 cases being reported in the city averaging around 160 a day, there is speculation about the removal of the night curfew. However, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta told reporters on Friday that the decision to lift the night curfew would be taken by the Chief Minister, depending on recommendations of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and experts. “We continue to remain vigilant against COVID-19, especially when developed countries have reported a surge in cases. We must remember that all is not normal yet, despite a decrease in COVID-19 cases,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-will-decide-on-night-curfew-removal/article37245426.ece
30 October 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||One week to fill major potholes across city||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said he would give one week to the BBMP Commissioner to fill major potholes across the city. He told reporters in Bengaluru that city roads were affected by recent rains. Responding to the online campaign by a few citizens’ groups that have asked him to join them for an inspection of city roads, the Chief Minister said he was ready to tour the city with them after a week. He would also hold a meeting with BBMP Commissioner in this regard, he promised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-week-to-fill-major-potholes-across-city/article37245430.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students let off early||As a precautionary measure, many schools and colleges let off students early in the day even before the actor Puneeth Rajkumar’s death was officially announced. Most schools asked parents to pick up their children. The State Government has not officially declared a holiday for educational institutions on Saturday. But some associations and colleges have declared a holiday for schools, while some colleges have postponed their examinations. The Recognised Unaided Private Schools Association has declared holiday for their member schools, but D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka said schools would have to take a call based on the local situation. Bangalore City University has postponed the B.Ed. and MBA examinations scheduled to be held on October 30; while the MBA examination will be held on November 2, B.Ed. exam will be held on November 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-let-off-early/article37245444.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Friends, politicians visit residence of ‘Power Star’||Members of the film fraternity, friends, and family members rushedto actor Puneeth Rajkumar’shouse at Sadashivanagar here soon after his death was announced on Friday. Many of them were in shock and in tears as they rushed to see the ‘Power Star’ one last time. Only his family, friends, members from the film industry, and politicians were allowed inside his house, while fans were stopped on the adjoining roads. There was heavy deployment of police personnel who had put up barricades on the roads leading to his house. Puneeth’s eldest brother, Raghavendra Rajkumar, appealed to fans to maintain peace and cooperate to ensure he was sent away with love. He became emotional and said Puneeth was by his side when he fell ill and had even ensured that a pacemaker was placed in his heart. “He ensured that I was able to live. But I could not save him. He has left a huge responsibility on my shoulders,” Mr. Raghavendra Rajkumar said. Hesaid Puneeth’s wife was in a state of shock and had not come to terms with what had happened. Some who were with the actor on Thursday night were devastated afterlearning about his death. Music director Guru Kiran told The Hindu he was with Puneeth late on Thursday and that he was hale and hearty and showed no signs of discomfort. Politicians across party lines also visited his residence — from the former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda to KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. Many of them were his neighbours and spoke of how he would regularly walk in the area. Hundreds of fans waited to get a glimpse of the actor. However, the police directed them to Sree Kanteerava Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/friends-politicians-visit-residence-of-power-star/article37245455.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Karnataka reports 381 new cases, seven deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported 381 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,87,694. Bengaluru Urban reported 179 cases and four deaths. With seven deaths, the toll rose to 38,061. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 305 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 29,40,978. The State now has 8,626 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.33%, the CFR touched 1.83%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-karnataka-reports-381-new-cases-seven-deaths/article37245431.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC dismisses PIL seeking Padma awards for judges||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday dismissed a PIL petition seeking a direction to the Union and State governments to include judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court in the eligibility list for award of Padma and State awards. Observing orally that judges are not interested in awards and are only interested in working, a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Riti Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum dismissed the petition filed by Vinod G. Kulkarni, a psychiatrist from Hubballi. “The petitioner appearing in person has not been able to satisfy the court as to why judges will have to be awarded with Padma/State awards. No person has any right to claim that he shall be given any such awards. The petition, being devoid of merit, is dismissed,” the Bench said in its brief order. Earlier Dr. Kulkani, who personally argued, pointed out that judges are conferred with various titles in Europeans countries and awarding Padma awards to the judges would help in Indianisation of the judiciary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-dismisses-pil-seeking-padma-awards-for-judges/article37245437.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Brand ambassador for Govt. initiatives||Actor Puneeth Rajkumar was the brand ambassador and campaigned for various Government initiatives. He was roped in several years ago by the Department of Public Instruction for the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and he in his advertisements appealed to parents to send their children to school. Besides this, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation, Bescom, Karnataka Milk Federation, and the State Election Commission also made him the brand ambassador for many of their initiatives. It is learnt that he did not charge money to act in these advertisements or commercials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/he-was-brand-ambassador-for-govt-initiatives/article37245454.ece
30 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two stolen cars recovered||The Hirisave police in Channarayapatna taluk have arrested a person and recovered two cars that he had stolen. One of the cars belongs to a government official in Bengaluru. The police, while on night beat, took a person into custody suspecting his conduct on Wednesday. He had failed to submit documents of the car he was travelling by and also attempted to flee, leaving behind the car. He had been identified as Santhosh of Musavattur in Arkaglud taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-stolen-cars-recovered/article37245432.ece
30 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man murders daughter||A resident of Shikaripur taluk in Shivamogga district allegedly murdered his daughter as he was opposed to her relationship with a youth from a different caste. The body of Radha, 18, of Kenchegowdana Koplu was found in a desolate place near Birur in Chikkamagaluru district on Thursday. The police have arrested her father Chandrappa. Sources said that Radha was in love with a youth from a different caste. Her parents were against it. They sent her to a relative’s place in Channagiri. On Wednesday, Chandrappa was taking her back homeon his bike. On the way, he tried to convince her to end the relationship, but Radha refused. Angered by her refusal, Chandrappa allegedly murdered her and disposed her body near Birur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-murders-daughter/article37245845.ece
30 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Attacks on Hindus a Jihadi conspiracy to further Islamisation of Bangladesh: RSS||The national executive meeting of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Akhil Bharat Karyakari Mandal (ABKM), under way at Rashtrotthana Vidya Kendra near Dharwad, passed a resolution on Friday urging the Union Government to use diplomatic channels to communicate the concerns of the global Hindu community to the Bangladesh Government on the continued attacks on Hindus and Hindu temples in Bangladesh. Addressing presspersons at RVK near Dharwad on Friday, RSS National Joint General Secretary Arunkumar said that the ABKM, which deliberated on the recent attacks on Hindus and Hindu temples in Bangladesh, felt that the continued brutality on the Hindu minorities was “part of a larger conspiracy by the Jihadi groups to further Islamisation of Bangladesh.” He said that arrests of some of the accused who spread fake news to incite communal violence had exposed that the attacks were a well-orchestrated conspiracy of the radical Islamists. “ABKM feels that the frequent and targeted attacks are clearly a systematic effort to exterminate and uproot Hindu minorities whose population has witnessed a steep decline from 28% in 1947 to 8% now ever since Partition of Bharat,” he said. In the resolution, ABKM has also said that atrocities by radical Islamists groups such as Jamaat-e-Islami (Bangladesh) had resulted in large-scale migration of Hindus to India since Partition, especially during the 1971 war. Mr. Arunkumar said that the Government of Bangladesh should take stringent measures to check the continued attacks on minorities and ensure that the perpetrators of anti-Hindu violence were tried and handed out severe punishment so as to prevent recurrence of such acts and also ensure the safety of Hindus. He said that ABKM, after deliberations, felt that the rise of radical Islamist forces whether in Bangladesh or in any other part of the world was a matter of serious threat to democracy and human rights of the people of peace-loving countries of the world. ABKM also condemned in strong words what it called the “deafening silence of the so-called human rights watchdogs and United Nations-affiliated bodies” on this. The international community should come forward in condemning the violence and raise their voice for the safety and security of Bangladesh Hindu, Buddhist and other minorities, ABKM said in its resolution. In its resolution, ABKM has acknowledged the service of Hindu organisations and institutions, ISKCON, Ramakrishna Mission, Bharat Sevashram Sangha, VHP, and others, for standing with the victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/attacks-on-hindus-a-jihadi-conspiracy-rss/article37245433.ece
30 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Accelerate vaccination drive, officials in Dharwad told||Emphasising on the need for further acceleration of COVID-19 vaccination drive, district-in-charge secretary for Dharwad Ravikumar Surpur has asked officials to continue holding mega vaccination drives and extensive awareness programmes on the significance of two doses of vaccine. Lauding the achievement made so far by the district administration and the Health Department in inoculating people during the COVID-19 vaccination review meeting in Dharwad on Friday, Mr. Surpur said that while Dharwad district had achieved 83% vaccination target, there is a need to make it 100% soon. Among the 344 villages in the district, there is a need to step up the vaccination drive in at least 100 villages. “Government doctors attached to civil hospital and Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) and also private doctors should be motivated to tour villages and enlighten people on the need for getting vaccinated. All eligible people should get their two full doses of vaccination,” he said. He stressed on the need for Panchayat Development Officers (PDOs) to work more efficiently. He said that the administration could rope in the services of the Indian Medical Association to adopt a village or a ward under Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation to extend their continued vaccination services. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that officials have been given the task to scale up the vaccination drive. Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal, IAS Probationary Officer Madhav Gitte, KIMS Director Ramlingappa Antartani and District Health Officer Yeshwanth Madinkar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/accelerate-vaccination-drive-officials-in-dharwad-told/article37245652.ece
30 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Halal products being imposed on Hindus’||Sri Ram Sene and Hindu Janajagruti Samiti have said that despite having government agencies such as FSSAI (Food Safety and Standards Authority of India), halal-certified products are being imposed upon Hindus in the country. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Friday, national president of Sri Ram Sene Pramod Mutalik and national spokesperson of Hindu Janajagruti Samiti Ramesh Shindhe said that halal certification, which was earlier restricted to meat, has now been extended to vegetarian products too. Mr. Mutalik and Mr. Shindhe said that earlier halal certification was restricted to only meat products but now it is being demanded for vegetarian products, cosmetics, medicine and even hospitals. “And, for this certification, a requisite fee has to be paid to Halal India, Jamita Ulema-e-Hind and other Islamic organisations. When only 15% to 17% of the Indian population comprised Muslims, why is this demand for halal certification,” Mr. Shindhe sought to know. Mr. Mutalik said that multinational companies such as McDonald, Dominos and others are selling halal-certified products in their outlets across the country. And, what is more important is that the government is not getting a penny out of this certification but crores of rupees are being collected by Islamic organisations, he said. He said that some of these organisations are engaged in anti-national and terror activities. What is a matter of concern is that in a secular country like India, a religion-based parallel economy is being built which is highly dangerous to the country’s security, he said. Halal-free Deepavali To highlight the issue and condemn proliferation of such practices, the samiti and the sene launched a halal-free Deepavali campaign. They will appeal to all Hindus to join hands with them in banning halal-certified products during Deepavali celebrations. Office-bearers of the sene and the samiti were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/halal-products-being-imposed-on-hindus/article37245649.ece
30 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Fire breaks out at The Hindu office||A fire broke out at The Hindu office in Hubballi on Friday. Fire and Emergency Services personnel put it off before further damage was caused. After a security guard on duty noticed smoke emanating from the closed office, he alerted his superiors, who, in turn, called the Fire and Emergency Services. Within minutes, personnel arrived at Kalburgi Katwe Identity building, which houses The Hindu office on the second floor, and extinguished the fire. The personnel suspected that the fire might have been caused due to an electrical short circuit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fire-breaks-out-at-the-hindu-office/article37245654.ece
30 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Awareness rally on Swacch Bharat taken out||A large number of volunteers, mainly women, participated in an awareness rally on segregation of waste and waste disposal, taken out as part of Swacch Bharat in Hubballi on Friday. The Department of Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Livelihood and Renuka Education and Welfare Association jointly organised the awareness rally as part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. District Skill Development Officer Chandrappa flagged off the awareness rally, which began on the Durgadevi Kannada High School premises at Janata Bazaar in Hubballi. Addressing the volunteers, Mr. Chandrappa said that the awareness rally organised as part of celebrations marking 75 years of Indian Independence is aimed at sensitising the common people on maintaining cleanliness and hygiene in their surroundings. “When people preserve the environment around them and maintain cleanliness and hygiene, they will get clean air to breathe. Good air quality and clean environment will help one lead a healthy life. There is also a need to prevent air pollution through small and collective initiatives,” he said. Mr. Chandrappa said that similar awareness rallies were being taken out across the State to highlight the significance of clean air and environment. Secretary of Durgadevi Temple Bhaskar Jituri said that only through voluntary participation, larger objectives could be fulfilled. The awareness rally covered the thoroughfares of the city, including Kittur Chennamma Circle, before concluding at Indira Glass House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/awareness-rally-on-swacch-bharat-taken-out/article37245650.ece
30 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Five arrested for hunting blackbuck||A group of five men, three Hyderabad-based businessmen and two from Chandapur village of Sedam taluk in Kalaburagi, were arrested by the police for killing a blackbuck here on Thursday night. Based on a tip-off, the Mudhool Police and Forest Department officials apprehended Wasif Hasan, Peer Ahmed, Ali Hussain, all from Hyderabad, Hanumanth Helawar and Venkatesh Helawar, both locals, near Mallabad village in Sedam. The arrested men have been booked under The Wildlife Protection Act 1972. The police have recovered blackbuck meat, skin, rifle, lethal weapons and a vehicle. All the five have been sent to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-arrested-for-hunting-blackbuck/article37245648.ece
30 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||State Govt. to set up Centre of Excellence for Fintech in city||Minister for Higher Education, Information Technology and Bio-technology, Science and Technology and Skill Development C.N. Ashwath Narayan said here on Friday that the government will set up a Centre of Excellence for Fintech or Financial Technology in the city. Addressing a gathering at the inaugural session of Mangaluru Technovanza organised by Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM), the Minister said that the government will allocate Rs. 12 crore for it. The funds will be reserved in the 2022-23 Budget, he said. The Minister reiterated that the government will, through Karnataka State Electronics Corporation Ltd. (KEONICS), set up a software technology park in the city. The Board of KEONICS has approved the proposal. The government will give further approval to the proposal and the construction of the park building will commence later. Mr. Ashwath Narayan said that investors who attended the Global Expo 2020 in Dubai earlier this month have evinced interest in investing in the State. “But we should be ready to absorb the investment,” he said. The Minister said that the government will promote start-ups in Mangaluru region by providing incentives under Beyond Bengaluru initiative and the government policy of promoting industries in tier II and tier III cities. Incentives will be given to attract companies to set up their units beyond Bengaluru. “Companies should be asked to open their units beyond Bengaluru through hand-holding,” he said. Mr. Ashwath Narayan said that the government will also bring out a telecom policy applicable to the State to support telecom and internet service providers to get single window clearance for their projects. Many companies are coming forward to provide communication services in remote areas. The policy will deal with all aspects to promote communication services in the State. The government is promoting digital learning in all government educational institutions in the State, the Minister said. He inaugurated the Mangaluru office of KDEM. In all, six MoUs were exchanged on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-to-set-up-centre-of-excellence-for-fintech-in-city/article37245834.ece
30 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Join hands with the police in tackling trafficking in humans’||Trafficking in human beings cannot be viewed in isolation as it involves, among others, sexual harassment, kidnapping and organ trading. People should be watchful of instances of trafficking in human beings and join hands with the police in combating it, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said here on Wednesday. Inaugurating a lecture on “Human trafficking, a global scenario” at the School of Social Work, Mr. Kumar said that people from different age groups have been victims of trafficking in human beings. There are instances of children being taken away from their houses and forced to work in other houses where they are sexually harassed. Children have been forced into begging. Elders too have been victims of trafficking in human beings. Among the instances Mr. Kumar cited included that of a recent rescue by the police of four children from Bengaluru who had left their houses in a huff. He said that kidnapping of a newborn from Hebbal Flyover in Bengaluru reported more than an year ago is still unresolved.  Eyes Open International president Harold D’Souza and school principal Juliet C.J. spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/join-hands-with-the-police-in-tackling-trafficking-in-humans/article37245825.ece
30 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Khuba asks doctors, health workers to promote use of generic drugs||Calling upon doctors, health workers and ASHAs to promote the use of generic drugs, Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers Bhagwanth Khuba said here on Friday that these drugs greatly reduce the cost of medicine for people. Speaking at the Janaushadhi Mitra Sammelan, Mr. Khuba said that 145 generic medicines are available at the Janaushadi Kendras and these drugs are sold at a cost that is less than 70% to 90% of the cost of branded drugs. “By making generic drugs available at affordable cost, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has helped people save cost on medicine to a great extent,” he said. Citing an instance, Mr. Khuba said that the branded Atorvastatin drug, which is prescribed to lower cholesterol, costs Rs. 12 per tablet, while the same medicine is available at 0.98 paise in a generic drug store. The Union Minister of State urged government and private doctors to prescribe more generic drugs. He said that anganwadi workers and ANMs should make doctors and people aware of generic medicine. He also called upon Janaushadhi kendra operators to carry out activities to make people aware of availability of drugs for blood pressure, diabetes and chronic diseases, which are regularly consumed by several people. During the interaction with Mr. Khuba, some of the representatives of the 82 Jananushadhi Kendra in Dakshina Kannada pointed out at the poor quality of some of the drugs that are being supplied. Another kendra operator spoke about the problem in getting Suvidha Sanitary Napkin priced Rs. 1, for which there is a good demand. A doctor, who has a Janaushadhi Kendra near his hospital in Puttur, expressed the need for more essential drugs at the kendras. Mr. Khuba said that the Ministry is taking steps to address issues related to quality and supply of medicines. “It is an ongoing process and we are addressing your concerns. We earnestly believe in making available quality essential drugs to people,” he said. Changes are being made to the Janushadhi Sugam app to give a clear idea to people about drugs available at the kendras, he said. Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel and Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath spoke. Mr. Khubha and Mr. Kateel presented Janaushadhi Prabhuddi Award to the Udupi district administration as the district stands first among the districts in Karnataka in terms of generic medicine sales. The two also gave away Janaushadhi Mitra awards to seven people, including three doctors, for promotion of Janaushadhi Kendras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/khuba-asks-doctors-health-workers-to-promote-use-of-generic-drugs/article37245836.ece
30 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Local leadership lacking for promoting IT sector’||Co-Founder and Chairman of Aarin Capital T.V. Mohandas Pai and Chairman of State Vision Group on Information Technology Kris Gopalakrishnan said here on Friday that the Information Technology sector has not flourished in Mangaluru region due to lack of local leadership. Delivering the keynote address at the inauguration of Mangaluru Technovanza organised by Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM), Mr. Pai said that Mangaluru region has enormous human capital. Productivity of the people is also very high. It has highly educated people, a great work ethic. But lack of local leadership to promote the IT sector is a drawback. Mr. Pai, who was earlier associated with the IT major Infosys, said that when Infosys opened its unit in Mangaluru in 1995 there was no eco system conducive for the growth of the IT sector. “We worked without electricity connection for 10 years and our unit (Infosys) depended on generators,” he said, pointing out the fact that the situation has not improved much even now. Mr. Pai suggested that the State Government set up a seed fund of Rs. 1,000 crore for promoting IT sector in the State, especially in tier II cities. The government can contribute Rs. 600 crore and the remaining can come from other agencies, including from the Union Government and SIDBI. Start-ups in clusters should be encouraged with such funds in tier-2 centres such as Mangaluru. He also suggested that the government set up Centres of Excellence in the areas of artificial intelligence, machine learning, robotics, etc., across the State. Colleges having such centres should be provided with capital grants of Rs. 1 crore each for the next five years to set them up, he said. Mr. Pai asked people from the region to focus on areas such as biotechnology as there are many medical colleges. These institutions have research laboratories and also huge amount of clinical material. He suggested that the government set up a biotech incubator in the region so that it will encourage students from these institutions to take up research.  Chairman of Karnataka Digital Economy Mission B.V. Naidu spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/local-leadership-lacking-for-promoting-it-sector/article37245832.ece
30 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cleanliness drive at Udupi Railway Station||The Udupi district administration in association with Konkan Railway Corporation and others on Thursday organised a cleanliness drive at the Udupi Railway Station. Organised as part of Clean India campaign, the event saw the participation of volunteers from Nehru Yuva Kendra, Zlla Panchayat, Bharat Scouts and Guides, Lions Club, Swatch Bharath Friends, among others. Additional Deputy Commissioner B. Sadashiva Prabhu led the cleanliness drive on the station premises where platforms, tracks and surrounding areas were cleaned. About 25 bags of plastic waste were collected at the end of the campaign. They were handed over to the disposal section of the station, said a communique from KRCL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cleanliness-drive-at-udupi-railway-station/article37245827.ece
30 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man assaulted||A group of three men barged into Prakash Belluru’s house and assaulted him in Badagabelluru in Bantwal taluk on Tuesday. The police said that the attack came after Prakash Belluru uploaded a post on Facebook asking Ratnakar Kotian and Nitin to come for a truth test at Panolibail Temple over the latter’s claim that the former had received Rs. 25,000 from Ratnakar Kotian. A search is on for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-assaulted/article37245823.ece
30 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karnataka Bank posts Rs. 125.61 cr. net profit||Karnataka Bank on Thursday announced posting a net profit of Rs. 125.61 crore for the second quarter of the current financial year as against Rs. 119.44 crore net profit posted during Q2 of 2020-21. In a meeting of the Board of Directors here through Webex, the board approved the financial results for the quarter and half-year ended September 30, 2021. For the half-year ended September 30, 2021, the net profit stood at Rs. 231.69 crore as against Rs. 315.82 crore of September 30, 2020. For the quarter ended September 30, 2021, the net interest income also has increased by 10.83% to Rs. 637.10 crore from Rs. 574.87 crore. NPAs have further moderated as GNPAs have reduced to 4.50% as against 4.82% as on June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-bank-posts-rs-12561-cr-net-profit/article37245828.ece
30 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||KRS full; good storage in Kabini too||The water level at the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam across the Cauvery reached the maximum height of 124.80 ft. on Friday. The inflow into the reservoir was at the rate of 8,767 cusecs and the outflow was pegged at 3,615 cusecs. The storage in the reservoir is 49.452 thousand million cubic ft. (tmc ft) which is also its maximum gross storage capacity. This is for the first time since 2010 that the dam has reached its full reservoir level (FRL) as late as in the last week of October during a monsoon season. According to officials at the KRS, the dam had attained the FRL as late as in October in 1983, 1984, 1995 and in 2010. In an year of normal monsoon the reservoir tends to attain the FRL of 124.80 ft.in the last week of July or sometime in August. But after a good spell of monsoon during June and July, the rains abated in the catchment area of the Cauvery in Kodagu which saw a deficit of nearly 25 per cent. As a result, the water level in the reservoir did not go above the 120 ft. mark even in September and subsequently began to dip consequent to the regular discharge of water from the crest gates. But the heavy rains in October augmented the inflow into the reservoir and the dam attained its FRL on Friday much to the relief of the authorities and the farmers. As a result of the KRS attaining the FRL, the Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is expected to visit the dam in the next few days to offer thanksgiving (bagina) to the Cauvery. The water level at the Kabini reservoir in H.D. Kote was 2,283.60 ft. against the FRL of 2,284 ft. The dam has 19.25 tmc ft. of water against the maximum gross storage capacity of 19.52 tmc ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krs-full-good-storage-in-kabini-too/article37245441.ece
30 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||40th batch passes out from ISMT at CFTRI||The 40th batch of students from the International School of Milling Technology (ISMT), CSIR-CFTRI, Mysuru completed their one-year international certificate course in flour milling technology and the valedictory of the course was held here on Friday. The CSIR-CFTRI has been conducting the course since 1981. So far, 836 participants, including 117 from other developing countries of Gulf region, Africa, South America and Asia, have been trained. ISMT is first of its kind in South-East Asia, housing a 20-tonne per day fully dedicated PLC-controlled pilot roller flour mill, where students are taught milling systems as per the domestic and international standards. It is also equipped with analytical laboratory for testing physico-chemical attributes of raw material and finished products. In addition, pilot-scale baking facilities are available for assessing quality of milled products, a press release from the institute said. The millers completing the course are sought after in Gulf and African countries. The ISMT alumni are representing 70-80 per cent of the flour manufacturers worldwide, including the big players such as ITC, Adani Willmar, IFFCO (Sharjah), National Flour Mills (Dubai), Dufil Group (Nigeria), and Flour Mills of Nigeria. Further, ISMT alumni has been helping networking with all the stakeholders associated with the industry, it said. S.K. Ramprasad, Managing Director, Muhlenbau Equipments,, Bengaluru delivered the valedictory address. Sridevi Annapurna Singh, Director, CSIR-CFTRI, presided over the function. Suresh D. Sakhare, Coordinator, ISMT and Basavaraj Mundalamani, Convener, ISMT, were present. Meritorious students were awarded with medals on the occasion.  The medallists include Annapoorneshwari G., who bagged the G.K. Jalan Gold Medal instituted by Deccan Flour Mills; V. Sugatha who bagged the silver medal instituted by Delhi Flour Mills and also Dr. S.R. Shurpalekar Cereal Science Gold medal; Pradeep Kumar Marure won the bronze medal instituted by Shivaji Roller Flour Mills; and Machani Pavani, who bagged the Dr. Indrani Dassappa baking science gold medal.  So far, 836 participants, including 117 from Gulf region, Africa, South America and Asia, have been trained||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/40th-batch-passes-out-from-ismt-at-cftri/article37245843.ece
30 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Minister to hold meeting on Nov. 1 to discuss deluge issue||The damage caused by the recent rain and the loss suffered in the deluge in Mysuru will be discussed at the meeting to be presided over by Minister in charge of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts S.T. Somashekar here on November 1. This is the first such meeting where the officials are expected to put forth details on the damage caused to properties and the estimated loss as the city recorded the highest-ever rains in the recent past. Engineers and officials from the Mysuru City Corporation are in the process of assessing the damage and loss with spot inspections. The Mysuru City Corporation was criticised for its alleged failure in clearing clogged storm-water drains which are being blamed for the inundation as the drain network was missing at several places. The neighbourhoods beyond the Outer Ring Road were among the affected ones with blocked drains flooding the houses and several low-lying areas. The Minister will also be discussing other issues, including the works taken up by the Mysore Urban Development Authority, at the Zilla Panchayat meeting hall at 1 p.m. Officials from MCC, Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation, Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board, Police, NHAI, Cauvery Niravani Nigama, and also from the newly-formed town panchayats and city municipal councils have been asked to attend the meeting with relevant documents. Residents’ woes The MLAs and the councillors are expected to highlight the problems faced by the residents during the rain havoc. The meeting is expected to discuss measures to be taken for preventing deluge in the coming years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-to-hold-meeting-on-nov-1-to-discuss-deluge-issue/article37245844.ece
30 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Floating hospital a lifeline for livestock||It was the bellows of his cow and the newborn calf that worried Joji Mathew most when floodwaters started to enter his house compound at North Veliyanadu in Kavalam last week. At the time, the cow, which gave birth to the bull calf on October 11, was ailing and needed treatment to stand up. “Although the floodwaters did not inundate the house and cattle shed, the entire area, including the roads, were submerged. I feared for the health of my cow as it was almost impossible for veterinary doctors to reach my home and provide treatment wading through the floodwaters,” says Mr. Mathew. Help at hand But all his fears soon faded away as veterinarians, part of a floating veterinary hospital of the Animal Husbandry Department, visited his place and attended to the ill cow even before the floodwaters began to recede. After getting treatment for days, the downer cow has slowly started to stand up on its own. The latest bout of flooding in Kuttanad has affected not only humans but also livestock. With several animals suffering from flood-related diseases, the floating veterinary hospital has turned out to be a lifeline for livestock in waterlogged areas. Following the floods, the floating hospital with doctors and medicines has traversed the Kuttanad region providing care to a large number of cattle and other animals. “The recent flood has inundated a number of veterinary hospitals and clinics in Kuttanad and made them dysfunctional for several days. The floating veterinary hospital has, however, helped us to provide care and treatment to animals, including in remote areas of the region,” says an official. Boat on lease Although the floating hospital was launched a few years ago, it really flourished after the 2018 deluge. The department has leased a boat for this purpose. “Earlier we had our own vessel, which functioned as the floating hospital. The boat was later condemned. Although there was a proposal to buy a new boat, the idea was dropped due to the exorbitant cost and the department leased a vessel,” the official adds. Apart from floods, the floating hospital sails to different parts of Kuttanad thrice a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/floating-hospital-a-lifeline-for-livestock/article37245781.ece
30 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Cherian’s return sans conditions: Satheesan||Cherian Philip, who ended his two-decade-long association with the Left Democratic Front, has returned to the Congress party without any preconditions, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has said. Speaking to reporters at Kayamkulam on Friday, Mr. Satheesan said that more people would join the Congress in the coming days. He welcomed Speaker M.B. Rajesh’s decision to remove the controversial remarks made by P.V. Anwar, MLA, against him from the Assembly records. Mr. Satheesan alleged that the police were not under the control of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Incidences of police atrocities were on the rise in the State. The Leader of the Opposition said that the police top brass had protected fake antiquities dealer Monson Mavunkal and their actions helped him generate credibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cherians-return-sans-conditions-satheesan/article37245782.ece
30 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Memorial lecture||The Research and Post Graduate Department of English, SD College, Alappuzha, on Friday organised the Akshayakumar Memorial Lecture. Noted critic P.K. Rajasekharan delivered the memorial lecture. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Rajasekharan called to recognise translators and institute special awards for them. E. Krishnan Namboothiri, Vice Principal and head of the English Department presided. Unnikrishna Pillai, Principal, and S. Ajayakumar and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/memorial-lecture/article37245796.ece
30 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Impact on Idukki reservoir minimal||The opening of the spillway shutters of Mullaperiyar dam made little impact on the downstream Idukki reservoir by Friday evening. Saju M.P., assistant engineer, Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), told The Hindu that the water released from the Mullaperiyar dam was very less when compared to the reservoir area of the Idukki dam, one of the largest in Asia. The water released was at 534 cusecs (cubic feet per second), which was not enough to make an impact on the Idukki reservoir, he said. From red to orange The water level in the reservoir fell from 2,398.31 ft (red alert level) in the morning to 2,398.30 ft (orange alert level) by evening. The fall in the water level is attributed to the near absence of rainfall in the catchment area and the reduced inflow through the main tributary, the Periyar. The water released from the Mullaperiyar dam in the morning reached the Idukki reservoir by noon. To make an impact A dam safety official said an inflow of at least 2 mcm (million cubic metres) of water was needed to make any impact on the Idukki reservoir in the present situation. At least 16 mcm of water should flow into the reservoir for the water level to increase by one foot, he said. Power generation in the Moolamattom power plant of the Idukki reservoir was at the maximum. The upper rule curve level of the Idukki dam is set in a way to accommodate the water released from Mullaperiyar as per the new rule curve level set by the Central Water Commission (CWC) for the two dams. Rising in Mullaperiyar Because of good inflow, the water level in Mullaperiyar rose after the opening of the spillway shutters at 7.30 a.m. on Friday. The water level was 138.75 ft at 7 a.m. and it rose to 138.85 ft at 6 p.m. Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 2,335 cusecs while the average inflow was 3,744 cusecs on Friday. KSEB sources said Kerala was pressurising Tamil Nadu to release more water from the dam as the upper rule curve for the dam till October 31 is 138 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/impact-on-idukki-reservoir-minimal/article37245734.ece
30 October 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Intent on new dam: Minister||The State government will go ahead with its plans to construct a new dam at Mullaperiyar, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. After visiting flood relief camps here on Friday, the Minister said the Chief Minister had already said a new dam was the only solution to the Mullaperiyar issue. The government would ensure water to Tamil Nadu while protecting those living downstream of the Mullaperiyar dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/intent-on-new-dam-minister/article37245735.ece
30 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Relocation of tribespeople in limbo||The alleged apathy of the government agencies in finding suitable land for relocation has cast a shadow over the lives of tribal families inside the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary. The Union Ministry of Environment, Forests, and Climate Change (MoEFCC) had credited Rs. 2.8 crore to the joint account of the beneficiaries, Tribal Development Officer, Sulthan Bathery, and Assistant Wildlife Warden of the sanctuary in January 2019 to relocate 28 tribal families belonging to Kattunayakka and Paniya tribespeople in Chettyalathur settlement under the voluntary village relocation project of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). The eligible families were provided a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh each, irrespective of the nature or extent of the land they possessed. But the relocation is yet to be materialised owing to the alleged apathy of the officials, Biju Kakkathodu, secretary, Paniya Maha Sabha, said. Earlier, nearly 12 families of Mullakuruma tribal families were relocated from the settlement under the scheme and each family was provided the compensation directly, Mr. Biju said. But some officials considered the Paniya and Kattunayakka tribespeople inefficient in purchasing land and that they might be exploited by middlemen. The officials were acting as godfathers of the tribal communities, he said. Though the tribal beneficiaries had identified land outside the settlement, the officials were adopting a negative stance, he said. The Department of Tribal Welfare has constituted a purchasing committee to identify and purchase land for the tribespeople. A district-level monitoring committee has been set up for the purpose and the district collector is the chairman, and the warden of the sanctuary is the secretary. However, the committees had not been convened for the past many months, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/relocation-of-tribespeople-in-limbo/article37245707.ece
30 October 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Neeleswaram halt under consideration||Palakkad Divisional Railway Manager Trilok Kothari visited various stations from Mangaluru to Kannur on Friday. Mr. Kothari inspected the railway track, power supply, signals, train operations, and safety systems. He said the information centre at the Kanhangad railway station was not functioning due to lack of staff. He said the replacement of the ticket counter at Neeleswaram was a priority. He also said the issue of sanctioning a halt at Neeleswaram for the Intercity Express and Chennai Mail was under active consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/neeleswaram-halt-under-consideration/article37245708.ece
30 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Panel moots storage dam at Achencoil||Kerala should explore the possibility of setting up a storage dam on the Achencoil river for flood moderation and other multi-purpose use, according to N.N. Rai, Director, Hydrology (South) of the Central Water Commission (CWC). “There is no storage dam on Achencoil river. During heavy rainfall, the run-off generated from the catchment of this river causes heavy flooding in the downstream area, and some relief from flooding in these areas can be realised by storing the flood water in a storage dam,” he told The Hindu . Mr. Rai said that some additional water storage possibility should be explored in Pampa sub-basin as well for flood moderation. On reservoir operation and management amidst the increasing extreme climate events in the State, he said that the reservoir should be operated as per rule curve. “If the reservoir level is between conservation rule level and upper rule level, it shall have some capacity to store the flood water and help in mitigation of flood in downstream areas,” he said. Flood zoning Mr. Rai said that the State Government was operating the reservoirs as per the rule curve and it was providing flood relief to the downstream area. When asked about steps for effective flood risk management in the State, Mr. Rai said that some flood zoning corresponding to at least 5 years to 25 years return period floods might be considered by the Kerala Government. “Further, for the rivers in the State, the inundation mapping may be carried out for 2, 5, 10, 25, 50 and 100-year return period floods and based on the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, people residing in flood plains should be alerted in order to save lives. Necessary regulations to avoid flood plain encroachments are essential,” he said. Capacity shrinkage A report prepared by the Hydrology (South) Directorate of the commission after the massive floods in 2018 had found that the absence of appreciable storage reservoirs in the upstream of the Pampa, Manimala, Meenachil and the Achencoil rivers along with the shrinkage of the carrying capacity of Vembanad Lake and reduction in the capacity of Thottappally spillway worsened the flooding in the Kuttanad region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-moots-storage-dam-at-achencoil/article37245806.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||More private buses convert to CNG to remain afloat||The skyrocketing diesel price, which hovers at Rs. 104 now, has resulted in over 80 private buses in Kerala getting retrofitted with CNG kits, considering the substantial rate difference of Rs. 40 between the two fuels. The pre-pandemic prices of the two fuels were Rs. 64 per litre and Rs. 53 per kg respectively. “With odds stacked against them in the form of a massive increase in operational cost, many of the 12,500 private bus operators are eager to invest in the retrofitting of CNG kits, which come at over Rs. 4 lakh a piece. The Rs. 40 price hike for diesel saw a commensurate increase of Rs. 10 for CNG during the past 18 months in the State. This is apart from the much lesser air and sound pollution and the marginally higher fuel efficiency of CNG-run buses,” said a senior Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) official. The impact of diesel price crossing the Rs. 100-mark was so much that the around half-a-dozen outlets that carry out retrofitment have a waiting list of up to a month. Citing how the rise in operational cost had resulted in the number of city buses in Kochi alone falling to 350 from 600 during pre-COVID days, K.M. Navas, secretary, Kerala Bus Transport Association (KBTA), said diesel price had nearly doubled in a year. “In this situation, the Government must incentivise the retrofitment of CNG kits in buses and permit such buses to operate for at least five more years than conventional buses that have to be scrapped after 15 years,” he added. The State Government must waive road tax at least for a year and provide subsidy to retrofit CNG kits for the private bus sector to stay afloat, said M.B. Satyan, president, Kerala State Private Bus Operators Federation. Six buses Among the first in the State to retrofit a CNG kit in a bus was George Joseph, a city-based operator, whose sixth bus which was converted to CNG was rolled out on Wednesday. “Bus operators like me were compelled to shift to CNG, since approximately Rs. 2 lakh had to be spent for each bus to resume service after the pandemic situation for repair works, to replace batteries that ran out of charge and worn out tyres, for insurance, and GPS installation. The State Government that provides over Rs. 100 crore each month to the KSRTC should at least help us with interest-free loans for CNG conversion,” he said. Operational cost The demand for retrofitting CNG kits in buses is such that an average of one bus is rolled out with the new fuel option each day in Kerala after September, said Ajay Pillai, the Enakulam unit head of IOC-Adani Gas. This is because bus operators are assured of saving 40% in operational cost vis-a-vis diesel, he added and attributed the higher transmission cost (distance that the gas has to travel through pipelines) for CNG costing relatively higher in Kochi than in metro cities like Mumbai. Geo John Palatty who runs a CNG retrofitment centre in the city said all slots had been booked till November 25. “We carried out retrofitment of 40 buses pan Kerala, during the past year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-private-buses-convert-to-cng-to-remain-afloat/article37245722.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court notice to Govt. on missing CPI(M) member||The Kerala High Court on Friday issued notices to the State Government and the State Police Chief on a habeas corpus petition filed by the wife of a CPI(M) member of the Puthoppu branch committee in Alappuzha district seeking a directive to the police to trace out and produce her husband before the court. The petition was filed by Sajitha Sajeevan, Thattappally, Alappuzha. According to her, her husband Sajeevan was a member of the branch committee of Puthoppu. There was factionalism in the committee and her husband was regarded as rebel in the party. He had been missing after the scheduling of the branch committee meeting on September 30. As he was missing, the committee meeting was postponed indefinitely. The petitioner believed that he was abducted by somebody associated with the official CPI(M). The police had not been able to trace her husband so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-notice-to-govt-on-missing-cpim-member/article37245775.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KSWDC keeps lending, helps women beat pandemic blues||Notwithstanding the disruptions in repayments owing to the pandemic, the Kerala State Women’s Development Corporation (KSWDC) has distributed Rs. 43 crore across five districts during the previous fiscal. Women aged between 18 and 55 years from Ernakulam, Alappuzha, Thrissur, Kottayam, and Idukki benefited from the loans sanctioned by the KSWDC for income-generating projects. “While the disruptions in repayment remain a challenge for a semi-banking institution like us, we have kept on lending as part of pumping funds into society to cushion the blow dealt by the pandemic. Except for Idukki, where huge dues have piled up, we keep on lending under various schemes,” said Rangan M.R., regional manager, KSWDC, Ernakulam. The KSWDC had also offered moratorium on repayment for various periods since the pandemic. A programme called Athijeevanam was held whereby loans were extended by 18 months after a one-time settlement of dues till then. Though over 500 had applied for the scheme only about half availed themselves of its benefit. More takers So far, the corporation has lent over Rs. 20 crore in the region in the ongoing financial year. The number of people taking loans has increased marginally due to the impact of the pandemic. Though the KSWDC offers multiple loans, including individual loans of up to Rs. 30 lakh for five years at an interest rate of 6%, small loans up to Rs. 5 lakh remain the most sought-after ones across the region. Education loans up to Rs. 20 lakh is given for courses within the country and up to Rs. 30 lakh for those abroad at an interest rate of 3% for five years. The repayment of the principal has to start within six months after the course or the first month since getting a job, whichever is earlier. Till then the beneficiaries need to pay just the interest every six months. Microfinance scheme The KSWDC also offers loans under its microfinance scheme in a tie-up with the Kudumbashree for a term of 36 months. Community Development Societies can avail of loans up to Rs. 1.5 crore as per the recommendations of the local body concerned. Except for loans under the microfinance scheme, all loans of the KSWDC entail collateral securities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kswdc-keeps-lending-helps-women-beat-pandemic-blues/article37245798.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kudumbashree to try out new chicken products||Kerala Chicken, an enterprise under the Kudumbashree Mission, has come through nearly two years of restrictions due to COVID-19 to achieve sales of around Rs. 50 crore and a daily turnover of around Rs. 25 lakh. Kudumbashree sources said the success of Kerala Chicken had prompted the mission to consider launching processed meat and value-added products in the immediate future. Value-added products and processed meat are planned to be launched from three districts now depending on space availability for processing plants. Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, and Palakkad are being considered as possible locations, while a final decision will be taken on the basis of space availability, the sources said. 84 chicken outlets There are a total of 84 Kerala Chicken outlets in the State, and 350 families, involved in running feed stores, chicken farms, and meat outlets, have benefited from the initiative. The outlets are now open in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kottayam, Thrissur, Ernakulam and Kozhikode districts. The programme will be expanded to include Palakkad, Kannur, Malappuram and Alappuzha. The mission also plans to open premium chicken outlets across the State in the next stage of expansion of business. The Kerala Chicken brand was launched in 2017 to make quality broiler chicken available at reasonable price. A network of broiler chicken farms across the State using the Kudumbashree network is one of the objectives of the mission. Breeder units, hatcheries, feed supply units, abattoirs, cold storages, and marketing units under the brand name are being established as part of the initiative. Broiler chicken As a step towards promoting broiler chicken business, a firm named Kudumbashree Broiler Farmers Producer Company Limited has been launched. There are around 240 farms operating under the Kerala Chicken brand across the State. The network will be expanded in the future.  Value-added products and processed meat are planned to be launched from three districts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-to-try-out-new-chicken-products/article37245875.ece
30 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Design of new dam likely by December||The design of a new Mullaperiyar dam, which will replace the old one, will be ready in two months as experts are busy working on the hydrological safety of the proposed structure. The dam is back in news after Tamil Nadu opened the shutters of the dam on Friday following heavy rain in the catchment area and Kerala evacuating families living in the downstream areas. Kerala has also restarted its campaign for constructing a new dam. Though the dam would be designed by Kerala, it would require the concurrence of Tamil Nadu for the State to go ahead with the construction. The new design and its detailed project report will have to be handed over to Tamil Nadu, according to experts. Prospect of flooding While designing the new dam, the maximum flood that can happen in the region needs to be taken into account. Earlier, a study by the Delhi IIT had estimated that 3.06 lakh cusecs of water could reach the reservoir in case of an extreme flood event. Kerala also needs to take into account the 2018 and 2019 floods. The new dam should be designed in such a way as to withstand future floods and heavy inflow of water, according to those at the Irrigation Design and Research Board (IDRB) of the State Irrigation Department. According to R. Priyesh, Director, IDRB, the hydrological safety is of utmost significance given the steep nature of the catchment area of the dam, spread over 620 sq km. The rain received in the catchment area can reach the dam in no time. As the State is witnessing extreme weather events frequently, the new dam should be designed to resist flooding caused by such events, he said. Kerala has been highlighting the hydrological, seismic and structural safety aspects of the old dam in its Supreme Court litigations. The height of the new dam, its water holding capacity and the spillway levels are yet to be finalised. The new dam could cost around over Rs. 2,000 crore and take four years to complete, said Mr. Priyesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/design-of-new-dam-likely-by-december/article37245737.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to constitute authority for upkeep of monuments||A Kochi Heritage Tourism Development Authority must be constituted for the conservation and upkeep of historic monuments and locales in Fort Kochi, Mattancherry, Kumbalanghi, and Chellanam, Kerala Heritage and Tourism Society (K-HATS) has said. The State Government, Kerala Tourism, and allied agencies are doing precious little in the sector, despite the Lonely Planet travel guide mentioning Kochi as one among the 10 must-see global destinations, it said. Government agencies have not even bothered to place boards detailing the historic significance of many monuments. Several projects remain in a half-baked state owing to lack of monitoring and official apathy, said office-bearers of the NGO at its general body at Kumbalanghi on Thursday. Many travellers are thus limiting the number of days they reside in Kochi, hitherto considered a prime tourism destination in Kerala, owing to the above reasons, thereby impacting homestay operators and other stakeholders. Bringing all such tourism locales in West Kochi under a single authority will in turn help provide a stimulus to heritage conservation and tourism, especially so since the region has the right mix of heritage, sea, backwaters, and village tourism avenues. At present, as many as 10 agencies are in charge of tourism in the region. Many senior officials have little idea of heritage and sustainable tourism. The sole way out is to entrust a single agency with overseeing tourism development of the region, after disbanding non-performing ones. A memorandum in this regard will shortly be submitted to the Chief Minister and Minister for Tourism. Kerala HATS director M.P. Sivadattan explained how the NGO began a campaign in 2019 to restore Fort Kochi and Mattancherry to their past glory, considering their identity as prime heritage locales.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-constitute-authority-for-upkeep-of-monuments/article37245723.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Make pre-marital counselling mandatory: women’s panel||As dowry-related violence and marital discord continue to rock society, the Kerala Women’s Commission has called for making pre-marital counselling mandatory and ensure it at the time of registering marriages. Commission Chairperson P. Sathidevi said a report to this effect had been submitted to the State Government. Pre-marital counselling will help avert martial discords to a great extent, she said and called for paying more attention to the family background and character of individuals while arranging marriages. The Commission will submit guidelines to the Government to ensure women’s safety and women-friendly atmosphere at media houses. There is a surge in tendencies like neglecting aged people, exploiting women living alone and without income, and appropriating their property. “Efficient functioning of ward-level alert committees will help prevent such issues. Members of such committees will be given special training at the district-level,” Ms. Sathidevi said. The Commission also urged local bodies to be proactive in waste management. The Cyber Cell should be strengthened in view of the rising cyber crimes. The two-day adalat witnessed complaints about misusing ornaments shortly after marriages that are arranged through matrimonial advertisements and attempts to usurp money even before the marriage is held. The Commission will organise school- and college-level campaigns to check drug abuse among teenagers. Social media usage among children rose manifold with the onset of online education. Perverted ideas circulated on social media are leading to crimes. This calls for women-centric social media monitoring, Ms. Sathidevi said. Of the 162 complaints at the adalat, 31 were settled, reports were sought in 13 cases, and 118 cases were set aside for the next adalat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/make-pre-marital-counselling-mandatory-womens-panel/article37245727.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Labour shortage hits pokkali farming||The shortage of hands for harvesting has emerged as one of the biggest challenges for pokkali rice farmers in Kadamakkudy. Around 85 of the potential 100 hectares in the panchayat have been under cultivation this year. However, the workforce woefully falls short of the ideal 200 to 300 for completing harvesting within the extremely narrow window of 7 to 10 days. “With the new generation staying away from farming, getting adequate number of labourers is a challenge. Since harvesting has to be done standing almost hip-deep in water, workers cannot be engaged beyond noon, further delaying the completion of harvesting,” said Mary Shilpa, District Agriculture Officer. The conventional harvesting machine is also of little use for pokkali farming. Though a specially designed machine demonstrated a few years ago was found to be somewhat successful, it did not go beyond that. “The government has shown little interest in developing a machine compatible for pokkali farming, which could address shortage of labourers. The government should reintroduce the special budgetary provision for promoting pokkali farming as in the late 90s before it was suspended abruptly following audit objections,” said K.A. Thomas, secretary, Kadamakkudy Nellulpadaka Padashekhara Samiti. There is also a demand either not to run the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) concurrently during the harvesting period or to bring harvesting under the programme to resolve the challenge of loss of labourers to the comparatively less labour-intensive programme. “We have already applied to allow harvesting work under MGNREGS to overcome labour shortage,” said Ms. Shilpa. Benny Xavier, a pokkali farm owner, said unless harvested within the narrow window, pokkali stalks may succumb to unseasonal rain. Vipin Raj, Kadamakkudy panchayat vice president, rued that while there was still an older generation willing to pass on the knowledge, the new generation remains far from interested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/labour-shortage-hits-pokkali-farming/article37245730.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man wanted in multiple theft cases arrested||The Kunnathunadu police have arrested a man on the charge of absconding with Rs. 1 lakh and a motorcycle from the bakery where he was employed. Prasad, 32, of Mulankunnathukavu in Thrissur is an accused in several cases, the police said. He had allegedly stolen the money and the vehicle from the bakery at Kizhakkambalam. His modus operandi is to win the trust of people at the workplace before pulling off thefts. He had used the same method before absconding from Kizhakkambalam on October 13. He was nabbed from Perumbavoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-wanted-in-multiple-theft-cases-arrested/article37245731.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||TC not must for school students: HC||The Kerala High Court has held that the right of a child pursuing elementary education to get admitted in a class appropriate to his or her age cannot be denied on the ground of non-production of a Transfer Certificate (TC). Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan ordered recently that in view of the provisions under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, which enables the child to secure admission in an age-appropriate class without any restrictions, “the conflicting provisions in the Kerala Education Rules will have to fall by the wayside in view of Article 254 of the Constitution.” The court passed the order while allowing the petitions filed by 17 Class V students of ALP School, Kottassery, Palakkad, seeking a directive to permit them to continue their studies without insisting on transfer certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tc-not-must-for-school-students-hc/article37245736.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cycle with Kochi project launched||The Cycle with Kochi project was officially launched by Hardeep Singh Puri, Union Minister of Housing, Urban Affairs, Petroleum and Natural Gas, during the 14th edition of the Urban Mobility India (UMI) conference on Friday. According to the plan, cycle-friendly roads will be identified in all divisions of the Kochi Corporation. The civic agency has envisioned a programme to convert Kochi into a cycle-friendly city. The project is an initiative of the Kochi Corporation jointly with Cochin Smart Mission Limited, and Centre for Heritage, Environment and Development, supported by Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH as part of the Integrated and Sustainable Urban Transport Systems for Smart Cities in India (SMART-SUT), said an official release. The genesis of UMI is from the National Urban Transport Policy of the Centre, which emphasises building capabilities at the State and city levels to usher in sustainable modes of urban transport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cycle-with-kochi-project-launched/article37245720.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rs. 1.64 crore seized from train passengers||Two passengers of Sabari special train were nabbed by the Crime Intelligence Branch (CIB) of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) on the charge of carrying currency worth Rs. 1.64 crore in their bags. They were arrested during checks between Palakkad and Ottapalam stations. The arrested are Balanagu Naga Venkata Raghavendra, 40, and Shaik Ahamad, 37, both from Guntur in Andhra Pradesh. They were detained and brought to the CIB’s Palakkad office. The Income Tax Department was informed of the matter, Railway sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-164-crore-seized-from-train-passengers/article37245724.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Three held on charge of murder||The Kochi City police on Friday arrested three persons on the charge of murder. Manoj, 34, of Murikkumthara and Tony Mathew, 27, of Chaakumaadam and Hashim P.A., 35, of Chithuparambu, Mattancherry, were nabbed from Koovapadam. The accused allegedly forced their way into a shop owned by the victim, Mahesh Kumar, on Town Hall Road at Mattancherry on October 26 around 10 p.m. They then stabbed on his chest and neck. The three were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-on-charge-of-murder/article37245725.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Theatre show resumes||After a long hiatus forced by COVID-19, it’s curtains up for the Kerala Fine Arts Society which is resuming its monthly theatre at the Fine Arts Hall on Saturday. Mayor M. Anilkumar will inaugurate the staging of Venalavadhi by Kozhikode Sankeerthana at 6.15 pm. The organisers said the COVID protocol would be observed while allowing people to watch the play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/theatre-show-resumes/article37245732.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Union Minister in Lakshadweep||L Murugan, Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting and Fisheries, reached Lakshadweep on Friday on a three-day visit. During an interaction with women self-help groups of Agatti in the fisheries sector, he said the government wanted to empower the women and fishermen of Lakshadweep. He asked them to concentrate on the potential of seaweed farming and emerge as entrepreneurs by availing of benefits under the PM Matsya Sampada Yojana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/union-minister-visits-lakshadweep/article37245728.ece
30 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Subsidies for farmers to go high-tech||As part of efforts to empower the farming community, the State Horticulture Mission will offer subsidies to farmers adopting high-tech and innovative interventions. The beneficiaries will receive up to 50% subsidy in a range of categories under the Centrally sponsored Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH). “A total of Rs. 2.20 crore has been allotted to the district and farmers and aspiring entrepreneurs can apply for assistance through Krishi Bhavans in their respective panchayat,” said Deputy Director of Horticulture A.J. Sunil here on Friday. Assistance will be provided under various categories that include area expansion of fruit and vegetable crops, agriculture mechanisation, high-tech farming in poly house, rejuvenation of orchards, processing units for manufacturing value-added products, cold storage, and mushroom cultivation. Area expansion of crops such as dragon fruit, rambutan, passion fruit, garcinia, jamun, jackfruit, papaya, and pineapple are included in the scheme with a subsidy ranging from Rs. 18,000 to Rs. 60,000 a hectare. In the high-tech farming category, units such as poly houses and greenhouses will receive financial assistance up to 50% of total cost of construction. Under farm mechanisation category farmers can buy different type of garden tillers, fruit pluckers, tree pruners, power sprayers, fruit harvesters and other equipment with 50% financial assistance. The scheme also offers support in post-harvest management, helping the farmers to set up processing units for agricultural produce and more focus will be given to crops widely cultivated in Kerala that include banana, ginger, turmeric, jackfruit, mango, and pineapple. Loan-linked schemes “Subsidy under the loan-linked scheme ranges from Rs. 50,000 to 12 lakh per unit. Farmers can also approach Krishi Bhavans for mushroom production unit, mobile vending cart, marketing infrastructure, pack house, ripening chamber, cold storage, retail market, vermi compost unit and refrigerated vehicle,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/subsidies-for-farmers-to-go-high-tech/article37245777.ece
30 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Landslips cause damage at Edappalayam||Leaving residents in distress, multiple landslips on Thursday night caused widespread damage at Edappalayam in Arayankavu panchayat. Though no casualty has been reported, a house and three vehicles were washed away while many parts in and around Edappalayam were inundated. According to the residents, the landslip occurred around 7 p.m. following torrential rain. A major tragedy was averted as all the five members of a house that was completely destroyed in the landslip were in Palakkad. While several houses suffered partial damage, widespread crop loss was also reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/landslips-cause-damage-at-edappalayam/article37245786.ece
30 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||805 new cases in Kollam||Kollam reported 805 new cases of COVID-19 and 805 recoveries on Friday. While 802 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others included an NRI and a person from another State and a health worker. At present, the district has 19,516 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 25,25,772. While 1,114 persons completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 4,03,265 primary and 21,793 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 14.2 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/805-new-cases-in-kollam/article37245790.ece
30 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Webinar||The District Information Office, district administration, and Fatima Mata National College are jointly organising a webinar in connection with Kerala Piravi celebrations. Poet and scenarist Ganesh Olikkara will inaugurate the webinar on ‘Malayalam in New Media’ at 11 a.m. on November 2. College Principal P.J. Jojo will preside over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar/article37245783.ece
30 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Cashew cultivation programme inaugurated||Sree Narayana College, Chathannur and the Kollam City police jointly organised ‘Thanalorukkam Vilavedukkam’, a cashew cultivation programme, on the campus on Friday. Kollam City Crime Branch Sub-Inspector Rajesh inaugurated the event by planting a sapling. College Principal M.S. Latha presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cashew-cultivation-programme-inaugurated/article37245784.ece
30 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Planting subsidy scheme for rubber to be restored||Stung by a consistent fall in the area under replanting and new planting over the years, the Rubber Board has initiated steps to restore the planting subsidy scheme for growers after a gap of three years. Official sources said here on Thursday that the board would soon come up with an online platform for processing and paying planting subsidies since 2018-19. The programme, slated to take off next month in Kerala, will be extended to the northeast in a phased manner. The subsidy, pegged at Rs. 25,000 a hectare, will be transferred directly to the growers’ bank account in a single tranche as against three instalments previously. The step puts to rest the speculations of the Union Government seeking to discontinue the subsidy scheme and replace it with a rubber loan scheme for growers. Distribution delay “Our distribution of subsides has been delayed by some years due to financial constraints, but we resumed it last year and paid some of the subsidies due for the 12th Plan period.A scheme for distribution of subsidy for the period between the 12th and 13th Plan period (2018-19) is ready for Kerala, which will be gradually expanded to other areas,” K.N. Raghavan, executive director, Rubber Board, said during a recent online interaction with farmers. Prior to launching the scheme, field officers of the board carried out a survey of plantations across 1,400 villages in the State and uploaded the details in the Service Plus portal. A similar survey for the rubber growing areas across north eastern States is currently underway. As per estimates, only about 5 lakh out of the 6.90 lakh hectares of matured plantations are tapped on a regular basis. The total area under rubber in the country, meanwhile, is estimated to be 8.23 lakh hectares. Planting area down With non-payment of subsidies since 2018, coupled with the fall in prices and COVID-19-induced slump, the average area under new planting and replanting dropped to less than 10,000 hectares a year from 30,000 hectares. Adding to the woes of growers, the board had cut back its support to farmers in the absence of adequate budgetary allocations. The trend, however, appears to be reversing on the back of rising prices and a planting drive in the northeast, while the domestic consumption too is poised to hit record levels at 12.5 lakh tonnes this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/planting-subsidy-scheme-for-rubber-to-be-restored/article37245801.ece
30 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||KSRTC complex: KTDFC serves eviction notice on tenants||Amid controversies surrounding the construction of the twin towers of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), the Kerala Transport Development Finance Corporation (KTDFC) has served notices on tenants in the complex on Mavoor Road to close down operations and vacate the premises by Sunday. The development comes close on the heels of the Transport Department constituting a five-member panel to study and provide suggestions on a report by the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-M) that stated that the terminal complex, constructed at a cost of Rs. 74.63 crore six years ago, had serious structural flaws and required immediate rectification.  Repair work The KTDFC, a non-banking financial company fully owned by the State Government, decided to issue eviction notices for carrying out repairs and rehabilitation of the complex. In a letter to the firm Tastic Lead Point that had taken a kiosk on lease in the terminal building, the KTDFC said that the IIT-M had advised maintaining the complex free of any type of loading, including bus operation and functioning of tenants. The report submitted by the panel chaired by P. Alagusundaramoorthy, Professor, Structural Engineering, IIT-M, had pointed out the structural weakness of the terminal. The KTDFC had constructed the twin towers, inaugurated on June 1, 2015. The first tower has 10 floors and the second 11 floors, including space for parking. The terminal-cum-commercial-complex consists of a KSRTC bus station, parking for 40 buses and commercial space. The KTDFC had handed over the commercial space to Mukkom-based company ALIF Builders in July. An agreement was reached between ALIF Builders and the KTDFC with the company deciding to invest Rs. 17 crore as non-refundable deposit and pay a monthly rent of Rs. 43 lakh for the commercial space. The State Government has so far not made the IIT-M report public while the Opposition parties have demanded a judicial probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-complex-ktdfc-serves-eviction-notice-on-tenants/article37245704.ece
30 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Schools adopt participatory management strategy||Besides overseeing the pick-up and drop service for students, bigger responsibilities are on the cards for parents to facilitate the safe reopening of schools on November 1 in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol. A number of special purpose committees headed by parents are now active to reduce the burden on school authorities. Government, aided and unaided school managements are experimenting with a participatory management strategy whereby the conventional activities of parent-teacher associations will be redefined to meet the challenges during the pandemic times. One of the important tasks given to parents by some school administrators is ‘crisis management’. Parent representatives are to be present at the school to monitor the safe entry and exit of students and to ensure compliance with physical distancing norms. Subcommittees will look into the safe transportation of students, cleanliness of the institution, students’ health, and COVID-19 management. Almost all institutions have completed the final round of meetings with the subcommittee members. Accountable too Based on students’ strength and requirements, the number of committees is different in each institution. Though teachers are primarily responsible for the overall coordination of the committees, the parents will also be held accountable in case they fail to discharge their individual responsibilities. Members of some aided and unaided school managements say the new responsibilities are challenging and the schools would not be able to manage them without the support of the parents. The presence of parents as active caretakers would offer more confidence to students, fellow parents and school authorities to adapt to the new normal, they said. “As all are convinced of the importance of mutual responsibilities, no parent is disinclined to take up the entrusted task. They are convinced that it can create a protective shield around their own children,” says a teacher from an ICSE school in Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parents-to-chip-in-for-school-reopening/article37245718.ece
30 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Police nab 30 fugitives in special drive||As part of a two-day special drive, the city police have arrested 30 persons who were at large in connection with various criminal cases registered in the limits of police stations in Kozhikode city limits. The arrests were made on Wednesday and Thursday under the leadership of checking squads led by Deputy Commissioner of Police Swapnil Mahajan. The squads, comprising Station House Officers, carried out surprise inspections in suspected locations. A Special Branch squad was also in action to track the movements of such persons, who had been evading the investigation teams for months or years. The swift action came subsequent to a directive from District Police Chief A.V. George. More than half of the fugitives were arrested from the limits of Nadakkavu, Vellayil, Kozhikode town, and Kunnamangalam police station limits. Special branch officials said searches were on to net more such persons, who went hiding following court warrants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-nab-30-fugitives-in-special-drive/article37245711.ece
30 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||IT parks record quantum jump in software exports||Despite the shutdowns and restrictions on normal operations due to the pandemic, information technology export from Kozhikode has witnessed a quantum jump when compared to previous years. The government Cyberpark and UL Cyberpark, the two major IT parks spearheading the IT revolution in the Malabar region, had the lion’s share of the export growth, said a press release here. Software exports from Cyberpark companies have increased from Rs. 14.76 crore in 2019-20 to Rs. 26.16 crore in 2020-21. The park, which started with four companies in 2014-15, now has 64 IT and ITES companies and around 1,000 employees. Export figures show that though the entire IT workforce has been working from home for more than a year, the operations and output of companies have not been significantly affected by COVID-induced restrictions. The rent waiver and other perks implemented by the government also helped IT firms cope with the situation. “In addition to the export growth, about 30 new companies have started operations in Cyberpark during the COVID period. Also, a 42,744 sq. ft fully furnished office space with all facilities was opened. The strong revival of the market and the growth in the IT sector will also benefit Kozhikode-based companies. The majority of the IT firms from Kerala who participated in this year’s Gitex Global 2021, Dubai, and international tech fest were from Kozhikode. This has opened up great opportunities for Malabar-based companies,” said Vivek Nair, general manager, Cyberpark. Software exports from Kozhikode are mainly to Gulf, European and U.S. markets. UL Cyberpark, under the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society, has also achieved significant growth in exports. The gain for the financial year 2020-21 was Rs. 37.66 crore. Last year, it was Rs. 37 crore. In the first half of the current fiscal alone, exports from the park touched Rs. 21.33 crore. It is expected to cross Rs. 40 crore by the end of the second half. UL Cyberpark has 84 companies and about 2,000 employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/it-parks-record-quantum-jump-in-software-exports/article37245706.ece
30 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||When a rebel’s photo triggered emotions||An extensively researched book on the 1921 Malabar Rebellion leader Variyamkunnath Kunhahamed Haji was released at an emotionally charged function here on Friday. The Mapila hero’s descendants, led by his great-granddaughter Hajara from Podanur, witnessed the colourful function held in the courtyard of Variyamkunnan Memorial Municipal Town Hall here. The 400-page book titled Sultan Variyamkunnan is authored by Ramees Mohammed, a scriptwriter from Tanur who dedicated 10 years for research on the Mapila rebel. The crowd cheered as the photo of Variyamkunnath appeared on a mega LED screen. It is the only photo of Variyamkunnath currently available. Mr. Ramees got the photo from an archive in Paris. Ms. Hajara released the book by handing over a copy to P. Sivadasan, head of the Department of History, Calicut University. Overwhelmed, she broke down. Inaugurating the function, writer P. Surendran said the Sangh Parivar should be thanked for creating a controversy in the centenary year of the Malabar Rebellion. “Because of you (the Sangh Parivar), the stature of Variyamkunnath is going up in the hearts of the people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-a-rebels-photo-triggered-emotions/article37245739.ece
30 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||CPI(M) to probe clash at meets||The CPI(M) district secretariat has said it will investigate the violence that took place in the Walayar and Elappully local meetings and strong action will be taken against those responsible for tarnishing the image of the party. A statement by the secretariat here on Friday said that it would view it seriously if anything against the party norms had happened in the Walayar and Elappully local committee conferences. The Walayar meeting held on Thursday had been disrupted after party members staged a violent protest against bifurcation of the local committee. As many as 3,063 branch meetings and half of the local meetings were over. No issue elsewhere The statement said all the meetings were held in a disciplined manner and that there was no issue that demanded the party leadership’s serious intervention in the district. Image tarnished The secretariat said that the incidents at Walayar and Elappully had tarnished the party’s image. It would be investigated and strong action initiated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-to-probe-clash-at-meets/article37245868.ece
30 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||After five years, man held for twin murder||The police have arrested a man on Thursday night in connection with the murder of an elderly couple at Kannukurissi, near Kadambazhipuram, in the district five years ago. Rajendran Unneerikundil alias Rajan from Kannukurissi was picked up by a team of Crime Branch officers led by DySP M.V. Manikandan. Gopalakrishnan Cheerappath and wife Thankamani were found murdered in their house on November 15, 2016. They had multiple hack wounds on their bodies. Although the police had recovered the machete used for the murder from a well in the house, the investigators were clueless for years. Protests from the people forced the police to hand over the investigation to the Crime Branch, whose officers had camped at Kadambazhipuram for a long period as part of the inquiry. Rajan was produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody. Police said he would be taken to the crime scene after getting him in police custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/after-five-years-man-held-for-twin-murder/article37245869.ece
30 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Rs. 1.64 crore unaccounted money seized||The Crime Intelligence wing of the Railway Protection Force seized unaccounted money to the tune of Rs. 1.64 crore from the Hyderabad-Thiruvananthapuram Sabari Express on Friday. Two men from Guntur in Andhra Pradesh – Rajendra, 40, and Shaikh Ahamed, 38 – were arrested in connection with seizure. The money was found hidden in four bags under a seat. They reportedly told the police that the cash was being brought from Guntur to Shoranur for buying gold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-164-crore-unaccounted-money-seized/article37245870.ece
30 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Films should be released first in cinemas: Minister||The Kerala Government stands strongly for the release of films in cinemas rather than directly releasing them on OTT (over-the-top) platforms, Minister for Cultural Affairs Saji Cherian has said. Speaking at a press conference here on Friday, he said the Government was considering all the demands made by owners for reopening cinema theatres that remained closed for several months due to the second wave of COVID-19. “Once a film is shot, it has to be shown in the theatres, rather than on any other platforms, because films are meant to be enjoyed with the kind of visual and sound quality available in theatres. We thought of OTT platforms only during a time when theatres had to be closed down due to the spread of COVID-19. After a film has had its theatre run and has made sufficient collections, it can certainly be released on OTT platforms,” said Mr. Cherian. To a question on producer Antony Perumbavoor’s recent comments that the Mohanlal-starrer Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham would be released on OTT platforms, the Minister said that “even Antony would release his film in theatres.” Mr. Antony and other producers of big-budget films were reluctant to release their films in theatres even after the reopening due to restrictions on the seat occupancy at 50%, the Minister said. Govt.’s OTT platform soon Mr. Cherian said that the Government’s own OTT platform would be ready within three months. The platform would be helpful to several small-budget films that did not get a theatre run sufficient enough to recoup their investments. As many as 124 such small-budget films were with the Kerala State Film Development Corporation, which could all be released on the Government’s OTT platform, he added. The Chief Minister would on Monday chair a meeting with Ministers and officials of the Finance, Health, Power and Local Self-Governments departments to discuss the demands made by the theatre owners.  After a film has had its theatre run and made sufficient collections, it can certainly be released on OTT platforms||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/films-should-be-released-first-in-cinemas-minister/article37245791.ece
30 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Centre in memory of physicist||Higher Education Minister R. Bindu has said an international research centre will be established in memory of the renowned theoretical physicist Thanu Padmanabhan at Kerala University. The preparation of a framework for the proposed centre is in its final stages. It will be one of the 30 inter-university autonomous centres announced by the Government, said Dr. Bindu. She was speaking while launching the Student Life Cycle Management System in the university and a host of digital services at the Kerala University Library here on Friday. Dr. Bindu urged the academic community to exploit the possibilities of digital technologies in the age of the fourth industrial revolution. The initiatives being made by the University of Kerala, which is regarded the mother of universities in the State, are emulative. Stressing on the need to spur collaborative research, Dr. Bindu exhorted universities to enter into academic tie-ups with globally renowned universities. She pledged the support of the Higher Education Department towards such efforts. Brain drain Pointing out that the Government aspired to establish world-class research facilities in the State, she urged universities to work towards attracting foreign students. Efforts must be made to rein in the existing ‘brain drain’ of graduates, even while adopting measures that were conducive for ‘brain gain’. Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai, who presided over the function, said Kerala University aimed at becoming among the best 10 universities in the country. Pro Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar and Syndicate members also participated. Smart cards As part of launching the automated management system in the Kerala University Library, Dr. Bindu presented chip-based smart cards to institutional members, including K-DISC member secretary P.V. Unnikrishnan, Energy Management Centre library and information officer Sindu S. Kumar, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-in-memory-of-physicist/article37245929.ece
30 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Teachers excited but apprehensive too||Schools in the State are reopening in two days and like students, teachers too are excited to be back in the classroom for in-person classes after months of online sessions. Students, says a high school teacher of Karthika Thirunal Government Vocational and Higher Secondary School for Girls here, will be welcomed back on the campus with gusto, especially since the time spent away from school has put children under mental stress and led to problems such as screen addiction. The government too has directed that schools look colourful to attract students, especially primary children, many of whom have not stepped on the campus even once. Reconnecting Once students are in school, there will be no regular classes for the first couple of weeks. The initial days will be dedicated to making children familiar with the school environment, reconnect with friends and teachers, engaging them in song and play, reading, projects, and other activities. Attempts will be made to gauge what students know and how much they have grasped from digital and online sessions. This is also expected to help teachers plan academic activities in the next phase. Says a teacher at Government Model Boys Higher Secondary School, Thycaud: “The initial focus will be on relieving stress that the children are under and introducing them to the school environment after such a long gap, and slowly bringing them into the learning process with teacher support. The syllabus or content is not a concern for the first week at least.” This has caused some concern too. A teacher at Government Model Girls Higher Secondary School, Manacaud, says while students are mostly glad to be back for offline classes, some have fallen into a kind of rut. Such students will not take kindly to getting advice from teachers, even in a friendly roundabout manner, at a stretch. Keeping students engaged in various activities in school while maintaining COVID-19 protocols may not be easy, says the Manacaud teacher. Parents too want to see their children learn in school, and may be reluctant to send them if no teaching is happening. Added responsibilities Offline classes have added to teachers’ responsibilities. Each morning, they will have to admit students on campuses following protocols and coordinate with authorities if any student reports sick. Then they will have roughly three hours of offline classes, and may have to remain in school till every student has been picked up. Back home, they will have to go back to online classes, for a couple of hours at least, in order to supplement the Victers digital classes. Without online classes, covering the syllabus, even if it is reduced to cover only focus areas, may prove a tad difficult in the months ahead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teachers-excited-but-apprehensive-too/article37245743.ece
30 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Impetus to a safer way to treat stroke||Strokes due to large vessel occlusion or blockages in the brain constitute up to 30% of all acute ischaemic strokes. These strokes in large vessels are responsible for a significant proportion of permanent stroke-related disability. If till recently, the focus of all emergency stroke-related interventions were clot-busting therapy or thrombolysis, only a fraction of patients who reach hospitals within the critical window period of 4-4.5 hours were eligible for this therapy. On this World Stroke Day, neurologists are shifting the focus to Mechanical Thrombectomy (MT) for treating strokes in large vessels, which is deemed safer, effective and capable of removing clots up to 90%, if performed within 24 hours. Similar to angioplasty MT is a procedure similar to emergency angioplasty, where in a catheter is inserted into a major blood vessel within the thigh or wrist, navigated to the brain to remove the clot blocking vessels. This can be done by trained clinicians in hospitals with cath lab facilities. Health Minister Veena George on Friday, the World Stroke Day, released a white paper, Mission Thrombectomy, a global document prepared by the Society of Vascular and Interventional Neurologists (SVIN), as part of a campaign to promote the use of and access to MT to treat acute ischaemic stroke events. The document, prepared for the region, had been released at the national level by V.K. Paul, member NITI Aayog. According to SVIN, MT can reduce the rate of neurological disability significantly by 40-60% as long as the patients (select patients as per guidelines) are treated within 24 hours. Ms. George also released a banner, jointly brought out by the State Health Department and the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, on stroke awareness for the general public. P.N. Sylaja, Professor of Neurology, SCTIMST, and Global Co-Chair for Mission Thrombectomy, Thomas Iype, Head of Neurology, Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College, and Suresh Chandran, Secretary, Kerala Neurologists’ Association, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/impetus-to-a-safer-way-to-treat-stroke/article37245939.ece
30 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Women legislators to be honoured||The State Government will be honouring all women lawmakers ever since Kerala’s formation in 1957 as part of the Culture Department's Samam initiative, a year-long awareness campaign focussing on gender equality. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan will inaugurate the event and honour the lawmakers at a function to be held at R. Sankaranarayanan Thampi Hall at the Assembly on November 1 at 6 p.m. Speaker M.B. Rajesh will preside. Announcing the event at a press conference here on Friday, Minister for Cultural Affairs Saji Cherian said that around 40 women who have served as MPs, MLAs and Ministers over the years will be honoured. The event will be followed by a violin concert by Faiz Mohammed and a play presented by Samam’s women’s drama troupe. Host of programmes Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had inaugurated the Samam campaign in September this year, with singer K.S. Chithra as the initiative’s brand ambassador. As part of the campaign, short films, music albums, radio programmes, literary events and dance-music programmes will be produced over the course of the year. Committees have been formed up to the ward-level to ensure the campaign's reach. The campaign will be organised in all schools and colleges once they reopen.  Around 40 women who have served as MPs, MLAs, and Ministers will be honoured||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/women-legislators-to-be-honoured/article37245797.ece
30 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Delayed diagnosis of TB being reported in State||When restricted delivery of health-care services in the thick of COVID-19 affected tuberculosis (TB) diagnosis and care across nations seriously, Kerala, through an integrated TB-COVID screening programme, managed to catch up with much of the “missed” cases. However, nearly two years after the pandemic began, delayed diagnosis of TB cases is being reported from some districts and this could adversely impact TB-related mortality in the State, it is feared. TB case notification went down in Kerala by 50% during April-July 2020 because COVID-19 had affected patients’ access to hospitals. But the State managed to catch up with 90% of its missed cases through field-based active case finding, screening for TB among those with COVID-19 symptoms, implementing integrated testing for TB and COVID-19 and through better systemic services. “Despite all that has been done to ensure that TB care services are not fully disrupted, COVID-19 seems to have adversely affected early TB detection in the State. Cases of delayed diagnosis of TB have been trickling in from clinicians, with patients reporting with pulmonary cavitation (cavities in the lungs where the TB bacilli harbour and destroy lung tissues in cave formations) and severe lesions in the lungs,” said P.S. Rakesh, WHO consultant, National TB Elimination Programme. “Patients showing pulmonary cavitation or disseminated TB at the time of diagnosis have been previously unheard of in Kerala. Delayed diagnosis means increased transmission too,” he said. Delayed diagnosis also points to adverse treatment outcomes and increased TB mortality. Public health experts say that despite the robust TB surveillance mechanism in the State, it is possible that there could have been undocumented TB deaths in 2020. The mortality rate of TB-COVID-19 co-infection in the State is reported to be 15.2%. “It is possible to overlook TB in post-COVID patients because the symptomatology of both is the same. During the second wave, we did have some young patients who were found to have pulmonary cavitation. But not so much now, after the integrated TB-COVID screening began,” said Arjun P., a senior pulmonologist, KIMS hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/delayed-diagnosis-of-tb-being-reported-in-state/article37245799.ece
30 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One classes to begin on Nov. 15||Plus One higher secondary classes in the State will get under way on November 15. Plus One admission according to the first supplementary allotment will be held from November 1 to 3. As many as 94,390 candidates have applied for the supplementary allotment, a statement from the office of the Minister for General Education said on Friday. The maximum number of applications (20,562) was from Malappuram, the district with the most shortage of seats. As many as 11,061 applications had been received from Kozhikode, and 9,720 and 9,316 applications from Palakkad and Thrissur respectively. In Kozhikode, 10,874 applicants were those who had not got allotment in the main phase. Applications for school/combination transfer to the seats increased will be received on November 5 and 6. Transfer allotment will be published on November 9. Transfer admission will be completed on November 9 and 10. If need be, temporary batches will be allowed and the second supplementary allotment notified on November 17. Applications will be received till November 19. Admission will be completed from November 22 to to 24. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty said there would be enough seats for those seeking Plus One admission. No extra burden Meanwhile, the government has issued an order addressing the shortage of Plus One seats by increasing the number of seats, shifting batches, and arranging temporary batches subject to the condition that there would be no extra burden. The order also specifies that if the Plus One admission crisis is not addressed through an increase in seats, only then will temporary batches be allowed depending on requirement in government higher secondary schools in districts where there is a shortage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-classes-to-begin-on-nov-15/article37245744.ece
30 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Farmers to be compensated from consolidated fund||A consolidated fund will be established for disbursing compensation to farmers for crop loss, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad said on Friday. Climate change and global warming pose a major threat to the farm sector. Natural calamities, which have become frequent, are endangering agricultural production and economy. A consolidated fund will go a long way in ensuring speedy calamity relief to farmers, Mr. Prasad said, after E.K. Vijayan of the Communist Party of India (CPI) drew the Minister’s attention to the need to help farmers who reported crop loss in the recent rain havoc. The fund would be instituted in consultation with the Finance Department. Loss of Rs. 451.65 crore Citing the first information reports on crop loss collected from the Agricultural Information Management System (AIMS), Mr. Prasad said crops worth Rs. 451.65 crore were destroyed in the rainfall-related incidents between October 12 and October 28 in the State. Topping the list of crops which sustained heavy damage are paddy, banana, vegetables, tubers and rubber. The Agriculture Department has sped up the process of calculating the loss and disbursing compensation quickly to the farmers, he said. Control rooms are functional at the Minister’s office, the agriculture directorates and in the districts for providing assistance to the farmers, assessing the damage, and ensuring urgent intervention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-to-be-compensated-from-consolidated-fund/article37245748.ece
30 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Marine ambulances on the lines of ‘108’||The State Government is planning to launch a high-speed marine ambulance system modelled on ‘108’ ambulances to ensure speedy response in accidents involving fishing boats, Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian told the Assembly on Friday. The existing marine ambulances were unable to carry out high-speed missions. The Government had held detailed discussions with the Coast Guard on the deployment of new high-speed marine ambulances. A permanent coastal rescue system with around 300 trained youths from the fishing community was also being considered, said the Minister. M. Vincent, MLA, said the three marine ambulances bought after Cyclone Ockhi had been ineffective. The Minister said the existing ambulances were not high-speed vessels, yet they were used in 17 rescue efforts in Vizhinjam, 21 in Vypeen, and four in Beypore. Insurance cover He said the State Government would ensure insurance cover for all traditional fishing boats in the State with the Government bearing 100% cost for this. Boat owners were reluctant to apply for the insurance scheme due to the requirement for a beneficiary share, which the Government was now doing away with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marine-ambulances-on-lines-of-108-minister/article37245803.ece
30 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Steps on to cut dropout rate in tribal regions’||The State Government is taking steps to reduce the dropout rate among students from the tribal regions, Minister for Devaswom and Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes K. Radhakrishnan told the Assembly on Friday. Model residential schools and pre-matric hostels are functioning with this aim. The SC/ST Department is running 105 hostels. Accommodation The occupancy is less in some of the hostels run for the SCs. The Government is considering the accommodation of tribal students as well in such hostels with vacancies, he said. The Minister said the Government would complete the distribution of 37,717 laptops for students who have been deprived of digital devices to access online classes within two weeks. Select students from the SC and ST categories would be chosen and sent to top civil services training institutes. Transportation The Gothra Sarathi initiative to provide transportation to schools for students from tribal regions without adequate transportation facilities have proved to be effective, with 362 such services being run now. Under the Gothra Bandhu project, 241 mentors have been provided in Wayanad district and 46 in Palakkad district to help teachers convey lessons in Adivasi languages, said Mr. Radhakrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-cut-dropout-rate-in-tribal-regions/article37245794.ece
30 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Contract staff recover wallet from waste dump||A night squad of the Corporation's health wing carrying out surveillance in the Karamana circle on Thursday night to track waste dumpers ended up recovering a dumper's wallet with cash, ATM cards, driving licences, PAN card and voters' ID card that were accidentally discarded along with other waste. The contract workers on night duty took the wallet to Health Inspector Anil Kumar who then returned it to the owner. A fine of Rs. 2,000 was imposed on the person for waste dumping. Contract workers Kumar, Rajesh and Renjith came across the sacks of waste dumped near the Attukal new bridge around 4.30 a.m. While sifting through the waste in an attempt to track down its origin, they came across the wallet filled with the cash and documents. Mayor Arya Rajendran lauded the contract workers for their honesty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/contract-staff-recover-wallet-from-waste-dump/article37245930.ece
30 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rights panel to hold meet today on school reopening||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights  will organise a consultation for district-level officials concerned on the Right to Education Act, 2009 ahead of school reopening on November 1. Commission chairperson K.V. Manoj Kumar will inaugurate the consultation at YMCA in the capital at 10 a.m. on Saturday. COVID aftermath It will analyse how against the backdrop of COVID-19, the children’s right to free and compulsory education was protected. It will discuss the possible mental and emotional problems students may face when they return to school after months away from physical classes. It will also discuss child-friendly school environment, formation of school-level committees to ensure children’s safety and learning environment and re-implementation of school health programme. Child rights commission members, Deputy Director of Education, District Medical Officer, Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, district project coordinator and district-level heads of various departments will attend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-rights-panel-to-hold-consultation-today/article37245792.ece
30 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||7,722 new cases in State||Kerala registered 7,722 new cases of COVID-19 when 71,681 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s active case pool had 78,722 patients on Friday, with 6,648 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. Only 8.5% of the active cases are currently in hospitals. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 31,156 with the State adding 471 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Friday. These include 86 deaths which occurred in the past few days, 276 undeclared deaths before June 2021 and 109 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following appeals filed by families. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in the State dropped to 1,132 on Friday. The number of patients requiring ventilator support was 458. In districts Thiruvananthapuram has the highest number of new cases at 1,087, followed by Ernakulam 1,047, Thrissur 847, Kollam 805, Kozhikode 646, Kottayam 597, Idukki 431, Pathanamthitta 421, Malappuram 371, Alappuzha 364, Kannur 336, Palakkad 335, Wayanad 257 and Kasaragod 178 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7722-new-cases-in-state/article37245741.ece
30 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District logs 1,087 COVID cases, 632 recoveries||The capital district recorded 1,087 new COVID-19 cases and 632 recoveries as the number of active cases increased to 11,132 on Friday. The test positivity rate (TPR) in the district stood at 11.8%. As many as 47,320 people are currently in quarantine in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-logs-1087-covid-cases-632-recoveries/article37245927.ece
30 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Transfer order of professor nullified||The Higher Education Department on Friday issued directions to nullify the transfer order served to Kannur University Syndicate member Chandramohan K.T. who was accused of working part-time in a private tutorial in violation of service rules. Prof. Chandramohan, an associate professor at Government Brennen College, Thalassery, Kannur, was recently transferred to the Government College for Women, Malappuram, over an “anonymous letter” despite an inquiry finding no grounds for action against him. The decision has been reversed on the basis of a petition submitted by the teacher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/transfer-order-of-professor-nullified/article37245793.ece
30 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Probe plaint by fishers: SHRC tells Collector||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the District Collector to inquire into a complaint by fishers living in a disaster relief camp at St. Roch’s convent, Valiathope, that attempts were being made to shift them from there. The fishers had been moved into the camp after losing their houses in cyclone. The fishers had alleged that they had lost houses up to 1,000 sq.ft. on 2 to 5 cents of land in the cyclone. They had not been allotted a permanent rehabilitation centre. Instead, they were being put up temporarily in the camp on a school campus. The fishers said, in the complaint signed by 16 persons, that they could not live on the streets with grown-up children and elderly parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-plaint-by-fishers-shrc-tells-collector/article37245923.ece
30 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||MCH receives award for stroke care||Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thiruvananthapuram, has received the Diamond Award of World Stroke Organisation for the best public sector hospital delivering stroke care, an official statement issued by the MCH said. The award is an impetus for the stroke-care unit of the Department of Neurology at the MCH. The previous LDF Government had allocated Rs. 5 crore for setting up the stroke-care centre. Health Minister Veena George, who reviewed the project, has given directions for expediting the project. The statement issued by the MCH said a stroke ICU and Cath lab, 128 slice CT angiogram, step-down ICU beds were in the final stages of completion||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mch-receives-award-for-stroke-care/article37245924.ece
30 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth gets 25-year RI for raping minor girl||A fast track court here on Friday sentenced a youth to rigorous imprisonment (RI) for 25 years after being found guilty of raping a minor girl on false pretext of marriage three years ago. Thiruvananthapuram Fast Track Special Judge R. Jayakrishnan pronounced the verdict against Abdul Rehman (24) who hails from Beemapally and resides at Manickavilakom. He was found guilty under Section 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act under which he will have to pay a fine of Rs. 1 lakh in addition to undergoing the jail term. A default of the fine could lead to additional jail term for a year. Though the accused was also found guilty of the offence punishable under Section 376 (2) (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), no separate sentence was awarded in accordance with the limit of punishment as laid down in Section 71 of the IPC and Section 42 of the POCSO Act. According to the prosecution, Abdul had raped the survivor who used to be his neighbour in multiple instances from July to December 2018 after promising to marry her. Suicide threat Their relationship came to a head after the mother of the accused engaged in an argument with the survivor, following which Abdul denied having any such link. However, he later had to come clean on their affair after the survivor threatened to commit suicide by jumping from the terrace of his building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-gets-25-year-ri-for-raping-minor-girl/article37245926.ece
30 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Four-member ganja gang in police net||The District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force (DANSAF) and the Chirayinkeezh Police on Friday arrested a four-member gang allegedly involved in cases of murder, theft and drug trafficking. The police team seized 11 kilograms of ganja and two cars that were allegedly used for drug transport. The accused have been identified as Sabarinath (42) from Azhoor, Sophin (28) from Vilavoorkal, Aneesh (31) from Karakulam and Vipin (28) from Arannur. They were arrested during vehicle inspections. According to the police, they used to procure ganja at Rs. 5,000 per kilogram from Tamil Nadu and sell it for up to Rs. 40,000 per kilogram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-member-ganja-gang-in-police-net/article37245933.ece
30 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DUK spot admissions for SC/STs||Digital University Kerala (DUK) is conducting a spot admission for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Divyaang (differently abled people) candidates for its full-time postgraduate programmes. The admission for reserved categories will be held for MTech in Computer Science and Engineering, MTech in Electronics Engineering, MSc in Computer Science and MSc in Ecology (Ecological Informatics). The online admission test for spot admission will be held on November 1. Those interested can visitwww.duk.ac.in/admissionfor further details. The deadline for submitting application is October 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/duk-spot-admissions-for-scsts/article37245802.ece
30 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Allegation expunged||Certain allegations levelled by Left Independent MLA P.V. Anwar against Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan in the Assembly on October 27 would be removed from the Assembly records, Speaker M.B. Rajesh said in a ruling on Friday. Mr. Anwar violated the procedures of the Assembly, Mr. Rajesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/allegation-expunged/article37245745.ece
30 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cycle ride for tennis awareness||The Trivandrum Tennis Club (TTC) and Indus Cycling Embassy will conduct a ‘tennis awareness cycle ride’ on Sunday to spread the message of ‘tennis and fitness for good health’ and ‘Thiruvananthapuram go green through cycling.’ The nearly 10-km ride around the city will begin at 6.30 a.m. from TTC and take the Vellayamablam-Palayam- Secretariat-Pattom-Kowdiar route to conclude at TTC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cycle-ride-for-tennis-awareness/article37245925.ece
30 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cricket tournament for journalists kicks off||Sports Minister V. Abdurahiman inaugurated the Kesari-Samaira Cup Cricket tournament for journalists being organised by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) and the Samaira Group of Companies at the Sree Chithira Thirunal Stadium in Poojappura. KUWJ district president Suresh Vellimangalam and other office-bearers also participated. Twelve media organisations are taking part in the tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cricket-tournament-for-journalists-kicks-off/article37245935.ece
30 October 2021||THIRVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Health Minister makes surprise night visit at MCH||Health Minister Veena George paid a surprise visit to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here on Thursday night to assess the night-time functioning of the hospital. Ms. George visited the casualty, observation rooms and wards during the assessment that began at 10.30 p.m and continued for around three hours. She instructed the College Principal to check the duty charts and ensure that everyone, including senior doctors, were following the schedule. The Minister said that treatment and care have to be ensured round-the-clock for patients. Stringent action would be taken against those breaking the laws. Complaints of patients regarding the lack of space at the old casualty block would be addressed, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-minister-makes-surprise-night-visit-at-mch/article37245932.ece
30 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Lawyer allegedly kills man in brawl||A man was allegedly bludgeoned to death by a lawyer at Thirur near Thrissur on Thursday during a drunken brawl. The deceased was identified as Manikandan alias Kannan, 42, of Thirur. The police later arrested the lawyer, who was drinking in a bar after the murder. The incident happened in the house of Sajeesh, the lawyer with Thrissur bar, in Thirur. Kannan used to bring alcohol for Sajeesh every day. It is reported that Sajeesh and Kannan consumed alcohol on Thursday afternoon. Following some altercation Sajeesh attacked Kannan with a hammer. Sajeesh left home after the incident. His father found Kannan in a pool of blood behind the house and informed the neighbours. Arrest Though he was taken to a hospital he was declared dead. Later the police arrested Sajeesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lawyer-allegedly-kills-man-in-brawl/article37245872.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A comedy drama that is a delight||‘Made in Kanhangad’. So screams the title card of Thinkalazhcha Nishchayam , oozing pride for the place the film is firmly set in and evoking in the viewer an anticipation for something novel. The core story, narrated as a one-liner, might manage to evoke only faint interest, for we have over the years seen and heard many a story about women, who are forced into marriages much against their wishes, devising ways to wriggle out of the proposal. But then, how you choose to tell a story and what you let the characters do can make all the difference, which is what director Senna Hegde achieves here. Suja (Anagha Narayanan), the protagonist who is being forced to get married to an NRI, has an extra burden. Her father, Vijayan (Manoj KU), is still living with the 'shame' of his elder daughter Surabhi (Unnimaya Nalappadam) getting married to someone of her choice, rejecting the proposal from a cousin, who also happens to be economically better off. Vijayan has thus dumped all his hopes on Suja to redeem himself among the judgemental extended family and the larger society. But, Suja clearly has other plans. Her hilarious ‘pennu kaanal’ scene with the tone-deaf NRI man sets the tone for the rest of the movie, which is replete with such moments. Each of her well thought-out retorts to his prepared list of questions, meant to scare him away, only manage to evoke the opposite effect in him. The engagement is well and truly on, and it has to happen soon, as the man has to return abroad to his job. Time is running out for Suja, and her boyfriend is nowhere to be seen. Touch of originality Director Hegde brings a certain originality and authenticity to the proceedings on the screen, which is not only because of the settings and the dialect of Kasaragod, which have got only scant representation in Malayalam cinema. He seems to have an ability to write scenes that bring out the relationship dynamics and underlying tensions between any set of characters. This is quite evident in the scenes after the arrival of the various groups of relatives in the household ahead of the engagement, especially the ways in which Surabhi's cousin (played by Sajin Cherukayil) attempts to curry favour with her father, even while showing open contempt for her husband. Standing up While much of the focus of the film is on a woman struggling to stand up for her choice, it also does not take its eyes away from the father, who at times behaves like an autocrat within the family, even while meekly running away from someone who borrowed him money. A majority of the cast is fresh, but most of them perform like seasoned veterans. With Thinkalazhcha Nishchayam , Senna Hegde shows that no story is stale, if you find novel, creative ways of telling the tale.  Thinkalazhcha Nishchayam is streaming on Sony Liv S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-comedy-drama-that-is-an-absolute-delight/article37245710.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Three spillway shutters of Mullaperiyar dam opened||Life remained quite normal downstream of the dam, though the district administration had made elaborate arrangements to shift people close to the riverbanks and opened relief camps in Peerumade, Udumbanchola and Idukki taluks. Revenue officials opened six relief camps at Manjumala, Elappara, Periyar, Upputhara, and Anavilasam. They said 288 people from 98 families were still staying in the relief camps. Sebastian, a resident at Vallakkadavu, the first residential area downstream of the Mullaperiyar dam, said he did not see an increase in water flow in the Periyar after the opening of the spillway shutters. In 2018, there was heavy flow in the Periyar when the shutters were opened. Mariappan, a resident at Chappathu, said the water had overflowed the main bridge across the river connecting Kottayam and Kattappana a few days ago. “Now there is only normal flow,” he said. The released water moved through Manjumala, Vandiperiyar, Mlamala, Santhipalam, Chappathu, Alady and Upputhara to join the Idukki reservoir at Ayyappancoil, which is 35 km away from the Idukki arch dam and Cheruthoni dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-spillway-shutters-of-mullaperiyar-dam-opened/article37245807.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The final show||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-final-show/article37245877.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In step with the times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-step-with-the-times/article37245937.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Thaha walks out of jail||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thaha-walks-out-of-jail/article37245805.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fishers’ net work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-net-work/article37245703.ece
30 October 2021||Ameenabad (East Godavari),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Fishing harbours will be commissioned by 2023’||Minister for Fisheries and Animal Husbandry S. Appala Raju on Friday said disputes among coastal districts over marine fishing and fish landing would be resolved by the commissioning of the proposed new fishing harbours by 2023. He said the harbours, once commissioned, would resolve the disputes between Kakinada and Visakhapatnam districts over fishing territories and fish landing sites. Right now, due to a shortage of fish landing sites in East Godavari district, Kakinada boats use the Visakhapatnam harbour for fish landing, causing friction between fishermen from both districts. Construction of the fishing harbour is in full swing at the Ameenabad fish landing point on the Uppada coast in East Godavari district. Speaking to reporters at the project site, Mr. Appala Raju announced that the harbour project would be commissioned by early 2023 with an annual fish handling capacity of 1.10 lakh tonnes, adding that the construction work of Budagatlapalem harbour in Srikakulam district would begin by December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fishing-harbours-will-be-commissioned-by-2023/article37245861.ece
30 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kapu leader will be CM in 2024: Chinta||Former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Chinta Mohan said that Andhra Pradesh will have an unblemished leader from the Kapu community as the Chief Minister in 2024. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, Mr. Chinta Mohan said that during the last seven decades, the State saw the power resting in the hands of only two communities, while Kapus, SC/ST/BC and minorities were kept away from the privilege. Though the YSR Congress Party was “trying to misguide” the public mood by bringing in poll strategists, it would not work out in the 2024 elections, he said. The Congress leader reiterated his demand that the State government release the social welfare scholarships to over 80 lakh students online before Deepavali. “The poor and downtrodden students have been desperately waiting for the scholarships for two years. While all the other States have been promptly providing scholarships to students, it is being held up only in Andhra Pradesh,” Mr. Chinta Mohan said, adding that the party would intensify their protest if scholarships are not released. Mr. China Mohan said the drought-prone Anantapur district should be named after Neelam Sanjeeva Reddy in recognition of his yeomen services to the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kapu-leader-will-be-cm-in-2024-chinta/article37245394.ece
30 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar passes away||Puneeth Rajkumar, 46, one of the marquee names of the Kannada film industry and the youngest of the five children of matinee idol Dr. Rajkumar, passed away after suffering a cardiac arrest on Friday morning. Puneeth complained of chest pain after a workout session at the home gymon Friday morning. An ECG at his family doctor’s clinic indicated a cardiac arrest and he was immediately rushed to Vikram Hospital, but it was too late, sources said. Dr. Ranganath Nayak, cardiologist at Vikram Hospitals, said at the time of arrival to the emergency, the patient was unresponsive. “Immediate advanced cardiac life support measures were initiated at the hospital for resuscitation. However, the patient continued to be unresponsive... The panel of medical experts extended all efforts to save him. He was declared dead at 2.30 p.m.,” he said. As a child artist Puneeth made his debut on screen with his father when he was just six months old and he went on to win a national award as a child artist. He took a break only to re-emerge as a lead actor in 2002 and went on to star in 29 films as a lead actor, delivering some of the biggest hits in recent years. He is survived by his wife Ashwini Revanth and daughters Drithi and Vanditha. His brother Raghavendra Rajkumar, appealing for calm among his fans, said the family was yet to come to terms with the loss. Family members, members of the film industry, and scores of fans were inconsolable at the sudden demise of the actor. “He was at the party celebrating my birthday on Thursday night, singing and dancing merrily and to realise he is gone today is unbelievable,” said music composer Guru Kiran. Last rites The mortal remains of the actor have been kept at Sree Kanteerava Stadium in Bengaluru where fans and well-wishers can pay their respects all day on Saturday. There was a huge crowd of his supporters at the venue even late in the evening on Friday. His last rites will be conducted with state honours at Dr. Rajkumar Punyabhoomi in Kanteerava Studio, next to his father and mother, on Sunday, the Government announced. Puneeth Rajkumar’s daughter is abroad and is expected to reach the city only by Saturday night, so the last rites will be held on Sunday, according to sources. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai appealed for calmand peace through the two days. “We need to send him off with love and respect. I request everyone to pay their respects in peace,” he said.  A cruel twist of fate has snatched away from us a prolific and talented actor, Puneeth Rajkumar. This was no age to go. The coming generations will remember him fondly for his works and wonderful personality Narendra Modi, Prime Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kannada-actor-puneeth-rajkumar-passes-away/article37245326.ece
30 October 2021||BHIMAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Open House held in Bhimavaram||Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma inaugurated an Open House in Bhimavaram town on Friday. He explained to the students the different wings of the Police Department and their duties and spoke about the features of the weapons displayed at the police station on the occasion. The event was held as part of the ongoing Police Martyrs Commemoration period from October 21 to 31. Medical camps, open houses, band shows and other programmes are being organised by the police. Download Disha App Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Rahul Dev appealed to the students to download the Disha App. He distributed certificates to the winners in essay-writing competitions conducted on the topic ‘Police services during the pandemic’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/open-house-held-in-bhimavaram/article37245957.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||AY.4.2 variant not detected in Tamil Nadu, says Health Minister||No sample has been found infected with AY.4.2, a sub-lineage of the Delta variant, in Tamil Nadu so far, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. However, deputy directors of health services have been instructed to intensify screening along the border areas of Karnataka and Kerala, he said. About 1% of the cases in Maharashtra were that of the Delta sub-variant, while Karnataka had seen seven cases, he said on Friday. Samples from clusters were screened at the State’s laboratory for genomic sequencing, he said, adding that of the 63 cluster samples screened, 84% had the Delta variant. So far, over 90% of the samples tested were found to have the variant. Mr. Subramanian said those found infected with the AY.4.2 variant in Maharashtra and Karnataka had symptoms similar to the Delta variant. “We have asked the deputy directors of health services to intensify screening along the border areas of Kerala and Karnataka,” he told reporters on the sidelines of an event to mark the World Stroke Day at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. He said globally, around six crore people were affected with stroke. In India, nearly six lakh people were affected with stroke every year, of which nearly 1.5 lakh died. He stressed the need for those experiencing symptoms of stroke to seek medical help at the nearest facility in four hours. He said “alteplase” used to treat stroke, was available at government headquarters hospitals, government medical college hospitals and select taluk hospitals. The government spends Rs. 35,000 for every one-time administration of it. On behalf of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, 10 vehicles were flagged off to spread awareness on stroke. He also released an awareness handbook. With Deepavali approaching, he said special wards would be set up at all government headquarters hospitals and government medical college hospitals for the treatment of burns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ay42-variant-not-detected-in-tn-says-health-minister/article37245486.ece
30 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police have to pay for ‘excesses’ meted out to TDP cadre: Naidu||Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Friday vowed that the police and the official would pay for the ‘excesses’ meted out to his party cadres and sympathisers, when the TDP would come to power. Expressing high confidence that the TDP would come to power in 2024 elections, Mr. Naidu said, “I appeal to all the like minded people and parties to unite to fight the injustices and atrocities during the YSRCP rule.” Addressing a public meeting at the RTC bus stand in Kuppam, Mr. Chandrababu Naidu accused the YSRCP government of misusing the government machinery for political gain. Alleging that the ruling party had used the official machinery to create disturbances during his visit to Kuppam, Mr Naidu said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had lost merit to continue in his post. “I am writing down all your (police) wrongs against us (TDP). You have to pay back for each and every atrocity. This is my vow,” said Mr. Naidu. The TDP president alleged that the YSRCP government had transformed Vijayawada into a ‘hub of narcotics and left the State at the mercy of liquor mafia’. “When we question these wrongs, the police are prompted to foist false cases against us, harass our party cadres and send them to jails. The TDP is strong with its 70 lakh members. Our cadres can never be cowed down,” he said. Mr. Naidu criticised the YSRCP government for its decisions pertaining to hike in power tariff, increase in taxes in civic bodies and alleged corruption in housing schemes and MGNREGS works. The government has reneged on it promises made to farmers, he said. The TDP chief alleged that illegal granite quarries were mushrooming in and around Kuppam. “The YSRCP leaders are now out to grab the assets of the aided schools and colleges. That’s why it has mooted the idea to close them down,” he alleged. Referring to Kuppam municipality elections, Mr. Naidu appealed to the public to work for the TDP’s victory in all the 25 wards. “The anti-social elements have entered Kuppam and they are a threat to our peace. Be on guard to thwart their moves,” he told the people. Former Minister N. Amarnatha Reddy, senior TDP leaders from Chittoor district accompanied Mr. Naidu during his visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-have-to-pay-for-excesses-meted-out-to-tdp-cadre-naidu/article37245858.ece
30 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stroke is second leading cause of death worldwide, say doctors||Doctors spoke about the perils of stroke and its underlying factors at an awareness programme organised by the Department of Neurology of Government General Hospital-Guntur on Friday to mark World Stroke Day, which is observed across the world on October 29. “Stroke is the second leading cause of death worldwide, with an annual mortality rate of 5.5 million. Not only does the burden of stroke lie in the high mortality but also high morbidity resulting in 50% of survivors being chronically disabled. This stroke is a disease of immense public health importance with serious economic and social consequences, doctors said. Professor and HoD (Neurology) N.V Sundarachari said that stroke is preventable. “Regular monitoring of one’s weight and Body Mass Index, regular physical activity, targeted BP control of 140/90, having LDL cholesterol between 70-100 mg/dl, monitoring diabetes and avoiding smoking and consumption of alcohol will help reduce the risk of stroke,” Dr. Sundarachari said. “Stroke is rapidly developing clinical signs of focal (or global) disturbances of cerebral functions, with symptoms lasting 24 hours or longer or leading to death with no apparent cause other than of vascular origin,” Dr. Sundarachari added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stroke-is-second-leading-cause-of-death-worldwide-say-doctors/article37245960.ece
30 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT stays Palamuru-RR Lift Irrigation work||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has rejected the plea of Telangana that the petition filed by one D. Chandramouleswara Reddy and others of Kadapa district against carrying out of work on Palamuru-Rangareddy Lift Irrigation Scheme (PRLIS) is not maintainable and issued interim orders staying work till the environmental clearance is obtained. In the order on Friday by Justice K. Ramakrishnan, Judicial Member, and Dr. K. Satyagopal, Expert Member, the NGT Southern Zone Bench considered the preliminary objections raised by the petitioners and held that the application is maintainable and not barred by limitation. The Bench also held that the applicants are entitled for interim injunction as prayed for. Mr. Chandramouleswara Reddy and others complained in their petition that Telangana is proceeding with PRLIS without conducting environmental impact assessment (EIA), without obtaining prior environmental clearance (EC) and also without getting approval from the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and that the project affects the interests of Andhra Pradesh people. Further, they stated that Telangana cannot indiscriminately construct PRLIS without any allocation and without any statutory approvals and the act would cause irreparable loss to the petitioners and other inhabitants of AP. They submitted to the Tribunal that Telangana had unilaterally proceeded with PRLIS with an estimated cost of Rs. 32,500 crore allegedly based on 90 tmc ft of flood flows to be drawn from Srisailam for 60 days during the flood season. After pursuing the documents furnished by the applicants, arguments made on behalf of the applicants, States of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and other respondents and the report of the joint inspection committee, the NGT Bench has restrained Telangana from proceeding with PRLIS work without obtaining EC for which they have already applied for and pending for consideration by MoEF. The Bench also posted the matter to November 24 for considering objections, if any, to be filed by the respondents to the Joint Committee report submitted to the Tribunal on October 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/national-green-tribunal-stays-palamuru-rr-lis-work/article37245695.ece
30 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP projects Badvel bypoll as ‘might vs right’, YSRCP sits cool||The polling material for the by-election to Badvel (SC) Assembly constituency was distributed to the officials on election duty on Friday. Joint Collectors M. Gouthami (Revenue), C.M. Saikant Varma (Development), H.M. Dhyana Chandra (Housing) and Returning Officer Ketan Garg monitored the process. The staff were seen taking trouble in protecting the material from the heavy rain that lashed Kapada district. The BJPhas dubbed the byelection as ‘might versus right’, making a veiled reference to the ruling YSRCP’s ‘might’ and the BJP’s ‘righteousness’. Social media is abuzz with posts referring to the party candidate Panathala Suresh’s rise from a student leader in the ABVP to an MLA candidate. Alleging that the YSRCP had showered sops ahead of the bypoll, the BJP campaigned for Mr. Suresh highlighting that the latter had no political background or ancestral property. BJP State vice-president C. Adinarayana Reddy took potshots at the Cabinet Ministers alleging that they were camping in Badvel in violation of the law. He appealed to the voters to accept the money, but cast their vote to the ‘right candidate’. He said the Election Commission had taken serious note of the violation of the Model Code of Conduct . On the other hand, the YSRCP leaders are sitting cool, hoping to leverage on the ‘Navaratnalu’ to win the bypoll with a huge margin. Rayachoti MLA Gadikota Srikanth Reddy accused the BJP of taking a ‘malicious campaign’. “We are confident that the voters will show the BJP the door,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-projects-badvel-bypoll-as-might-vs-right-ysrcp-sits-cool/article37245863.ece
30 October 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘threatening’ kin with gun during dispute||The Kadapa police have booked a case under Arms Act against a person for allegedly threatening his relatives during a land dispute by sporting an air gun on Friday. The incident happened in Karampalle under Mannur police limits when Mannur Aswathama Reddy and his brother Mannur Teja Reddy allegedly had a tiff with his relatives, over a land dispute. Aswathama Reddy allegedly fished out an air gun while arguing with his relatives and warned them of serious action, as per the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-threatening-kin-with-gun-during-dispute/article37245402.ece
30 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 teachers test COVID positive in E.G.||Six teachers tested positive for COVID-19 at the Zilla Parishad High School, Thatipaka in Rajole mandal of East Godavari district. According to District Medical and Health Officer K.V.S. Gowreeswara Rao, the six teachers of the government high school tested positive for the virus on Friday. “The school will remain closed for a few days. Medical tests have been conducted for all the students but none of them has tested positive as of Friday,” said Dr. Gowreeswara Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/6-teachers-test-covid-positive-in-eg/article37245395.ece
30 October 2021||KANCHIKACHERLA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman attempts suicide, rescued||A woman, who was selected as former Miss Telangana, reportedly attempted suicide by jumping into Munneru river in Krishna district on Friday. Villagers, who saw the woman aged about 24 years, rescued her and shifted her to hospital. She is a native of Veerulapadu mandal in the district, and the reason for her act was not yet known, the police said. The woman had allegedly attempted suicide by hanging in Hyderabad a couple of days ago. She was shifted to a hospital and survived. Persons in distress may call 1091 for help and guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-attempts-suicide-rescued/article37245959.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||System allowed Monson to take everyone for a ride: HC||Observing that the entire system had allowed Monson Mavunkal, a fake antiquities dealer, to take everyone for a ride, the Kerala High Court on Friday directed the State Government to inform it whether entities having links beyond the borders or persons of non-resident are involved in the cases registered against him. Justice Devan Ramachandran passed the order when a petition filed by Ajith E.V., a former driver of Monson, complaining about police harassment came up for hearing. Breakdown The court said there was a breakdown of the system and Monson had pulled a fast one on everybody. Had the police acted when one of the police officers suspected the activities of the antiquities dealer, his acts could have been stopped. Now rape cases and POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) cases had been registered against him. The court orally noted that the police had given protection to his house on the ground that antiquities were kept there. This was despite the fact that Additional Director General Manoj Abraham had raised doubts about his activities and the State Police Chief had ordered the Additional Director General of Police (Intelligence) to conduct a discreet inquiry into the possession of various artefacts by Monson. In fact, it took seven months for the ADGP (Intelligence) to come out with a report. “A stitch in time saves nine... The first time you had a hunch about him, you let the man continue for three years,” the court said. The court also pointed out that those who kept antiquities should have compulsorily obtained a registration from the Archaeological Survey of India under the Antiquities and Art Treasure Act and Rules. Unscheduled visit When two police officers made an unscheduled visit to the house of Monson, the first thing that should have come to their mind was whether they were registered. The court posted the case for November 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/system-allowed-monson-to-take-everyone-for-a-ride-hc/article37245330.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC says it won’t interfere with Karnataka order on RT-PCR||The Supreme Court on Friday made it clear that insistence by a State Government on negative RT-PCR results, for public health reasons, from people travelling in from another State cannot be construed as a “restriction of movement of citizens”. The Constitution upholds a citizen’s fundamental right to move freely across the length and breadth of India. However, a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao did not agree with A.K.M. Ashraf, a legislator from Kerala, who faulted Karnataka’s rule that people entering it from his constituency of Manjeshwaram at Kasargod district in Kerala should have a negative RT-PCR certificate taken within 72 hours of their trip. The lawmaker called it a violation of their right to free movement. Mr. Ashraf, represented by advocate Haris Beeran, said people travel daily across the border to Karnataka from Manjeshwaram to Mangaluru in Karnataka for education, medical care and other essentials. Karnataka’s rule “inhibits” the right to movement of these daily commuters. ‘No violation’ “There is no violation of any fundamental right of persons living in Kasaragod district to travel to Mangaluru or other parts of the State of Karnataka. Circulars issued by Karnataka cannot be interfered by this court in the interest of public health,” the Supreme Court recorded in its order. The court concluded there was “no restriction of movement of citizens from Kerala to Karnataka”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-says-it-wont-interfere-with-karnataka-order-on-rt-pcr/article37245335.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. wants Telangana bypoll put off||A Congress delegation called on the Election Commission on Friday and asked for the October 30 byelection to the Huzurabad Assembly constituency in Telangana to be postponed, alleging that it has been vitiated by the use of money. The Congress has alleged that both the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi and the BJP are luring voters of the constituency with cash payments and there is a massive corruption in the election process. “The TRS and the BJP are buying votes for Rs. 6,000 and Rs. 10,000. The Huzurabad byelection has become the costliest election in the country and this is being debated on television channels in Telangana,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala saidafter meeting the EC. The Congress delegation comprised the party’s whip in the Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore, Vamshi Reddy and some Telangana leaders, besides Mr. Surjewala. “We have urged the EC to cancel the Huzurabad byelection [now] and conduct a thorough probe. Otherwise, people will lose faith in democracy and elections,” Mr. Surjewala added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-wants-telangana-bypoll-put-off/article37245336.ece
30 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam receives welcome showers||Ending the prolonged dry spell, light to moderate rain lashed different parts of Prakasam district under the influence of a weather system in the Bay of Bengal on Friday. Farmers in the drought-prone district heaved a sigh of relief as the sky opened up at last in the fag-end of October month. The current wet spell is expected to give an impetus to the rabi farm operations. The district experienced 106.1 mm rainfall as against the normal rainfall of 187.6 mm during October, a report compiled by the district administration said. The district, especially the coastal mandals, is expected to receive widespread rain in the next three days under the influence of a trough in easterlies from the cyclonic circulation associated with low pressure area over southwest Bay of Bengal, according to a weather bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department. Motorcyclists in Ongole had a tough time navigating the roads with water-filled potholes as the choked drains overflowed. Ulavapadu experienced a maximum rainfall of 28.6 mm followed by Gudluru(22.2 mm), Kandukur(18.4mm), Tallur (15.2mm), Singarayakonda (14.6mm), Kumarole(13.6mm), Lingasamudram (12.2 mm), Darsi (11.2 mm), V.V.Palem (10.2 mm) and Ongole(5.8 mm), according to data compiled by the Chief Planning Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-receives-welcome-showers/article37245399.ece
30 October 2021||Ongole,ANDHRA PRADESH||Asthi Kalash Yatra reaches Prakasam||A portion of the ashes of four farmers and a journalist, who were killed in the violence at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, were brought here by the Samyukta Kisam Morcha (SKM) and immersed in the Gundlakamma reservoir on Friday. The ashes of the five persons were distributed among members of the SKM who immersed them in water bodies across several States in the country as part of their protest against the three farm laws introduced by the Centre. Poignant scenes were witnessed as the farmers led by SKM Prakasam district convener Ch. Ranga Rao paid floral tributes to the the four farmers and the journalist. The ashes were brought in a procession to the Obul Reddy Gundalakamma reservoir at Mallavaram village in Prakasam district. Farmers including Acharya N.G. Ranga Kisan Sabha secretary Ch. Seshaiah vowed to achieve the goal of the Lakhimpur Kheri victims including statutory backing to the Minimum Support Price regime. The farmers also vowed to fight for the ouster of the ‘corporate-friendly Narendra Modi government’ which they alleged was bent upon favouring the big agri-marketing firms by squeezing profit margins of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/asthi-kalash-yatra-reaches-prakasam/article37245397.ece
30 October 2021||Theni,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala releases water from Mullaperiyar dam||Kerala released 517 cubic feet per second (cusecs) of water from the Mullaperiyar reservoir on Friday, prompting protest from farmers in the southern districts and the Opposition AIADMK. The water was released around 7.30 a.m. in the presence of Kerala Irrigation Minister Roshi Augustine and Revenue Minister Rajan. Dam site inspected The Kerala Ministers and officials inspected the dam site in the presence of Tamil Nadu PWD executive engineer J. Sam Irwin and others. Farmers of five southern districts were not in favour of water release and had urged the Tamil Nadu Government to store the water up to 142 feet. PWD engineers said that after the widespread rain overnight in Kerala, the inflow stood at 6,635 cusecs and the discharge at 2,300 cusecs. The level was 138.05 feet. AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to hold talks with farmers of the Mullaperiyar dam ‘ayacut’ and take steps to defend the State’s rights. In a statement, he wanted the State to defeat Kerala’s “false campaign” through solid arguments placed by the best lawyers at the next hearing before the Supreme Court on November 11. At the same time, it had been the expectation of farmers that cordial relations with Kerala should be maintained, he pointed out. Theni, Dindigul, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga and Madurai districts receive water for irrigation and drinking purposes from the Mullaperiyar and Vaigai dams. In 2014, the Supreme Court directed that the water be stored up to 142 feet. A three-member Supervisory Committee was formed to monitor the inflow and other aspects. The team has conducted periodic inspections since then. Speaking to reporters at Cumbum, farmers’ association leader K.M. Abbas alleged that the decision to release 514 cusecs into the Idukki dam through Vandi Periyar and Vallakadavu was “unilateral”. The Tamil Nadu Government had the right to release water from the reservoir, but the discharge was done by Kerala. This raised doubts among the farmers. By releasing the water at this stage, Kerala could insist on keeping the level at 136 feet, he said. The AIADMK MLAs from the southern districts have objected to the Tamil Nadu Government’s “stoic silence”. Briefing reporters in Theni on behalf of these MLAs, former Minister R.B. Udayakumar said the AIADMK government, led by Jayalalithaa, took the storage issue to the Supreme Court and obtained a historic judgment that brought much hope among the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-releases-water-from-mullaperiyar-reservoir/article37245450.ece
30 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala likely to receive rain till Monday||Kerala is likely to receive widespread rainfall till Monday. All districts except Kannur and Kasaragod are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall over the weekend. All districts except Alappuzha, Kannur and Kasaragod are on yellow alert on Monday as well, according to an India Meteorological Department (IMD) rainfall forecast for the next five days. A two-week outlook issued by the IMD on Thursday indicated that cumulatively Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep can expect above normal rainfall till November 11. The low pressure area located over the southwest Bay of Bengal off the Sri Lanka coast is likely to move westward during the next three to four days and emerge into the southeast Arabian sea around November 2. It will continue on a westward path as an easterly wave perturbation during the subsequent four to five days. The IMD said another low pressure area is likely to form over southeast Bay of Bengal between November 6 and November 11. It is not expected to intensify.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-likely-to-receive-rain-till-monday/article37245331.ece
30 October 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to inaugurate Tirumala flyover in Nov.||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Friday said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would formally inaugurate the ‘Srinivasa Sethu’ flyover in November. The corridor project in Tirupati, Garuda Varadhi, renamed as Srinivasa Sethu, is aimed at providing a hassle-free channel to Tirumala-bound devotees besides easing traffic congestion. The construction of the flyover between APSRTC and Kapila Theertham is in the final stages, Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-inaugurate-tirumala-flyover-in-nov/article37245400.ece
30 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘APSCHE will be bridge between institutes, NAAC’||With the government making it mandatory for all educational institutions to undergo National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) accreditation in phases, the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has taken the responsibility of acting as a bridge between the two entities. “This is necessitated by the stringent norms stipulated by the NAAC and the need for hand-holding the colleges and universities in meeting the same,” said APSCHE Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy. Speaking to the media on the sidelines of a workshop on ‘Ensuring operational effectiveness of Internal Quality Assurance Cells(IQACs) in universities’ hosted by SPMVV here on Friday, he said the council’s Quality Assurance Cell would not only fix the benchmark for quality, but also coordinate with the IQACs of the various institutions. “The APSCHE will provide internal grading to the institutes, and sufficient time will be given ahead of NAAC visit to scale up their performance,” he said. Laying emphasis on the State government’s motto of ensuring highest quality standards in educational institutions, he directed the institutions to get into ‘perform or perish’ mode. Prof. Reddy explained the massive step taken to train 1.62 lakh students in 45 identified skill sets over a year to get them the coveted Microsoft certification. Making over a lakh students employable will be the biggest game-changer, he said, thanking the State government for coming forward to bear the expenditure of Rs. 30 crore to train the students as part of a pact with Microsoft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsche-will-be-bridge-between-institutes-naac/article37245401.ece
30 October 2021||UPPADA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Exclusive fish outlets for women to be set up in villages||In an attempt to provide designated marketing space exclusively for fisherwomen, the government will set up fish outlets in villages in coastal Andhra Pradesh. The outlets will be designed with all the features pertaining to hygiene, advertisement, and hoardings to market both marine and cultured fish. “The State government has chalked out a plan to set up fish outlets, which will be run by fisherwomen,” Minister for Fisheries and Animal Husbandry S. Appala Raju said on Friday. Mr. Appala Raju, along with Kakinada MP Vanga Geetha and Pithapuram MLA Pendem Dorababu, interacted with fisherwomen at Uppada. They inspected the geotube installed on the Uppada coast to prevent damage from sea erosion. “The Uppada villagers are demanding installation of a new geotube as the coastline is eroding fast. We will take the issue to the notice of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the Central government authorities,” said Mr. Appala Raju. Referring to the special insurance coverage for boats damaged during the cyclones, Mr. Appala Raju said a new policy was being prepared to ensure insurance coverage of the damaged boats .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exclusive-fish-outlets-for-women-to-be-set-up-in-villages/article37245860.ece
30 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC to soon roll out 100 electric buses||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is all set to roll out 100 electric buses soon. In a statement on Friday, the Corporation’s Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said that a proposal to this effect was sent to the Centre for its approval, and the nod came through on Thursday, October 28. Mr. Tirumala Rao said the allotment order would be given to M/S Evey Trans Private Limited (Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Ltd.) to operate 50 buses from Tirupati to Tirumala and the remaining 50 buses from Tirupati to cities like Kadapa, Nellore, Madanapalle and Renigunta. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would soon flag off these eco-friendly electric buses, Mr. Tirumala Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-to-soon-roll-out-100-electric-buses/article37245963.ece
30 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why A.P. joined chorus for caste-wise BC census||Andhra Pradesh has jumped on to the bandwagon of States that are pressing the need for conducting Backward Classes (BCs) census, along with the 20221 national census to fulfil the long-standing demand of various communities. Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Telangana have already joined the chorus for the caste-wise census. The State Cabinet has authorised BC Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna to table a resolution in Andhra Pradesh Assembly urging the Union Government to take up a caste census. This would be the second resolution, if adopted by the Assembly, as a similar resolution was adopted during the TDP rule. The A.P. government’s move has many dimensions, including political, and ‘urgent need to respond’ to demand from the BC communities. The steam for caste census has picked up with BC leaders such as R. Krishnaniah, Kesana Sankar Rao meeting the political parties at the national level to garner their support. Many regional and national parties have responded positively, while the Union government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has kept its options open on the matter. Quota limit There is an argument that implementation of Articles 15 (4) and 16 (4) of the Constitution dealing with reservations for Backward Classes in educational institutions and government services was not possible without estimating the population of BCs to understand the proportion of their representation in various walks of life. The socio-economic caste census (SECC) has the potential to allow for a mapping of inequalities at a broader level. However, the underlying factor behind the demand is the idea that the existing cap of 50% reservation in government institutions should be done away on the ground that it is not proportional to the caste composition in India. The caste census was last conducted in 1931, and even the data of Socio-Economic and Caste Census-2011 conducted by the Centre have not been released till date. While the commission was mandated to collect quantifiable data for each of the identified castes and tribes. Changing dynamics After the 2019 elections in Andhra Pradesh, both the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and the main opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) have been leaving no stone unturned to woo the BCs. Once, the BCs were considered as the backbone of the TDP, but the dynamics changed during and after the 2019 elections. The YSRCP government has set up 56 corporations for 139 BC castes in the State. Again a Most Backward Classes Corporation has been set up for the welfare of 32 castes, which are mostly nomadic. “There are many castes that have not been recognised so far. The caste enumeration will help devise policies for their welfare, education, employment and etc., apart from increasing their representation politically,” says Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna. The TDP, on its part, has dashed a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Pointing to the fact that the BCs constituted a majority of the population in the country, but were a ‘neglected lot’. TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu recalled that Kaka Kalelkar Commission, the first BC Commission constituted in 1953, and other subsequent commissions, including the ones formed by the State governments, had recommended enumeration of the BCs. ‘Resolution not enough’ Andhra Pradesh BC Samkshema Sangham president Mr. Sankara Rao has, however, a different view. He says that passing a resolution only would not suffice. Many resolutions, including the one on the Kapu quota, have been fed to the trash can. “The State government should take a delegation and mount pressure on the Centre. The caste census will certainly help many communities, which are hitherto denied share in in politics,” he says. The BJP, which supported the caste census earlier, informed the Lok Sabha in July this year that the 2021 census would not have a caste count. the COVID-19 pandemic has delayed the 2021 census and it will now be conducted next year, with the preliminary results expected in 2023-24 financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-ap-joined-chorus-for-caste-wise-bc-census/article37245864.ece
30 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC to develop four depots as ‘bus ports’||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has proposed integrated bus terminals as part of which four bus stations in the State would be transformed into ‘bus ports’ by creating modern facilities on par with airports. Officials at the helm of the cash-starved corporation have been working overtime to find new avenues to generate additional revenue. As part of the move, they have identified four bus stations at Tirupati, Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Kurnool to be spruced up with modern amenities to provide better services to passengers, besides generating revenue from the commercial establishments proposed to be developed on Public-private partnership (PPP) model. These bus stations in prime locations have considerable stretches of vacant and unutilised land that have a potential for revenue generation. The Andhra Pradesh Urban Infrastructure Asset Management Limited (APUIAML) has been roped in as the transaction advisor and it will carry out the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) process for selection of a consultant to take up the master planning and designing of the project. “The size of the project will depend on the available land. The Tirupati bus station, with 64 platforms spreading across 13 acres of land, is the biggest of all and it may cost around Rs. 250 crore,” said Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao, Managing Director of the APSRTC. Modern amenities The plan is to raise a grand structure with 15 floors, including two cellars and a mezzanine floor. “The first two floors will house all RTC offices while the rest will have commercial establishments such as hotels, a convention centre, a shopping complex and other facilities,” he said. The RTC bus station at Maddilapalem in Visakhapatnam will the second biggest project to come up in around three acres, while the bus depots at Autonagar in Vijayawada offers 1.80 acres of vacant land and the one at Rajvihar in Kurnool district has 1.93 acres. All the three bus stations will have passenger amenities such as Internet cafes, dormitories and convention centres. “The present set-up of the bus platforms, the information display system and the public announcements will continue and new facilities will be added,” Mr. Rao explained, informing that the APSRTC will lease out the new facilities tentatively for 49 years. During the construction period, the APSRTC will need alternative bus stations to operate its services. In the smaller bus stations, it will divert buses to other depots. “Since the Tirupati bus station has a large fleet of buses, we have requested the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to give us an alternative land for temporary use as a bus station during the construction period,” said Mr. Tirumala Rao. It may take six months for the tendering process and a little over two years for the projects to be ready. “These four places will be elevated as bus ports by creating facilities on par with airports,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-to-develop-four-depots-as-bus-ports/article37245866.ece
30 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Operation Parivarthana to level ganja fields in AOB||In a major operation to prevent the cultivation and smuggling of ganja, the State government has planned to destroy cannabis plantations in the Andhra Odisha Border (AOB) under ‘Operation Parivarthana’. The one-month operation will begin from October 30, and various departments of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha will participate in the operation. Ganja plantation in more than 15,000 acres would be destroyed. Officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), Police, Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Tribal Welfare, Revenue and tribals from both States will destroy the ganja crops in the Agency habitations, officials said. “We have collected satellite photographs, drone videos and photographs and gathered information on major ganja cultivators and the villagers involved in the illegal operation. Data on smugglers of the neighbouring States, who were active in illegal transportation of the contraband, has been prepared through intelligence and police sources,” said an officer. More than 10 teams, each comprising 100 persons, would be engaged in Operation Parivarthana. Officers of various departments have been deployed in Visakhapatnam to take up the drive, which begins from Saturday. The officers coordinated with the community heads, sarpanches and the cultivators, who gave their consent to participate in the operation, said a police officer. “The operation would be taken up in Visakhapatnam Rural district, and in nine districts of Odisha, including Koraput, Malkangiri, Boudh, Kandhamal, Rayagada, and Gajapati. The A.P. police will organise the Southern States Coordination Meeting in Visakhapatnam on November 1. Director Generals of Police (DGPs) of Telangana, A.P,, Odisha, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Kerala will discuss ways to curb ganja cultivation. Officers of various States and Central agencies, including Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Intelligence Bureau (IB), and intelligence wings of various departments, Prohibition and Excise, Forest, ITDA, Collectors and other departments will take part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/operation-parivarthana-to-level-ganja-fields-in-aob/article37245854.ece
30 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drones to help A.P. police keep an eye on liquor smuggling||The Andhra Pradesh police are planning to deploy drones to identify Illicit Distilled (ID) liquor manufacturing dens and to check illegal transportation of Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) into the State, and geo-tag their residences. Station House Officers will identify repeat offenders, and open rowdy- history- and suspect sheets and also identify those who have been expelled from the district for a period of time due to their criminal record. These persons would be treated as notorious offenders and the police would write to the Revenue Department seeking that the families of the offenders not be given benefits of government schemes, Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal said. Around 2,500 persons, involved in various cases and facing trials in different courts, were counselled at Basavapunnaiah Stadium here on Friday. Police warned them of severe consequences if they failed to mend their ways. Police said they would use the P.D. Act against them if they continued to break the law. Checkposts would be doubled at border areas and in vulnerable areas, and technical intelligence would be used to book the culprits as part of the Special Action Plan, said Mr. Kaushal. “Many women and minors are also involved in ganja peddling and ID liquor manufacturing and selling in some habitations. Some villagers are resorting to smuggling and sale of banned gutkha products, and the data of habitual offenders is being prepared,” the SP said. More than 10,000 persons involved in ganja, gutkha, NDPL and arrack cases are throwing their lives away and their children are facing social stigma, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drones-to-help-ap-police-keep-an-eye-on-liquor-smuggling/article37245322.ece
30 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kin of deceased RTC employees stage protest||Kin of the employees of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) who died while in service and were promised jobs on compassionate grounds under Bread Winner Scheme (BWS), staged a demonstration at Pandit Nehru Bus Station here on Friday, in protest against the inordinate delay in receiving their appointment letters. The demonstrators comprised job applicants from families of RTC employees who died between 2016 and 2019, who were promised jobs, called for interviews, followed by verification of their certificates, but have been kept in a waiting mode for last five years. “Only a few applicants from the families of employees who died before 2015 were given jobs, while the remaining were denied appointments on some pretext or the other. In the hope of getting a job in the RTC, we desisted from joining any other work and now, the management says that only the kin of the employees who died during 2020-21 would be appointed on compassionate grounds,” said K. Annamaiah, whose farther K. Raju died in 2016, while working as a shramik (helper) in the organisation for 30 years. “It is five years since he died and I am still waiting for my appointment orders,” he said ruefully. Thirty-two-year-old Annamaiah did not work anywhere these five years, as he would have become ‘ineligible’ for recruitment in the RTC. A. Harshavardhan is a B.Tech graduate but is sitting idle, waiting to fill the shoes of his father A. Venkata Rao, who died in 2016 while serving as an employee of RTC. “We have put his marriage on hold for this job. After a long wait of five years, the officials now say that there is little they can do about it since the government has not given its nod so far,” said Harshvardhan’s mother Lakshmi. Anitha Appasani, wife of A. Sambasiva Rao who worked as a driver in Guntur-II depot and died in June, 2016, is in the same boat. “This is so unfair. Leaving us (around 900 job-applicants) high and dry, the management has announced that it would provide jobs to only the kin of employees who died in the last two years,” she said. Stating that they received a meagre Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 as pension, they appealed to the government to consider their plight and provide them the promised jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kin-of-deceased-rtc-employees-stage-protest/article37245962.ece
30 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM bats for high-speed Internet to YSR Digital Libraries||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials concerned to equip the YSR digital libraries with advanced technologies and to provide high-speed Internet to each one of the 12,979 libraries being set up across the State. At a review meeting on the progress of works related to the libraries, at his camp office at Tadepalli on Friday, Mr. Jagan Mohan reddy instructed the Collectors of Anantapur, Chittoor, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts to pay special attention to the construction of digital libraries in the respective districts. He said that the facilities at the libraries should be useful to the youth who are preparing for competitive examinations, and other sections. The officials informed the Chief Minister that works related to 4,530 digital libraries would be completed in the first phase by January 2022. The Chief Minister further said that digital libraries, including computer equipment, in Phase-1 should be ready by Ugadi 2022, the second phase by December 2022 and Phase-3 by June 2023. Industries and Commerce and IT Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy, Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma, Principal Secretaries Gopala Krishna Dwivedi (Panchayat Raj & Rural Development) and G. Jaya Lakshmi (IT Electronics and Communications), Secretaries N. Srikant (energy) and N. Gulzar (finance) were among other officials who participated in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-bats-for-high-speed-internet-to-ysr-digital-libraries/article37245856.ece
30 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rowdy-sheeter expelled||Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu has expelled rowdy-sheeter, Vadiyar Ganesh alias Vadiyala Ganesh, who was allegedly involved in about 25 cases. Orders to this effect were issued on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rowdy-sheeter-expelled/article37245958.ece
30 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t hike rents, Araku police tell lodge owners||Ahead of the tourist season, the Araku police have been sensitising local lodge and resort owners on various issues, in the Visakhapatnam district. The police are also appealing to the owners not to take advantage of the increase in number of tourists and hike the charges of rooms. The police have been conducting inspections in the lodges and resorts in Araku mandal for the last two days. The Araku Valley and Paderu have been receiving a good number of tourists since Dasara holidays. It is expected to see an increase in the number of tourists from the next week, as winter was setting in and there is a drop in night temperatures in the Agency. The police asked the managements to collect photos as well as Aadhaar cards of the guests before allotting rooms. He also asked them to maintain registers properly and not to give rooms to minors at any cost. The police directed the lodge as well as resort owners to install CCTV cameras and maintain hard-disks with two month footage storage capacity. Araku Circle Inspector G.D. Babu asked the managements as well as the staff working at the hospitals not to support ganja smuggling. He also asked them to approach police in case, if they find any persons moving suspiciously in and around the lodge premises. The Araku Valley police also instructed the managements not to install tents without permissions. He suggested them to take permission from the police as well as the Revenue Department, for setting up tents. With the dip in mercury levels and the valley turning scenic, the tent accommodation has been attracting a large number of tourists in the Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-hike-rents-araku-police-tell-lodge-owners/article37245965.ece
30 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Provide loans to TIDCO beneficiaries, bankers told||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has sought the officials from various banks to provide loans for TIDCO houses to the beneficiaries at the earliest, which would help them to construct houses. He was speaking during the inaugural of the Credit Outreach Programme organised by the district administration here on Friday. Mr. Mallikarjuna sought the bank officials to provide loans to the eligible beneficiaries without any hurdles. He requested the beneficiaries to repay the loans within time. The Collector also asked the officials from banks to come forward to set up bank branches in the Agency areas of the district, to provide banking services to the people. He distributed loan cheques to the beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/provide-loans-to-tidco-beneficiaries-bankers-told/article37245970.ece
30 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RT-DAS Control Centre inaugurated at DISCOM office||Chairman and Managing Director of Andhra Pradesh Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) K. Santhosha Rao inaugurated the RT-DAS (Real-Time Data Acquisition System) Control Centre and System at the corporate office here on Friday. The CMD said that regular monitoring reports received from the RT-DAS system, would help in providing uninterrupted power supply to the consumers to the extent possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rt-das-control-centre-inaugurated-at-discom-office/article37245966.ece
30 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘No action taken against those who attacked TDP office’||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has alleged that no action was taken against those who attacked the party office here on October 19. Addressing the media here on Friday, TDP General Secretary Md Nazeer said that right on the day of the incident, the party leaders have complained about the issue to the Police Commissioner and requested him to take action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-action-taken-against-those-who-attacked-tdp-office/article37245968.ece
30 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Agreement does not allow sale of VSP land to pvt. parties’||An agreement made at the time of land acquisition for Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) states that the land should be used for public purpose only, and 7,000 evacuees (R cardholders) are yet to get jobs, Jana Sena Party (JSP) leader T. Sivasankar has said. He was addressing the media along with JSP Political Affairs Committee (PAC) member Kona Tata Rao and general secretary Bolisetty Satyanarayana on Friday, in connection with the party president Pawan Kalyan’s scheduled public meeting on October 31 (Sunday). “The agreement does not allow the sale of land to private parties ,” he said. Calling Mr. Pawan Kalyan’s participation in the public meeting is apolitical, he said that the JSP had sought permission from the police for it.   Medha Patkar to visit strike camp today Social activist Medha Patkar will visit the relay hunger strike camp of the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee at Kurmannapalem on Saturday. The Porata Committee leaders, after a meeting on Friday, said that Ms. Medha Patkar would address a public meeting at Vinayak Nagar on Saturday evening .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agreement-does-not-allow-sale-of-vsp-land-to-pvt-parties/article37245867.ece
30 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies in grief ahead of wife’s funeral||A man died in grief unable to bear the death of his wife at Ravikamatham in the Visakhapatnam district on Friday. According to sources,S. Ganga Bhavani (50) died due to some health issues on Thursday. Just before the final rituals, her husband S. Venkata Ramana(55) became unconscious. Doctors declared him brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-dies-in-grief-ahead-of-wifes-funeral/article37245967.ece
30 October 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lakshminarayana seeks reopening of Bhimasingi sugar factory||Former Joint Director of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) V.V. Lakshminarayana and Lok Satta Party State president Bhisetti Babji on Friday asked the State government to reopen Bhimasingi Sugar factory and other industries immediately to save sugarcane farmers from financial crisis. The Lok Satta Party organised Rythu Mahajana Sabha and all-party meeting at Bhimasingi factory located on Vizianagaram-Kothavalasa route. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Lakshminarayana said the sugarcane farmers were worried with the closure of the factory. “The closure of the factory had made their lives miserable. They don’t know what to do with the standing crop. The immediate opening of the factory will help farmers, factory workers and others who depend on the factory indirectly,” he added. Mr. Babji said that farmers will be forced to take up agitations if their future would be bleak with the lack of clarity over the reopening of the factory. He said that the farmers had invested huge amount to grow sugarcane in the district. TDP leader B.S.S.V. Narasinga Rao alleged that the State government was least bothered about the grievances of farmers. CPI State Committee Secretary P. Kameswara Rao, CPI(M) leader Challa Jagan, Bhimasingi farmers’ association leaders Vadrapu Naidu, Babu and others narrated about the pathetic condition of farmers in the district. Later, the delegation of political parties met senior officials and submitted representations for the revival of the sugar factory. They said that the sugar factory was the lone agro-based major industry in the district and it was providing livelihood to thousands of people living in five mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lakshminarayana-seeks-reopening-of-bhimasingi-sugar-factory/article37245894.ece
30 October 2021||HUZURABAD (Karimnagar district),TELANGANA||Protest against ‘differential treatment’ continues||The unusual demonstrations by some voters stating that “we too should be given Rs. 6,000 per vote as being given by a party to some in Huzurabad by-poll” continued for the second day on Friday, posing uncomfortable questions to political parties and officials. Video clips of women alleging that a particular party was distributing Rs. 6,000 per vote in the constituency and demanding that they too be given the same amount went viral the previous day. Two more video clips with near similar content surfaced from the constituency on Friday, even as police announced that they had already launched an investigation into such instances reported on Thursday. In one video purportedly emerging from Peddapapayapally village, women staged a sit-in on the road, alleging that they were being denied Rs. 6,000 per vote. “We have two votes and live in a hut. What is our mistake? Why are we being deprived of that money?” they angrily asked. They also charged that one village elder even threatened them with dire consequences when they questioned on the issue. In one village of Kamlapur mandal, women charged that ‘village elder’ told them that they would be given money only if they pledged and promised before voting. “Did they give money to all only after taking promises..we too are voters and why are they not giving money to us?” Karimnagar Police Commissioner V. Satyanarayana said that two cases were already registered relating to such instances. “We appeal to people to alert police if anyone distributes cash and liquor to woo voters. They can use ECI’s C vigil to alert authorities. We understand some persons are instigating people to stage such demonstrations,” he said. Mr. Satyanarayana said persons demonstrating seeking money for votes would invite the wrath of the law. This would amount to violating Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code and other provisions of the law, he said, adding that probe was on to identify persons indulging in distribution of money. Interestingly, a video clip of some members of a government teachers union, who were on polling duty, fleeing on seeing BJP party workers while they were attending a party hosted by a political party surfaced on Friday. “TRS is bribing everyone and went to the extent of inducing even poll duty staff. We complained to ECI,” BJP State president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay said. Retired officer G. Padmanabha Reddy of Forum for Good Governance said it was the failure of the ECI. “The spineless and toothless ECI is failing to conduct a fair and free election,” he said. Already, similar situation arose during elections to graduate and teacher constituencies of the Legislative Council. He felt that the police should have used their intelligence network to scuttle money power in the election. Awareness too should be created among public on the dangerous ramifications of such trends, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protest-against-differential-treatment-continues/article37245687.ece
30 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘TS willing to develop dedicated industrial cluster for French firms’||Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has announced that the State government is willing to develop a dedicated industrial cluster for French companies, particularly small and medium enterprises. The government is keen on promoting industries in Telangana and to positively consider the requests that industrial units make in this direction. “Companies intending to invest in India can mention what other States are offering. Telangana will meet their offer, if not beat it,” he averred. Mr. Rama Rao, who is in Paris along with an official delegation, was delivering a keynote address at the Ambition India Business Forum. His address, according to an official release, drew all round applause from business and political leaders who attended the meeting on the topic “Growth: Drafting the future of Indo-French relations in post Covid era” held at the French Senate. States’ autonomy The Minister said the national policies were the prerogative of the Central government. The States, too, enjoyed considerable autonomy in multiple operational issues like allotment of land, providing approvals and permissions, helping the companies get trained manpower and preferential procurement policies among others.  He highlighted the welfare and development schemes of the State and the manner in which the State was marching ahead under the leadership of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Several investor friendly policies were put in place to facilitate a proper industrial ecosystem in the State, he said inviting the French industry to explore investment opportunities in the State. Large land bank The Minister explained about the TS-iPASS and TS-bPASS, which allows self certification and promises clearances in 15 days. The State has a large land bank of about two lakh acres with the TSIIC and these lands were strategically located with high quality infrastructure, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/willing-to-develop-dedicated-industrial-cluster-for-french-firms/article37245671.ece
30 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC permits cracker stalls on its playgrounds||GHMC has issued permission for setting up temporary fire cracker stalls on its playgrounds ahead of Deepavali. A total of 66 playgrounds have been identified in all the six zones where stalls can be set up with prior permission of GHMC authorities. Permission will be issued subject to clearance by local police and fire authorities and payment of fee to the GHMC for temporary trade licence. Applications will be received through the Citizens’ Service Centres at zonal level and processed by the zonal commissioners concerned. The stalls may be set up starting November 1 to November 6, two days after the festival. Through a press statement, GHMC has also informed about formation of teams to crack down on the sale of illegal crackers, as per the directions of the Supreme Court. Shops or persons selling imported fire crackers will be identified and imposed severe penalties or punishment, the note said. The Supreme Court had issued directions for regulation of bursting of crackers at the time of Deepavali, favouring green crackers with low emissions. Accordingly, production, sale and use of firecrackers and series crackers have been banned. Citizens may share information on the sale of banned firecrackers in the nearest police station for suitable action, the note said. Further, for the purpose of community celebrations of Deepavali by bursting crackers, certain areas will be identified and pre-designated by authorities concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-permits-cracker-stalls-on-its-playgrounds/article37245677.ece
30 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||My statement is incorrect, panel on Disha case told||“Mee officers e chesyaru, nuvu enta? (When your officers have signed, who are you to refuse?) This is what officials of National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had told Cyberabad Special Operations Team’s head constable Mohammed Sirajuddin when he resisted to sign on his ‘incorrect’ statement recorded by the NHRC in December 2019. During his deposition before the Supreme Court-constituted three-member panel to inquire into the alleged encounter killings of the four accused in the rape and murder of Disha by Telangana police on December 6, 2019, Mr. Sirajuddin, who was part of the armed escort, told the panel on Friday that he had put his signature on all the papers of his statement without reading as he was ‘threatened’ to do so. He went on to say that even his statement recorded by the investigating officer and Rachakonda Police Commissionerate’s DCP (SOT) J. Surender Reddy was incorrect. “I had not stated many recitals in the statement recorded by the IO. Maximum of this is incorrect,” he told the panel. Again referring to his statement to the NHRC, the panel asked, “You have specifically stated that nobody gave command to fire. What do you say?” “It is incorrect. Without the officer’s instruction, I would not have opened fire,” Mr. Sirajuddin said. Earlier, the panel asked him whether he knew the meaning of ‘interrogated’, if anyone attempted to catch the accused alive, what position he was in when he opened fire, if all four accused ran together and if he saw the accused when he opened fire. The Commission asked if he was aware that the firing would have endangered the lives of the accused. “I did not fire with the intention of harming them. They are also accused in a gang rape and murder, my intention was to apprehend them,” the officer responded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/my-statement-is-incorrect-panel-on-disha-case-told/article37245665.ece
30 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||20 companies of Central forces to monitor bypoll||The Election Commission has deployed 20 companies of Central para-military forces to prevent any untoward incident during the byelection to Huzurabad Assembly constituency slated for Saturday. The Commission deployed 32 micro observers as well as six engineers to attend to the technical glitches if any encountered by the electronic voting machines. Polling would be held from 7 am to 7 pm and voters should follow COVID-19 protocols while coming to cast vote, Chief Electoral Officer Shashank Goel said. The CEO said all arrangements had been made for peaceful conduct of the bypoll. The constituency reported 84.5 per cent voting in the previous elections in 2018 and the Commission was hopeful that the voting percentage would increase this time. The bypoll had become a prestigious issue for the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi as well as the BJP on whose behalf former Minister Eatala Rajender who quit the TRS is in the fray. Mr. Shashank Goel said wheelchairs had been kept in all the polling booths to enable the specially abled to cast vote without inconvenience. Complaints were received from political parties that put up their nominees in the election and action was initiated regarding a majority of them. Special teams and squads deployed by the Commission had seized Rs. 3.5 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/20-companies-of-central-forces-to-monitor-bypoll/article37245691.ece
30 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘KCR’s political plans to blame for NGT stay on Palamuru’||Alleging government’s inefficiency in the National Green Tribunal (NGT) staying the works on Palamuru Ranga Reddy project citing lack of environmental clearances, TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy alleged a larger political plan of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in unification of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. “The Chief Minister engaged top lawyers of the country when NGT stayed the demolition of old Secretariat but when it came to Palamuru Ranga Reddy project some unknown lawyers were given the responsibility to deliberately weaken the case,” he alleged adding that “This clearly reflects the priorities of KCR.” “Secretariat is more important to him than the irrigation project and there is more to it,” he said. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Reddy claimed that large political plan of KCR was unification of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh with the dream of ruling a bigger state. He said KCR would come out with the claim that separate states were creating water sharing issues and only a unified state can solve these problems. “Maybe he has bigger ideas with far more resources of AP coming into his hands if he can succeed in becoming the CM of a combined state”. The first indication of this was given at the TRS plenary recently, he claimed, where Telugu Talli statue was prominently displayed forgetting Telangana Talli statue. “When this was pointed out by the Congress the TRS leaders who otherwise are ready to prowl on the opposition are mum so far,” he said while linking it with absolute silence on the statement of AP Minister Perni Nani. Mr. Nani had asked KCR to pass a resolution in the Telangana Assembly for unification of both states when the latter claimed at the party plenary that many in Andhra Pradesh were inviting the TRS to take a plunge into AP politics as well. Mr. Revanth Reddy asked why the TRS was silent. “It is their habit to react with abuses but somehow no one has opened their mouth.” The TPCC chief said the silence of KCR on the NGT stay would lead to irrevocable harm to the project and the entire South Telangana will suffer. He said the Congress government in 2013 itself had given G.O. 72 for the project survey of Palamuru Ranga Reddy. However, KCR changed the plan from Jurala to Srisailam in the name of redesigning. After laying foundation stone in 2015, now the work was stayed all together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcrs-political-plans-to-blame-for-ngt-stay-on-palamuru/article37245693.ece
30 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Transfers in GHMC engineering wing||The MA&UD department has issued orders effecting transfers of Engineering officials pertaining to the GHMC on Friday. Chief Engineer heading the HRDCL Mohammed Ziauddin has been re-designated as the Engineer-in-Chief and posted in charge of over control and superintendence of regular maintenance works, CRMP, SNDP, HRDCL and QQSUDA and inter departmental coordination for engineering works, the orders said. Further, he will discharge the responsibilities of Chief Engineer, Maintenance, in GHMC. Chief Engineer (Projects) P. Saroja Rani has been transferred and posted as Chief Engineer, HRDCL, in place of Mr. Ziauddin. M. Devanand, who has been serving as Chief Engineer, Maintenance, has been transferred and posted as Chief Engineer, Projects. Meanwhile, Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi, during her address at the Third Asia-Pacific Urban Forestry meeting on Friday organised by the Food and Agriculture Organisation, elaborated on the greenery initiatives of the Telangana government which got Hyderabad recognition as ‘Tree City of the World’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/transfers-in-ghmc-engineering-wing/article37245680.ece
30 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||INTACH wants structural assessment study on OGH||The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) has appealed to the government of Telangana to allow it to visit and do a structural assessment study of the Osmania General Hospital (OGH). “A hospital is a functioning building that runs 24x7x365 days. It places immense stress on infrastructure. Periodic maintenance is important. Just as an individual will be affected if diet or care is ignored. Any building needs maintenance so that functional safety can be guaranteed,” said S.P. Anchuri, a structural engineer working with INTACH. “We want to inspect the new building as well as the old heritage structure. The incident of fan falling inside the dermatology section in the new building is unfortunate. A structural study will show us how to deal with these buildings,” said Anuradha Reddy making a plea for inspection of the legendary hospital. The INTACH team is suggesting repair and strengthening techniques using the latest materials and possible restoration works such as column jacketing, shotcreting, and anti-corrosive coatings, to enhance the life of the structure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/intach-wants-structural-assessment-study-on-ogh/article37245681.ece
30 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister and team meet global CEOs in Paris||On day two of its France tour, the delegation from Telangana led by Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao held meetings with global CEOs of various French companies in Paris. Mr. Rama Rao and others met the heads of Sanofi, a French multinational biopharmaceutical company headquartered in Paris. Vaccine production He interacted with the head of International Operations Fabrice Baschiera and head of Global Vaccines Public Affairs Isabelle Deschamps. Sanofi would soon be launching production of its six-in-one vaccine from its Hyderabad facility. Mr. Rao met Geraldine Lemle, Deputy CEO, Movement of the Enterprises of France (MEDEF) in Paris. MEDEF is the largest employer federation in France. It is the leading network of entrepreneurs in France; over 95% of the businesses belonging to MEDEF are SMEs. Potential pact explored Later, the delegation visited Station F, the world’s largest incubator campus in Paris. The Minister discussed a potential collaboration with Telangana’s innovation ecosystem organisations like THub, WeHub and TWorks. Station F is a unique campus and community in the heart of the city with 1,000 startups. Originally a railway depot, this facility has been remodelled to transform it into an incubator. Meeting with ADP boss Mr. Rao also had a meeting with ADP chairman and CEO Augustin de Romanet. ADP has recently invested in Hyderabad airport. Principal Secretary Jayesh Ranjan, Aerospace and Defence director Praveen and Digital Media director Dileep Konatham were present during the meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minister-meets-global-ceos-in-paris/article37245672.ece
30 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dharani is a game changer: CS||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has described the Dharani, one of its kind integrated land transactions portal, as a game changer as can be seen from the radical changes it brought in the land administration system in the State. The Chief Secretary said Dharani was a major initiative taken by the government after the State formation and the portal had witnessed 5.14 crore hits and over 10 lakh transactions in the first year of its operations. Dharani was launched by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on October 29 last year. Mr. Somesh Kumar released a booklet on Dharani marking its successful completion of one year. He recalled the challenges and hurdles faced in the initial stages of the launch. In spite of efforts of certain vested to pull down the system, Dharani had the ability to adapt itself to meet the ever increasing requirements of various stakeholders. Different modules had also been added to the system to redress various kinds of grievances. He said there had been an exponential growth in the land values in the State and thanks to innovative system like Dharani, interests of the landowners had been safeguarded. It had been ensured that changes were not possible without biometric authentication. The successful launch and implementation of the portal was possible as the government took up land records updation programme preceding its launch to purify and update land records. The Chief Secretary complimented the officials and staff for the work done and asserted that grievances would come down in a couple of months. Senior officials who were involved in the effective implementation of Dharani shared their experiences in handling the portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dharani-is-a-game-changer/article37245697.ece
30 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 174 new COVID cases, two deaths||Another 174 positive cases were added to the COVID-19 tally in Telangana during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Friday, taking the cumulative total to 6,71,174 so far. Two more deaths were also reported during the day taking their total to 3,954. According to a bulletin issued by the Director of Public Health on the status of COVOD-19 in the State, 202 infected persons were declared recovered during the day, pushing up the overall figure to 6,63,124. A total of 38,442 samples were tested during the day to trace the infection and reports of 2,005 samples were still awaited. The bulletin also stated that the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region reported the highest of 65 cases followed by Karimnagar 14, Medchal-Malkajigiri 13, Rangareddy 11, Hanmakonda 9, Nalgonda 6 and Khammam and Peddapalli 5 each. The districts of Jangaon, Jayashankar-Bhupalapally, Jogulamba-Gadwal, Kumram Bheem-Asifabad, Mulugu, Nizamabad and Vikarabad did not record even a single new infection on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-logs-174-new-covid-cases-two-deaths/article37245667.ece
30 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Contractors seek payment of dues||Contractors working for the GHMC have gone into protest mode demanding payment of the long-pending dues from the corporation for the works completed. On Friday, the contractors staged a demonstration in front of the GHMC headquarters under the banner of GHMC Contractors’ Association and issued an ultimatum that the works would be stopped henceforth, if payments were not made immediately. The association claimed that about Rs. 550 crore were pending from the GHMC for various works taken up by the contractors, including laying of BT & CC roads, patch works, de-silting of drains, and works pertaining to Bonalu and Ganesh immersion festivities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contractors-seek-payment-of-dues/article37245675.ece
30 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New facility at Yashoda for brain stroke treatment||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Friday inaugurated a world-class Biplane Neuro Cath Lab at Yashoda Hospitals, Secunderabad, on the occasion of World Stroke Day. Speaking at a function after the launch, Ms. Soundarajaran said: “Today, paralysis is a dangerous, dreadful disease that unknowingly cripples a person. It acutely alters a person who was fit and healthy into a disabled person. In some cases, it even leads to death. Paralysis is more common in men than in women.” She pointed out that the main underlying reasons for this scenario are predisposing chronic diseases such as diabetes, high blood pressure, and obesity, leading to an increased risk of stroke. “It is advisable to go for regular medical check-ups as you get older,” she noted. Yashoda Hospitals group director Pawan Gorukanti said it was a proud moment to launch the Bi-Plane Neuro Angio Procedure Suite with DTAS (Direct to Angio Suite) technology. With the suite, scanning tests for brain stroke patients, their results, subsequent treatment decisions, and treatments (thrombolysis, thrombectomy) can be done in one room, on the same machine, since time is of the essence during the golden hour. Yashoda Hospitals senior neuro and interventional radiologist Suresh Giragani, senior neurosurgeon Anand Balasubramaniam and senior neurologist Komal Kumar participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-facility-at-yashoda-for-brain-stroke-patients/article37245669.ece
30 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||EV-charging station every 25 km||Energy Minister G. Jagdish Reddy has said that the State government wanted to set up a charging station for every 25 km for electric vehicles (EVs) as part of strengthening charging infrastructure which was the biggest challenge to the segment. Addressing a meeting after inaugurating a two-day EV Trade Expo at Hi-Tex on Friday, Mr. Reddy said EVs were the corner stone of automobile industry in future. Therefore, there was need for sales to pick up in the segment. That will protect environment from pollution. The government focussed on increased use of EVs by giving tax and production incentives. The expos will help in surge in sales and throw light on market trends. The Minister went round the stalls and took a short ride on EVs. EV brands manufactured by Tata, MG and other companies were on display. The event is organised by The Trade Show Company in association with State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plan-to-set-up-ev-charging-station-every-25-km-minister/article37245683.ece
30 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Criminal cases against voters demanding money’||The Chief Electoral Officer, Mr. Shashank Goel, said criminal cases would be registered against voters who demand money from contesting parties and the candidates. The Commission was in receipt of reports of voters staging dharna and demonstrations in some places in protest against not receiving money from political parties. Inquiry had been ordered into the incident and efforts were under way to identify the voters who staged such protest. “Criminal cases will be registered against those found guilty once the inquiry report is submitted,” the Chief Electoral Officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/criminal-cases-against-voters-demanding-money/article37245685.ece
30 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Brief||GHMC will administer the second dose of vaccination against COVID from Saturday. All the colonies covered during the drive for first dose will be revisited, and door-to-door campaigns will be taken up for complete vaccination, a statement from GHMC informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brief/article37245679.ece
30 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sainik Welfare dept. honours COVID warriors||Sainik Welfare department on Friday felicitated officers, doctors and others who had worked to provide treatment, counselling and groceries during the COVID-19 pandemic. At a function at the Sainik Aramgarh complex here, Director of Sainik Welfare Colonel P. Ramesh Kumar honoured Colonel Bikshapati, Colonel P Sreenagesh (retired), officer in-charge of ECHS polyclinic at Secunderabad, Naik Jagan Reddy (retired), President, National Ex-Servicemen Coordination Committee, Sergeant Manohar Reddy (retired), president of Telangana State Ex-Servicemen Federation and Charulatha Acharya, wife of Major Padmapani Acharya (Mahavir Chakra recipient). Beyond duty call Col Ramesh Kumar said the doctors and officers treated/ helped more than 10,000/ COVID patients in the time of distress, going beyond the call of duty. Dr Bikshapati said he treated over 6,000 patients, both in Army and civil society as he felt it was his basic duty as a human being. Col Srinagesh said he used to receive distress calls late in the night but made it a point to resolve them timely. He added that he got utmost satisfaction from counselling and directing the patients by liaising with hospitals and doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sainik-welfare-dept-honours-covid-heroes/article37245670.ece
30 October 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Police in mission mode to ensure fair poll||Since the Huzurabad byelection notification was issued a few weeks ago, the Karimnagar police force, led by Commissioner V. Satyanarayana, is in mission mode to ensure a free and fair election. From deploying forces on the day of nominations to the day of polling (Saturday) at 7 am, police threw a security blanket over the entire constituency to ensure that fiercely contested bypoll passed off peacefully. Mr. Satyanarayana made it clear that attempts by candidate to secure votes using force or rowdysm would be met with an iron hand. As per Election Commission of India (ECI) guidelines, non-residents of Huzurabad who were in the constituency for campaign were sent away 48 hours before the polling day. Eighteen companies of para-military forces (Central Reserved Police Force, Indo-Tibetan Border Police, Sashastra Seema Bal, and Central Industrial Security Force) arrived in Karimnagar district. They were positioned at key points. Two more companies of Telangana State Special Police were also drawn for security arrangements. In addition to them, a 1,788-plus Karimnagar police force is also on by-election duty. This included Additional Superintendents of Police, 12 Deputy Superintendents of Police, 50 Inspectors and 150 Sub-Inspectors. One hundred and twenty seven polling stations located in 65 polling locations were identified as sensitive going by previous or ongoing incidents.   These are baseless allegations. We are working under direct supervision of three ECI observers. Not a single such allegation has been proved so far. We are determined to hold peaceful and perfect election despite attempts by some to create disturbances through different means.   When surveillance teams keep tabs on distribution of cash, liquor conduct searches, a video-grapher would record the same. We are using geo-tagging to ensure Collector, top officials and ECI observer access and watch the searches live through IP mode. There is no room for any suspicion. These teams are in addition to video surveillance teams and those monitoring model code of conduct violations.   Only voters of the constituency can move in the constituency. All outsiders, who came to Huzurabad for canvassing, be it leaders or party activists, should leave the place. Those still moving there would be sent away.   No one will be spared if attempts are made to disrupt the polling process. Thirty static surveillance teams are operating on three shifts with two in each mandal. Fifteen flying squads are moving with one in each mandal on three shifts to check distribution of cash and liquor. Moreover, Chief Electoral Officer and three ECI observers are continuously monitoring the situation in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-in-mission-mode-to-ensure-fair-poll/article37245689.ece
30 October 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Woman, son electrocuted in Khammam||In a tragic incident, a woman and her son were electrocuted at their house in Billupadu village in Thallada mandal on Friday evening. The police identified the deceased persons as Naseema, 48, and her son Shaik Saida, 20. According to the police, Naseema suffered an electric shock after accidentally touching a live wire connected to an old switchboard on the rear side of her house late in the evening. The woman was hanging wet clothes on a binding wire when the incident occurred, sources added. Seeing this, Saida tried to pull his mother away from the live wire, but his attempt to save his mother failed and he too suffered an electric shock. Both died of electric shock on the spot. A case was registered by the Thallada police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-son-electrocuted-in-khammam/article37245906.ece
30 October 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Dharani a big success, say collectors as portal turns 1||Dharani, the State government’s land record management portal, backed by its smooth, unbiased and tamper-proof interface is running successfully, District Collector Prashant J. Patil has said. Addressing press persons at the Collectorate, observing one year of Dharani on Friday, he said the innovative and robust system turned all tahsildar offices centres to register agricultural lands, which, till a year ago, were performed only at sub-registrar offices. In addition to its capacity, Mr. Patil said the system’s advance slot booking feature made the entire exercise a hassle-free experience for users. Since the introduction of Dharani, he said 28,700 sale transactions were conducted, 15,373 transactions involved gift deeds, 4,052 successions and 2,501 others. In addition to clearing 11,873 pending mutations, he informed 10,361 land-related, 6,488 prohibition-related and 1,733 legally pending issues were resolved. Of the total 10.46 lakh slots booked for various transactions, 99% were completed. For Suryapet, District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy, said that with the introduction of Dharani, the number of aggrieved persons running from pillar to post has reduced. This, he credited to the interface and the operating system of Dharani, which besides being tamper-proof also allows various modes for corrections. Mr. Reddy said Suryapet was the forerunner, only second to Hyderabad, among 33 districts in resolving issues related to land. Till Thursday, 28,409 applications had been successfully addressed. Henceforth, he said, applications will be cleared on the same day of submission. Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri Collector Pamela Satpathy, who released a statement, said the programme has been a success. Till Friday, 31,433 registrations, 2,486 successions and 9,850 pending mutation transactions were completed.  With the introduction of Dharani, the number of aggrieved persons running from pillar to post has reduced. T. Vinay Krishna Reddy, Suryapet Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dharani-a-big-success-say-collectors-as-portal-turns-1/article37245903.ece
30 October 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Tension prevails at Siddipet Collectorate||Tension prevailed in the district headquarters on Friday when BJP workers tried to force their entry into Collectorate and police prevented them. About 50 party workers were arrested and later released by the police. The BJP had called for ‘Collecotrate Muttadi’ programme against the comments made by Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy that he would not care even the orders of Supreme Court once any shop was closed for selling paddy seed. This had created controversy and Bharatiya Janata (BJP) leader M. Raghunandan Rao called for the protest. Police made house-arrest of Mr. Raghunadan Rao at Gachibowli in the morning besides taking into custody Bharatijaya Janata Party workers at several places in the district, including Mirdoddi, Dubbak and Siddipet. Though police made security arrangements, about 50 BJP workers tried to enter the Collectorate. All of them were arrested, shifted to various police stations and later released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tension-at-siddipet/article37245696.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Varudu Kaavalenu’ movie review: This Naga Shaurya, Ritu Varma starrer does not hit the mark||In the second half of director Lakshmi Sowjanya’s Varudu Kaavalenu , when the scene shifts from Hyderabad to Araku Valley for a wedding, new characters are introduced. One character does everything at a humanly impossible slow pace and another character wants everything to be lightning quick. The tussle between them elicits laughs, and we hear dialogues about ‘lag’ (a commonly used term to describe sluggish pace in Telugu film parlance). It is perhaps the makers’ way of commenting on the tendency of the audience to crib about the pace slowing down and stating that one needs to watch a film patiently, allowing time for characters to introspect and resolve conflicts. Point noted. But the issue with Varudu Kaavalenu , more than its pace, is that after establishing a promising premise, it meanders.  Varudu Kaavalenu revolves around the strong-headed Bhoomi (Ritu Varma), who heads an eco-friendly startup. The conversation at home invariably revolves around her wedding. She doesn’t like the idea of ‘ pelli choopulu’ and her mother Prabhavathi (Nadiya) is the one doing the coffee shop rounds to meet grooms. At work, her stubborn and no-nonsense approach earns her the tag of ‘rakshasi’. It’s a relatable story — of a woman constantly facing pressure to get married at what is considered to be the right age. The doting father, played by Murali Sharma, understands that marriage is a long-term commitment that the girl should be interested in, and not be compelled into. Simultaneously, we are introduced to architect Akash (Naga Shaurya) who comes to India from Paris on a project and meets Bhoomi. It turns out that Bhoomi and Akash were friends in college. He is amiable, likes Bhoomi and takes her stern comments in his stride. The stage is set for a romance between two independent and mature leads. Before the two hit the common ground, the story is punctuated by one too many songs and comic episodes at a wedding. The production design and cinematography are aesthetic but the film gets boring and never recovers. Ritu Varma and Naga Shaurya try to shoulder the film with charm and sincerity. Varudu Kaavalenu works in parts. Had it been tightly edited, it might have been more compelling.  (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/varudu-kaavalenu-movie-review-this-naga-shaurya-ritu-varma-starrer-does-not-hit-the-mark/article37245674.ece
30 October 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. farmer kills self after failing to get fertilizer||Amid an acute shortage of fertilizer during the sowing of rabi crops, a 44-year-old farmer has died by suicide in Madhya Pradesh. The farmer, from Ashok Nagar district, allegedly ended his life after he was unable to get fertilizer from distribution centres. He was disturbed over the low yield from his farm in the previous season, said his younger brother and nephew. Many districts in the State have been reeling from a severe fertilizer crisis for several weeks. Almost all the 3,400 cooperative societies across Madhya Pradesh are out of stock. Under stress, farmers have resorted to protests by blocking National Highways in Bhind district and forcefully snatching fertilizer sacks in Morena district. In Sheopur district, fertilizers had to be distributed under police protection.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 am -7.30 pm||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mp-farmer-kills-self-after-failing-to-get-fertilizer/article37245567.ece
30 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||In Odisha, BJP seeks ouster of Home Minister over woman teacher murder||The Odisha unit of BJP on Friday stepped up its State-wide agitation seeking the ouster of Minister of State for Home Dibya Shankar Mishra from the Council of Ministers over the murder of a woman teacher. The members of the saffron party started besieging police stations across the State. They alleged that the Naveen Patnaik-led government was shielding influential people involved in crimes against women. Also, a three-member team under the leadership of Vanathi Srinivasan, the national President of the BJP’s women wing, met family members of the teacher, Mamita Meher, at the latter’s village in Balangir district. Meher was strangulated to death by Gobinda Sahu — a contractor-turned educational entrepreneur. Sahu had reportedly killed the teacher for preventing her from disclosing his extramarital affairs. Mr. Mishra was said to have close links with the murder accused. “The Minister is the one who is the authority of police administration. It is known that the Minister has close links with the murder accused. The demand for Minister’s sacking from State Cabinet is appropriate,” said Ms. Srinivasan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/in-odisha-bjp-seeks-ouster-of-home-minister/article37245763.ece
30 October 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Akalis flay Cong. over putting Tyler on panel||The decision by the Congress party to name Jagdish Tytler as permanent invitee in Delhi Pradesh Congress’s Executive Committee has invoked sharp criticism from the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Punjab. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the decision of naming Mr. Tytler, whose name figured in connection with the anti-Sikh riots in 1984, has yet again showed the Congress’s insensitivity towards the Sikh community. “This is a brazen display of shocking insensitivity to the Sikh wounds by AICC president Sonia Gandhi and the Congress. They have chosen the eve of the painful anniversary of the massacre of Sikhs to announce this decision. Could there be a worse way to rub salt into the deep, festering wounds of the ‘Khalsa Panth’ than this decision and its timing?” asked Mr. Badal in a statement here. ‘Show moral courage’ Mr. Badal asked Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and State Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to show the moral courage to oppose this decision and get it rescinded. “Collapse of character stems from the compromise corner. Now come out of that corner, show the moral courage to at least speak the truth and prevent the collapse of your character,” he said. Mr. Badal asked Mr. Channi to convey the Punjab government’s rejection of the Centre’s decision to increase BSF’s jurisdiction in unequivocal terms. “Punjabis expect their Chief Minister to tell the Centre unequivocally that the latter’s decision to increase the jurisdiction of the BSF to 50 kms from the international border was unacceptable to the State. The Chief Minister should know that this decision impinges on the rights of the State and strikes at the core of the State’s federal rights. It should be rejected outrightly,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/akali-dal-flays-congress-over-decision-on-tytler/article37245552.ece
30 October 2021||GURUGRAM,||25 detained for attempting to disrupt namaz||Twenty-five people were taken into preventive custody by the police on Friday to prevent disruption of Juma namaz in Sector 12A in Gurugram. Amid growing protests against the offering of namaz at public places, a large number of people belonging to different Hindu outfits gathered at a Juma namaz site raising slogans to stop the offering of Friday prayers in the open. Led by advocate Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, the members of Hindu outfits had last Friday given a written complaint to the police, seeking to stop the offering of namaz at a plot in Sector 12A and issued a warning on Thursday to not allow namaz. Earlier this week, Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, a conglomerate of 22 local units of Hindu outfits, had submitted a reminder letter to the office of Deputy Commissioner on the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/25-detained-for-attempting-to-disrupt-namaz/article37245766.ece
30 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Counselling to precede eviction drive in Assam||A month after a violent eviction drive that claimed two lives, the Assam Government has taken the counselling route to remove encroachers from State-owned land. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said encroachers of the Lumding Reserve Forest were now on the radar after those in northern Assam’s Gorukhuti. On September 23, the police shot two Bengali Muslims when an eviction drive in the Dhalpur area of Gorukhuti turned violent. One of those killed was a minor. ‘PFI triggered trouble’ “Discussions with the settlers and leaders of minority organisations preceded the Gorukhuti eviction drive but a few members of the Popular Front of India (PFI) fomented trouble. The local authorities have now been counselling them on vacating the land and applying for rehabilitation,” he told journalists on Friday. The central Assam authorities were likewise appealing to the encroachers of the Lumding Reserve Forest to vacate. The landless among them were also being counselled on applying for alternative land under the relevant laws, he stated. ‘NRC won’t hit Census’ The impasse over the National Register of Citizens (NRC) would have no bearing on the Census expected to be undertaken in 2022, Mr. Sarma asserted during the interaction. The updated complete draft of the NRC was published in August 2019, leaving out 19.06 lakh of some 3.3 crore applicants in the State. “We have been maintaining that there is no link between the NRC and the Census, which we want to be conducted,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/counselling-to-precede-eviction-drive/article37245555.ece
30 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||AHRC seeks action on lynching of cattle smugglers||The Assam Human Rights Commission has said that letting cases of lynching, even of criminals, go unpunished would send the wrong signal. The panel made this observation while issuing an order to the Superintendent of Police of southern Assam’s Karimganj district to submit the present status of the investigation into the lynching of three Bangladeshi nationals on July 18, 2020. The AHRC had taken up the case on a complaint by Baglekar Akash Kumar, a law student of Hyderabad’s Osmania University two days after the incident. On September 22, the AHRC had asked the district police chief to submit by October 25 the status of the investigation report. The report was not received. Setting November 29 as the new deadline, the AHRC said: “We appreciate the difficulties faced by the police in identifying or arresting the culprits involved in lynching cases. Lynching in any form must not be permitted in an ordinary society like us as otherwise, the very existence of the rule of law will be in danger.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ahrc-seeks-action-on-lynching-of-cattle-smugglers/article37245769.ece
30 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Cong. buys fodder for BJP ally after CM likens it to milch cow||The Congress in Assam has ordered cattle fodder for the BJP’s metaphorical cow — ally United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) — ahead of the by-elections to five Assembly seats on Saturday. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had likened the UPPL to a milch cow while campaigning for its candidates in two constituencies under the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC). UPPL rules the BTC in alliance with the BJP and the local Gana Suraksha Party. The UPPL is also a constituent of the three-party government headed by the BJP in Assam. “You will obviously buy a cow that gives milk and not one that doesn’t in the market. Voting for Congress, AIUDF [All India United Democratic Front] or ‘nangol party’ [a reference to plough, the symbol of Bodoland People’s Front] is like buying a cow that does not yield milk because it is not in power,” the Chief Minister said at an election rally a few days ago. “But if you feed the tractor [UPPL symbol], which is in power, you can get 26 litres of milk from your cow,” he added. Congress Legislature Party leader Debabrata Saikia responded by ordering 4kg cattle fodder each online to be delivered to UPPL chief Pramod Boro, who also heads the BTC, and State BJP president Bhabesh Kalita “to solve the problem of milk in Assam”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/assam-cong-buys-fodder-for-bjp-ally-after-cm-likens-it-to-milch-cow/article37245758.ece
30 October 2021||Kolkata,||Doctors still not sure if COVID situation in Kolkata set to worsen||The medical fraternity in Kolkata appears to be still undecided whether the recently concluded Durga Puja festivities have triggered a situation that could build up to a crisis, considering that the number of COVID-19 cases are on the rise in the city. But the general opinion is that another wave of the pandemic is unlikely because any explosion in the number of cases should have been evident by now, considering it is now almost two weeks since the last day of puja. It’s a confusing situation indeed. While many travellers from abroad who have included Kolkata in their itinerary during their proposed visit to India in the coming months have put their plans on hold for the moment, schools and colleges in West Bengal are set to reopen from November 15. And while many districts across the State are once again following strict restrictions, with weekly lockdowns being imposed in neighbourhoods, there are no such guidelines specified for the capital city, except that buses now appear particular about not letting in passengers without masks and there is a curfew in place between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. Life in Kolkata is, by and large, back to normal. “To our utter dismay, the government and some puja organisers showed lack of sensitivity which, coupled with COVID-inappropriate behaviour of large sections of common people, has raised serious concerns among the medical fraternity. But despite the apprehensions, we think that because of vaccination, although the rate is well below par, and because of herd immunity, a third wave may be avoidable,” said Dr. Koushik Chaki who, as an active member of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, has been vocal in his fight against the pandemic ever since its outbreak. “But we urge all concerned to be on guard, considering that there was apathy shown by a section of common people and those in positions of power needed to be more careful and responsible. The sad part is that multiple communications by the medical community, including our organisation, fell on deaf ears. The sacrifices of hundreds of healthcare workers have sadly been forgotten,” Dr. Chaki said. His colleague at the forum and ENT specialist Dr. Arjun Dasgupta said, “COVID wards are filling up again across the city but then, these wards themselves are scaled-down versions of what they were during the second wave when entire hospitals had turned into COVID wards. These wards filling up is a warning sign, but the good thing is that it is more than 10 days since puja and the number of cases has not gone up the way we had expected.” Positivity rate in W.B. On Thursday, the number of single-day cases reported in West Bengal stood at 990, positivity rate at 2.18%, and daily testing at 45,437. “COVID has shown a small but appreciable spike after the festive season. It is nothing when compared to the second or even the first wave, but it is noticeable,” said internal medicine specialist Dr. Rahul Jain, who has personally attended to over 3,000 COVID patients. He added: “We should all learn to carry on with life despite COVID-19 because we cannot pause all activity forever. We need to continue with our activities wearing masks — there’s no escaping wearing masks for at least another six months. Anywhere in the world, you will notice that the moment masks come off, there is a spike in the number of cases.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/doctors-still-not-sure-if-covid-19-situation-in-kolkata-set-to-worsen/article37245757.ece
30 October 2021||Mumbai,||‘Will expose BJP leaders’ extortion nexus with NCB in winter session’||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and State Minister Nawab Malik on Friday said he will be exposing BJPleaders and their alleged nexus with extortion racket at the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the upcoming winter session at Nagpur. “I am going to expose some BJP leaders and their connections with NCB officer Sameer Wankhede in the Winter Session starting from December 7. It will be a stormy session and once those names are out, the BJP leaders will not be able to show their face in public,” said Mr. Malik said at a press meet on Friday. Reminding his earlier statement about a bearded person organising drug party on the Cordelia cruise and Mr. Wankhede letting him go, Mr. Malik said Fashion TV head Kashif Khan had organised the alleged drugs party on the Cordelia cruise ship. “Kashif Khan is notorious for distribution of drugs, for running sex and pornography racket and had posted the advertisement of Cordelia drug party on social media. Despite that the intelligent officers of the NCB did not call him for any inquiry or probe,” he said. According to NCP leader, an NCB official told him that whenever they tried to take action against Khan, Mr. Wankhede opposed them. “Picture will end with Mr. Wankhede losing his job and facing legal action for forging documents and securing a job that was meant for an SC candidate,” he said. Mr. Malik has alleged that the NCB officer is a Muslim and has fraudulently acquired the caste certificate to get a government job. Redkar writes to CM On Thursday, Mr. Wankhede’s wife Kranti Redkar wrote to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, seeking justice in the wake of the “attack on her family and her personal life”. “Being a Marathi person, I expect some justice from your side as my personal life is unnecessarily being dragged into a controversy. Had late Balasaheb Thackeray [father of Uddhav Thackeray] been alive today, he would not have tolerated such personal attack on a woman’s dignity,” she said. Mr. Malik said that Redkar was becoming part of the controversy to defame Maharashtra just like her husband. “I have been in Maharashtra since my birth. I am as much Marathi as you are. But justice sees no barrier of language or religion. Those trying to defame Maharashtra will be dealt by the law,” he said. Mr. Wankhede is facing allegations of extortion in the Cordelia cruise drugs case after which a departmental vigilance probe has been initiated.  I am going to expose some BJP leaders and their connections with NCB officer Sameer Wankhede in the Winter Session starting from December 7 NCP leader Nawab Malik||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/will-expose-bjp-leaders-extortion-nexus-with-ncb-in-winter-session/article37245765.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||DDMA bans Chhath Puja on Yamuna banks||The celebration of Chhath Puja will be allowed at public places except on the banks of the Yamuna and cinema halls can run with 100% capacity, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said on Friday. The ceiling on the number of attendees at weddings and funerals has also been increased, the DDMA said, adding that due caution is needed to be taken even though the number of COVID-19 cases and the positivity rate have declined considerably. The Chhath celebrations will be permitted only at designated sites located outside the containment zones. Chhath Pooja samitis or organisers will have to submit an undertaking to the respective District Magistrate. Such designated sites will be identified by the Revenue Department in coordination with Delhi Police and civic bodies, along with other land-owning agencies. Devotees can offer such pooja material which can then be collected by municipal workers and other agencies for proper disposal under the supervision of the District Magistrate. However, no sites will be notified on the banks of the Yamuna, the DDMA order said. According to the order, while all educational institutions will be permitted to open up to 50% of their capacity, cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes are allowed to operate with 100% of their seating capacity, subject to strict adherence of the standard operating procedures and COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Weddings as well as last-rite ceremonies, the order said, will have maximum 200 people in attendance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ddma-bans-chhath-puja-on-yamuna-banks/article37245557.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Art for heart’s sake: Deepavali with Raja Ravi Varma||With Deepavali around the corner, it is time to bring the gods home. What better way to celebrate than investing in a Raja Ravi Varma masterpiece. More than a century after his demise, his works continue to attract aesthetes and devotees alike. Inspired by her mother Rupika Chawla, noted art conservator and author of the acclaimed book, Raja Ravi Varma: Painter of Colonial India, Delhi-based creative designer Mrinalini Chawla is holding an exhibition showcasing a collection of original Raja Ravi Varma oleographs. The oleographs depict themes like goddesses Lakshmi, Saraswati, Mohini and Lord Krishna, which are available in a wide range of sizes and prices. The exhibition has collectibles like 19th century European enamel, Burmese lacquer bowls, and Tanjore paintings from 1950s. Also available are limited-edition home products that Mrinalini designs and hand decorates, such as trays, stoles, wrapping paper, coasters and even an adult-child interactive colouring book inspired by Ravi Varma’s works. Art accessibility “My intent is to make high-end art accessible to all through affordable and stylish home products. My aim is that the energies of beautiful, aesthetic art should flow in everyone’s homes,” says Ms. Mrinalini. Having collected the originals from “dusty corners and interesting streets”, she reminds that “Ravi Varma’s oleographs were created specifically for the common man, who could not afford his oil on canvas works.” Over the years, she says, the appeal of his work has expanded to all age groups. Enriching experience Mrinalini has been designing products, intimate spaces for theatre and exhibitions for years. “Often, one has been short of production funds. Therefore, I had to rely on imagination, inner aesthetics and improvisation. That has been so enriching. Ravi Varma’s stunning works and other beautiful works, discovered after a great deal of searching and time, have helped me design and create anew,” says the designer, who also runs Scrapilicious, an organisation dedicated to upcycled products. At the exhibition, Deepavali diyas made and decorated by the students of The Lepra India Trust (TLIT) are on sale. The diyas are either wrapped in recycled products or with European enamel and Burmese lacquer to give them a unique look. “Recycling is an integral part of my work and exhibition. We encourage that after use, all diyas are returned to TLIT for recycling. Please get in touch with me if you would like to return your unbroken diyas for recycling,” says Mrinalini, adding that a percentage of sale proceeds from the exhibition shall go to TLIT and the The Yuva Ekta Foundation.  (The 20 Drawers Exhibition cum Sale is on till November 2 in Nizamuddin East, New Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/art-for-hearts-sake-deepavali-with-raja-ravi-varma/article37245561.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Assembly Committee summons Facebook||The Delhi Legislative Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony has summoned Facebook in connection with its examination into the “unprecedented communal disharmony and violence in Delhi” during the riots in February 2020. The Committee has called representatives of Facebook India to depose on “the important role of social media in curbing the spread of false, provocative and malicious messages which can fan violence and disharmony”. The proceedings, scheduled for November 2, will be live-streamed to maintain “the utmost transparency” in the functioning of the Committee, the Assembly said. So far, the Committee has examined crucial witnesses, including senior journalists, fact checkers, digital rights activists, and Facebook employees. The Committee issued a notice for appearance to Facebook India Online Services Private Limited on October 27 to depose before it at 12.30 p.m. on November 2. “The Committee is examining the unprecedented communal disharmony and violence in Delhi in February 2020, with a view to recommend suitable measures to defuse the situation and restore harmony among religious communities, linguistic communities, or social groups,” the Assembly said. According to the Assembly, the summons was issued in furtherance of the judgment of the Supreme Court in the ‘Ajit Mohan & Others Vs. Legislative Assembly, NCT of Delhi’ case, dated July 8, 2021 , where the court upheld the powers of the Committee to summon both members and non-members, including representatives of Facebook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/assembly-committee-summons-facebook/article37245558.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Students seek reopening of DU colleges; protest on||Despite the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) clearing the decks for opening of schools, colleges and other educational institutions, the Delhi University has not taken an official call yet on complete reopening. Various student organisations, though, have been protesting demanding the reopening of the campus. Members of the All India Students’ Association (AISA) have been on a hunger strike outside the arts faculty building for over five days. AISA said even though it has received support from students across the university, no university official has come to meet or listen to its demands. AISA questioned why the university administration is not willing to listen to students’ demands and reopen the campus when they have been given the go-ahead by the Government authorities. The ABVP has also called for a protest across all college campuses on Friday and protests outside the venue of the executive committee meeting of the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/students-seek-reopening-of-du-colleges-protest-on/article37245565.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||12 held for duping cyber fraud victims through fake websites||Twelve people, including two women, have been arrested for allegedly posing as government officials and cheating cyber fraud victims through an online redressal system. The accused have managed to swindle Rs. 1.74 crore in the past one year, the police said on Friday. The police said they had received a complaint where the complainant alleged that while he was trying to report an incident of cheating, he came across a website www.jansurkashakendara.in . When the complainant called on the mobile phone number provided on the website, they informed him that they were the authorised persons working with the Government and they would lodge his complaint. “On the pretext of lodging and investigating his complaint, the alleged people charged Rs. 2,850. Once the payment was done, they blocked the number of the complainant,” DCP (Cyber Crime) K.P.S. Malhotra said. Officers found similar complaints registered on the National Cyber Crime Reporting portal. Further investigation revealed that the fraudsters have received Rs. 1.74 crore in the past one year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/12-held-for-duping-cyber-fraud-victims-through-fake-websites/article37245564.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality in city drops to ‘poor’ category||The air quality in the city deteriorated to the higher end of the “poor” category on Friday, official data showed. The effect of stubble burning has increased and the air quality is expected to be in the “very poor” to “poor” levels on Saturday. The air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 283 on Friday, up from 268 on Thursday, as per the CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/air-quality-in-city-drops-to-poor-category/article37245559.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 825 crore for development work in Narela||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Friday approved development schemes in Delhi’s Narela – Sector G-2 and Sector G-6 – at an estimated cost of Rs. 824.73 crore. Approved by the DDA vice-chairman, Manish Kumar Gupta, the works will include construction of roads, storm water drains and sewerage system, a press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rs-825-crore-for-development-work-in-narela/article37245563.ece
30 October 2021||Taipei,||U.S. to deepen relations with Taiwan||The U.S. wants to deepen its relationship with Taiwan, the self-ruled island that has become a major point of conflict in the strained U.S.-China relationship, and will work to counter Beijing’s “malign” influence, a U.S. diplomat said on Friday. In her first public news conference, Sandra Oudkirk, the new director of the American Institute in Taiwan, the de facto embassy, reiterated that the U.S. remains deeply committed to Taiwan and is actively working on new areas of cooperation, such as cybersecurity and supply chains. “The value of our partnership and our support for Taiwan is rock solid,” Ms. Oudkirk said. “We are committed to deepening our ties with Taiwan.” The U.S. support for Taiwan comes as tensions between China and the island are now at the highest in decades, with Beijing stepping up its military harassment by flying fighter jets toward Taiwan. China has not ruled out force to reunify with Taiwan, which split from the mainland during a civil war in 1949. The U.S. switched diplomatic recognition of China from the ruling Nationalist Party government in Taipei to the Communist Party in Beijing in 1979, but has continued to maintain a strong unofficial relationship with the self-ruled island. Ms. Oudkirk declined to comment on any security initiatives or give any details about the presence of U.S. troops on the island, after Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen confirmed on Thursday that U.S. boots were indeed on the ground, though less than what people would think. ‘Malign PRC influence’ “We are going to continue to advance global and regional goals of the Biden administration, including countering malign PRC influence, recovering from the devastating impacts of the pandemic and addressing the threat of climate change,” Ms. Oudkirk said, referring to the People’s Republic of China, China’s official name. Washington has supported Taiwan with arms sales to boost the island’s ability to defend itself, and also routinely navigates the waters around the island in what it calls freedom of operation movements. Ms. Oudkirk, who became director over the summer, also reaffirmed that the U.S. will support Taiwan in its role on the international stage, without giving details. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Tuesday called on other members of the United Nations to support Taipei’s independent participation in international organisations related to transportation, health, climate change, culture and education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-deepen-relations-with-taiwan/article37244889.ece
30 October 2021||Vatican City,||Biden hails pope as a ‘warrior of peace’||U.S. President Joe Biden, only the second Catholic to hold his office, had a private audience with Pope Francis on Friday at the start of a European trip aimed at reasserting U.S. international credentials. The President hailed the pontiff as “the most significant warrior of peace I have ever met”, in a meeting at the Vatican. It was closed to the media but footage released by the Vatican showed a good-humoured gathering full of smiles, with Mr. Biden at points visibly moved, and elsewhere telling the pope “God love ya”. He gave the pontiff a presidential coin recalling the regiment in which his son Beau Biden, who died from cancer in 2015, had served, saying: “I know my son would want me to give this to you.” Mr. Biden, who is open about his faith and how it gives him strength, has already met Pope Francis three times before but this was their first tete-a-tete since he entered the White House. It was arranged to coincide with the G20 leaders summit in Rome and next week’s crunch UN climate talks in Glasgow, in which Mr. Biden hopes to push his mantra that “America is back” after the Trump years. Both Mr. Biden and the pope have been outspoken on the need to tackle global warming and this was a dominant theme of their talks. “I thanked His Holiness for his advocacy for the world’s poor and those suffering from hunger, conflict, and persecution, and lauded his leadership in fighting the climate crisis and ending the pandemic,” the President tweeted later. He said the meeting, part of which was with his wife Jill, had been “an honour”. The Vatican said they discussed climate change, the pandemic and the issue of refugees and migrants, as well as “the protection of human rights, including freedom of religion and conscience”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-hails-pope-as-a-warrior-of-peace/article37244882.ece
30 October 2021||COLOMBO,||Amid fertilizer row, China blacklists Sri Lankan bank||China has blacklisted a top state-owned bank in Sri Lanka, citing a “vicious” Letter of Credit “default” in relation to a recent order for organic fertilizer placed by Colombo with a Chinese company. Last week Sri Lankan authorities rejected the consignment that they found to be contaminated. China’s Ministry of Commerce said the “default” had caused “huge losses” to Chinese enterprises in international trade with Sri Lanka. Responding to a tweet from the Colombo-based Chinese Embassy on the decision, People’s Bank in Sri Lanka said it was only following a court order, restraining the bank from paying the Chinese company. “Once the legal barriers in effect are removed, the LC payment will be effected promptly as per the usual trade practices,” the bank said in a statement on Friday. Last week, Sri Lanka barred a Chinese ship carrying organic fertilizer, after the National Plant Quarantine Service tested samples and confirmed presence of “organisms, including certain types of harmful bacteria”. A Commercial High Court banned any payment to Qingdao Seawin Biotech Group Co. Ltd. for the 96,000 tonnes of fertilizer, news agency AFP reported. China’s subsequent blacklisting of the Sri Lankan bank, and the public clash between officials on both sides, come as concerns of an acute agriculture crisis grow in the island nation, following Colombo’s decision to abruptly switch from chemical to organic fertilizers in May this year. Critics have slammed President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s move as “ill-timed” during the pandemic and “ill-advised”, due to its likely adverse impact on food production. The decision has also triggered farmers’ struggles that are fast spreading, even as Colombo tries sourcing organic fertilizer from other countries. Meanwhile, the Chinese Embassy in Colombo, on its Twitter page, sought to give a “timeline” of events, and said Seawin [Chinese company Qingdao Seawin Biotech Group] had won an open bid, signed contracts, passed tests of China and an international agency designated by Ceylon Fertilizer Company, and shipped the consignment ahead of schedule. Sri Lankan authorities “disagreed in halfway”, called the consignment “toxic/harmful”, the Embassy’s tweet said, adding: “Ship refused. Third party test refused. L/C payment obligation refused. PBSL blacklisted,” omitting the October 22 court order. Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa on Thursday told the Chinese Ambassador, who met him at his official residence, that the government cannot accept the “tainted” fertilizer stock but is willing to purchase fertilizers that meet Sri Lanka’s “expected standards”, the State-run Daily News reported on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/amid-fertilizer-row-china-blacklists-sri-lankan-bank/article37244891.ece
30 October 2021||Washington,||Ensure Afghan soil is not used for terror, U.S., India tell Taliban||India and the U.S. have called on the Taliban to ensure that Afghanistan is not used as a safe haven for terrorists, as officials from the two countries concluded their joint dialogue on counter-terrorism to expand their cooperation to combat the scourge. The Indian and the U.S. sides also called for concerted action against all terror groups, including those proscribed by the UN Security Council such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammad, a joint statement issued after the meeting here said on Thursday. Reaffirming counter-terrorism cooperation as an important pillar under the U.S.-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership, both sides pledged to further expand cooperation on law enforcement, information sharing, exchange of best practices and strategic convergence on counter-terrorism challenges, it said. During the meeting here on October 26 and 27, the U.S. reiterated its commitment to stand together with the people and the Government of India in the fight against terrorism. They called on the Taliban to ensure that Afghanistan is not used as a safe haven for terrorists. According to the joint U.S.-India statement, the two countries strongly condemned any use of terrorist proxies and cross-border terrorism in all its forms, and called for the perpetrators of the 26/11 Mumbai attack to be brought to justice.  “In line with UNSC Resolution 2593 (2021), both sides called on the Taliban to ensure Afghan territory is never again used to threaten or attack any country, shelter or train terrorists, or plan or finance terrorist attacks,” it said. Both sides committed to continuing close consultations on developments in Afghanistan and potential terrorist threats emanating from there. They also exchanged views on countering narco-terror networks and trans-national illegal weapons smuggling networks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ensure-afghan-soil-is-not-used-for-terror-us-india-tell-taliban/article37244892.ece
30 October 2021||Beijing,||China tightens control over company data||Companies in China would need government approval to transfer important data abroad under proposed rules announced on Friday that would tighten Beijing’s control over information and might disrupt operations for international corporations. The measure is needed to protect the Chinese public and “safeguard national security”, the Cyberspace Administration of China said. President Xi Jinping’s government sees information about China’s 1.4 billion people as a potential security risk in private hands. It has issued a flurry of rules tightening control over how companies gather and handle information. A crackdown on data security launched in late 2020 fuelled anxiety among investors, who have knocked more than $1.3 trillion off the total market value of e-commerce platform Alibabaand other tech giants. Companies that want to transfer important data abroad would have to report on how much and what type of information is involved and security measures, according to the CAC. Regulators would decide within a week whether to accept that or conduct their own review, which could last up to 60 days. The rules would apply to transfers that involve “sensitive personal information” of at least 10,000 people or any company that handles information on more than 1 million people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-tightens-control-over-company-data/article37244886.ece
30 October 2021||Yangon,||Suu Kyi aide jailed for 20 years for ‘treason’||Myanmar’s military sentenced a close aide of ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi to 20 years in prison on Friday, his lawyer said, the first high-ranking member of her party to be jailed by a junta court. The country has been in turmoil since a February 1 coup ousted Ms. Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy (NLD) government, accusing it of fraud in the 2020 elections it won in a landslide.  Former member of Parliament and NLD speaker Win Htein was handed 20 years in jail for treason by a special court in the capital Naypyidaw, lawyer Myint Thwin said. He added that he would appeal the sentence, and that his client was in good health. Considered Ms. Suu Kyi’s right-hand man, Mr. Win Htein, 80, is the first high-ranking NLD member to be sentenced by the junta after a trial.  The wheelchair-bound politician requires oxygen to help him breathe, according to local media, and suffers from hypertension, diabetes, and heart and thyroid diseases. Ahead of his arrest three days after the coup, he told local media the military putsch was “not wise”, and that its leaders “have taken (the country) in the wrong direction”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/suu-kyi-aide-jailed-for-20-years-for-treason/article37244883.ece
30 October 2021||Cairo,||New PM within a week, says Sudan coup leader||The Sudanese General who seized power in a coup this week said the military he heads will appoint a technocrat Prime Minister to rule alongside it within a week. In an interview with Russia’s state-owned Sputnik news agency published on Friday, Abdel-Fattah Burhan said the new premier will form a Cabinet that will share leadership of the country with the armed forces. “We have a patriotic duty to lead the people and help them in the transition period until elections are held,” Gen. Burhan said. On Monday, Gen. Burhan dissolved the transitional government and detained Prime Minister Abddalla Hamdok, many government officials and political leaders in a coup condemned by the U.S. and the West. The military allowed Mr. Hamdok to return home under guard the following day after international pressure. The Generals have not yet produced a list of candidates for the premiership, Gen. Burhan said. The decision to appoint such a premier follows earlier calls by the Generals for a non-partisan technocrat Cabinet. The military takeover came after weeks of mounting tensions between military and civilian leaders over the course and pace of Sudan’s transition to democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-pm-within-a-week-says-sudan-coup-leader/article37244887.ece
30 October 2021||Geneva,||Tedros set to continue as WHO chief||Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, one of the most prominent figures during the COVID-19 pandemic, is the sole candidate to lead the World Health Organization once his current term expires, the WHO announced on Friday. In his application letter, the former Ethiopian Health and Foreign Minister said COVID-19 had “ravaged the world” and in a second term, he wanted to make sure the planet was “truly ready” to deal with another such crisis. Elected to the WHO leadership in 2017, his five-year mandate runs out in August. “A single candidate was proposed by member states by the September 23, 2021 deadline: Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus,” the WHO said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tedros-set-to-continue-as-who-chief/article37244885.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The hunter gets captured by the game||In the wee hours of October 3, a crowd gathered outside the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office in south Mumbai. When an officer stepped out of the building and under the glare of television cameras, reporters, hungry for bites, pounced on him, many almost pushing their mikes into his mouth. “Yes, we have taken eight to 10 people in our custody,” said the officer, Sameer Wankhede, Mumbai Zonal Director of the NCB. “Investigation is in progress.” “Eight or 10?” a reporter demanded to know, but this voice got lost in the volley of questions that were being thrown at the officer. Little did anyone in that crowd know that this question would haunt the NCB in general and Wankhede in particular in the coming days. But that is for later. On that day, the famed NCB officer had everything under control. Aryan Khan, the 23-year-old son of Shah Rukh Khan, who is one of the biggest film stars in the world, was sitting inside the NCB office. He and his friends Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were being probed by the agency for alleged drug abuse on board the Cordelia cruise ship the day before, at a party organised by Fashion TV . Of the 1,300 guests at the party, the NCB had picked up a few youngsters, later alleging that they were part of an international drug racket. The arrests of the three accused immediately caught the country’s attention. But no one would have expected it to spiral into what it has become today — a bewildering story of accusations and counter-accusations involving politicians, government servants and Bollywood stars. In the limelight Wankhede’s brush with fame, glamour and controversy is neither new nor surprising. The 2008-batch Indian Revenue Service officer from the Customs and Central Excise branch was posted at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai from 2010 to 2013. In 2011, he made headlines when, as Assistant Commissioner of Customs, he imposed a fine of Rs. 1.5 lakh on none other than Shah Rukh Khan, who had returned from a family holiday in Holland and London, for excess luggage. Besides Shah Rukh Khan, Minissha Lamba and Anushka Sharma and team members of Katrina Kaif, Bipasha Basu, Ranbir Kapoor, Vivek Oberoi, Anurag Kashyap and Mika Singh have come under Wankhede’s radar during his stint at the airport and then at the Service Tax department for reportedly not declaring imported valuables such as watches, perfumes and footwear. Many say they were surprised when Wankhede went to the National Investigation Agency on deputation in 2013. In 2017, he was assigned to the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence. “What attracted the attention of many and resulted in him being deputed to the NCB was that he had a wide network of informants,” an official with the NCB says on the condition of anonymity. In 2020, Wankhede began to probe the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. It all began on June 14 when Rajput, 34, was found dead at his Bandra home. The Mumbai Police began an investigation stating that the death was being treated as a suicide. The autopsy report confirmed that the actor had died by suicide. Nevertheless, an unprecedented political storm occurred in the wake of his death, with the Bihar Assembly elections scheduled to take place a few months later. Rajput was a native of Bihar. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saw an opportunity to denounce the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, especially the Shiv Sena. Senior BJP leaders alleged that Rajput had been murdered and that the incident was being covered up to protect an influential, young leader of the Sena. An FIR was registered in Bihar. The allegations, all made without any evidence, received extraordinary media coverage. Rajput’s girlfriend and actor Rhea Chakraborty was blamed for his death and was then accused of killing him. Following the BJP’s claims, which were aided by Rajput’s family members, central investigating agencies were brought in to probe the case. A team of the Central Bureau of Investigation questioned all those related to Rajput, including Chakraborty. In July 2020, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) filed a money laundering case based on the FIR registered in Bihar and the allegations made by Rajput’s father against Chakraborty. According to sources, the ED’s audit showed references to drugs in Chakraborty’s WhatsApp chats. And so, the NCB was brought in. On August 31, 2020, Wankhede, who was in the DRI, was inducted into the NCB for six months. The NCB categorically denies that he was brought in especially for the Rajput case. A statement issued by Mutha Ashok Jain, Deputy Director General, South West region, NCB, read, “The vacancy circular for filling the post of ZD/DD was initiated in the year 2019. Sh. Sameer Wankhede applied for the post of ZD in NCB on deputation on 28.11.2019 through DG, DRI. The application was forwarded to NCB on 27.08.2020 by Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs. Sh. Sameer Wankhede, IRS was inducted as Zonal Director, Mumbai on 31.08.2020 on loan basis for the period of six months.” Within a week of taking charge, Wankhede arrested Chakraborty, despite finding no drugs on her, purely on the basis of her WhatsApp chats which the agency then claimed were related to procuring narcotics for Rajput. The NCB’s investigations based on WhatsApp chats didn’t end there. Actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh were also questioned in connection with an alleged drug racket in Bollywood. Kshitij Prasad, former employee at Dharmatic Entertainment, the digital arm of Dharma Productions, was arrested by the NCB. When he was later granted bail, Prasad claimed that the NCB led by Wankhede had harassed him and coerced him to falsely implicate actors Ranbir Kapoor, Dino Morea and Arjun Rampal. The NCB denied the claim. With Wankhede’s arrival, the NCB’s drive to ‘clean up’ Bollywood seemed to gain momentum. “Messages used to go to certain reporters well before the NCB would go to interrogate a celebrity,” a journalist working with a leading private television channel says. WhatsApp chats were leaked to sections of the media, which helped create a narrative against the accused. An agency which was earlier investigating and probing drug cartels and suppliers started making headlines for probing alleged drug users, most of them celebrities, who were found in possession of small quantities of drugs or none at all. Reacting to the criticism that was being directed against him, Wankhede simply said he was following the law. The officer who had come to the NCB on “loan basis” for six months has till now received two extensions. Since Wankhede’s induction, the NCB has set a record by arresting over 300 people. The agency claims it has dismantled around 12 drug gangs in Mumbai and Goa. But sources point out that none of the high-profile cases have stood scrutiny in court; in many cases, even the charge-sheets have not been filed. That WhatsApp chats alone are being used as evidence against celebrities has come under the scanner too. Wankhede has said in interviews that his mother worked for street children and his father, who is from the uniformed services, always wanted to see him work for the nation. All these personal details have added to his image as a daredevil officer. Nawab Malik’s salvos Wankhede’s actions were countered for the first time when the NCB arrested comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Haarsh Limbachiyaa in November 2020 and allegedly seized 86.5 grams of ganja from their home and office. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Minister for Minority Affairs and Skills Development Nawab Malik said then that drug addicts should be sent to rehabilitation centres and not jail. “The NCB’s duty is to track down drug traffickers but no action is being taken against them,” said Malik, a five-time MLA who is close to NCP chief Sharad Pawar. Two months later, on January 13, 2021, messages were sent to reporters about a “high-profile” interrogation at the NCB office. The accused, the reporters found out on rushing there, was Sameer Khan, Malik’s son-in-law. On January 9, the NCB had seized 200 kilograms of marijuana and arrested British national Karan Sejnani and two sisters — Rahila and Shaista Furniturewala — from Bandra. Sameer was summoned by the NCB after an alleged online transaction of Rs. 20,000 between him and Sejnani was found. Asked for his reaction then, Malik had said, “Law will take its due course and justice will prevail. I respect and have immense faith in our judiciary.” Sameer remained in jail for nearly eight months. Months later, Malik paid keen attention to the visuals that were flashing on television screens of some men with Aryan Khan inside the NCB office. Malik decided to hear what Wankhede was saying in front of the camera. “He said ‘eight to 10 are in our custody’. What is this? A joke? It is either eight or 10. An officer always knows how many are in custody,” Malik said. Malik’s eyes were also drawn to the footage of a bearded man on the cruise ship where Aryan Khan was also present. “An officer with a styled beard?” he wondered. Around the same time when Malik’s suspicions rose, a bald and hefty man’s selfie with Aryan Khan went viral on social media. Wankhede, who was now unknowingly being sucked into a whirlpool, quickly responded that the person in the photo was not an NCB officer. The media ran the clarification. But Malik decided to dig deeper. A photo search on Google led him to K.P. Gosavi, an accused in a cheating case in Pune. Through Gosavi, and using his own network of contacts in the Gujarati trading community, Malik also identified the bearded man on the ship as Manish Bhanushali, a BJP worker. Malik knew he had got hold of something. Malik, who Wankhede says harbours a personal grudge against him, does not deny his past altercations with team Wankhede. He says he was quiet when his son-in-law was arrested as he believed that the law would take its course. But when the judiciary found no evidence against Sameer Khan and the court order stated that what was seized was herbal tobacco, he decided to speak out, he said. He alleged that the NCB had framed his son-in-law. Following these revelations, the NCB aggressively defended the use of Gosavi and Bhanushali as independent witnesses on the first day of allegations and even hinted that Malik’s outburst was due to personal reasons. Undeterred, Malik then addressed Wankhede’s vague statement that “eight to 10 people” had been detained. He said that 11 people, in fact, had been detained by the NCB during the October 2 raid but three of them — BJP leader Mohit Kamboj’s brother-in-law Rishabh Sachdev, Pratik Gabha and Amir Furniturewala — were let off. Malik kept the heat up on Wankhede. Two days later, he raised questions about the involvement of a man cited by the NCB as an independent witness in as many as three cases. He asked whether the man, Fletcher Patel, was an independent witness or a close aide of Wankhede’s. The NCP leader also took to Twitter to post a screenshot of an Instagram picture of Fletcher Patel with a woman described as “lady don”. The woman in the picture is Yasmeen Wankhede, Sameer Wankhede’s sister. A few days later, Malik claimed that Wankhede was extorting money from Bollywood celebrities by threatening them and released photos of the NCB official’s trip to the Maldives. Malik also alleged that Wankhede is originally Muslim and used a fake caste certificate to get his government job. On the same day, another independent witness, Prabhakar Sail, who was a bodyguard of K.P. Gosavi, filed an affidavit claiming that the NCB had demanded Rs. 25 crore from Shah Rukh Khan of which Rs. 8 crore was to go to Wankhede. Sail also said that Wankhede asked him to sign on blank papers. The next day, Malik released the ‘nikahnama’ of Wankhede’s first marriage with Shabana Qureishi where the officer’s father’s name is mentioned as Dawood instead of Dnyandev as per his caste certificate. The Qazi who officiated the marriage in question said that both families involved in the wedding were Muslims. The NCB has been on a defensive mode. For the first time, it has been forced to issue a string of clarifications. Things came to a head with Sail’s affidavit which left the NCB with no option but to form a five-member vigilance team to probe the allegations against Wankhede. The NCB’s Deputy Director General (Northern Region), Gyaneshwar Singh, appealed to Sail to come and depose in front of the agency, but Sail has gone underground. Facing the heat Meanwhile, the NCB officer’s family says they are being harassed and have been receiving threats ever since Malik claimed that Wankhede’s caste certificate is fraudulent. Wankhede says he is Hindu by birth and was married to Qureishi under the Special Marriage Act. “The nikahnama was done as my late mother, who was a Muslim, wanted Islamic rituals,” he said. His father claims that he never converted to Islam and was lovingly called Dawood by his wife. Wankhede’s wife Kranti Redkar-Wankhede, an actor, has also denied all the allegations. She says Wankhede is a Hindu and an honest officer. She has written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding “justice” while invoking her Marathi roots. “I do not have a problem with him being a Muslim or a person from any other religion. We have the freedom to practise the religion of our choice. However, Wankhede, by faking his caste certificate, has denied the right of a hard-working child from the Scheduled Caste community by usurping a seat,” Malik said. Malik’s tweets every morning have kept the pot boiling for the NCB. The BJP has targeted Malik, claiming that the MVA government has been working hard to save Shah Rukh Khan’s son. BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar complained to the Kurla Police station alleging that Malik, by claiming that Wankhede was a Muslim, was creating communal disharmony. Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale held a press conference where he termed Malik’s allegations baseless. “Wankhede is a Dalit officer, who is doing good work... and it is not right to target him,” he said. A political slugfest Following Rajput’s death as well as the bomb scare in Antilia in February this year, where a car laden with explosives was found parked near the house of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, the BJP strongly advocated the use of central agencies for investigations claiming that the Maharashtra Police were being misused by the MVA government. The Union government ensured that central probe agencies took control of the investigations in these cases. All three parties in the MVA government have alleged several times that the BJP is using central agencies to tarnish the State’s image and destabilise the government. The BJP’s outburst against Malik came after he exposed the party’s direct connection with the Aryan Khan case. The party could not deny Bhanushali’s presence during the raid. BJP leader Mohit Kamboj, whose brother-in-law was let off by the NCB, has threatened to file a defamation suit against Malik. After spending more than three weeks in jail, Aryan Khan was granted bail on October 28. Gosavi, who was on the run after his identity was revealed, has now been arrested by the Pune Police in a 2018 cheating case. Bhanushali is nowhere to be found. Wankhede has approached the Bombay High Court seeking protection from possible arrest by the Mumbai Police on the charge of extortion. A departmental inquiry has been initiated against him too. In the midst of the political slugfest, social media has flared up with one section supporting Shah Rukh Khan and the other, Wankhede. Several social media accounts have been running hashtags personally targeting Shah Rukh Khan, demanding rejection of bail to his son and calling for a boycott of all the products he endorses. Attacks were also mounted against Malik using hashtags such as #SendNawabMalikToJail. In the blockbuster film Om Shanti Om, Shah Rukh Khan’s character famously says, ‘ Picture abhi baaki hai, mere dost (The show is yet to get over, my friend)’. The Aryan Khan case has created ripples everywhere and brought many under the scanner. The son of the famous actor may be out on bail, but with Malik continuing to make allegations against Wankhede and the officer now running to court for protection, the show is yet to get over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-hunter-gets-captured-by-the-game/article37244880.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||In India, the steady subversion of equality||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has loudly reiterated India’s embrace of democracy internationally, hailed its ‘diversity’ when abroad and is seeking India’s relevance as an ally of the West on ‘democratic values’. Therefore, it is imperative to measure the distance between today’s India and democratic values. The central edifice of a democracy, or what makes it a revolutionary idea, is equality, or that it accords an equal status to all its people. But the E-word is in rapid remission. A commitment to all being equal as a desired ideal — even if not fully realised in reality — accorded India its sheen and power in the past. India now, from being a truly remarkable case of composite nationalism, appears happy to huddle in that corner of the room which many of its neighbours occupy. Faith as differentiator The promise of the far-sighted Indian Constitution was of equal rights to all. If any benefit was accorded to smaller groups, religious or linguistic minorities or Dalits, it was in order to achieve substantive equality. This cut across all markers of identity — colour, race, language, faith, caste, region or food. But faith seems to have increasingly emerged as a visible differentiator between citizens. It must be recognised that laws — and not just the spirit — are in the process of being rewritten in India. First and foremost, the basis of citizenship under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act 2019, allowing for non-Muslims from three countries to fast-track their citizenship, was the most serious push to introduce religion into citizenship. Second in terms of marital choices, laws in the country in States where the national ruling party holds sway have drawn harsh attention on inter-faith couples. Imaginary fears of a ‘love-jihad’, the basis for new legislations have meant that inter-faith marriages are seen as crimes unless proven otherwise. The Gujarat law criminalising inter-faith marriages has been called out by the Gujarat High Court, but the ordinance introduced in Uttar Pradesh (Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020), which is now a law, till July, saw 63 FIRs filed against it, and 80 people arrested among 162 people who were booked, the majority being Muslim. A similar law in Madhya Pradesh has a similar trajectory, and a differential impact on Muslims, emphasising the rapid unspooling of the E-word. In terms of personal law, only Muslim men divorcing their wives through the triple talaq, now outlawed by the Supreme Court, is deemed a criminal act; not so for men of other faiths. Drastic changes Third, food has been criminalised. Stringent laws on cattle end up penalising those who have a certain diet, namely beef. The mood in the country created and abetted by people close to the powers that be, has led to lynchings. IndiaSpend has recorded bovine-related hate violence since 2010 and concluded that 98% of these attacks occurred post-May 2014, after the Bharatiya Janata Party assumed office. State governments and the Union government have mostly ignored the Supreme Court’s directions in 2018 to set up fast track courts, advice to take steps to stop hate messages on social media, or compensation to victims, or bringing in an anti-mob lynching law. Fourth, consider the Gujarat Prohibition of Transfer of Immovable Property and Provision for Protection of Tenants from Eviction from Premises in Disturbed Areas Act, popularly known as the Disturbed Areas Act, which circumscribes where one can reside. Brought in an atmosphere where there was communal rioting and forced displacement, to ostensibly protect communities from distress sales, the twist accorded to it over the years firmly makes the forced separation of communities evident. Vijay Rupani, till recently the Chief Minister of Gujarat, said in an interview on July 27, 2019; “A Hindu selling property to a Muslim is not okay. A Muslim selling property to a Hindu is also not okay.” He added, “We have set this rule in areas where there have been riots to tell them (Muslims) that they must buy property in their own areas.” Hostile environment That the environment in even the informal sector where minorities sought refuge in vocations to battle the prejudices of the formal sector is now curdling, is clear from recent studies on the subject. The linkages between those wielding extraordinary power in high offices with those making vicious noise on social media, and with the violent mobs on the ground trying to shut down Muslim businesses — or attack vegetable sellers or bangle sellers to prevent them to operate — are becoming more explicit by the day. It is old hat to say that several purveyors of hate are “proud to be followed by the Prime Minister” on social media. But even that is just the tip of the iceberg. Those in power actively support and reward those who head mobs, raise slogans or demonstrate hate enough to shut down cities and regular life. Ministers garland them and the anti-minority hate spewed by them is a CV building exercise for better political prospects within the ruling party. The Member of Parliament representing Bhopal, Pragya Thakur, a public defender of the Mahatma’s assassin, is only one of the many who exemplify the career path available to those who sharply denounce amity or calls for harmony. Scholars like Thomas Blom Hansen and Paul Brass have unhesitatingly pointed to the role of violence that has historically been acceptable in Indian society and politics. The stark difference between now and a few decades ago is a difference in top leaders being silent at important moments when mob violence is reported prominently. Dissenters are sought to be marked out “by their clothes” as the Prime Minister said infamously in December 2019 about those protesting the discriminatory citizenship laws. Far from discouraging those indulging in hate speech, they are given a place in the party hierarchy. The line was drawn simply but sharply by no less a person than Sardar Patel on September 11, 1948 when the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) was banned after the Mahatma’s assassination. Patel wrote to the RSS chief M.S. Golwalkar, that he had no problem with the Sangh indulging in activities organising or benefiting Hindus, but had a problem with actions that were aimed at solely spreading anti-Muslim hate — “All their speeches were full of communal poison. It was not necessary to spread poison in order to enthuse the Hindus and organize for their protection.” Exclusive entitlement There was clearly a sentiment in Indian society and politics that wanted a country in the mirror image of Pakistan, as one for a Hindu majority. This view did not want to better the lives of Hindus. This was about claiming that those adhering to one religion have exclusive entitlement to Indianhood. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad, an organisation very much in the family of the ruling party, rubbishes the idea of the mosaic that India is, when its secretary-general, Milind Parande said on September 7, 2021, that “the very idea of Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb (term used to denote the coming together fusion of Hindu and Muslim cultures in the country), is irrelevant. What exists is one culture, and the rest can simply merge into it. The Hindu cause must be prime.” Statements like these to denigrate the idea of India as a shared palette are never denounced by those in power. In fact, increasingly, there is little to distinguish these from statements of those in power and wielding authority representing the Indian state. The seriousness of what is afoot must be acknowledged. The backbone Scholars like Christophe Jaffrelot have pointed out that there will not be a seamless transition to an “ethnic democracy”. There is no smooth path towards a ‘Category two’ or diminished citizenship status for large numbers of people who deviate from a prescribed cultural path. The Indian nation is one formed on the promise of shared and participatory kinship, which recognised Indian nationalism as being distinct from the faith you practised at home. Prioritising any one identity will have disastrous consequences and history provides enough evidence of this. Rwanda, South Africa or Germany are reminders that the E-word is as much a pragmatic consideration as it is a normative ideal. India was proud of its hallowed constitutional precepts. More so as it was in a region which has seen a precipitous slide; Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Myanmar prioritised one ethnicity/religion and defined belonging and nationhood in the narrowest sense possible. But differences between them and India are fast fading and not merely due to hotheads or mobs on the street. The formal ruling establishment, with its silences, utterances and formalising of new laws and norms, is indistinguishable with the ideas guiding mobs. The mobs read together with actions of the Union government and that of State governments mark a sharp turn away from the democracy India claims it is. That must jolt us into recognising the distance we have already travelled down the wrong path. That may be the first step to try to wrest the descent into the darkness of an apartheid state. Seema Chishti is a journalist. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-india-the-steady-subversion-of-equality/article37244873.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The Evergrande-sized question over Chinese politics||China’s construction giant, the Evergrande Group, was in the news about a month ago as it ran out of money, had no options to get more loans or overdrafts, and had almost $310 billion worth of liabilities and several angry lenders, suppliers and homebuyers wanting clear answers that did not seem to come from anywhere. It began in January 2021 when regulators in China changed lending regulations with an aim to “strengthen [the] anti-monopoly push and prevent disorderly expansion of capital” which brought in more curbs in lending to big private businesses. While this was a delayed structural reform, it also marked the beginning of the end for Evergrande. Housing as a bubble The Evergrande crisis is a significant recent development that has struck the country’s ruling elites. However, at least since 2014, China’s housing sector has been labelled as a “bubble waiting to burst”. What kept it going on over the seven years or so and why Evergrande has imploded so suddenly is the real story that can be answered only with reference to the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) present political and social outlook. Developments in China tend to be explained with the help of Chinese idioms. One such popular idiom is to “kill the chicken to scare the monkey”. Perhaps what China did with the Ant Financial IPO late last year was akin to killing the chicken. But now it seems that Evergrande was indeed the monkey that is now about to die, and the party does not know how exactly to handle it. In other words, did the Chinese government want to make an example out of Evergrande? Factors behind China’s rise China’s spectacular rise thus far is based on two pillars of exports and infrastructure. There is a realisation now that this has led to what was called “unbalanced and inadequate growth” when the new principal contradiction was declared during the 19th Party Congress in 2017. Recently, exports have slowed down and are not as profitable as before. The infrastructure sector, on the other hand, is at the centre of the guanxi (social network) induced corruption and cronyism, and is adding to the country’s debt problem. China’s President Xi Jinping has spoken of a need for course correction right since 2012, primarily to avoid a heating of the economy; expensive houses would make the middle class angry and it may have cascading implications for the party’s credibility. Second, the ostentatious lifestyle of the Evergrande boss is also something the party wants to distance itself from, and may be punish; in China, it is okay to make money but let it be about your hard work and acknowledge the party’s guidance but do not be nouveau riche. This feeling has only got stronger since the 2012 incident involving a fatal Ferrari crash involving Ling Jihua’s son. China’s netizens are also aware of this problem and they often take to social media to vent their anger. Chinese youth are angry as jobs are hard to find, and recently, there have been popular protests targeting several icons. Such protests may even be managed from inside the party to underwrite its imminent policy choices as it helps the party appear more responsive and engaged. Thus, celebrities with businesses outside China, non-conforming youth, fin-tech and ed-tech moguls who were too autonomous for the party’s liking were targeted because the party leads everything as Mr. Xi proclaimed in 2019. Common prosperity is the central explanation for what is happening in China right now in several diverse sectors. This idea did not make a sudden appearance in the party lexicon. It was mentioned in the 19th Party Congress document as a target for the Chinese people “… to work together and… ultimately achieve common prosperity for everyone” and more as a wishlist in the previous two reports. For the same reason, Alibaba will invest $15.5 billion in corporate social responsibility under the party’s guidance. There is also a strong influence of China’s new left thinkers who have for long argued that China is moving from being a market economy to a market society where corruption and cronyism are rampant and where distribution of social goods takes a back seat. Domestic consumption However, there is another dilemma that the CPC must resolve soon. China needs companies such as Evergrande to operate because the country has ambitious twin targets of expanding urbanisation and increasing domestic consumption as was highlighted in the Dual Circulation strategy. Today, China’s construction sector directly accounts for 7% and along with allied industries accounts for close to 17% of the country’s GDP. So, the role of the construction sector is critical in terms of employment, wealth creation, contribution to tax, and in terms of the overall expansion of the urban middle class. The CPC already finds it hard enough to make the Chinese middle class spend its money since it is a savings driven class. Any sign of contraction may drive the middle class away from consumption and that may indeed be a bad sign for the economy. Also, China consumes 50% of the global steel and cement production. So the Evergrande crisis does have global implications. Is it possible then that this is one that is actually a party-engineered crisis to assert Chinese centrality for the world economy? There are economic reasons to consider and whether China would let Evergrande fall. However, beyond that is the political issue of whether it might happen because it is closer to the Jiang Zemin faction and has links to the family of former Premier Wen Jiabao. Depending on how these questions are answered one might find the clues to what happens in the next party congress in fall next year. Avinash Godbole is Associate Professor and Assistant Dean at the Jindal School of Liberal Arts and Humanities, Jindal Global University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-evergrande-sized-question-over-chinese-politics/article37244875.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Silly point||People who allegedly celebrated the victory of Pakistan against India in a T20 cricket World Cup match on October 24 are facing the brunt of the state. All of them are Muslims. In Rajasthan, a young schoolteacher has been terminated by a private school and the police have charged her under IPC Section 153B for ‘imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration’. In Jammu and Kashmir, the police have registered two cases against unknown persons under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and other sections. In Uttar Pradesh, three students from J&K have been charged under IPC Sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups), 505 (creating or publishing content to promote enmity) and, later, Section 124A, sedition. The wisdom, propriety or acceptability of celebrating Pakistan’s victory is beside the point. From moral, tactical, and practical perspectives, this sweeping policing is unwise. No democracy, least of all a country of India’s size and diversity, can demand unyielding uniformity and conformity from its population, on all questions and at all times. It is unlikely that any of these charges will stand judicial scrutiny, but that only makes this spectacle a ridiculous distraction for the stretched law enforcement system. Far from enforcing national integration as the purported aim of this heavy-handed police action is, it will only brew more resentment and social disharmony apart from derailing young lives. An unremitting loyalty test of citizens can be a self-defeating pursuit for a country like India that has global ambitions. People of Indian origin live around the world, with split loyalties. There are U.S. citizens who chant victory for India at gatherings in their home countries addressed by the Indian Prime Minister, and there are British and Australian citizens who boo their own country in favour of India during sporting events. Sports teams around the world have members of foreign origin. Infusion of toxic hyper-nationalism in sports is bad in such a world; more so for India. While the BJP has been championing this link between cricket and nationalism, other parties are not far behind as the incident in Rajasthan, a Congress-ruled State, shows. AAP in Delhi was one step ahead and questioning the Narendra Modi government for allowing the cricket match with Pakistan. Had all this been on account of an unspoken link between cheering for the national cricket team and support for a united India, the police would have also charged those who mercilessly trolled Mohammed Shami, a Muslim in the Indian cricket team. True, it would have been wonderful for the Indian cricket team to enjoy the unqualified support of the entire nation, but, surely, there is no reason to charge those who support another team with sedition. The Indian state looks silly now, and the whole episode bodes ill for cricket, and the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/silly-point/article37244868.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Descent into chaos||The decision by ASEAN to exclude Myanmar’s military junta from its annual summit held on October 26-28 is a major setback for the Generals’ attempts to gain regional legitimacy for their brutal regime. Ever since it seized power by toppling the democratic government of Aung San Suu Kyi in February, the junta has unleashed a reign of terror claiming an estimated 1,000 lives. Ms. Suu Kyi, who had been the State Councillor for five years from 2015 heading the quasi-democratic government, has been in detention since the coup and is facing absurd charges such as “illegally owning walkie-talkies”. Thousands of others were arrested by the military, notorious for its reprisal of democratic protests in the past. But this time, the crisis seems much worse. Months after the seizure of power, the junta, led by Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, is still struggling to restore order. If in the past the National League for Democracy (NLD), Ms. Suu Kyi’s party, had upheld non-violence even in the face of repression, this time, NLD leaders have called for a “revolution”. The remnants of the old regime have formed a National Unity Government, which claims to be the true representative of Myanmar. In cities, protests slid into armed fighting between pro-democracy protesters and security personnel, while in the jungles, anti-junta groups joined hands with rebels for military training. The situation was so grave that the UN Special Envoy warned this month that Myanmar had descended into a civil war. One of the regional groupings with some leverage over the junta is ASEAN. In April, Gen. Min Aung Hlaing was invited to Jakarta for emergency talks with ASEAN members. The bloc asked him to immediately end violence, start the reconciliation process and allow a regional special envoy to meet with all stakeholders, including Ms. Suu Kyi. None of these requests was met. Most recent reports suggest that the junta has been systematically torturing political prisoners. A special envoy was appointed as part of the ASEAN plan, but he was not allowed to meet Ms. Suu Kyi. Regime violence, political crises and strikes and counter-attacks by protesters have all pushed Myanmar to the brink of collapse. According to the UN, some three million people are in need of life-saving assistance because of “conflict, food insecurity, natural disasters and COVID-19”. Still, the Generals do not show any signs of compromise and are not even ready to talk with the NLD. Violence might allow them to hold on to power for now, but that is not sustainable. The ASEAN snub is a reminder that continuing violence could cause regional isolation of the regime, which could worsen the crisis. The international community should continue to put pressure on the junta and urgently start a reconciliation process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/descent-into-chaos/article37244869.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Core sector growth decelerated to 7-month low of 4.4% in September||Output from India’s eight core sectors grew 4.4% in September, the slowest pace of year-on-year growth in seven months. That reversed two months of accelerating production, with August logging an expansion of 11.5%. On a sequential basis, September saw the second successive monthly decline in the Index of Eight Core Industries compiled by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). The index, which stood at 134.7 in July, slid almost 1% in August and slumped 5% in September. In September 2020, when the economy had largely opened up after the national COVID-19 lockdown, core sector output had grown 0.6%. While five sectors posted distinct year-on-year growth last month, crude oil output shrank 1.7% and fertilisers and electricity barely remained in positive territory, with growth rates of 0.02% and 0.3%, respectively. Natural gas production surged 27.5% in September after a 10.6% contraction in 2020, while cement output rose 10.8% after suffering a 3.4% fall a year earlier. Even as coal supplies remain a concern for power and metal producers, the data showed coal output grew 8.1% last month, and this despite production having grown 21% in September 2020. Coal output expanded 20.5% in August 2021. Economists said heavy rains had hit mining, construction and power demand, adding that the sequential momentum would improve while year-on-year growth would likely stay in the same range in October. “On an encouraging note, core output in September exceeded the pre-COVID level... by 5%, led by coal, natural gas, steel, cement and electricity” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at ICRA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/core-sector-growth-decelerated-to-7-month-low-of-44-in-september/article37244850.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fiscal deficit touches 35% of annual budget target||The union government’s fiscal deficit has worked out to be Rs. 5.26 lakh crore or 35% of budget estimates at the end of September, as per the data released by the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) on Friday. The deficit figures in the current fiscal appear better than the previous financial year when it had soared to 114.8% of the estimates mainly on account of a jump in expenditure to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. In absolute terms, the fiscal deficit or gap between expenditure and revenue was Rs. 5,26,851 crore at the end of September, the CGA said. For the current fiscal, the government expects deficit at 6.8% of GDP or Rs. 15,06,812 crore. As per the data, the Centre’s total receipts stood at Rs. 10.99 lakh crore or 55.6% of corresponding budget estimates (BE) FY22 up to September. Total receipts were 25.2% of the BE a year earlier. Of the total receipts, tax revenue was Rs. 9.2 lakh crore or 59.6% of BE, compared with 28% a year earlier. ‘Expenditure at 46.7%’ The CGA further said the Centre’s total expenditure at the end of the first half stood at Rs. 16.26 lakh crore or 46.7% of the current fiscal’s BE. Of the total expenditure, Rs. 13,96,666 crore was on revenue account and Rs. 2,29,351 crore was on capital account. Interest payments accounted for Rs. 3,63,757 crore and Rs. 1,80,959 crore was due to major subsidies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fiscal-deficit-touches-35-of-annual-budget-target/article37244853.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Wheels India net more than doubles to Rs. 21 cr.||Wheels India Ltd. (WIL) has scaled up capital expenditure plans for the current fiscal by 37% to Rs. 136 crore to help service strong export demand, after the company reported profit more than doubled last quarter.   “We have seen six continuous quarters of growth in exports; this trend... in exports is likely to continue,” said Srivats Ram, MD. “Our exports [now] constitute 25% of total sales. We expect it to inch towards 30% by the end of the current fiscal. Demand outlook for exports and domestic markets is broadly positive,” he added. The auto parts maker had in March pegged capital expenditure at Rs. 99 crore; this was raised due to a rise in global demand in the construction equipment and windmill segments. WIL was facing challenges from the rising costs of aluminium and steel, and fuel prices, Mr. Ram said. Second-quarter profit jumped 186% to Rs. 21 crore, while revenue rose 78% to Rs. 911 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wheels-india-net-more-than-doubles-to-rs-21-cr/article37244855.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Apple doubled business in India in FY21: Cook||Technology major Apple doubled business in India during fiscal 2021, said chief executive officer Tim Cook. “During fiscal 2021, we earned nearly one-third of our revenue from emerging markets and doubled our business in India and Vietnam,” Mr. Cook said during the company’s fourth-quarter earnings conference call on Thursday. “We are optimistic about the future, especially as we see strong demand for our new products,” he said. The CEO added that the company had achieved more than 20% growth across all product categories and in every geographic segment. “This fiscal year, we reported $366 billion of revenue, which represents 33% annual growth,” he said. According to a report by Counterpoint Research released on Thursday, Apple emerged as the fastest growing brand in the July-September 2021 quarter in India, with 212% y-o-y growth, and led the premium smartphone market with a 44% share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/apple-doubled-business-in-india-in-fy21-cook/article37244857.ece
30 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Dr. Reddy’s net surges 29% to Rs. 995 crore||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories reported consolidated net profit rose 29% to Rs. 995.8 crore for September quarter on the back of good perfomance in India and emerging markets in the generics business segment, while new offerings helped partially offset the impact of accelerating price erosion in the North America market. The increase, compared with the Rs. 771.8 crore net profit in the year earlier, came on an 18% increase in revenue from operations to Rs. 5,786.9 crore (Rs. 4,910.9 crore), according to the results. Total income at Rs. 5,992.4 crore (Rs. 4962.1 crore) was almost 21% higher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dr-reddys-net-surges-29-to-rs-995-crore/article37244847.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Urban poor bearing the brunt of high inflation: Crisil||The urban poor have been the worst-hit by the high inflation that has prevailed over the past one-and-a-half years, and the persistent uptick in fuel prices continues to pose a major threat for them, rating agency Crisil said in a note on Friday. While inflation shrinks purchasing power across the board, the impact on different income classes varies with their share of spending on different commodity groups, Crisil economists D.K. Joshi and Pankhuri Tandon pointed out. They segregated the population into three groups by spending, and mapped inflation in commodities they consume. They found that the experience of inflation was similar across income groups in rural India, but the urban poor faced a double whammy last year as well as in the first half of this year. In FY21, the bottom 20% income earners in urban India experienced 7% inflation, while it was 6.4% for the top 20% and 6.8% for the rest. In the first half of FY22, this difference has narrowed but urban poor experienced inflation of 5.6%, while it was 5.4% for the top 20%. Cereals, fuel and vegetables are the top commodities for the poorest 20% in both rural and urban areas; inflation remains above 6% in six of 10 commodities used by the rural poor and five by the urban poor. The economists said the share of fuel in total consumption is more for the poor. “The poor, urban more than rural, have likely [seen] inflationary pressures this fiscal primarily through fuel,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/urban-poor-bearing-the-brunt-of-high-inflation-crisil/article37244851.ece
30 October 2021||MUMBAI,||JioPhone Next to hit stores on Deepavali||The Jio Platform of Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) and Google on Friday announced that the JioPhone Next smartphone, jointly designed by the two companies, would be made available at stores across the country from Deepavali. “This will be the most affordable smartphone anywhere in the world with an entry price of Rs. 1,999 and the rest paid via easy EMI over 18/24 months,” both companies said in a joint statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jiophone-next-to-hit-stores-on-deepavali/article37244852.ece
30 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Govt extends RBI Governor Das’s tenure for 3 more years||The government has extended the tenure of Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das for a period of 3 years, through an order late on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-extends-rbi-governor-dass-tenure-for-3-more-years/article37244848.ece
30 October 2021||Madrid,||Dogged Levante holds Atletico||Atletico Madrid spurned the chance to move level on points with Real Madrid on Thursday after conceding from two penalties, the second in the 89th minute, to draw 2-2 away at Levante. Atletico led twice at the City of Valencia Stadium as Antoine Griezmann opened the scoring before Matheus Cunha’s first goal for the club looked to have sealed victory. But each time Levante hit back from the spot after a Luis Suarez foul and then a late handball by Renan Lodi allowed Enis Bardhi to convert from 12 yards. Diego Simeone was also sent off towards the end of the contest as Atletico edge up to fifth, five points off early leader Real Sociedad, albeit with a game in hand. Real Sociedad earlier returned to the top of the table after it won 2-0 away at Celta Vigo. Simeone had said before the game he was “worried but busy” trying to fix his team’s unexpected fragility in defence, with this game making it seven goals conceded in the last three games. Atletico has won only one of its last four league matches, against Barcelona, after a surprise defeat by Alaves and draws with Real Sociedad and now Levante. Napoli made it five wins in five home games this season with a 3-0 victory over Bologna on Thursday to go back to the top of Serie A. Napoli lost its 100% record last weekend with a 0-0 draw at Roma after eight successive wins but Luciano Spalletti’s side was back to its best against Bologna. Napoli, which is now unbeaten in 16 games at home stretching back to January, has 28 points and leads AC Milan on goal difference. Champion Inter Milan is third.  The results: La Liga: Celta Vigo 0 lost to Real Sociedad 2 (Isak 55, Elustondo 79); Granada 1 (Jorge Molina 90+7) drew with Getafe 1 (Unal 37); Levante 2 (Bardhi 37-pen, 90-pen) drew with Atletico Madrid 2 (Griezmann 12, Cunha 76).   Serie A: Napoli 3 (Ruiz 18, Insigne 41-pen, 62-pen) bt Bologna 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dogged-levante-holds-atletico/article37245419.ece
30 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Karnataka is champion||There was no let-up in Karnataka’s dominance as golds from Srihari Nataraj, Ridhima Veerendra Kumar and Shoan Ganguly on the final day powered the State to yet another overall title, as the 74th senior National aquatic championships drew to a closehere on Friday. While Srihari and Ridhima won the 200m backstroke races for a clean sweep of the event, Shoan Ganguly completed the medley double, adding the 400m to the 200m. Srihari also clinched the 200m freestyle title, in record time (1:49.78), just over half a second faster than Sajan Prakash’s mark set in 2018. The 20-year-old finished with five individual golds, and he along with Maharashtra’s Apeksha Fernandes, who won the 100m butterfly race in 1:03.38 for her third gold, were adjudged the best swimmer. Sajan Prakash created a new National record in 100m butterfly (53.24), rewriting his own (53.46) from 2018. There was also win for 38-year-old Richa Mishra in 400m medley. Assam Shivangi Sarma finished with a hat-trick of golds from the meet, adding the women’s 200m freestyle title to her wins over 100m and 400m. Team announced At the end of the Championships, the Indian contingent for FINA World Short Course in Abu Dhabi in December was announced. It will include Srihari and Sajan, who have qualified with ‘A qualifying time’, and Kushagra Rawat, who has made the team with ‘B qualifying time’. Ridhima was selected for securing the highest FINA points from the events she swum here.  The results: Men: 200m freestyle: Srihari Nataraj (Kar), 1:49.78 (NMR; OR: Sajan Prakash (Police), 1:50.35, 2018); 200m backstroke: Srihari Nataraj, 2:04.20; 100m breaststroke: M. Lohith (RSPB), 1:04.24; 100m butterfly: Sajan Prakash, 53.24 (NMR; OR: Sajan Prakash, 53.46, 2018); 400m medley: Shoan Ganguly (Kar), 4:30.52.   Women: 200m freestyle: Shivangi Sarma (Asm), 2:07.10; 200m backstroke: Ridhima Veerendra Kumar (Kar), 2:21.58; 100m breaststroke: Chahat Arora (Pun), 1:17.01; 100m butterfly: Apeksha Fernandes (Mah), 1:03.38; 400m medley: Richa Mishra (Police), 5:14.69.   Individual champions: Srihari Nataraj (5 golds, 3 National records); Apeksha Fernandes (3 golds, 2 silvers).   Team championship: Men: Karnataka (119 pts); Women: Karnataka (77 pts); Overall: Karnataka (300 pts).   Diving: Men: SSCB (29 pts); Women: RSPB (19 pts).   Water polo: Men (finals): RSPB 14 bt SSCB 12; Women: Kerala 16 bt Police 10 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-is-champion/article37244860.ece
30 October 2021||Dubai,||Asif’s blitzkrieg seals the deal for Pakistan||Mohammad Nabi and Gulbadin Naib’s power-packed 71-run stand off just 45 balls took Afghanistan to 147 for six in a Super12 contest against Pakistan at the ICC T20 World Cup on Friday. In reply, skipper Babar Azam’s half-century and Asif Ali’s 25 off just seven deliveries with four sixes took Pakistan home. With 24 needed off two overs, Asif went after Karim Janat, smashing sixes off the first, third, fifth and sixth balls to fashion Pakistan’s third successive win. Babar anchored the chase (51, 47b, 4x4) before falling to a beauty from Rashid Khan, who bowled his heart out. Rashid did his best to bring Afghanistan back into the contest with a superb spell, but it wasn’t enough. Earlier, Afghanistan decided to bat. It was a surprise because Dubai has been favourable to the chasing sides so far. With two right-handers at the crease, left-arm spinner Imad Wasim came into the attack in the second over. The move paid dividends as Zazai, trying to break free, miscued an attempted big shot over mid-wicket only for the top-edge to be taken smartly by Haris Rauf. Afridi then accounted for Shahzad in the next over as Afghanistan lost both openers for just 13.  Rahmanullah Gurbaz and Asghar Afghan tried to up the ante in Imad’s second over; two big sixes square on the leg side from each and a boundary past short fine leg fetched them 17 off the fourth over. But Haris wasn’t going to let the momentum shift. In his first over, he took a sharp caught and bowled to remove Afghan and bowled the joint-fastest delivery of the tournament at 153kph. In the next over, Hasan Ali delivered another crippling blow when he had Gurbaz caught. The eventful PowerPlay ended with Afghanistan reeling at 49 for four. Najibullah Zadran gave the boisterous Afghan fans something to cheer about with two delightful fours off Shadab Khan. But with boundaries still proving to be few and far between, Karim Janat perished trying to go big against Imad, who ended with figures of 4-0-25-2. Leg-spinner Shadab tightened the noose further with the wicket of Zadran to leave Afghanistan 76 for 6 in 13 overs. With captain Nabi and former skipper Naib at the crease and Rashid Khan still to come, Afghanistan eyed a late surge in the death overs. Gulbadin was severe on Hasan, collecting 19 off his last over with two fours and a six. The two then got stuck into Haris and clobbered 15 off his fourth. Afridi’s last over went for seven as Afghanistan took 54 off the last five.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/babar-and-asif-fashion-a-convincing-win-for-pakistan/article37245347.ece
30 October 2021||KOCHI,||Maiden crown for Thrissur||Thrissur, virtually Irinjalakuda’s St. Joseph’s College, defeated Kozhikode 4-3, via the tie-breaker, to win its maiden State senior women’s inter-district football title at the Maharaja’s Stadium on Friday. Thrissur had stars like Nidhiya, who had scored four goals in a single match earlier, and Vinitha Vijayan who had netted two in the semifinal, but today was a very different day. The match ended goalless but Thrissur was lucky in the tie-breaker. “We have never won the State title before but were confident of winning the trophy this time,” said Thrissur coach M. Nejmunnissa, a former international. “Sixteen of our girls (in the 20-member team) are from St. Joseph’s College.” Incidentally Nejmunissa, a Kerala Sports Council coach, is the St. Joseph’s College team coach too. “That is our biggest advantage, the girls are always training together under the same coach,” said Stalin Raphel, the head of the physical education department at St. Joseph’s. Pathanamthitta third Earlier Pathanamthitta defeated Malappuram 5-4, via the tie-breaker, and finished third. The teams were level 1-1 at the end of the regulation period. Former international M.M. Jacob gave away the prizes.  The results: Final: Thrissur 4 (Sivisha, S. Nidhiya, C. Reshma, Manju Baby all in tie-breaker) bt Kozhikode 3 (K. Manasa, S. Karthiga, Vedavally). Full-time 0-0.   Third place: Pathanamthitta 5 (Nikhila 69 & in tiebreaker Nikhila, Unnimaya, Sri Lakshmi, Bhagyashree) bt Malappuram 4 (P.K. Archana 14 & in tie-breaker Anaka, K. Akshara, T. Yara Mufeena). Full-time 1-1 .   The girls are always training together under the same coach — Stalin Raphel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maiden-crown-for-thrissur/article37245715.ece
30 October 2021||Sharjah,||West Indies clinches a thriller, keeps hopes alive||Defending champion West Indies kept its hopes alive of retaining the title as it edged Bangladesh by three runs in a last-ball thriller for its first win in the ICC T20 World Cup on Friday. Bangladesh needed 13 off the 20th over bowled by Andre Russell, but fell short by just three runs to lose its third straight Super 12 match and all but ending its chances of progressing. Bravo’s vital strike Dwayne Bravo struck a huge blow when he dismissed Bangladesh's top-scorer Liton Das, who had made 44, with the final ball of the 19th over. Earlier, Nicholas Pooran hit 40 off 22 deliveries to lift West Indies to 142 for seven after being put in. Roston Chase scored 39 on his T20 debut as he and Pooran added 57 for the fifth wicket to give West Indies the much-needed momentum in the final few overs. Former captain Jason Holder hit two sixes in the 20th over in a five-ball 15 on his return to the team. The Bangladesh bowlers had had the upper hand earlier in the innings, removing the out-of-form Chris Gayle for four. Mahedi Hasan, Shoriful Islam and Mustafizur Rahman took two wickets each. Bangladesh started its reply cautiously as the opening pair of Shakib Al Hasan and Mohammed Naim was kept in check by the West Indies bowlers. Russell sent back Shakib for nine after the batter had been dropped the previous ball. Holder bowled Naim in the next over to put Bangladesh on the backfoot and the Tigers slipped to 60 for three when Soumya Sarkar departed. Das kept one end occupied and together with Mushfiqur Rahim kept the side in the hunt, despite the climbing asking rate. Ravi Rampaul broke the partnership when he bowled Mushfiqur, who missed the ball attempting a scoop shot. Liton and skipper Mahmudullah took it down to the wire before the former departed. Russell held his nerve in the final over to give the West Indies a crucial win after two losses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/west-indies-wins-thriller-keeps-hopes-alive/article37245346.ece
30 October 2021||DUBAI,||Can Kohli & Co. get the measure of the Kiwis?||India versus New Zealand doesn’t ring as loud a bell for cricket fans as it does for an India-Pakistan or an India-Australia clash. But the fact is New Zealand has been India’s bogey team in World Cups over the last five decades. No wonder then that it will be a challenging task for Virat Kohli’s men on Sunday to overcome the Black Caps, open its account and avoid its ICC T20 World Cup campaign from derailing. Three on eight Ever since the inaugural men’s World Cup in 1975, India has managed to beat the Kiwis only three times in eight meetings, with the last victory being in 2003. The only time the two teams took each other on since then, Kane Williamson’s wily pacers floored India in the World Cup 2019 semifinal. As for the T20 World Cup, the two teams have met only twice. M.S. Dhoni’s men first faltered in the inaugural edition in South Africa and suffered a reverse during the last edition on home soil in 2016. With Dhoni having switched into a mentor’s role, no Indian squad member would need to be reminded of its mediocre record against one of the most under-rated teams in World championships. New Zealand has a knack of optimising its potential in World Cups. The expertise and squad members’ camaraderie invariably come to the fore when it matters the most. Naturally, despite its loss to Pakistan in the tournament-opener, New Zealand will continue to pose as big a threat to India as it has done earlier. India too has been doing its bit to enhance the team-bonding after all the squad members were scattered representing their respective IPL franchises in the build-up to the tournament. Having trained at the ICC Academy just once since their loss to Pakistan on Sunday, India’s cricketers were involved in a session of beach volleyball on Friday. Right combination Relaxing against a must-win tie isn’t a bad way. But more than getting their volleys together, India will be first hoping to get its combination right and then be backing the unit to fire on all cylinders. Will the Black Caps syndrome strike yet again on India? Or will Kohli’s cavaliers take a cue from their Pakistan counterparts and register India’s maiden win against New Zealand in a T20 World Cup?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-kohli-co-get-the-measure-of-the-kiwis/article37245343.ece
30 October 2021||MELBOURNE,||NZ proved you don’t need sledging in your armoury to succeed: Greg Chappell||Former Australia skipper Greg Chappell says World Test Champion New Zealand has shown that a team doesn’t need to resort to sledging to achieve success in international cricket. “New Zealand, now the reigning World champions of Test cricket, have proven beyond any doubt that it just isn’t something you need in your armoury to succeed,” Chappell wrote in his book Not Out , the extracts of which were published in Age.com . “In many ways, the type of cricket played by Kane Williamson’s team — sound batting with proactive running between the wickets, sharp fielding and precision bowling with a combination of speed, bounce, swing and seam — is the kind Australia made their own over many generations before sledging emerged as a tactical weapon.” Chappell’s words were in context of the sledging culture which became a big issue in Australian cricket, something which blew up after the 2018 ball-tampering scandal. “While this sort of thing was occasionally seen under Allan Border and Mark Taylor, in Steve’s time it became acceptable to stand there and harangue an opposition player as a commonplace tactic,” Chappell wrote. “Over succeeding generations it went from a necessity to something like a badge of honour to be able to get up the opposition’s nose faster than they could get up ours.” Chappell said this sledging culture led to the infamous sandpaper gate in Cape Town, which saw the suspension of three Australian players — Steve Smith, David Warner and Cameron Bancroft. “There was a period leading up to Cape Town where quite a few of us had the same feeling. We couldn’t tell you what the problem or the blow-up was going to be, but we knew that something ominous was around the corner.” Chappell empathised with Australian batter Steve Smith, who was banned for a year by cricket Australia for his role in the ball-tampering scandal. “I had a huge degree of empathy for Steve. Just as he had his meltdown in South Africa, I had mine at the MCG in 1981. I didn’t see it coming, and I don’t know if anyone sees it coming. I didn’t realise until that day just how strung out I was. And I don’t think anyone around me knew it,” he wrote.  Just as he (Steve Smith) had his meltdown in South Africa, I had mine at the MCG in 1981||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nz-proved-you-dont-need-sledging-in-your-armoury-to-succeed-greg-chappell/article37245539.ece
30 October 2021||BARCELONA,||Laporta tight-lipped on Koeman’s successor||Barcelona is considering other possible coaches besides former player Xavi Hernández to take over for the fired Ronald Koeman, the club’s president said on Friday. Joan Laporta faced a barrage of questions about the widespread speculation linking Xavi to the position. Each time, he lauded the former midfielder while not revealing details of the job hunt. “The name of Xavi is all over the news but Barca has other options,” Laporta said, without naming names. “I have never changed what I say about Xavi. One day he will become the coach of Barcelona, and I would even like for that to be while I am in charge. What I don’t know is when,” Laporta said. “It is true that the scouting reports we have on him are very good. All the inputs and news we have on Xavi are good, even though he has not been coaching a long time.” The 41-year-old Xavi is currently coaching Qatari club Al-Sadd, a team he joined after leaving Barcelona in 2015 following 25 titles in 17 seasons. He played for Al-Sadd until becoming the team’s coach in 2019. Laporta started his second stint as Barcelona president midway through last season after his predecessor stepped down amid the club’s financial crisis and the team’s poor results. Laporta said he often speaks with Xavi, who played for Barcelona during Laporta’s first stint as president, “as friends” who like to chat about the team. Koeman was let go on Wednesday following a 1-0 loss at Rayo Vallecano that left Barcelona in ninth place in the Spanish league. That followed painful losses to Real Madrid, Atlético Madrid, Benfica and Bayern Munich this season. Barcelona promoted reserve team coach Sergi Barjuan the next day to act as caretaker coach. Laporta said Barjuan will be in charge for Saturday’s home game against Alavés and possibly next week’s Champions League match at Dynamo Kyiv. Laporta thanked Koeman, a former Barcelona defender, for taking over the team at the start of last season when it was already having difficulties competing with Europe’s elite. “Koeman is a man of this club who will always remain in its collective memory,” Laporta said. “He also won a Copa del Rey title as our coach, but he didn’t continue because the results were not going his way. The situation was unsustainable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/laporta-tight-lipped-on-koemans-successor/article37245541.ece
30 October 2021||Belgrade,||Sanjeet dances into the pre-quarterfinals||Asian champion Sanjeet (92kg) defeated Russia’s Andrei Stotskii, while Akash Kumar (54kg) got a walkover to enter the pre-quarterfinals of the AIBA men’s boxing World championships here on Friday. Akash advanced after his German opponent Omar Salah Ibrahim fell ill and conceded a walkover. Akash will face Puerto Rico’s Pagan Caleb Tirado next. “His opponent did not show up for the weigh-in this morning as he was sick. Something like what happened to us in Varinder Singh’s case. In that case, we suffered, today we gained,” India high performance director Santiago Nieva said.  Sanjeet put up quite a show in the 4-1 win over Stotskii. The Indian was the more aggressive, at least in the first two rounds. He even indulged in some gamesmanship, dropping his guard and taunting Stotskii on more than one occasion. Late on Thursday, Akash Sangwan (67kg) recorded a 4-1 victory over German Daniel Krotter to also enter the pre-quarterfinals. The 21-year-old will square off against Cuban Kevin Brown. On Saturday, five-time Asian medallist Shiva Thapa (63.5kg) will be in action alongside three other Indians.   The results:   92kg: Sanjeet bt Andrei Stotskii (Rus); 54kg: Akash Kumar w/o Omar Salah Ibrahim (Ger); 67kg: Akash Sangwan bt Daniel Krotter (Ger).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sanjeet-dances-into-the-pre-quarterfinals/article37245404.ece
30 October 2021||St. Petersburg (Russia),||Bopanna and Shapovalov enter doubles semifinals||Rohan Bopanna and Denis Shapovalov moved into the doubles semifinals with a 6-4, 5-7, [10-7] win over the Russians, Karen Khachanov and Andrey Rublev, in the $932,370 ATP tournament.  The results: $932,370 ATP, St. Petersburg: Doubles, quarterfinals: Denis Shapovalov (Can) & Rohan Bopanna bt Karen Khachanov & Andrey Rublev (Rus) 6-4, 5-7, [10-7].   €44,820 Challenger, Ismaning, Germany: Doubles, quarterfinals: Antonio Sancic (Cro) & Artem Sitak (Nzl) bt Vikctor Vlad Cornea (Rou) & Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-4, 6-4.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir: Doubles, quarterfinals: Wissam Abderrahman & Aziz Ouakaa (Tun) bt Sidharth Rawat & Tushar Sharma 5-7, 6-4, [10-6]; Pre-quarterfinals: Sidharth & Tushar bt Mayeul Darras & Nathan Seateun (Fra) 3-6, 6-2, [10-6].   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir: Doubles, quarterfinals: Ma YeXin & Ni Ma Zhuoma (Chn) bt Yvette Schmucker (Ger) & Bhuvana Kalva 6-0, 6-0.   Pre-quarterfinals: Yvette & Bhuvana bt Sarah Iliev (Fra) & Niditra Rajmohan 6-4, 6-3.   $80,000 ITF women, Poitiers, France: Doubles, semifinals: Audrey Albie & Leolia Jeanjean (Fra) bt Lara Salden (Bel) & Prarthana Thombare 5-7, 6-1, [11-9] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-and-shapovalov-enter-doubles-semifinals/article37245413.ece
30 October 2021||MOHALI:,||Abhinandh and Jennifer triumph||P.B. Abhinandh of Tamizhaga Table Tennis Association (TTTA) and Jennifer Varghese of Maharashtra bagged the under-15 boys’ and girls’ titles in the UTT National-ranking North Zone table tennis tournament here.  The results (finals):   Youth: Boys (u-15) : P. B. Abhinandh (TTTA) bt M. Balamurugan (TNTTA) 15-13, 9-11, 5-11, 11-5, 13-11, 14-12.   Girls: Jennifer Varghese (Mah) bt Sandika Bhattacharjee (Ben) 11-9, 9-11, 7-11, 12-10, 11-7, 11-6.   U-13: Boys: Soham Mukherjee (Ben) bt Pratiyush Bauva (Mah) 11-6, 12-10, 11-9, 11-8.   Girls: Syndrela Das (Ben) bt Kavya Bhatt (Mah) 9-11, 11-5, 11-8, 10-12, 11-6, 10-12, 11-9 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhinandh-and-jennifer-triumph/article37245416.ece
30 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Meet Kerala cricket team’s first ever mental conditioning coach||Till Paddy Upton was appointed as the mental conditioning coach of the Indian cricket team in 2008, not many in the country were aware of such a job. The South African was with the Indian team when it won the World Cup in 2011 and became world’s No. 1-ranked Test team in 2009. Upton’s compatriot Jody Martins, who has recently been signed by the Kerala Cricket Association for a similar job, believes there is plenty of scope for a mental conditioning coach in sport. And he is glad that he has got an opportunity to work with a First Class cricket team in India. “I already have had two online sessions with the Kerala cricketers and am looking forward to being with them physically,” Martins told The Hindu from Mossel Bay on Friday. “I was pleasantly surprised to find that some of the players were already into things like meditation and visualising; I would help them make use of such practices in their cricket.” Martins, a Cricket South Africa Level 3 coach, said he decided to focus on the mental aspect of training when he began to wonder why some of his wards became better cricketers than the others. “I felt the reason could be mental,” he said. “Though being a mental conditioning coach may not be financially as rewarding as being a normal coach, I enjoy this job.” Psychological help He said every team needed someone in the supporting staff who could help the players psychologically. “Of late, people have become more aware of the importance of mental health in cricket because cricketers like Ben Stokes have opened about it,” he said. “Before him, a few international players like Marcus Trescothick and Jonathan Trott had also admitted to having mental issues. Recently, New Zealand’s woman cricketer Amelia Kerr also took a break citing mental issues.” Martins said a mental conditioning coach could play a proactive role with athletes. “I think coaches like me could do offer a lot, especially now when the players have to deal with the lockdown and quarantine,” he said. “As Upton said recently, the players would be physically refreshed but mentally drained after the quarantine.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/meet-kerala-cricket-teams-first-ever-mental-conditioning-coach/article37245713.ece
30 October 2021||BENGALURU,||Swimming Federation of India plots water polo’s revival||The last time India was a force to reckon with in men’s water polo, at least at the Asian level, was in the 1970s. After a gold in the inaugural Asian Games in 1951, it claimed silver in 1970 and bronze in 1982. But since then, the sport has been on a steady decline. The men haven’t participated at a single Asian Games since 1986. The women featured in the 2010 edition and finished fourth out of four teams, conceding 96 goals in three matches. The Swimming Federation of India (SFI) has thus solicited help from a Serbian Olympic hero, Slobodan Soro, who won bronze at 2008 Beijing and 2012 London, to set India on the path towards redemption. “The level is low, I understand the situation,” says Soro, who is in the city to help scout talent at the ongoing Senior Nationals, ahead of the 2022 Asian Games. “Infrastructure is not that good. There are not many heated pools in India, which is one of the basic things. But I see they are really enthusiastic. With some better conditions, the level of players, coaches and referees can all go up.” Water polo, though eye-catching, is demanding. Players can neither touch the floor nor hang on to the side walls, which means constant pedalling to just stay afloat. Then come the passing, synchronous team moves etc. Unique sport “It’s a unique sport. Different muscle groups are used during different times. Even your Javelin champion [Neeraj Chopra] will find it tough to throw the ball more than 10m.” Ahead of the 2016 Rio Olympics, Soro became a naturalised Brazil citizen and was a goalkeeper in the host’s team that finished eighth. “I have some experience of trying to develop the game. We managed it in Brazil. After winning the first three Olympic games, all Brazilians were talking about water polo.” “But Brazil already had sports clubs with water polo. In India we need to make the base bigger, because you need quantity and quality.” The 42-year-old also points to the need for heroes. “I started playing after watching [erstwhile] Yugoslavia win Olympic gold in 1984 and 1988 and World Championship in 1986. Team sports have more influence on society. We have [Novak] Djokovic, but when our basketball or water polo teams win, it makes more impact.” Monal Chokshi, the secretary general of SFI, concedes that water polo and diving have been given “second-hand treatment,” and calls this engagement with Serbia, “a starting point.” “We are also looking at parallel development of coaches and refereeing. We are far behind in these sports. There is a lot to do.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/swimming-federation-of-india-plots-water-polos-revival/article37244862.ece
30 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Niki surmounts Paras’ challenge, to play Digvijay in final||Fourth seed Paras Dahiya served a wake-up alarm to top seed Niki Poonacha before being beaten 6-3, 6-7(7), 6-1 in the semifinals of the Fenesta National tennis championship here on Friday. In the final, the champion of the 2019 edition, Niki will face seventh seed Digvijay Pratap Singh who tackled the climax with competence for a 6-1, 5-7, 7-5 victory over third seed Nitin Kumar Sinha. Both the contests were three hour battles and understandably engrossing, as it was also about being content with Rs. 40,000 or trying to push one’s case for the final which carries a total prize purse of Rs. 5,00,000 with the champion getting Rs. 3,00,000. Niki put himself in line for a double by winning the doubles crown with S.D. Prajwal Dev. Much in contrast, top seed Zeel Desai and qualifier Sharmada Balu were pretty sharp in showing the door to former finalists, Sai Samhitha and Vaidehi Chaudhari respectively, in the women’s event. Zeel was quite composed in patiently stroking her way past Sai, after having dropped serve early in the second set. Sharmada was candid in dealing with Vaidehi who did not get her serve rhythm and delivered 13 double faults in the match. Despite focusing on doubles on her return to the circuit after a few years, Sharmada was light on her feet and fluent with her punchy game in asserting her grit and class. She has put herself in line for a double by winning the doubles title with Sravya Shivani.  The results: Men: Semifinals: Niki Poonacha bt Paras Dahiya 6-3, 6-7(7), 6-1; Digvijay Pratap Singh bt Nitin Kumar Sinha 6-1, 5-7, 7-5. Doubles (final): S.D. Prajwal Dev & Niki Poonacha bt Chandril Sood & Lakshit Sood 6-2, 7-6(3).   Women: Semifinals: Zeel Desai bt Sai Samhitha 6-2, 6-2; Sharmada Balu bt Vaidehi Chaudhari 6-4, 6-3. Doubles (final): Sharmada Balu & Sravya Shivani bt Vaidehi Chaudhari & Mihika Yadav 6-2, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/niki-surmounts-paras-challenge-to-play-digvijay-in-final/article37244865.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Nihal Sarin holds top seed Caruana||Nihal Sarin held World No. 2 and top seed Fabiano Caruana as Indian youngters held sway in the second round of the FIDE Grand Swiss in Riga, Latvia, on Thursday. D. Gukesh, India’s youngest Grandmaster, held former World junior champion Parham Maghsoodhoo to join Nihal at 1.5 points. For the second successive day, youngster Arjun Erigaisi punched above his weight to hold eighth-seeded Russian Daniil Dubov. However, seventh seed P. Hari Krishna lost to veteran Aleksey Dreev while K. Sasikiran scored over Uzbekistan’s Shamsiddin Vokhidov. Among the women, D. Harika defeated teammate Divya Deshmukh and notably, Padmini Rout defeated veteran Pia Cramling.  The results (second round):   Open: Nihal Sarin (1.5) drew with Fabiano Caruana (USA, 1.5); Parham Maghsoodhoo (IRI, 1.5) drew with D. Gukesh (1.5); Aleksey Dreev (Rus, 1.5) bt P. Harikrishna (0); Sethuraman (1) drew with Gabriel Sargissian (Arm, 1); Sanan Sjugirov (Rus, 1.5) drew with Raunak Sadhwani (0.5); Ivan Cheparinov (Bul, 1) drew with Surya Shekar Ganguly (1); K. Sasikiran (1.5) bt Shamisiddin Vokhidov (Uzb, 0.5).   Women: R. Vaishali (1) lost to Nino Batsiashvili (Geo); Divya Deshmukh (0.5) lost to D. Harika (1.5); Meri Arabidze (Geo, 1) drew with Vantika Agarwal (1); Pia Cramling (Swe, 0) lost to Padmini Rout (1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nihal-sarin-holds-top-seed-caruana/article37245349.ece
30 October 2021||London,||No secrets to City’s success: Guardiola||Pep Guardiola says there are “no secrets” to his success during his tenure at Manchester City as he prepares to take charge of his 200th Premier League game. Since arriving in 2016, the Catalan has guided City to the league title three times, the FA Cup once and the League Cup four times. Whatever the result against Crystal Palace on Saturday, Guardiola will have won more of his first 200 games in the Premier League than any other manager to reach the milestone. His tally currently stands at 146 wins. “I’ve been many years here,” said the City boss, whose side are third in the table, two points behind leaders Chelsea. “When you are at 200 games, you have had many years and that means you won games, no secrets. “We are judged for results, not how good or bad we are, just results. “If you get this milestone, it’s because we have done quite decent with the players. “I don’t have any regrets. I could not demand or ask more than we have done so far. Impossible. I’m delighted what we lived together in this period. Hopefully we can continue working and doing well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-secrets-to-citys-success-guardiola/article37245540.ece
30 October 2021||Dubai,||Red-hot England vs upbeat Australia||An in-form England will face a buoyant Australia with Group 1 bragging rights up for grabs in a Super 12 game at the ICC Twenty20 World Cup in Dubai on Saturday. Both teams are coming on the back of facile wins; Australia beat Sri Lanka by seven wickets at the same venue and England thrashed Bangladesh by eight wickets in Abu Dhabi. David Warner and Aaron Finch were big pluses against Sri Lanka. Australia was able to control the game during the middle overs through Adam Zampa and Mitchell Starc. But the Sri Lanka batters targeted the fifth and sixth bowlers — Glenn Maxwell (16 off his only over) and Marcus Stoinis (0-35 off three overs). England will look to exploit the potential fifth-bowler weakness. Pat Cummins, however, indicated that Australia is unlikely to change its combination. “Maxy (Maxwell) bowling one in the first six, that means now Starcy (Starc) can have an extra over through the middle. You saw he took a couple of wickets in the middle overs. We were able to do that because of Maxy,” Cummins said. Ruthless On the flip side, England’s bowling attack has been ruthless. Moeen Ali and Chris Woakes toppled Bangladesh with combined figures of 3 for 27 in the PowerPlay. Moeen has bowled all seven of his overs on the trot - four in a row against West Indies, and three more against Bangladesh. Crucial match-up The match-up between Warner and Moeen will be crucial. Tymal Mills has been incisive at the death. England’s batting has looked in good shape but hasn’t been put under pressure. The Australia clash will be a litmus test. All four matches held in Dubai have been won by the chasing team. “There’s always an advantage in chasing, statistically, regardless of the country that you’re playing in,” Eoin Morgan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/red-hot-england-vs-upbeat-australia/article37245341.ece
30 October 2021||TUNIS,||Sathiyan-Harmeet duo in final||G. Sathiyan had a mixed day in the World Table Tennis Contender Tunis here on Friday. The 28-year-old Indian reached the men’s doubles final, but lost in the singles quarterfinals and mixed doubles semifinals. Sathiyan went down to Dang Qiu of Germany 5-11, 15-17, 6-11 in singles. Sathiyan and Harmeet Desai entered the men’s doubles title clash with a 8-11, 12-14, 11-9, 11-8, 11-9 win over Nandor Ecseki and Adam Szudi of Hungary. They will meet Emmanuel Lebesson and Alexandra Cassin of France. However, Emmanuel Lebesson and Jia Nan Yuan of France downed Sathiyan and Manika Batra 7-11, 9-11, 11-6, 11-9, 11-9 in the mixed doubles.   The results:   Men: Singles, quarterfinals: Dang Qiu (Ger) bt G. Sathiyan 11-5, 17-15, 11-6; P re-quarterfinals: Sathiyan bt Ibrahima Diaw (Sen) 11-6, 11-9, 11-9.   Doubles, semifinals: Sathiyan & Harmeet Desai bt Nandor Ecseli & Adam Szudi (Hun) 8-11, 12-14, 11-9, 11-8, 11-9; Emmanuel Lebesson & Alexandra Cassin (Fra) bt Tomas Polansky & Jiri Martinko (Cze) 9-11, 11-9, 12-10, 11-5. Mixed doubles (semifinals): Emmanuel Lebesson & Jia Nan Yuan (Fra) bt Sathiyan & Manika Batra 7-11, 9-11, 11-6, 11-9, 11-9 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sathiyan-harmeet-in-doubles-final/article37245353.ece
30 October 2021||Pune:,||Parisian for feature||Trainer P. Shroff’s Parisian, who ran second in her last start, should make amends in the Eve Champion Trophy (Gr. 3), the feature event of Saturday’s (Oct. 30) races. Rails will be announced one hour before the start of the first race. RWITC will start online betting operations from Saturday and racegoers can log on to play.rwitc.com for further details.  TO THE MANOR BORN PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 1.00 p.m.: 1. Safdar (11) Shahrukh 59, 2. Untitled (6) Shelar 57.5, 3. Brave Eagle (7) Kirtish 56, 4. Excelerator (8) Sandesh 56, 5. Sovereign Master (4) T.S. Jodha 56, 6. Sufiyah (5) Chouhan 56, 7. Winter Storm (12) Ayyar 54.5, 8. Historic (2) Zeeshan 54, 9. Hilma Klint (1) Dashrath 53, 10. La Peregrina (3) Aniket 53, 11. Istanbul (9) P. Vinod 51 and 12. Kardashian (10) Peter 51.  1. SUFIYAH, 2. EXCELERATOR, 3. LA PEREGRINA   AN ACQUIRED TASTE PLATE (1,000m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86, 1.30: 1. Golden Guest (4) Sandesh 59.5, 2. Excellent Gold (5) Dashrath 56, 3. Sharareh (1) Parmar 50.5, 4. Pokerface (2) Neeraj 50 and 5. Aegon (3) Kaviraj 49.  1. GOLDEN GUEST, 2. AEGON   CABRIOLET PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 2.00: 1. Caprifla (2) J. Chinoy 56, 2. Orchids (1) Dashrath 56, 3. Perfect Man (9) T.S. Jodha 56, 4. Sinner (8) Yash Narredu 56, 5. Sunlord (6) Neeraj 56, 6. Sunrise (5) Chouhan 56, 7. Amped (4) Parmar 54.5, 8. Animous (3) Bhawani 54.5 and 9. Mysterious Girl (7) Zervan 54.5.  1. SUNRISE, 2. PERFECT MAN, 3. SINNER   TO THE MANOR BORN PLATE (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 2.30: 1. Enlightened (9) T.S. Jodha 59.5, 2. Spring Grove (2) P. Dhebe 59.5, 3. Wild Fire (11) Aniket 59.5, 4. Evangeline (4) Akshay 59, 5. Rising Brave (12) Shahrukh 59, 6. Champers On Ice (1) Sandesh 57.5, 7. Slam Dunk (7) Zeeshan 57, 8. Turmeric Tower (10) A. Prakash 56, 9. Marvellous (5) Chouhan 55.5, 10. Ciplad (6) Zervan 55, 11. Little More (3) Ayyar 51.5 and 12. Anoushka (8) Peter 50.  1. MARVELLOUS, 2. CIPLAD, 3. ENLIGHTENED   AMJAD KHAN TROPHY (2,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 3.00: 1. Theon (4) Chouhan 59.5, 2. Goshawk (3) Parmar 56.5, 3. Flaming Lamborgini (5) Neeraj 54.5, 4. Kokomo (2) Sandesh 53, 5. Souza (1) Kaviraj 52 and 6. Camille (6) Peter 50.  1. KOKOMO, 2. FLAMING LAMBORGINI   CONTINUAL TROPHY (1,600m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30, 3.30: 1. Brazos (3) P. Dhebe 62, 2. Northern Lights (2) Kirtish 62, 3. Head Honcho (9) Dashrath 61.5, 4. Kamaria (13) Bhawani 59, 5. Naxos (7) V. Bunde 59, 6. Accenture (10) Neeraj 58.5, 7. Wafy (8) Mansoor 58.5, 8. Fairmont (5) Yash Narredu 58, 9. Sussing (12) Zeeshan 57.5, 10. Irish Eyes (1) Kaviraj 56.5, 11. Dawnstar (14) Ayyar 56, 12. Fendi (11) Peter 54.5, 13. Patriots Day (6) Mosin 54.5 and 14. Cristo Boss (4) Raghuveer 49.  1. NORTHERN LIGHTS, 2. BRAZOS, 3. KAMARIA   EVE CHAMPION TROPHY (Gr. 3) (2,000m) (Terms), 4-y-o & over, 4.00: 1. Grand Accord (4) Bhawani 59, 2. Caprisca (6) Zervan 57.5, 3. Magistero (3) Rupesh 57.5, 4. Truly Epic (2) C.S. Jodha 57.5, 5. Apsara Star (1) C. Umesh 56 and 6. Parisian (5) Chouhan 56.  1. PARISIAN, 2. CAPRISCA   CABRIOLET PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 4.30: 1. Chieftain (7) T.S. Jodha 56, 2. Juiced (9) Sandesh 56, 3. Pisa (6) Shelar 56, 4. Tarzan (2) Kaviraj 56, 5. Esfir (4) Zeeshan 54.5, 6. Expedition (8) Zervan 54.5, 7. Giverny (1) Neeraj 54.5, 8. Jubilant Journey (10) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 9. Medora (3) Chouhan 54.5 and 10. Midas Touch (5) Bhawani 54.5.  1. MEDORA, 2. TARZAN, 3. JUICED   COLOMBIANA PLATE (1,400m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46, 5.00: 1. Sandalphon (11) T.S. Jodha 62, 2. Beemer (7) Yash Narredu 59.5, 3. Tasman (10) Ayyar 59.5, 4. Ron (1) Dashrath 57.5, 5. Sandman (9) V. Bunde 57, 6. Blazing Bay (6) Bhawani 55.5, 7. Speculator (3) C.S. Jodha 55.5, 8. Shae (2) Peter 55, 9. Black Cherry (5) J. Chinoy 54.5, 10. Pride’s Angel (4) Sandesh 54, 11. Bold Advance (8) Aniket 53.5, 12. Power Of Neath (13) Shelar 52 and 13. Scotland (12) Raghuveer 49.5.  1. PRIDE’S ANGEL, 2. BEEMER, 3. BLAZING BAY  Day’s best: KOKOMO  Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6; (ii) 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9. Treble: (i) 3, 4 & 5; (ii) 6, 7 & 8; (iii) 7, 8 & 9. Tanala: All races. Super Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/parisian-for-feature/article37245839.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Our dream is to do well: Ashalata||The Indian women’s football team is not unduly perturbed after it was drawn with China, Chinese Taipei and Iran in next year’s AFC Asian Cup at home as it has beaten two sides in the group recently. India is the third-ranked side in the four-team Group-A at 57th spot in the FIFA chart after the draws were held in Kuala Lumpur on Thursday. China is the highest ranked team at 17th while Chinese Taipei is ranked 40 and Iran 72. But India has beaten Chinese Taipei 1-0 in an international friendly match in Bahrain earlier this month. The team had also beaten Iran by the same margin during the Hero Gold Cup in Bhubaneswar in 2019. “Every one of us had our own predictions (while watching the draw live). I had also predicted Iran, because I have so much respect for them, and we did get them in our group right at the start,” team captain Ashalata Devi said. “Not only are they (Iran) a very good side, but just the determination of all the women in their team to go out there and play football against all the odds is something that still gives me goosebumps.” The women’s Asian showpiece will be held from January 20 to February 6 in two venues in Mumbai and one in Pune. India plays Iran on January 20 at the D.Y. Patil Stadium in Navi Mumbai in its first group match. It faces Chinese Taipei (D.Y. Patil) on January 23 and China (Mumbai Football Arena) on January 26. “We have a collective dream, and that is to do well in the Asian Cup. We only have a few months left now, and seeing the draw live was a huge motivating factor for us all,” Ashalata added. Midfielder Sanju Yadav said despite the recent wins against Chinese Taipei and Iran, the team will have to start from scratch at the Asian showpiece event. “We’ve got equal respect for all teams. Yes, we have beaten Iran and Chinese Taipei, but that’s all in the past. Nobody will give an inch in the Asian Cup, and we have to fight for every little bit that we get,” Sanju said. Winger Dangmei Grace said, “We were all excited about the draw, and now is the time to focus on the job ahead.” Some of the national team players have joined Gokulam Kerala FC in their preparation for the pilot edition of the AFC Women’s Club Championship in Jordan next month.  Nobody will give an inch in the Asian Cup, and we have to fight for every little bit that we get — Sanju||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/our-collective-dream-is-to-do-well-ashalata/article37245407.ece
30 October 2021||Paris,||Sindhu enters semifinals||P.V. Sindhu stormed into the semifinals of the French Open badminton tournament after defeating Thailand’s Busanan Ongbamrungphan 21-14, 21-14 on Friday. The men’s doubles pair of Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty, seeded fifth, beat M.R. Arjun and Dhruv Kapila 15-21, 21-10, 21-19 to reach the quarterfinals. Earlier, Lakshya Sen lost in the quarterfinals to South Korea's Heo Kwanghee 15-21, 17-21. Sourabh Verma, too, bowed out after losing 12-21, 9-21 to Japan's Kenta Nishimoto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-satwik-chirag-pair-enter-last-eight/article37245338.ece
30 October 2021||New Delhi,||Abhay applies for fielding coach job||Former First Class cricketer Abhay Sharma, who has worked extensively with India-A, India Under-19 and the national women’s team, on Friday applied for the national men’s team fielding coach’s job. “Abhay’s (Sharma) application has come today,” a BCCI source told PTI. The application deadline is November 3. The 52-year-old has worked alongside former India-A and U-19 coach Rahul Dravid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhay-applies-for-fielding-coach-job/article37245406.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,||HC dismisses VFI’s stay application||Having failed to deposit Rs. 2 crores to its credit before October 28 (Thursday), the Madras High Court on Friday dismissed the stay application of the Volleyball Federation of India (VFI) to hear its petition, challenging the earlier judgement awarded by the arbitrator Justice K. Kannan in favour of Baseline Ventures. Due to VFI’s non-compliance with the court orders, VFI owes Baseline Ventures Rs. 6 crores, calculating the 12% interest to the Rs. 4 crores as compensation and Rs. 5 lakh in legal fees, which Justice Kannan delivered in his judgement on November 18, 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hc-dismisses-vfis-stay-application/article37245418.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 10:04 IST,||Sudoku — October 30, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-30-2021/article37246209.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The shining||Stacking is big this season, as are the multi-coloured jewels seen at Bulgari and Sabyasachi. So when you are done splurging on solitaires at Tiffany & Co online or your favourite diamond destination, here is how you can add some heavy-duty colour:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-shining/article37245062.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Menswear and a more fluid future||Continued on page 2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/menswear-and-a-more-fluid-future/article37245079.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Menswear and a more fluid future||Continued on page 2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/menswear-and-a-more-fluid-future/article37245107.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Always lit: design pros share their finds||Minimalism is a big draw. As is modern luxury. When it comes to lights in 2021, it is all about clean lines and maximum impact. Some of the country’s top architects, interior designers and editors weigh in on what they’d pick up for their homes and projects. Plus a website that is making shopping for iconic lights simple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/always-lit-design-pros-share-their-finds/article37245103.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Street view||For well over a decade, Manou (@wearaboutblog on Instagram) has used his extensive travels to shape his views as a photographer and blogger. He has documented Indian street fashion and has shared cultural commentary from across the country. “Men at fashion weeks were always more liberal with their clothes. Outside of fashion weeks, clothing informed by tradition, culture, comfort and utility has always been fluid. Just the context and the way we are looking at the entire thing seems to have changed,” he says. He agrees that popular culture definitely plays a role in informing people’s choices. “With time, as more people consume a variety of pop culture via Instagram, Netflix and YouTube, filtered through the algorithms and their own personalised curiosities, there may be a wider acceptance for things such as fashion,” adds this photographer, who has spent the last year at Dharmashala, dabbling in music production. His original tracks are part of ad and fashion campaigns for brands like Fabindia. Sharing with us photos taken over the last five years, he says one can now easily find instances of men being comfortable in fluid fashion across the country, “wherever the internet reaches”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/street-view/article37245178.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Why burst when you can eat it?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/why-burst-when-you-can-eat-it/article37245120.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Always lit: design pros share their finds||Minimalism is a big draw. As is modern luxury. When it comes to lights in 2021, it is all about clean lines and maximum impact. Some of the country’s top architects, interior designers and editors weigh in on what they’d pick up for their homes and projects. Plus a website that is making shopping for iconic lights simple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/always-lit-design-pros-share-their-finds/article37245196.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The shining||Stacking is big this season, as are the multi-coloured jewels seen at Bulgari and Sabyasachi. So when you are done splurging on solitaires at Tiffany & Co online or your favourite diamond destination, here is how you can add some heavy-duty colour:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-shining/article37245205.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Reddy’s 2021 retail blueprint||For a name synonymous with bridal couture, what better way to mark a decade in fashion than an event featuring her signature ensembles. Designer Jayanti Reddy — whose handcraftedlehengashave been sported by the likes of Shilpa Shetty, Sonam Kapoor, and Aditi Rao Hydari — has collaborated with wedding planner Devika Narain for a month-long event. At the Jayanti Reddy store at Ambawatta One, Mehrauli, New Delhi, visitors can check out her creations and six installations that highlight the work by weavers and craftspeople. The display is in tune with the theme ‘Explorations in Identity. Pehchaan. Gurtimpu .’ (identity in Hindi is pehchaan and in Telugu, gurtimpu ). The lockdown launch Reddy, 34, who had planned to open with a spring-summer line in February-March 2020, launched her New Delhi store in October last year. “The onset of the pandemic forced a change in plans,” she says. Given the travel restrictions, she communicated with the staff through video calls to make the final plans. Her sister-in-law, architect and interior designer Mouna Reddy, liaised with contractors in Delhi to complete the store. Once lockdown eased, the capital witnessed intimate weddings. “It was a good call to open the store in October. Our bridal couture found takers,” says Reddy. Making her way to Delhi It isn’t often that a designer from Hyderabad opens a standalone store in Delhi. “Contrary to assumptions that Delhi is all about bling, I found a number of people appreciating the understatedzardoziand embellishments that has been my style,” she says, adding that the inroads into the city’s market happened organically, thanks to her showcasing at Lakme Fashion Week over the years. Reddy didn’t have to socialise to network with the well-heeled. But she did pay close attention to the response she was getting at multi-designer stores where she was stocking — Ogaan, Ensemble and Aza Fashions among others — to gauge buying patterns. In Mumbai, apart from stocking at multi-designer stores, Jayanti Reddy has a dedicated bridal room at Ensemble. Opening an independent store meant having to refresh the stock at least once in two months, if not every every two to three weeks. With weavers and craftspeople returning to their hometowns and the interior regions of the country also experiencing a surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave, it wasn’t easy. Eyes on the brides The bridal segment, she says, continued to hold well. With the number of guests being restricted, what saw a dip was the sales for guests attending weddings. “But in the last three to four months, things are back to normal,” she says. The pandemic also witnessed Instagram stores rising in popularity, selling ensembles for a lower prices, with the advantage of not having to pay rents and overhead costs. This, says Reddy, has not affected her label since the primary focus has been on bridal couture. “Brides still want to step into a store, consult and try out something before making a luxury purchase. When I launch a pret line, I will have to look at this competition.” At the moment, label Jayanti Reddy stocks ready-to-wear separates for festive occasions. Think peplum skirts, drape skirts, tailored trousers and shortkurtas. Her bridal couture is also driven by the idea of mixing and matching separates, rather than coordinated sets. “Two brides who choose similarlehengaswill look different because they can team it with different blouses anddupattas,” says Reddy, who plans to venture into the menswear segment shortly. However, she clams up when probed further: “It is still early to talk. I can only say there will be surprises.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/reddys-2021-retail-blueprint/article37245231.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The subscription exchange||The last few years have not only seen the rise of the ‘conscious’ consumer, but also one who gifts differently. Be it saplings, earthenwarediyasor plantable cards and crackers, there is a noticeable shift in the way we share — goodbye plastic lights and synthetic idols that are either dumped in the loft or passed on to a neighbour! Now, the gifts are cherished and actually put to use. Also finding place in our local markets are zero-waste stores (Jonah Fernandes and Eldridge Lobo’s Ecoposro in Goa, Pune’s Adrish, Bittu John’s plastic-free 7 to 9 Green Store in Ernakulam), entrepreneurs crafting everything plantable, and home bakers dishing out edible fireworks. So this year, sweets hampers aside, here are our picks for those looking to give their festivities a green twist:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-subscription-exchange/article37245139.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The first Diwali light||Of decluttering and a great love Diwali is a celebration of light and beauty. You look around the house and realise dismally that it is in desperate need of both. Start by decluttering. Open the cupboard. Saris from the stuffed top shelf rain down on you. Spend half an hour re-folding them. Hold the green and red silk against yourself. Stare soulfully into the mirror. Remember wearing it as a young bride and being told you looked like Goddess Lakshmi herself. Except by an aunt-in-law who said green was not your colour, to try brown. Remember shimmering through the evening. Remember stepping on the pleats and stuffing them back to sport a huge paunch through the evening. Oh, that could also be the three servings of mithai . Remember, you have to start on the mithai -making, too. Go to the kitchen to check on the ingredients. The teen is making decaf organic green tea. Now where has the ghee for the mithai disappeared? She has kept it for the diyas , she says. Ghee is bad for the waist, she says, glaring pointedly at your wobbly middle. The mithai without ghee will taste like cardboard, you fume. She will not budge. Ghee diyas are purer, she insists. She is on a binge of revitalising past traditions. She wears bindis and nose-rings. You glare pointedly at her micro shorts. Back to decluttering! Discover a pile of jeans you promised you’d fit into again. Prep yourself to part with them. Find old books. Spend ages reading pages at random. One quote calls out: Losing Hope is Losing Life. Corny! But true. You will not give up on your old jeans or promises. Push the lot back in. Spend even longer trying to stuff yourself into old dresses. The teen sashays in to say she can hear your huffing and puffing from the kitchen. Decluttering means cutting ties with sentimentality, she lectures. It’s about detachment. You pull out her baby booties and burst into tears. She rolls her eyes and stomps off. Spend the next hour sniffling over her first bib and the spot on the baby dress where she dropped her first spoonful of porridge. Lovingly pull out the chewed-up first spoon. Shake her rattle. Smile through the tears. Re-roll all the ribbons you tied in her baby-soft hair. Spend another hour poring over her baby albums. Your eyes are streaming and nose is stuffed. She hands you a mug. ‘Be kind.’ The mug says. ‘Especially to yourself,’ the teen says. You both sit on the bed sipping her awful green tea, surrounded by things you couldn’t discard. But you’ve let go of the guilt, the negativity, the loneliness. You talk about her being a baby yesterday and about to leave for college now. She lets you cry. She dabs at your cheeks with her first bib. Diwali is also about celebrating a great, great love. Where Jane De Suza, the author of Happily Never After, talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-first-diwali-light/article37245151.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The nose knows||“Indians, as a populace, are a smelly lot.” No, I didn’t say that; an international stand-up comic did. Yes, it’s a generalisation, one I’d like to vehemently refute (unless when I am queuing for a 6 am boarding and oddly find proof to the contrary). But body odour isn’t the real problem — it’s a hot tropical country, we all sweat, it’s only normal. The trouble is that most of us either remain ignorant of our own bodily olfactory prowess or else are too blasé to do anything about it. For a country rich in spices, in perfumed plant extracts, it almost seems paradoxical. Thankfully, the new India that is emerging all around us now is more cautious of this malaise. To borrow a phrase from Abdullah Ajmal, scion of the Ajmal perfume empire, “Look good, feel good, and smell good” — Indians are realising how achieving two out three on that scale ain’t good enough.  Scent s for all  Perfumes, an essential as they may sound now, were always pitched as a luxury. This didn’t make them a daily decision, but a pricey periodic indulgence. And even for those who could afford them, the selection and availability remained locally limited. Duty-free or travel abroad purchases account for a major chunk of my own collection. What we got on Indian shelves were chemical-heavy, heady fumes bottled up with names that resembled more popular international brands. Now we did have some serious perfumes, but they sat at the other end — great olfactory libraries in the by-lanes of our cities, which had been forgotten by time, where the attar -makers operated. These oils and extracts were extremely precious and rare, but their applicability, as also handling, was too cumbersome for the city slicker types. Thankfully, and now I am finally getting to the point, there is a new range of perfumes emerging, homegrown brands working with international ‘noses’, churning out scents that could go nose-to-nose with established brands. They use quality raw materials (pure or natural identical), package it smartly, and price it within the reach of the larger set. Here is a quick set of perfumes which are making the olfactory waves. Incidentally, oudh seems to be a common thread, perhaps why the cultivation of this endangered tree species is gaining popularity in Kerala.  Ajmal: “Oudh hasn’t seen the light of day yet!” These words from my meeting with Abdullah Ajmal stay with me. We are, pun intended, yet to scratch the surface with this bark and the possibilities are truly endless. It isn’t always heady and dominating; they showed me a blend with florals and citrus top-notes where the oudh sat quietly in the back, supporting the mix but never monopolising it. Another tip from the perfume masters: “There is no way for the common consumer to tell if it is pure oudh or a synthetic concoction; the only way to be sure is to trust the brand you buy from. Engage with them, ask questions, and that is the only way to ensure quality.” Their new range is priced sub-Rs. 2,000 and still boasts the purity of its ingredients.     Bombay Perfumery: From source to spritz — buying ethically from the right farms and producers, blending in local ingredients, and bottling up nuances and nostalgia — the outfit by Manan Gandhi has a lot of it on point. Add to this their collabs and candles — including one starring oudh (Rs. 1,600) — and they have a complete solution to making sure that you and your environs send all the right notes wafting. Approx Rs. 4,000.     Maison de F o uzdar: Dimple Fouzdar, the founder, is another strong supporter of all things oudh, but understands the need to give it a contemporary update. Their range varies from floral to woody-spicy and all in between, and is positioned as a premium top-shelf product. A 100 ml flacon is in the Rs. 4,000 range.     Olfa Originals: Focussed on all things oudh, these premium-priced perfumes are yet another in the mix; I especially enjoyed their roll-on versions which were easy to carry and extremely long lasting. Rs. 5,000 and upwards.     Embark: A very affordable range (sub Rs. 2,500 for 100 ml Eau de Parfum) and packed like 80s classic perfumes, they feel reassuringly rich and are decently lasting. The ‘Rajasthan’, ‘Kerala’ and ‘Goa’ variants managed to capture the essence of the respective places quite well. To me, a good perfume is all about how it makes you feel and how long they last. Preferences for notes and blends remain a personal affair, but my experiments with these brands have all been quite positive — we can finally talk about scents made to exacting standards and yet within everyone’s reach. Aristocracy all along had made us stink, democracy is what will make India (and Indians) blossom! Here’s to stink-free 6 am flights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-nose-knows/article37245202.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Royce’ x Gaurav Gupta||What’s inside — prafeuille chocolate, wafers, nutty bars, and more — may get over in a jiffy, but the book box it comes in is for keeps. Created by fashion designer Gaurav Gupta, to resemble a vintage leather-bound story book, it takes elements from a fantasy forest for the ‘cover’ and comes with a special poem on embracing hope. From Rs. 1,995 to Rs. 5,495. royceindia.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/royce-x-gaurav-gupta/article37245227.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s a wrap||Clockwise from above  From Kshitij Jalori’s Saigon Central collection comes this Sapphire Saigon Sari and jacket in silk brocade. He calls the collection a daydream inspired by the tropics and international travel. We say it is just the glamour we need for the chilly days ahead. Rs. 39,900 onwards at kshitijjalori.com  Limerick by Abirr n’ Nanki has embroidered jumpsuits for the season, but this sari and plunging blouse come from their Back to the Stars collection. @limerickofficial on Instagram  Inspired by Japan’s lacquerware craft, Ekaya’s Sakura collection (channeling spring) has the traditional Banarasi weaving techniques of Kadwa and cutwork. Rs. 40,000 - Rs. 90,000 at ekaya.in.  Paro, the wellness brand from the house of Good Earth, has a series of saris by Taanbaan, handspun and handwoven from indigenous low-twist silks and organic Indian cotton. @parogoodearth on Instagram  Payal Singhal’s Suroor has a vintage narrative and sees her working withbandhanisdeveloped in Jaipur, but using the technique on tussar instead of silks. payalsinghal.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/its-a-wrap/article37245190.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Fem, fumble, fall down||As the festive season comes around, brands try to be clever and innovative. But an ignorant bigot somewhere invariably gets “offended” and the ads are withdrawn. Not because the criticism is widespread but because the bigots have goon armies who can unleash violence on shops and salespersons with impunity. This year it was Fabindia and Fem’s turn. The former merely used a faux Urdu phrase, which apparently would have ended Diwali as we know it, never mind that the festival has thrived and survived 500 years of non-Hindu government. But bigots don’t care for facts. As for Fem, one can fault the ad for limited imagination but at least it tried. How to please sensibilities that are determined to be offended? Ideally, one should stand up to such voices, but for that the state should stand up for the rights of its citizens. Right now, the state — all three arms of it — has shown little interest in doing so. Which pretty much means the scorecard reads Bigots 10, India 0. So let’s turn instead to Fem’s ad and examine why it was not so much inventive as inane. First, look at what the brand sells — skin bleach and fairness creams. Instead of drawing a discreet curtain on its regressive product line, it decided to give itself a rainbow makeover. And what occasion did it choose to announce its rad cred? Karva Chauth, the very quintessence of patriarchy, when wives fast for the continued well-being of their well-fed husbands. The brand’s ‘radical’ move was to feature a same-sex couple, two women, fasting for each other on Karva Chauth, complete with sari-jewellery-moon-sieve. The folly of the construct didn’t irk the bigots, but the featuring of lesbians did. The rest of us were stumped. Here you are with a homosexual relationship that defies the social taboos constructed around gender and sex and what do you do? You co-opt it into your religious and traditionalist belief system and box it inside the same patriarchal structure that those two women might possibly be trying to tear down in real life. Sadly, you still couldn’t please the patriarchy. Now, showing two men fasting for each other might have been a teeny-tiny blow to chauvinism, but how to market face bleach then? Men don’t have to whiten and depilate, so let’s stick with women but make them lesbians, because ‘progressive’. Boldness isn’t about bunging queer people into existing stereotypical social scenarios. It means having the imagination to envisage a different society altogether, with different rules, different values. In fact, I would rather see gay people reject altogether the deeply patriarchal institution of marriage in an unequal society than fight for marriage rights. How limiting to drag same-sex couples too into an institution that’s historically been violent, exploitative and hierarchical. That’s why this ad was doubly disappointing — it not only slots a lesbian couple into a traditional marriage but subsumes them within its disturbing customs. As sociologist Angela Jones once said, “It is queer liberation, not homonormative marriage that will cause radical changes to how we form, live, and find joy…” The fight for same-sex marriage is to give them the same rights as hetero couples — government aid, social benefits, legal rights. But why not go further and demand that marriage be abolished altogether, replaced by what feminists like Marjorie Shultz called relationship contracts, which can protect and provide for welfare rights, property rights, inheritance, and child-rearing functions? In the UK, for example, hetero couples have fought to enter civil partnerships like same-sex couples rather than marry. Of course, some couples might still want a socio-religious jamboree, which seems utterly pointless to me, but one understands its seductive power. Then at least defang rituals of hierarchies — the father “giving away” the bride, the “bride price”, the “horse”, the “veil” and, of course, Karva Chauth. Imagining such a world seems pretty far-fetched when even an inter-caste / inter-communal marriage attracts hired assassins today. And just in case you thought of putting it in a movie instead, Madhya Pradesh has demanded that all film scripts be cleared by it. But why stop there? The government should scrutinise song lyrics, storyboards, book drafts, newspaper articles — heck, it should write all of these itself. The jobs crisis will end and, Mercury be praised, nothing need ever be withdrawn or banned again.  Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/fem-fumble-fall-down/article37245195.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The magician who loves suits||Drummond Money-Coutts remembers his first visit to India — as a wide-eyed 18-year-old doing a stint with investment bank Goldman Sachs in London. “India offered everything that the dry corporate environment hadn’t been for so long,” he says. “It was the energy, the magic, the colours, the people, the faces, the smiles, the madness, the unpredictability... I fell in love almost straight away.” Now 35, he has long since left the corporate corridors behind — unexpected, considering his family founded Coutts & Co, the private bankers to the British royal family — and made a name for himself as a magician and card shark. He’s also been back in the country almost a dozen times, to perform magic at both ticketed shows and private bookings (for the Ambanis and Birlas, and stars like Ranveer Singh). Cheating death But most people recognise him as the star of Netflix’s Death by Magic . In the popular 2018 show, he recreated stunts that caused the death of other magicians — such as Karr the Mysterious’ attempt to escape a straitjacket and a moving vehicle within 60 seconds or the failed underwater escape by Gilbert Genesta. Shot in five different countries, what viewers don’t know is that during its making he had “to see paramedics on three out of the eight stunts”, as there were accidents both on camera and off. No wonder then that there are no plans for season two. “Netflix were keen not to roll the dice again,” he says matter-of-factly. But taking risks is something he embraces in his day-to-day life. “I like to skydive, free dive, scuba dive, just push into all these many spaces and experiences,” says Money-Coutts, who sports a tattoo around his left ear that spells ‘Hausla Pyaar Vishwas’ (courage, love, faith) in Hindi. His passion for travelling makes it easy to satisfy his sense of adventure, though he admits that with the pandemic, he’s had to find other ways to channel his energies. In 2020, he began writing a novel, “inspired by a mentor I had when I was 19-20” (he has completed the first draft), and developed a new card game, Zilch! “It’s a very simple but competitive word game with playing cards,” he explains, adding that it will soon be launched in India. A lot like love Currently in the country, Money-Coutts believes the time is ripe for magic. “Everyone is looking for a means of escape from the realities of what’s been going on now for 18 months — be it comedy or music or literature or movies or magic.” Does he never tire of the illusions, though? No, he says, because in many ways, magic is like love. “For me, it is all based around that same sensation, that moment of astonishment, that wide-eyed moment of wonder when you see something impossible, you throw your head back and you just soak in that incredible moment of awe and wonder.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-magician-who-loves-suits/article37245155.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Changing the l e n s||Mumbai-based Nitin Baranwal has been in fashion for three years. The non-binary interior designer turned model, who prefers the pronouns she/her and he/him, has worked with brands such as Ekaya Banaras, Kay Beauty, Budweiser and Levi’s. But it was Rahul Mishra’s haute couture spring/summer 2021 collection back in January that got him truly noticed by the fashion industry - the film, shot at a marble dump site in Rajasthan, saw Baranwal cocooned in the most detailed mushroom-inspired dresses. Represented by the modelling agency, A Little Fly, Baranwal, 25, says he is open to casting opportunities from clients who are looking for male, female and non-binary models. “I change my body language and my screen presence differs based on the project. Having said that, if I were allowed to choose, I'd definitely choose to be portrayed as a non-binary person as that’s something that showcases my true style and my identity,” he explains. Globally, international models and celebrities such as Indya Moore, Ruby Rose, Nico Tortorella and more, who identify as non-binary, have influenced lifestyle and culture vastly, and started many conversations around alternative identities. GLAAD, an American non-governmental media monitoring organisation, defines non-binary or genderqueer as terms used by individuals who experience their gender identity and/or gender expression as falling outside the categories of man and woman. On the other hand, ‘androgynous’ refers to an outward appearance or expression of indeterminate gender. Closer home, not only are new gender-fluid labels emerging, but brands which usually subscribe to gender binary identities, have adopted a more inclusive approach. From Sabyasachi to Gaurav Gupta and Rahul Mishra, we see more fashion designers in India challenging gender roles through their collections. That said, non-binary models are largely underrepresented in the industry and terms such as queer, androgynous, non-binary and gender-fluid are used loosely. We spoke to a few models about their concerns:  Casting calls  If these models sometimes struggle on the job, it could be due to the brand’s lack of awareness or sensitivity, resulting in confusion during casting. Resham Karmchandani, co-founder of the gender-fluid label, The Pot Plant, has been working with non-binary and queer models. But even for her it has been a learning curve. “We realised creating a safe environment for non-binary models was important. So moving forward we will not just educate our immediate colleagues on how to behave sensitively, but also the entire cast and crew, including runners and gaffers on the set, so they do not misgender anyone and [that they] treat everyone with respect.”  One size doesn’t fit all  The fashion industry has been widely criticised for idealising a sample size - usually an extra small or small - and this deters models who do not fit into conventional body types. Furthermore, when it comes to sizing, non-binary models face unique concerns as most designer labels and brands work according to either male or female measurement charts. Multi-hyphenate Sushiru, a model, designer and drag artist, has starred in campaigns and fashion shows by Manish Arora, Gundi Studios, House of Clone, OkCupid and Budweiser. “I identify as a trans non-binary person. I’m open to being considered for both menswear and womenswear shoots. But when it comes to the sizing of clothes, my measurements don’t fall under a standardized size chart in the existing binary system,” says the 25-year-old. “The sample sizes are made taking into consideration conventional cisgender models, either male or female. So, when it comes to men’s clothing, often the sample pieces are oversized for me.” Fortunately, there are some designers who are conscious enough to customise these pieces. Khup Hansing, a 26-year-old knitwear designer and model, adds that designers need to be mindful of such situations. “Even though I’m gender fluid, my biological sex is male. So for instance, when I wear clothes designed for women, the crotch isn't roomy enough and hence, it isn't flattering on my body,” they say.  Representation beyond tokenism  Let’s not forget that with gender-fluidity becoming a global buzzword, opportunities for non-binary folks could be part of the capitalist and tokenist agenda. Nikhil Dudani, co-founder of Feat. Artist, a model and creative agency that spotlights talents from diverse backgrounds explains, “For a country with a population of 1.3 billion people, I believe the representation we come across is very limited. This will only change when the approach towards casting moves away from tokenism. Most brands feature diverse and non-binary models just to portray themselves as inclusive. I’m hopeful in future it changes from ticking off a diversity checkbox to actually embracing talents from all backgrounds.” He says they get more enquiries for non-binary and queer models during the pride months. “I hope that can change and stakeholders consider these talents all through the year, just like binary models.” Meanwhile, Gina Narang, founder of a niche talent management agency A Little Fly, admits she leverages the tokenist agenda of casting agents to further talents’ work opportunities. “It’s unfortunate that non-binary models are cast sometimes to tick off an inclusivity or diversity box, but even then, the model gets an opportunity to showcase their talent, occupy space in front of the camera along with other cis-gendered models. In my experience, this leads to more work for the talents, as it normalises and sets a precedent for other potential clients,” she adds.  Unlearn and learn  Baranwal and Sushiru, both encourage their clients to ask questions as opposed to making wrong assumptions. The latter, who identifies with the pronouns he/she/they/them was forced to choose one single pronoun on a shoot. “While I was on a set they were insistent that I pick one single pronoun which came as a shock to me. After this incident, to avoid being misrepresented again, I make sure to check with the client for the final version of the script or the copy they would carry when they feature me.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/changing-the-l-e-n-s/article37245184.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Toast station||Dummy You’ve probably noticed how every international red carpet today has at least a few men turning up in gender fluid silhouettes You’ve probably noticed how every international red carpet today has at least a few men turning up in gender fluid silhouettes You’ve probably noticed. Dummy You’ve probably noticed how every international red carpet today has at least a few men turning up in gender fluid silhouettes You’ve probably noticed how every international red carpet today has at least a few men turning up in gender fluid silhouettes You’ve probably noticed. Dummy You’ve probably noticed how every international red carpet today has at least a few men turning up in gender fluid silhouettes You’ve probably noticed how every international red carpet today has at least a few men turning up in gender fluid silhouettes You’ve probably noticed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/toast-station/article37245147.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Gold standard||Glint @ Kanakavalli Welcome the wedding season at Kanakavalli with their Glint: Wedding and Trousseau collection. We see the tissue Kanjeevaram making a comeback in the design house’s handwoven saris, brocade blouse fabrics, and an Anga Vastra range for men. Kanjeevarams at Rs. 1 lakh onwards, the Anga Vastra range upwards of Rs. 15,000. Available at Kingsley, Spurtank Road, and online at www.kanakavalli.com from November 1. Brocade buttis @ Sundari Silks This one’s for the brides. At the famed Sundari Silks, our eyes are on this khaki green Kanchipuram silk sari adorned with delicate brocade floral buttis . Featuring prominently is the gold zari work — not just on the blouse but the double-side border.t Rs. 37,415 on sundarisilks.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/gold-standard/article37245209.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Menswear and a more fluid future||Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/menswear-and-a-more-fluid-future/article37245142.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Menswear and a more fluid future||Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/menswear-and-a-more-fluid-future/article37245173.ece
30 October 2021||Dinovember:,||Instapick||We’ve heard of Movember, but what do you know about Dinovember? Started by Kansas parents Susan and Refe Tuma (@dinovember) — to ensure their kids didn’t lose their sense of wonder — it has since been picked up by parents across the globe. The entire month, plastic dinosaur figures ‘come to life’ and get up to mischief. And the evidence is recorded on social media. Follow #dinovember to get in on the action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article37245149.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Rockin’ on the beach||It finally feels like we are dialling back on all the pandemic stress. Sunburn has announced its 2021 dates. In Vagator, Goa, from December 28-30, it’s only for the fully vaccinated. Themed #LifeIsCalling, it will feature over 60 international and local artistes. Registrations are open now and filling fast. If you can’t wait that long, head to the sunshine state this weekend to enjoy Celtic — a two-day festival of music, dance and some Halloween horror. Rs. 1,000, at 4 pm, Cafe Lilliput. in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/rockin-on-the-beach/article37245157.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||With that ghostly vibe||All Hallows’ Eve is almost here. Get into the spooky spirit tonight with the Halloween Dinner at The Leela Palace’s Spectra. The costumed dinner party will have activities for children and a ghoulish spread, including creepy cocktails. 7 pm to 11 pm, from Rs. 2,950++. Call 044 33661234. Over at the Hilton, raise a Bellini Negroni Margarita while sampling their Halloween-meets-Money Heistbrunch tomorrow. With pumpkin carving, a Mexican live station and more, there’s plenty to look forward to. From Rs. 2,952 onwards. Call 9500011940||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/with-that-ghostly-vibe/article37245159.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The festive edit||Payal Singhal and ethno-fusion brand Indya’s new capsule line, Mehfil, is an “easygoing, fuss-free line of celebratory separates”, says Singhal. With crop tops, pre-stitched saris jackets and more, the palette borrows from the “rich vibrancy of festive colours” and uses techniques such asgotaand foil work. Rs. 250 to Rs. 4,600, on houseofindya.com. Also check out ‘The Sabyasachi Festive Saree Edit’ at Evoluzione — a curated collection of stunningkanjeevarams, Banarasis, tussars,matkas, and organzas. Till this evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-festive-edit/article37245161.ece
30 October 2021||Superman:,||Talking point||For a change, superheroes are in the news. While Tom Holland’s hogging headlines IRL with the shoot ofSpider-Man: No Way Home, in comic-land Superman’s taking the spotlight from his son (for those living under a Marvel rock, Jon Kent is out as a bisexual). The Man of Steel is in Japan, sampling its food and starring in Satoshi Miyakawa’s gourmetmangaseries,Superman vs. Meshi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article37245163.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||NCPA diaries||The National Centre for the Performing Arts is finally reopening post pandemic, with a special curation. Today, Grammy-nominated jazz pianist and composer Louiz Banks will take the stage with his band, playing classics from the silver screen in ‘Blast from the Past’ (6.30 pm, Rs. 500 onwards). Tomorrow, the SOI Chamber Orchestra — with Marat Bisengaliev as conductor — will entrance with concertos by Vivaldi, Bach, and the like (5 pm, Rs. 500 onwards). Expect a solo Haydn cello concerto by acclaimed Salauat Karibayev.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ncpa-diaries/article37245165.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Dark and light||There’s plenty ofmithaiin your future. But if you’d like variety, here’s good news. Smoor, the Bengaluru-based luxury chocolate brand, is now in Chennai. And they have Diwali hampers at their Express Avenue outlet. We suggest the Festive Fiesta, with couverture chocolates, dragees, cookies, chocolate-on-a-stick. Rs. 5,300. Swiss brand, Läderach, is also in India. Pick from FrischSchoggi (mix of nut-filled milk and dark chocolate), 70% Grand Cru Ecuador chocolate bar and more. On cococart.in. For more, check out our Diwali hampers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dark-and-light/article37245167.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s on your cards?||A game ofteen pattineedn’t be the only option at your Diwali house party. Have you tried Dialog? The card game comes with 45 questions and five action cards per level (‘Cool’, ‘Hot’, ‘Small talk’ and ‘BIG talk’), and will have you starting ‘real’ conversations. Just make sure you create a safe space and rein in tempers! Rs. 1,299, on dialog.org.in. To let loose, however, we suggest Dring’s The Ultimate Drinking Game. With 55 task cards, dares and challenges, embarrassing stories and rip-roaring fun are a given. Rs. 1,499, on dring.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/whats-on-your-cards/article37245169.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Find your fit||How do dresses and lace tell stories? Find out at Bikaner House, Delhi, where conversations about textiles in contemporary art are taking centre stage.Rehang, featuring artists such as Arshi Irshad Ahmadzai and Boshudhara Mukherjee, is on till tomorrow. Meanwhile, online, Indian fashion is finding virtual fans. Social simulation game, The Sims 4, has launched a new ‘Fashion Street Kit’. Curated creative consultant Shruti Sitara Singh, it takes inspiration from the streets of Mumbai and Indian handlooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/find-your-fit/article37245171.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Street view||For well over a decade, Manou (@wearaboutblog on Instagram) has used his extensive travels to shape his views as a photographer and blogger. He has documented Indian street fashion and has shared cultural commentary from across the country. “Men at fashion weeks were always more liberal with their clothes. Outside of fashion weeks, clothing informed by tradition, culture, comfort and utility has always been fluid. Just the context and the way we are looking at the entire thing seems to have changed,” he says. He agrees that popular culture definitely plays a role in informing people’s choices. “With time, as more people consume a variety of pop culture via Instagram, Netflix and YouTube, filtered through the algorithms and their own personalised curiosities, there may be a wider acceptance for things such as fashion,” adds this photographer, who has spent the last year at Dharmashala, dabbling in music production. His original tracks are part of ad and fashion campaigns for brands like Fabindia. Sharing with us photos taken over the last five years, he says one can now easily find instances of men being comfortable in fluid fashion across the country, “wherever the internet reaches”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/street-view/article37245255.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Why burst when you can eat it?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/why-burst-when-you-can-eat-it/article37245232.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The first Diwali light||Of decluttering and a great love Diwali is a celebration of light and beauty. You look around the house and realise dismally that it is in desperate need of both. Start by decluttering. Open the cupboard. Saris from the stuffed top shelf rain down on you. Spend half an hour re-folding them. Hold the green and red silk against yourself. Stare soulfully into the mirror. Remember wearing it as a young bride and being told you looked like Goddess Lakshmi herself. Except by an aunt-in-law who said green was not your colour, to try brown. Remember shimmering through the evening. Remember stepping on the pleats and stuffing them back to sport a huge paunch through the evening. Oh, that could also be the three servings of mithai . Remember, you have to start on the mithai -making, too. Go to the kitchen to check on the ingredients. The teen is making decaf organic green tea. Now where has the ghee for the mithai disappeared? She has kept it for the diyas , she says. Ghee is bad for the waist, she says, glaring pointedly at your wobbly middle. The mithai without ghee will taste like cardboard, you fume. She will not budge. Ghee diyas are purer, she insists. She is on a binge of revitalising past traditions. She wears bindis and nose-rings. You glare pointedly at her micro shorts. Back to decluttering! Discover a pile of jeans you promised you’d fit into again. Prep yourself to part with them. Find old books. Spend ages reading pages at random. One quote calls out: Losing Hope is Losing Life. Corny! But true. You will not give up on your old jeans or promises. Push the lot back in. Spend even longer trying to stuff yourself into old dresses. The teen sashays in to say she can hear your huffing and puffing from the kitchen. Decluttering means cutting ties with sentimentality, she lectures. It’s about detachment. You pull out her baby booties and burst into tears. She rolls her eyes and stomps off. Spend the next hour sniffling over her first bib and the spot on the baby dress where she dropped her first spoonful of porridge. Lovingly pull out the chewed-up first spoon. Shake her rattle. Smile through the tears. Re-roll all the ribbons you tied in her baby-soft hair. Spend another hour poring over her baby albums. Your eyes are streaming and nose is stuffed. She hands you a mug. ‘Be kind.’ The mug says. ‘Especially to yourself,’ the teen says. You both sit on the bed sipping her awful green tea, surrounded by things you couldn’t discard. But you’ve let go of the guilt, the negativity, the loneliness. You talk about her being a baby yesterday and about to leave for college now. She lets you cry. She dabs at your cheeks with her first bib. Diwali is also about celebrating a great, great love. Where Jane De Suza, the author of Happily Never After, talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-first-diwali-light/article37245238.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Always lit: design pros share their finds||Minimalism is a big draw. As is modern luxury. When it comes to lights in 2021, it is all about clean lines and maximum impact. Some of the country’s top architects, interior designers and editors weigh in on what they’d pick up for their homes and projects. Plus a website that is making shopping for iconic lights simple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/always-lit-design-pros-share-their-finds/article37245249.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Reddy’s 2021 retail blueprint||For a name synonymous with bridal couture, what better way to mark a decade in fashion than an event featuring her signature ensembles. Designer Jayanti Reddy — whose handcraftedlehengashave been sported by the likes of Shilpa Shetty, Sonam Kapoor, and Aditi Rao Hydari — has collaborated with wedding planner Devika Narain for a month-long event. At the Jayanti Reddy store at Ambawatta One, Mehrauli, New Delhi, visitors can check out her creations and six installations that highlight the work by weavers and craftspeople. The display is in tune with the theme ‘Explorations in Identity. Pehchaan. Gurtimpu .’ (identity in Hindi is pehchaan and in Telugu, gurtimpu ). The lockdown launch Reddy, 34, who had planned to open with a spring-summer line in February-March 2020, launched her New Delhi store in October last year. “The onset of the pandemic forced a change in plans,” she says. Given the travel restrictions, she communicated with the staff through video calls to make the final plans. Her sister-in-law, architect and interior designer Mouna Reddy, liaised with contractors in Delhi to complete the store. Once lockdown eased, the capital witnessed intimate weddings. “It was a good call to open the store in October. Our bridal couture found takers,” says Reddy. Making her way to Delhi It isn’t often that a designer from Hyderabad opens a standalone store in Delhi. “Contrary to assumptions that Delhi is all about bling, I found a number of people appreciating the understatedzardoziand embellishments that has been my style,” she says, adding that the inroads into the city’s market happened organically, thanks to her showcasing at Lakme Fashion Week over the years. Reddy didn’t have to socialise to network with the well-heeled. But she did pay close attention to the response she was getting at multi-designer stores where she was stocking — Ogaan, Ensemble and Aza Fashions among others — to gauge buying patterns. In Mumbai, apart from stocking at multi-designer stores, Jayanti Reddy has a dedicated bridal room at Ensemble. Opening an independent store meant having to refresh the stock at least once in two months, if not every every two to three weeks. With weavers and craftspeople returning to their hometowns and the interior regions of the country also experiencing a surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave, it wasn’t easy. Eyes on the bride The bridal segment, she says, continued to hold well. With the number of guests being restricted, what saw a dip was the sales for guests attending weddings. “But in the last three to four months, things are back to normal,” she says. The pandemic also witnessed Instagram stores rising in popularity, selling ensembles for a lower prices, with the advantage of not having to pay rents and overhead costs. This, says Reddy, has not affected her label since the primary focus has been on bridal couture. “Brides still want to step into a store, consult and try out something before making a luxury purchase. When I launch a pret line, I will have to look at this competition.” At the moment, label Jayanti Reddy stocks ready-to-wear separates for festive occasions. Think peplum skirts, drape skirts, tailored trousers and shortkurtas. Her bridal couture is also driven by the idea of mixing and matching separates, rather than coordinated sets. “Two brides who choose similarlehengaswill look different because they can team it with different blouses anddupattas,” says Reddy, who plans to venture into the menswear segment shortly. However, she clams up when probed further: “It is still early to talk. I can only say there will be surprises.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/reddys-2021-retail-blueprint/article37245254.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The nose knows||“Indians, as a populace, are a smelly lot.” No, I didn’t say that; an international stand-up comic did. Yes, it’s a generalisation, one I’d like to vehemently refute (unless when I am queuing for a 6 am boarding and oddly find proof to the contrary). But body odour isn’t the real problem — it’s a hot tropical country, we all sweat, it’s only normal. The trouble is that most of us either remain ignorant of our own bodily olfactory prowess or else are too blasé to do anything about it. For a country rich in spices, in perfumed plant extracts, it almost seems paradoxical. Thankfully, the new India that is emerging all around us now is more cautious of this malaise. To borrow a phrase from Abdullah Ajmal, scion of the Ajmal perfume empire, “Look good, feel good, and smell good” — Indians are realising how achieving two out three on that scale ain’t good enough.  Scent s for all  Perfumes, an essential as they may sound now, were always pitched as a luxury. This didn’t make them a daily decision, but a pricey periodic indulgence. And even for those who could afford them, the selection and availability remained locally limited. Duty-free or travel abroad purchases account for a major chunk of my own collection. What we got on Indian shelves were chemical-heavy, heady fumes bottled up with names that resembled more popular international brands. Now we did have some serious perfumes, but they sat at the other end — great olfactory libraries in the by-lanes of our cities, which had been forgotten by time, where the attar -makers operated. These oils and extracts were extremely precious and rare, but their applicability, as also handling, was too cumbersome for the city slicker types. Thankfully, and now I am finally getting to the point, there is a new range of perfumes emerging, homegrown brands working with international ‘noses’, churning out scents that could go nose-to-nose with established brands. They use quality raw materials (pure or natural identical), package it smartly, and price it within the reach of the larger set. Here is a quick set of perfumes which are making the olfactory waves. Incidentally, oudh seems to be a common thread, perhaps why the cultivation of this endangered tree species is gaining popularity in Kerala.  Ajmal: “Oudh hasn’t seen the light of day yet!” These words from my meeting with Abdullah Ajmal stay with me. We are, pun intended, yet to scratch the surface with this bark and the possibilities are truly endless. It isn’t always heady and dominating; they showed me a blend with florals and citrus top-notes where the oudh sat quietly in the back, supporting the mix but never monopolising it. Another tip from the perfume masters: “There is no way for the common consumer to tell if it is pure oudh or a synthetic concoction; the only way to be sure is to trust the brand you buy from. Engage with them, ask questions, and that is the only way to ensure quality.” Their new range is priced sub-Rs. 2,000 and still boasts the purity of its ingredients.     Bombay Perfumery: From source to spritz — buying ethically from the right farms and producers, blending in local ingredients, and bottling up nuances and nostalgia — the outfit by Manan Gandhi has a lot of it on point. Add to this their collabs and candles — including one starring oudh (Rs. 1,600) — and they have a complete solution to making sure that you and your environs send all the right notes wafting. Approx Rs. 4,000.     Maison de F o uzdar: Dimple Fouzdar, the founder, is another strong supporter of all things oudh, but understands the need to give it a contemporary update. Their range varies from floral to woody-spicy and all in between, and is positioned as a premium top-shelf product. A 100 ml flacon is in the Rs. 4,000 range.     Olfa Originals: Focussed on all things oudh, these premium-priced perfumes are yet another in the mix; I especially enjoyed their roll-on versions which were easy to carry and extremely long lasting. Rs. 5,000 and upwards.     Embark: A very affordable range (sub Rs. 2,500 for 100 ml Eau de Parfum) and packed like 80s classic perfumes, they feel reassuringly rich and are decently lasting. The ‘Rajasthan’, ‘Kerala’ and ‘Goa’ variants managed to capture the essence of the respective places quite well. To me, a good perfume is all about how it makes you feel and how long they last. Preferences for notes and blends remain a personal affair, but my experiments with these brands have all been quite positive — we can finally talk about scents made to exacting standards and yet within everyone’s reach. Aristocracy all along had made us stink, democracy is what will make India (and Indians) blossom! Here’s to stink-free 6 am flights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-nose-knows/article37245250.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Fem, fumble, fall down||As the festive season comes around, brands try to be clever and innovative. But an ignorant bigot somewhere invariably gets “offended” and the ads are withdrawn. Not because the criticism is widespread but because the bigots have goon armies who can unleash violence on shops and salespersons with impunity. This year it was Fabindia and Fem’s turn. The former merely used a faux Urdu phrase, which apparently would have ended Diwali as we know it, never mind that the festival has thrived and survived 500 years of non-Hindu government. But bigots don’t care for facts. As for Fem, one can fault the ad for limited imagination but at least it tried. How to please sensibilities that are determined to be offended? Ideally, one should stand up to such voices, but for that the state should stand up for the rights of its citizens. Right now, the state — all three arms of it — has shown little interest in doing so. Which pretty much means the scorecard reads Bigots 10, India 0. So let’s turn instead to Fem’s ad and examine why it was not so much inventive as inane. First, look at what the brand sells — skin bleach and fairness creams. Instead of drawing a discreet curtain on its regressive product line, it decided to give itself a rainbow makeover. And what occasion did it choose to announce its rad cred? Karva Chauth, the very quintessence of patriarchy, when wives fast for the continued well-being of their well-fed husbands. The brand’s ‘radical’ move was to feature a same-sex couple, two women, fasting for each other on Karva Chauth, complete with sari-jewellery-moon-sieve. The folly of the construct didn’t irk the bigots, but the featuring of lesbians did. The rest of us were stumped. Here you are with a homosexual relationship that defies the social taboos constructed around gender and sex and what do you do? You co-opt it into your religious and traditionalist belief system and box it inside the same patriarchal structure that those two women might possibly be trying to tear down in real life. Sadly, you still couldn’t please the patriarchy. Now, showing two men fasting for each other might have been a teeny-tiny blow to chauvinism, but how to market face bleach then? Men don’t have to whiten and depilate, so let’s stick with women but make them lesbians, because ‘progressive’. Boldness isn’t about bunging queer people into existing stereotypical social scenarios. It means having the imagination to envisage a different society altogether, with different rules, different values. In fact, I would rather see gay people reject altogether the deeply patriarchal institution of marriage in an unequal society than fight for marriage rights. How limiting to drag same-sex couples too into an institution that’s historically been violent, exploitative and hierarchical. That’s why this ad was doubly disappointing — it not only slots a lesbian couple into a traditional marriage but subsumes them within its disturbing customs. As sociologist Angela Jones once said, “It is queer liberation, not homonormative marriage that will cause radical changes to how we form, live, and find joy…” The fight for same-sex marriage is to give them the same rights as hetero couples — government aid, social benefits, legal rights. But why not go further and demand that marriage be abolished altogether, replaced by what feminists like Marjorie Shultz called relationship contracts, which can protect and provide for welfare rights, property rights, inheritance, and child-rearing functions? In the UK, for example, hetero couples have fought to enter civil partnerships like same-sex couples rather than marry. Of course, some couples might still want a socio-religious jamboree, which seems utterly pointless to me, but one understands its seductive power. Then at least defang rituals of hierarchies — the father “giving away” the bride, the “bride price”, the “horse”, the “veil” and, of course, Karva Chauth. Imagining such a world seems pretty far-fetched when even an inter-caste / inter-communal marriage attracts hired assassins today. And just in case you thought of putting it in a movie instead, Madhya Pradesh has demanded that all film scripts be cleared by it. But why stop there? The government should scrutinise song lyrics, storyboards, book drafts, newspaper articles — heck, it should write all of these itself. The jobs crisis will end and, Mercury be praised, nothing need ever be withdrawn or banned again.  Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/fem-fumble-fall-down/article37245234.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Royce’ x Gaurav Gupta||What’s inside — prafeuille chocolate, wafers, nutty bars, and more — may get over in a jiffy, but the book box it comes in is for keeps. Created by fashion designer Gaurav Gupta, to resemble a vintage leather-bound story book, it takes elements from a fantasy forest for the ‘cover’ and comes with a special poem on embracing hope. From Rs. 1,995 to Rs. 5,495. royceindia.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/royce-x-gaurav-gupta/article37245253.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s a wrap||Clockwise from above  From Kshitij Jalori’s Saigon Central collection comes this Sapphire Saigon Sari and jacket in silk brocade. He calls the collection a daydream inspired by the tropics and international travel. We say it is just the glamour we need for the chilly days ahead. Rs. 39,900 onwards at kshitijjalori.com  Limerick by Abirr n’ Nanki has embroidered jumpsuits for the season, but this sari and plunging blouse come from their Back to the Stars collection. @limerickofficial on Instagram  Inspired by Japan’s lacquerware craft, Ekaya’s Sakura collection (channeling spring) has the traditional Banarasi weaving techniques of Kadwa and cutwork. Rs. 40,000 - Rs. 90,000 at ekaya.in.  Paro, the wellness brand from the house of Good Earth, has a series of saris by Taanbaan, handspun and handwoven from indigenous low-twist silks and organic Indian cotton. @parogoodearth on Instagram  Payal Singhal’s Suroor has a vintage narrative and sees her working withbandhanisdeveloped in Jaipur, but using the technique on tussar instead of silks. payalsinghal.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/its-a-wrap/article37245257.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The magician who loves suits||Drummond Money-Coutts remembers his first visit to India — as a wide-eyed 18-year-old doing a stint with investment bank Goldman Sachs in London. “India offered everything that the dry corporate environment hadn’t been for so long,” he says. “It was the energy, the magic, the colours, the people, the faces, the smiles, the madness, the unpredictability... I fell in love almost straight away.” Now 35, he has long since left the corporate corridors behind — unexpected, considering his family founded Coutts & Co, the private bankers to the British royal family — and made a name for himself as a magician and card shark. He’s also been back in the country almost a dozen times, to perform magic at both ticketed shows and private bookings (for the Ambanis and Birlas, and stars like Ranveer Singh). Cheating death But most people recognise him as the star of Netflix’s Death by Magic . In the popular 2018 show, he recreated stunts that caused the death of other magicians — such as Karr the Mysterious’ attempt to escape a straitjacket and a moving vehicle within 60 seconds or the failed underwater escape by Gilbert Genesta. Shot in five different countries, what viewers don’t know is that during its making he had “to see paramedics on three out of the eight stunts”, as there were accidents both on camera and off. No wonder then that there are no plans for season two. “Netflix were keen not to roll the dice again,” he says matter-of-factly. But taking risks is something he embraces in his day-to-day life. “I like to skydive, free dive, scuba dive, just push into all these many spaces and experiences,” says Money-Coutts, who sports a tattoo around his left ear that spells ‘Hausla Pyaar Vishwas’ (courage, love, faith) in Hindi. His passion for travelling makes it easy to satisfy his sense of adventure, though he admits that with the pandemic, he’s had to find other ways to channel his energies. In 2020, he began writing a novel, “inspired by a mentor I had when I was 19-20” (he has completed the first draft), and developed a new card game, Zilch! “It’s a very simple but competitive word game with playing cards,” he explains, adding that it will soon be launched in India. A lot like love Currently in the country, Money-Coutts believes the time is ripe for magic. “Everyone is looking for a means of escape from the realities of what’s been going on now for 18 months — be it comedy or music or literature or movies or magic.” Does he never tire of the illusions, though? No, he says, because in many ways, magic is like love. “For me, it is all based around that same sensation, that moment of astonishment, that wide-eyed moment of wonder when you see something impossible, you throw your head back and you just soak in that incredible moment of awe and wonder.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-magician-who-loves-suits/article37245239.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Changing the l e n s||Mumbai-based Nitin Baranwal has been in fashion for three years. The non-binary interior designer turned model, who prefers the pronouns she/her and he/him, has worked with brands such as Ekaya Banaras, Kay Beauty, Budweiser and Levi’s. But it was Rahul Mishra’s haute couture spring/summer 2021 collection back in January that got him truly noticed by the fashion industry - the film, shot at a marble dump site in Rajasthan, saw Baranwal cocooned in the most detailed mushroom-inspired dresses. Represented by the modelling agency, A Little Fly, Baranwal, 25, says he is open to casting opportunities from clients who are looking for male, female and non-binary models. “I change my body language and my screen presence differs based on the project. Having said that, if I were allowed to choose, I'd definitely choose to be portrayed as a non-binary person as that’s something that showcases my true style and my identity,” he explains. Globally, international models and celebrities such as Indya Moore, Ruby Rose, Nico Tortorella and more, who identify as non-binary, have influenced lifestyle and culture vastly, and started many conversations around alternative identities. GLAAD, an American non-governmental media monitoring organisation, defines non-binary or genderqueer as terms used by individuals who experience their gender identity and/or gender expression as falling outside the categories of man and woman. On the other hand, ‘androgynous’ refers to an outward appearance or expression of indeterminate gender. Closer home, not only are new gender-fluid labels emerging, but brands which usually subscribe to gender binary identities, have adopted a more inclusive approach. From Sabyasachi to Gaurav Gupta and Rahul Mishra, we see more fashion designers in India challenging gender roles through their collections. That said, non-binary models are largely underrepresented in the industry and terms such as queer, androgynous, non-binary and gender-fluid are used loosely. We spoke to a few models about their concerns:  Casting calls  If these models sometimes struggle on the job, it could be due to the brand’s lack of awareness or sensitivity, resulting in confusion during casting. Resham Karmchandani, co-founder of the gender-fluid label, The Pot Plant, has been working with non-binary and queer models. But even for her it has been a learning curve. “We realised creating a safe environment for non-binary models was important. So moving forward we will not just educate our immediate colleagues on how to behave sensitively, but also the entire cast and crew, including runners and gaffers on the set, so they do not misgender anyone and [that they] treat everyone with respect.”  One size doesn’t fit all  The fashion industry has been widely criticised for idealising a sample size - usually an extra small or small - and this deters models who do not fit into conventional body types. Furthermore, when it comes to sizing, non-binary models face unique concerns as most designer labels and brands work according to either male or female measurement charts. Multi-hyphenate Sushiru, a model, designer and drag artist, has starred in campaigns and fashion shows by Manish Arora, Gundi Studios, House of Clone, OkCupid and Budweiser. “I identify as a trans non-binary person. I’m open to being considered for both menswear and womenswear shoots. But when it comes to the sizing of clothes, my measurements don’t fall under a standardized size chart in the existing binary system,” says the 25-year-old. “The sample sizes are made taking into consideration conventional cisgender models, either male or female. So, when it comes to men’s clothing, often the sample pieces are oversized for me.” Fortunately, there are some designers who are conscious enough to customise these pieces. Khup Hansing, a 26-year-old knitwear designer and model, adds that designers need to be mindful of such situations. “Even though I’m gender fluid, my biological sex is male. So for instance, when I wear clothes designed for women, the crotch isn't roomy enough and hence, it isn't flattering on my body,” they say.  Representation beyond tokenism  Let’s not forget that with gender-fluidity becoming a global buzzword, opportunities for non-binary folks could be part of the capitalist and tokenist agenda. Nikhil Dudani, co-founder of Feat. Artist, a model and creative agency that spotlights talents from diverse backgrounds explains, “For a country with a population of 1.3 billion people, I believe the representation we come across is very limited. This will only change when the approach towards casting moves away from tokenism. Most brands feature diverse and non-binary models just to portray themselves as inclusive. I’m hopeful in future it changes from ticking off a diversity checkbox to actually embracing talents from all backgrounds.” He says they get more enquiries for non-binary and queer models during the pride months. “I hope that can change and stakeholders consider these talents all through the year, just like binary models.” Meanwhile, Gina Narang, founder of a niche talent management agency A Little Fly, admits she leverages the tokenist agenda of casting agents to further talents’ work opportunities. “It’s unfortunate that non-binary models are cast sometimes to tick off an inclusivity or diversity box, but even then, the model gets an opportunity to showcase their talent, occupy space in front of the camera along with other cis-gendered models. In my experience, this leads to more work for the talents, as it normalises and sets a precedent for other potential clients,” she adds.  Unlearn and learn  Baranwal and Sushiru, both encourage their clients to ask questions as opposed to making wrong assumptions. The latter, who identifies with the pronouns he/she/they/them was forced to choose one single pronoun on a shoot. “While I was on a set they were insistent that I pick one single pronoun which came as a shock to me. After this incident, to avoid being misrepresented again, I make sure to check with the client for the final version of the script or the copy they would carry when they feature me.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/changing-the-l-e-n-s/article37245256.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Toast station||Dummy You’ve probably noticed how every international red carpet today has at least a few men turning up in gender fluid silhouettes You’ve probably noticed how every international red carpet today has at least a few men turning up in gender fluid silhouettes You’ve probably noticed. Dummy You’ve probably noticed how every international red carpet today has at least a few men turning up in gender fluid silhouettes You’ve probably noticed how every international red carpet today has at least a few men turning up in gender fluid silhouettes You’ve probably noticed. Dummy You’ve probably noticed how every international red carpet today has at least a few men turning up in gender fluid silhouettes You’ve probably noticed how every international red carpet today has at least a few men turning up in gender fluid silhouettes You’ve probably noticed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/toast-station/article37245236.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Gold standard||Glint @ Kanakavalli Welcome the wedding season at Kanakavalli with their Glint: Wedding and Trousseau collection. We see the tissue Kanjeevaram making a comeback in the design house’s handwoven saris, brocade blouse fabrics, and an Anga Vastra range for men. Kanjeevarams at Rs. 1 lakh onwards, the Anga Vastra range upwards of Rs. 15,000. Available at Kingsley, Spurtank Road, and online at www.kanakavalli.com from November 1. Brocade buttis @ Sundari Silks This one’s for the brides. At the famed Sundari Silks, our eyes are on this khaki green Kanchipuram silk sari adorned with delicate brocade floral buttis . Featuring prominently is the gold zari work — not just on the blouse but the double-side border.t Rs. 37,415 on sundarisilks.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/gold-standard/article37245251.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Menswear and a more fluid future||Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/menswear-and-a-more-fluid-future/article37245235.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Menswear and a more fluid future||Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/menswear-and-a-more-fluid-future/article37245248.ece
30 October 2021||Dinovember:,||Instapick||We’ve heard of Movember, but what do you know about Dinovember? Started by Kansas parents Susan and Refe Tuma (@dinovember) — to ensure their kids didn’t lose their sense of wonder — it has since been picked up by parents across the globe. The entire month, plastic dinosaur figures ‘come to life’ and get up to mischief. And the evidence is recorded on social media. Follow #dinovember to get in on the action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article37245237.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Rockin’ on the beach||It finally feels like we are dialling back on all the pandemic stress. Sunburn has announced its 2021 dates. In Vagator, Goa, from December 28-30, it’s only for the fully vaccinated. Themed #LifeIsCalling, it will feature over 60 international and local artistes. Registrations are open now and filling fast. If you can’t wait that long, head to the sunshine state this weekend to enjoy Celtic — a two-day festival of music, dance and some Halloween horror. Rs. 1,000, at 4 pm, Cafe Lilliput. in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/rockin-on-the-beach/article37245240.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Amp up the ghostly vibe||All Hallows’ Eve is almost here. Get into the spooky spirit with a Halloween Brunch at Amara, Trident and ward off the monsters with Zombie cupcakes, ghost cakes, vampire punch on October 31, 12:30 pm onwards.040-66036025. Usher in the witching hour early as you eat, drink and be scary for a night of Halloween Fun at the Flying Bean Cafe, Jubilee Hills on October 30, 7:30 pm+91 91604 18889. DJ Rink offers groovy moments with a music show at Grease Monkey, Jubilee Hills on October 31, 8pm. www.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/amp-up-the-ghostly-vibe/article37245241.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The festive edit||Payal Singhal and ethno-fusion brand Indya’s new capsule line, Mehfil, is an “easygoing, fuss-free line of celebratory separates”, says Singhal. With crop tops, pre-stitched saris jackets and more, the palette borrows from the “rich vibrancy of festive colours” and uses techniques such asgotaand foil work. Rs. 250 to Rs. 4,600, on houseofindya.com. You can also order from ‘The Sabyasachi Festive Saree Edit’, a curated collection ofkanjeevarams, Banarasis, tussars,matkas, and organzas at the flagship store in Hyderabad.8886430132||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-festive-edit/article37245242.ece
30 October 2021||Superman:,||Talking point||For a change, superheroes are in the news. While Tom Holland’s hogging headlines IRL with the shoot ofSpider-Man: No Way Home, in comic-land Superman’s taking the spotlight from his son (for those living under a Marvel rock, Jon Kent is out as a bisexual). The Man of Steel is in Japan, sampling its food and starring in Satoshi Miyakawa’s gourmetmangaseries,Superman vs. Meshi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article37245243.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||NCPA diaries||The National Centre for the Performing Arts is finally reopening post pandemic, with a special curation. Today, Grammy-nominated jazz pianist and composer Louiz Banks will take the stage with his band, playing classics from the silver screen in ‘Blast from the Past’ (6.30 pm, Rs. 500 onwards). Tomorrow, the SOI Chamber Orchestra — with Marat Bisengaliev as conductor — will entrance with concertos by Vivaldi, Bach, and the like (5 pm, Rs. 500 onwards). Expect a solo Haydn cello concerto by acclaimed Salauat Karibayev.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ncpa-diaries/article37245244.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Dark and light||There’s plenty ofmithaiin your future. But if you’d like variety, here’s good news. Smoor, the Bengaluru-based luxury chocolate brand, is now in Chennai. And they have Diwali hampers at their Express Avenue outlet. We suggest the Festive Fiesta, with couverture chocolates, dragees, cookies, chocolate-on-a-stick. Rs. 5,300. Swiss brand, Läderach, is also in India. Pick from FrischSchoggi (mix of nut-filled milk and dark chocolate), 70% Grand Cru Ecuador chocolate bar and more. On cococart.in. For more, check out the Diwali hampers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dark-and-light/article37245245.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s on your cards?||A game ofteen pattineedn’t be the only option at your Diwali house party. Have you tried Dialog? The card game comes with 45 questions and five action cards per level (‘Cool’, ‘Hot’, ‘Small talk’ and ‘BIG talk’), and will have you starting ‘real’ conversations. Just make sure you create a safe space and rein in tempers! Rs. 1,299, on dialog.org.in. To let loose, however, we suggest Dring’s The Ultimate Drinking Game. With 55 task cards, dares and challenges, embarrassing stories and rip-roaring fun are a given. Rs. 1,499, on dring.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/whats-on-your-cards/article37245246.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Find your fit||How do dresses and lace tell stories? Find out at Bikaner House, Delhi, where conversations about textiles in contemporary art are taking centre stage.Rehang, featuring artists such as Arshi Irshad Ahmadzai and Boshudhara Mukherjee, is on till tomorrow. Meanwhile, online, Indian fashion is finding virtual fans. Social simulation game, The Sims 4, has launched a new ‘Fashion Street Kit’. Curated creative consultant Shruti Sitara Singh, it takes inspiration from the streets of Mumbai and Indian handlooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/find-your-fit/article37245247.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Affordable housing within reach||The pandemic brought with it the realisation of the benefits of owning a home. The need for a tangible asset that offers stability and security for the future coupled with the remote working trend fuelled the urge to own a spacious home. The residential sector also remained resilient throughout the pandemic and was quick to bounce back amongst all the other real estate asset classes. Historically low home loan rates, stable prices and reduced stamp-duty in certain states aided in the translation of pent-up demand into sales. Recovery continued in the beginning of 2021; however, the second half of March this year witnessed the resurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic. The growth trajectory was derailed in Q2 2021 as the second wave hit the nation. Nevertheless, residential sales were far more resilient during the second wave when compared to the first. Focus on the South Affordable and mid-housing segments are driving the demand for the residential market in India. The southern cities of Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad accounted for about 58% of the overall launches in H1 2021 of which the affordable segment contributed to more than 20% of the launches. In the first half of 2021, Bengaluru dominated the new launches in the affordable segment with 4,078 units being launched followed by Hyderabad with 2,163 units and Chennai with 1,264 units. Sales of more than 16,000 residential units were recorded by the southern cities in H1 2021. The sustained levels of residential sales present clear signs of demand and buyer confidence coming back to the market. This segment contributed to 10% of the sales in these markets. In Chennai, the affordable segment contributed to 12% of the overall sales, while in Bengaluru and Hyderabad it accounted for about 10% and 6% respectively. Residential prices in the southern residential markets have almost remained in the range of Rs. 4,000-Rs. 4,200 per sq.ft. in the past few years. Developers have been providing moderate discounts, attractive freebies including payment schemes such as no EMIs for a year which has led to a reduction in ‘effective prices’ for prospective homebuyers and fence sitters. Government initiatives The property market, especially affordable housing, is driven primarily by the following factors: home loan rates, stability of jobs, pricing and incentives extended by the developers and the government. All these parameters are synergising now, which indicates a comprehensive revival of the housing market. Home loan rates are at an all-time low with rates hovering around 7%, the net interest rate taking inflation into consideration is around 2% and combined with special incentives by the government and existing IT exemptions on interest and principal will further reduce the net outflow. This trend is expected to continue for some time since the government and RBI are looking to revive the consumption story in the economy. According to JLL research, 85-90% of buyers, especially in the affordable segment, are dependent on institutional funding to buy a home. 95% of the customers who buy in this category are either end users or quasi end users (long-term investors) and any change in the interest will trigger this segment to look at the property market in a positive light. An all-time low interest rate coupled with an enhanced desire to own a home after the pandemic have reinvigorated this category to come back strongly into the property market. The lower rate of interest also means more affordability to buy a home, which is key for this segment. While COVID has created stress in the stability of jobs in certain sectors and segments, there’s a renewed enthusiasm and the recruitments are at an all-time high in the sectors that drive the affordable category, like IT/ITES, Health sector, BFSI, Industrial and logistics, E-commerce platforms. The stability of jobs is at the forefront of propping up the sales in the affordable segment. Work-from-home/ Work (WFH/W) from anywhere even at 25% levels is going to disrupt and accelerate the housing demand for the next few months. We are witnessing early signs of sustained revival with ready-to-move-in properties being consumed heavily in all micro markets followed by upgradation of 2BHK to 3BHK category for want of space to accommodate WFH concept. Every time the residential market revives the first mover advantage is for the ready-to-move-in category followed by under construction properties. This was seen soon after the Global Financial Crisis in 2008 where the ready to move in, followed by the affordable category, created revival of the property market. Developer efforts The housing market witnessed muted sales in the last 4-5 years due to various aspects of the economy and the specific structural changes like RERA/ GST. Developers are leveraging the pent-up demand witnessed post COVID-19. They are wary of increasing the pricing and are focussing on cash flows to complete the under-construction projects. It’s an important factor to note that the launches in the last 12-18 months have been abysmally low and with demand looking up the supply side in certain types and micro markets have gone down. Some of the markets’ prices have started going northwards due to this mismatch in supply and demand. Added to this is an important point that active developers in all markets have shrunk by 50-60% due to the inherent problems the sector witnessed as a result of low liquidity — that has been primarily driven by low sales and thin margins. Launches going down in the last few months and with active developers in each market shrinking, the price can go up in coming months with demand coming back. Developers have extended discounts and incentives to the affordable category in the form of discounts and freebies. This has made the demand further to go up and is influencing the customer’s decision to buy. It’s notable that the government has given a lot of impetus to the affordable segment and for the first-home buyers-end users by extending and blending the PMAY interest subsidy schemes to suit the end users.  The writer is Managing Director, Residential,   India, JLL.   85-90% of buyers, especially in the affordable segment, are dependent on institutional funding to buy a home||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/affordable-housing-within-reach/article37245265.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Betting big on green||Come December, the 2021 virtual edition of World Architecture Festival (WAF) will not just celebrate the best of architecture and interior design but bring together global thinkers and industry personalities from the industry. The three-day event themed on ‘Resetting the City: Greening, Health and Urbanism’ features over 496 projects across completed buildings, future projects, and landscapes from 62 countries. From India, aside from Sanjay Puri Architects (for Aria Hotel, Nashik), Shibanee & Kamal Architects (for Van Gogh’s Garden, Bengaluru), among others, two projects by Studio Lotus — RAAS Chhatrasagar in Rajasthan and The Villa in the Woods in Uttarakhand — have been shortlisted in the Hotel & Leisure and the House & Villa (Rural/ Nature) Completed Projects categories, respectively. Interestingly, both projects have been designed with ‘custom-made modular construction systems’ that lead to lightweight structures, with low-impact foundations. The reason, says Sidhartha Talwar, Principal, Studio Lotus, is that building in remote areas comes with a huge responsibility, where reckless development over the past few decades has put sensitive ecosystems — that support local communities and livelihoods — at the risk of irreparable damage. “Both sites were part of such fragile ecosystems. As there is a need for faster construction processes that rate high on resource optimisation and environmental efficiency, we explored the possibilities of modular building systems that involve off-site prefabrication of building components to be assembled on-site,” he says. He adds that with virtually no wet-work associated with conventional in-situ construction, the process ensured minimal wastage of water and material, reduced on-site pollution and minimised the building’s environmental footprint. The Villa in the Woods was built on stilts to preserve the vegetation and natural water drainage patterns on the site instead of using the conventional cut-and-fill method. “We also developed a lightweight, modular ‘kit of parts’ that could be easily transported and assembled on-site by hand, thus reducing on-site pollution,” says Talwar. As for RAAS Chhatrasagar, it is perched atop a nearly 150-year-old check dam that forms a perennial rainwater lake. “Here, we worked with low-impact foundations, a lightweight superstructure, and designed stilted tented pods to preserve the embankment’s structural integrity.”  Excerpts from an interview outlining the design of the shortlisted projects:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/betting-big-on-green/article37245277.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Have a soft corner||What would a room be like without soft furnishings? No sofas, no couches, no divans ... The hard walls and corners may define our rooms but it’s the soft furnishings that make them into livable, homey spaces. Every home uses a wide range and variety of upholstery — on the sofas and couches, for the cushions and curtains, and more. It’s not easy to take care of upholstery, especially if it’s a home with young children and pets, but paying regular attention will keep your spaces looking good for a long time.  Regular vacuuming Clean furniture on a weekly basis, vacuuming cushions above and under. When vacuuming, check for loose buttons and threads, weak spots in the fabric, or debris that could clog the vacuum. Use the soft brush attachment and keep it clean and free of oily residue. Clean corners with the crevice tools. Recommended cleaners Follow the manufacturer’s instructions when cleaning upholstery. Only use cleaners that are recommended or you may damage the fabric. Experimenting with cleaners and homemade solutions is not a good idea, especially when the stain or damage is huge. Fluff and rotate cushions Cushion interiors lose up to 25% of their volume in the first six months. Maintain the shape by shaking daily. Fluff and rotate the cushions regularly to prevent upholstery from becoming wrinkled or flattened and to ensure uniform wear.  No sitting on arms As far as possible, avoid sitting on the arms of sofas and chairs as the upholstery will become distorted. Keep kids away from the arms as well. Jumping on the sofas needs to be discouraged — especially in homes with pets and children — to ensure that the cushioning and fabric don’t lose shape.  Away from sunlight Keep upholstered items out of direct sunlight whenever possible to avoid fading. If the upholstery is near a window, control the light with shades, blinds, or draperies. Direct sunlight can damage the colour and there’s not much you can do except change the fabric. Go for a deep-clean Get your upholstered furniture deep-cleaned every six months. DIY works well, but commercial cleaners can get the dirt out really fast. If doing it yourself, remove all soap residue to avoid attracting dirt to the clean upholstery.  With a soil retardant Use a cleaning product with a soil retardant to prevent future staining. If in doubt, check label directions or consult a professional cleaner about soil retardants. A professional treatment works well, especially in family homes. Slipcovers are super In high-traffic rooms, remove slipcovers to spot-clean so that the upholstery underneath is not affected. Or else, put a clean folded towel under the slipcover to protect the upholstery as you spot-clean the slipcover. Get pet hair and lint off Keep furniture free of pet hair by using a clothes brush with either a bristle head or napped fabric head. If you’re in a hurry, wrap masking tape around your hand, sticky side out, to pick up loose hair and fuzz.  When it’s party time When guests are over or a party is on, stash paper towels or a small terry towel nearby (may be under the seat cushions) to quickly deal with spills. Using the L-shaped tables on sofa arms gives them a convenient place to rest glasses and cups — helping avoid spills. Get spills out Never rub spills. That sets the stain. Gently blot as quickly as you can with a white paper towel or tissue. Coloured towels or printed paper towels may transfer dye or ink to the upholstery, so go with white tissues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/have-a-soft-corner/article37245268.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Oh well, it is not||Ours is a villa community (represented by a single association), built in phases as two different CMDA layout approvals. The builder built only one Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) and Wastewater Treatment Plant (WTP) for both the layouts. Is he supposed to provide different amenities for different layouts? There are open wells within these two villa layouts. The builder transferred some of the wells to an apartment, part of another layout, for their water requirements. Though the builder promised borewells to the apartment via their construction agreement, he did not provide adequate borewells and instead transferred the open wells in the villa layout, outside the apartment layout, to the apartment. But villa residents are promised water from open wells. Is this transfer to the apartment correct? The builder has not transferred STP, WTP and remaining wells to the association. The builder had also showcased the villa community as a gated one. Can the association sue the builder? The builder has diverted rainwater in utility areas of the villas to the STP leading to sewer overflow during rains and wastage of electricity in pumping more water in the STP. Rainwater harvesting too has been done only partially in the villas. The layout approvals are before the establishment of RERA but the second phase (second layout) was completed after RERA came into existence. Both the layouts don’t have RERA registration numbers. Sooraj K. Chennai The overall scheme of the project, approved layout plans, sanctioned building plans and the clauses in the agreements entered into with the builder have to be looked at to address your queries comprehensively. On a general note, wells or borewells would belong to the owners of the respective lands. If rights of use of the wells or borewells are given to other plot or unit holders under any agreement, such rights can be enjoyed or enforced. The common area and facilities have to be taken control and maintained by the association of owners. Whether or not yours is a gated community will depend on whether the road and passage portions are held by the owners jointly or gifted to the local body as public roads. Projects that were ongoing on the date of commencement of RERA should have been registered within three months thereof. For redressal of your complaints, you can approach the Authority constituted under RERA or Consumer Redressal Forum or Civil Court depending on the location of your project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/oh-well-it-is-not/article37245266.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The legalities of sales through the power of attorney||For several years, it was a prevalent practice in certain Indian States wherein a deed of power of attorney, coupled with the sale agreement, were treated as concluding or confirming the sale. No sale deeds were registered for conveying the properties. Courts have repeatedly held that a sale agreement or power of attorney by themselves do not create any right or title over immovable properties, and as such there can be no proper conveyance under the said documents. To clear the air on this subject, the Supreme Court, in the case of Suraj Lamp & Industries Private Limited vs. State of Haryana (SLP No. 13917 of 2009), issued notices to the governments of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh and sought their responses on the discontinuance of such a practice. The four states confirmed that execution of a sale agreement and power of attorney will alone not amount to sale unless proper deeds of conveyance are executed and registered. Accordingly, final orders were passed by the Supreme Court on October 11, 2011. While concluding, the Supreme Court made it clear that the order will not in any way affect genuine transactions made pursuant to sale agreements and a power of attorney. What is a power of attorney? A power of attorney is a document empowering a specified person to act for and in the name of the person executing it. The executor of the document is called the ‘principal’ and the person who represents the principal in dealings with third parties is called an ‘agent’. Under a deed of power of attorney, an agent is formally appointed to act for the principal in one transaction or a series of transactions or to manage his/her affairs. The agent’s rights are derived from the authorisations specified in the document as well as the limitations contained therein. The agent cannot use the power of attorney for his/her own benefit as their appointment is in a fiduciary capacity. Except in cases where the power of attorney is coupled with interest (or executed for consideration), it is normally revocable at the discretion of the principal. It’s validity    Unless a time limit is prescribed in the document, a power of attorney is normally valid until the purpose for which the same was executed is fulfilled. If the powers granted under the power of attorney are being exercised after a lapse of considerable time, it is advisable to obtain a declaration from the principal that the deed of power of attorney continues to be valid and in force. Does it require registration? Since a power of attorney does not create or extinguish any right over immovable property, the said deed normally does not require compulsory registration. However, the Madras High Court has held that when an agent is seeking to get the immovable property worth more than Rs. 100 transferred, the power of attorney requires it to be compulsorily registered. Subsequently, the government of Tamil Nadu made amendments to the Registration Act, 1908, as a result of which instruments of power of attorney relating to sale of immovable property have to be compulsorily registered. On transactions done by the agent The agent is empowered by the deed of power of attorney and he/she should exercise their authority strictly adhering to the scope and limitation of such powers. All transactions done by the agent within his/her authority shall be valid and binding on the principal. If the deed of power of attorney grants power to sell the property of the principal and to execute and register necessary documents in that regard, such a sale made by the agent will be valid, is binding on the principal, and will convey a proper title to the purchaser(s). To conclude To sum up, a deed of power of attorney, agreement for sale, and a sale deed (or any other deed of conveyance or transfer) have independent intents and purposes and transactions effected within the scope of their structure would be valid, enforceable and binding on the respective parties.  The writer is Partner, RANK Associates, a Chennai-based law firm   The agent is empowered by the deed of power of attorney and he/she should exercise their authority strictly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/the-legalities-of-sales-through-the-power-of-attorney/article37245282.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Anarock’s sales jump||At approx. 9000 units sold, real estate services consultancy Anarock Group has reportedly seen its sales increase by 80% in H1 2021 as compared to the same period in 2020. Of the total of Rs. 8,084 crore worth of inventory sold, affordable housing constituted 20% of their sales. As per a press release, the average ticket size of units sold was at Rs. 90 lakh across the 13 cities of operation, which stayed consistent as compared to H1 of the previous financial year. Santhosh Kumar, Vice Chairman, Anarock Group says, “The increased sales velocity and market uptake are very visible in the growth of inventory value transacted — Rs. 8,084 crore in H1 2021 over Rs. 4,446 crore last year, which is an increase of 80%. While Q1 of FY 2021 contributed 1/4th of the overall sales and revenues, Q2 saw these figures almost triple.” MMR alone contributed almost Rs. 5,000 crore of sales value within H1 of this financial year. Next came the combined market of NCR amounting to Rs. 832 crore of sales value. Bengaluru was next highest amounting to Rs. 657 crore worth of sales value. The remaining cities of Pune, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Chennai, Lucknow, and Kolkata all contributed in part to the overall sales value in H1 2021. The realty group also saw continued interest in the super luxury market of Rs. 10 crore+ inventory, which in total contributed to almost 10% of the sales value. Interestingly, millennials constituted a sizable 40% of the customer base in H1 2021. In addition, working professionals constituted 70% of the home buyers, while business owners accounted for 25% of buyers, with the other 5% being retirees or other non-working individuals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/anarocks-sales-jump/article37245258.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Home buying guide for NRIs||Most non-resident Indians NRIs have families back in India, and the desire to own property is a defining characteristic of all Indians, irrespective of whether they live and work here or abroad. During the Indian festive season especially, many visit India to take the plunge. In India, Navaratri kicks off the festive season, and nine days later, we celebrate Dussehra. Diwali, the highlight of the Indian festivals, comes 20 days later and Indian buyers who want to buy homes in the festive season focus on the primary festival days of Dussehra, Diwali and Onam to ink the deal. Festive vs. holiday season But for NRIs, it is not so much the traditional Indian festive season that is important, but the holiday season. For example, the second half of December is usually the holiday season in most western countries, including the US, most of Europe, the UK, Australia, New Zealand, etc., due to Christmas and New Year. Taking note of the long holiday period, many NRIs come to India and buy homes during December. But NRIs from the Middle East need to follow a different plan as the main holiday season there is the Ramadan period that falls mid-year. For such buyers, this is when they can usually expect extended holidays from their companies there. The purchasing process NRIs who want to buy homes in India will do plenty of research online and shortlist the best options before actually coming down to check properties first-hand and close the deal. Even before they visit India, they contact developers and brokers and get as much information as possible to spend their time in India optimally. While there are significant variations in when they visit India, NRIs continue to be a considerable buyer base for properties in India. During most quarters, they account for 5-7% of the total sales of properties in India, but this is by no means a steady number. During the festive seasons in the West and the Middle East, this rate can go up to between 10-15%. NRIs who want to buy homes in India do not really focus on the auspiciousness of certain days but rather on when they will get enough leave from their jobs abroad. Extended vacations allow them to see as many properties in India as possible and seal deals before heading back to their countries of residence. Investment parameters These days, the most reputed developers provide plenty of information on their websites, and their sales teams regularly engage with NRIs. They know that this particular buyer group does not come to India only during the Indian festive season and that they require a lot of data to get interested. NRIs who buy homes for their families in India or in preparation for their return tend to purchase properties in their cities of origin. However, a more recent trend — significantly influenced by the favourable exchange rates and more transparency on the Indian real estate market — is that many NRI investors choose to invest in cities that give them decent returns on investments. Also, they don’t just look for residential property. Commercial office spaces are once again becoming a popular investment option for NRIs. But no matter what they choose to buy, they will not take any risk. RERA and GST have indeed gone a long way in reassuring NRIs that they will not fall prey to unfair practices by unscrupulous developers anymore. Nevertheless, since they essentially live outside India, they prefer to buy properties by leading developers who can be relied on to be transparent, offer the best facilities, and be compliant with the land laws.  The writer is is CMD, Pharande Spaces||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/home-buying-guide-for-nris/article37245281.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Homes, just a click away||The Hindu Property Plus’ recently-launched virtual property fair that wraps up tomorrow is the ideal event for those scouting for a home this festive season. Launched on October 22, the online event sponsored by Casagrand features over 15 builders from Chennai showcasing their properties virtually. From budget homes and functional apartments to lavish villas and luxury bungalows, buyers have a lot to choose from. Until October 31, 2021. To register, visit https://bit.ly/THVP21 or scan the QR Code||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/homes-just-a-click-away/article37245264.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Special policing measures put in place for Deepavali||City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal said elaborate security arrangements, including the deployment of 18,000 personnel, have been implemented to deal with the rush in commercial areas and other places during the Deepavali season. The measures will be in place till the night of November 4. The city police enforced these measures in T. Nagar, Pondy Bazaar, Purasawalkam, Mylapore, Flower Bazaar, Washermenpet, Koyambedu, Tambaram and Chromepet. Addressing reporters here, Mr. Jiwal said three types of arrangements — crowd control, crime prevention and raising awareness to prevent COVID-19 spread — had been made to safeguard the public. He said 18,000 personnel from law and order, crime, traffic, Armed Force and the Tamil Nadu Special Force will provide a three-tier security with extra vigil. Temporary watchtowers have been set up, and police personnel have been posted at the spots on a rotational basis. Additional CCTV cameras and temporary control rooms have also been set up, and personnel have been monitoring the movement of crowds to prevent chain snatching and other offences. Drones have been deployed for surveillance in crowded places. Scarves have been distributed to women shoppers to guard against chainsnatchers. Mr. Jiwal said personnel with body cameras had been deployed to prevent criminal activities in crowded locations, and over 1200 sub-inspectors had been given face recognition cameras to assist during patrols. He said the public could burst crackers in the specified time as per the order of the Supreme Court, and that action would be initiated against violators. Mr. Jiwal rewarded 57 police personnel from the Central Crime Branch who recently traced and arrested the accused in online fraud, land grab, forgery and other cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/special-policing-measures-put-in-place-for-deepavali/article37245461.ece
30 October 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,||Fence around key elephant corridor forces animals to enter settlements||Fencing along a private estate in Pandalur along a crucial elephant corridor is forcing the mammals to take a detour through the nearest town via human settlements. The AMV estate in Pandalur, near Devala town, lies along a key corridor used by elephants to move between the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) and Nilambur in Kerala. The owner of the property, Jabarullah, put up an electric fence around the estate around two months ago, officials said. Forest Department officials said that since the fence was set up, elephants were forced to cut through the town of Devala and Devalahatty and surrounding settlements, leading to problematic human-elephant interactions. “The estate lies along a crucial elephant corridor, and each year, elephants use this estate to migrate. Since the fence was set up, elephants are being forced to move through surrounding towns and settlements,” said a top forest department official in Gudalur. The area has become a hotbed of human-elephant conflicts over the last few months, with elephants damaging houses while moving through the settlements. Two kumkis from the Theppakadu Elephant Camp in the MTR were deployed to chase away elephants that stray close to human habitations. Forest Department officials said that they had served a verbal notice to the owner of the property to remove the fence, and that a written communication had been dispatched to him as well. However, the owner has refused to remove the fencing. When contacted, Mr. Jabarullah said that he had been instructed to remove the fencing, and added that he had disconnected power to the fence but was yet to remove it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fence-along-private-estate-at-pandalur-forces-animals-to-enter-settlements/article37245515.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Special teams formed to handle firecracker waste||The Greater Chennai Corporation has formed special teams for collection, transportation and disposal of hazardous waste generated from bursting of firecrackers during Deepavali. According to officials, the waste will be transported to the processing facility in the SIPCOT complex in Gummidipoondi for disposal. The civic body has directed conservancy workers to create awareness among residents about the need for disposal of firecracker waste in separate vehicles. The Corporation will ensure that hazardous waste from firecrackers is not dumped in Perungudi and Kodungaiyur to prevent pollution of groundwater. At least 100 tonnes of waste from firecrackers is expected to be generated in the city during Deepavali. Last year, 93 tonnes of hazardous waste was cleared. This year, conservancy workers have been asked to sweep all 40,000 streets at frequent intervals to avoid mixing hazardous waste with municipal solid waste, officials said. At least 5,100 tonnes of garbage is generated daily in the city, and the quantity increased during the previous festival seasons. Monsoon-ready The civic body has also formed special teams in each of the 15 zones to clear waste generated from trees during the monsoon. Conservancy workers have been given raincoats to facilitate garbage clearance even during rain, according to a press release from Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi. Additional equipment to clear uprooted trees has been readied in every zone. Residents can call 1913 for assistance in removing hazardous waste and uprooted trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/special-teams-formed-to-handle-firecracker-waste/article37245459.ece
30 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam sets January 15 deadline to administer COVID-19 vaccine to all||The Assam Government has set January 15 as the deadline to complete COVID-19 vaccination of all the eligible population, estimated at 2.1 crore. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said about 95% of all above 18 years in Assam had received their first dose. Inoculation of the remaining 10 lakh was targeted to be completed by November 20. The 10 lakh people were a “vaccine-resistant” population, many of them in the three hill districts of Central Assam, who were either not willing to take the jab or were senior citizens reluctant to go to vaccination centres, he told journalists while launching Project Sadbhavana on Friday. The project is a one-time initiative to dispose of all files — some dating back to the 1990s — across departments before the government migrates to a paperless system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-sets-january-15-deadline-to-administer-covid-19-vaccine-to-all/article37245602.ece
30 October 2021||CHENNAI,||5-year-old boy drowns in swimming pool||A five-year-old boy drowned after accidentally falling into a swimming pool at his neighbour’s house in Chetpet. The victim was identified as Hithesh, 5, son of Kamal Kishore, a businessman living at an apartment on Pachaiyappa’s College Hostel Road. The boy was playing with two others at their apartment on Thursday evening. The trio ventured into a neighbour’s yard since the gate was open. They were playing near the swimming pool. Hithesh accidentally fell into the pool, and the other two tried to rescue him. They called for help, and the boy was taken to a private hospital. However, the doctors declared that he was dead. The Kilpauk police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/5-year-old-boy-drowns-in-swimming-pool/article37245462.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Silent fest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/silent-fest/article37245600.ece
30 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||BJP continues stir against Minister in Odisha||The Odisha-unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday stepped up its State-wide agitation seeking the sacking of Minister of State for Energy Dibya Shankar Mishra following the murder of a teacher. Members of the party besieged police stations across the State, alleging that the Naveen Patnaik Government was shielding people involved in the crime. A three-member team led by Vanathi Srinivasan, national president of the BJP’s women wing, met the family of the teacher Mamita Meher at their village in Balangir district. Meher was strangled to death by Gobinda Sahu, a contractor-turned educational entrepreneur. Sahu reportedly killed the teacher to prevent her from disclosing his extra-marital affairs. Mr. Mishra is said to have close links with the murder accused. “The Minister has authority over the police administration. It is known that he has close links with the accused. The demand for his sacking from the State Cabinet is appropriate,” said Ms. Srinivasan. Another member of the committee Roopa Mitra said, “We will submit a report to BJP president J. P. Nadda. We empathise with the family for the loss of their daughter.” Senior Congress leader Bhakta Charan Das has also threatened an agitation if action is not taken against the Minister by October 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-continues-stir-against-minister-in-odisha/article37245601.ece
30 October 2021||October 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Catching cold||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/catching-cold/article37245762.ece
