31 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM calls for united fight against COVID at G20||Addressing the first session of the G20 summit on “Global Economy and Global Health” in Rome, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about the need for a collaborative approach to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. At the summit of the leaders of world’s major economies, Mr. Modi highlighted India’s contribution during the COVID-19 pandemic as it ensured medical supplies to over 150 countries. Highlighting the need for resilient global supply chains, Mr. Modi invited G20 countries to invest in India for supply chain diversification and global recovery from the pandemic. “Prime Minister spoke for the resilient global supply chains and mentioned India’s bold economic reforms and lowering of the cost of doing business in India,” Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said, briefing the media in Rome. “He spoke about our vision of One Earth, One Health,” said Mr. Shringla, emphasising that the fight against future pandemics requires “comprehensive global solutions”. Prime Minister Modi appreciated the G20’s push to make global trade more transparent by introducing a global minimum corporate tax of 15% that will prevent tax evasion and money laundering. “India has not only vaccinated over a billion persons, but will be able to produce more than five billion vaccine doses that will reduce vaccine inequity in the developing world,” said Mr. Shringla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-calls-for-united-fight-against-covid-at-g20/article37262618.ece
31 October 2021||BADVEL (YSR KADAPA DISTRICT),||68.12% polling registered in Badvel byelection||The polling in the byelection to the Badvel Assembly constituency in the district was peaceful as over 68.12% of voters exercised their franchise on Saturday. The byelection was necessitated following the death of sitting YSRCP MLA Venkata Subbaiah in March. Though the Telulgu Desam Party and the Jana Sena Party took a decision not to field their candidates and allow a member from the deceased’s family to get unanimously elected, the BJP, the Jana Sena Party’s ally, fielded its candidate Suresh Panatala. The YSRCP candidate is the deceased MLA’s wife Dasari Sudha. The Congress fielded Mary Kamalamma. Twelve others are also in the fray from recognised political parties and as independents. Tense moments In spite of the heavy presence of paramilitary forces coupled with the State police parties, tense moments were witnessed in several panchayats, with the BJP cadres alleging rigging and free movement of outsiders at the polling stations in Badvel and Atluru mandals. The local people had caught red-handed three outsiders while they were in a queue at a booth in S. Venkatapuram village of Atluru mandal and handed them over to the police. This led to a sudden flare-up of tension with the YSRCP and BJP supporters resorting to jostling and attacking one another with footwear. The police had to rush in and pacify the two groups. No untoward incident was reported from the other mandals of Kalasapadu, B. Kodur, Sri Avadhutha Kasinayana, Badvel, Gopavaram and Atluru mandals. The BJP leaders alleged that the YSRCP cadres had resorted to large-scale rigging in Porumamilla mandal as the ruling party had managed to post the local police at the polling station. BJP Rajya Sabha member C.M. Ramesh told the media that this would be brought to the notice of the Central Election Commission. Sluggish start At a majority of the polling stations, women outnumbered men. The constituency has a total of 2,15,292 voters, including 1.07 lakh women and 22 transgenders. Amidst inclement weather in several parts of Badvel, the voting percentage at 9 a.m. stood around 11. The response from the voters continued to be lukewarm till 11 a.m. However, an impressive surge of voters was reported at all the booths later, and the momentum continued till 1.30 p.m. The polling percentage reached just under 45% by 3 p.m. and further rose by 15% by 5 p.m. It touched 68.12% by the end of polling at 7 p.m.  Kadapa Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anbhurajan carried out a series of inspections at the polling booths. He said 2,622 police personnel had been drafted for the election duty in the constituency besides 15 platoons of Central forces. The police had intensified surveillance along Badvel’s borders with Ongole and Nellore districts. Special teams stepped up vigil against the flow of liquor into Badvel from other regions. EVMs replaced Chief Election Officer K. Vijayanand told the media that a team of 24 officials had been entrusted with the job of keeping a thorough watch on the polling through webcasting. He said barring minor hiccups, the byelection was held in a very peaceful manner. Due to technical reasons, three EVMs were replaced with new ones in Badvel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/6812-polling-registered-in-badvel-byelection/article37262604.ece
31 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||MGNREGS funding to continue: Govt.||The Centre is committed to releasing funds for proper implementation of its flagship Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), the Rural Development Ministry said on Saturday. The statement comes a day after The Hindu hadreported that the scheme faces a negative net balance of Rs. 8,686 crore, including payments due. “The Government of India is committed to release funds for wage and material payments for proper implementation of the scheme, as per the provisions of the Act and guidelines applicable for the Central Government and the State Governments. Whenever additional fund is required, the Ministry of Finance is requested to provide the funds,” said the Ministry, adding that last year, the Finance Ministry had allocated Rs. 50,000 crore additional funds over and above the initial budget estimate. As The Hindu had reported, such supplementary budget allocations can only be approved by the next session of Parliament, which is scheduled to begin in a month’s time. “Fund release towards wage and material is a continuous process,” said the Ministry, noting that the initial budget allocation for the current financial year was 18% higher than the budget estimate for the previous year. “During the current FY, so far over Rs. 63,793 crore have been released for the implementation of the scheme. Currently, Rs. 8,921 crore funds are available, which can meet the wage liability equal to this current availability.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mgnregs-funding-to-continue-govt/article37262623.ece
31 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Better health-care facilities for pilgrims at Sabarimala||The Health Department has formulated a comprehensive action plan for the upcoming annual pilgrimage season at Sabarimala, Health Minister Veena George has said. The plan, which takes into consideration the COVID-19 situation, focusses on providing better health care to the devotees as well as employees. Under this, the pilgrims and staff are required to carry vaccination certificates or certificate of RT-PCR tests taken within 72 hours. Persons who contracted COVID-19 within three months and having post-COVID complications are advised to abstain from the pilgrimage. To address emergency needs while trekking, medical centres and oxygen parlours will be set up at five locations. These units will have facilities for resting, first aid and to check blood pressure-related issues of the trekkers. For those developing cardiac issues while climbing the hillock, automated external defribillators along with trained nursing staff will be deployed. Well-equipped dispensaries will be opened at the Sannidhanam, Nilackal, Charalmedu and Erumely. An emergency operation theatre will be established at the Sannidhanam. These are in addition to the facilities being set up at the Pathanamthitta general hospital, Erumely community health cenre and Kanjirappally taluk headquarters, besides the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. To ensure free treatment to pilgrims enrolled under the Karunya scheme, arrangements will be made in hospitals. Empanelled hospitals The State health agency has empanelled hospitals across these two districts to ensure timely medical assistance to the devotees. Services of specialty doctors will be made available at the centres in and around the pilgrimage zone. The Director of Health Department has been tasked to coordinate the health services in Sabarimala. An additional director, a nodal officer and an assistant nodal officer will lead the operations at the ground level. The District Medical Officer, Pathanamthitta, will function as the nodal officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/better-health-care-facilities-for-pilgrims-at-sabarimala/article37263258.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Tracking RTC buses in real time soon||Soon, passengers travelling aboard Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) buses will be able to track bus movement in real-time and will also get useful information such the time they can expect buses to arrive and depart for destinations on their fingertips. This will be possible with the transport juggernaut drawing up plans and floating tenders to set up a Vehicle Tracking and Passenger Information System (VTPIS) which would cover approximately 42% of its fleet. Tender floated Official Telangana State Road Transport Corporation documents show that the move would initially cover 4,170 special buses of its total fleet strength of 9,728 buses. The tender, which was floated recently, specifies that as many as 1,201 intra-city and 2,969 long distance and inter-city buses would be covered. Provisions are in place to scale up VTPIS installation to as many as 10,500 buses, as and when the need arises.  According to officials, to have VTPIS on Telangana State Road Transport Corporation buses is a passenger friendly-move. Estimated time of departure (ETD) and estimated time of arrival (ETA) of buses, with minimal variance, and tracking the current location of buses in real-time would save passengers’ precious time. Meaning, passengers will be able to plan their journey better, and reduce waiting time with the information made available to them. Improving efficiency The TSRTC also hopes that reports which are generated using the information generated through VTPIS would greatly improve operational efficiency. While the tenders have already been floated, intending bidders sought clarifications, and also put forward their concerns on certain technical and financial aspects before the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation . For instance, intending bidders sought clarifications on whether the supply of computer hardware is included in the scope of work, and also on International Standardization Organization certifications. Technical bids While technical bids were scheduled to be opened on October 29, this has been postponed to November 5. It was in 2019 that the transport juggernaut had discussed a similar initiative with the working title ‘TSRTC Live!’. The first phase entailed live-tracking buses to and from the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport. An app found its way to the Google Play Store. The project, however, did not make much headway and the app was taken down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tracking-rtc-buses-in-real-time-soon/article37263221.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD,||Innovation platform Plug and Play chooses Hyderabad for India foray||Innovation platform Plug and Play Tech Center will be setting up its first India centre in Hyderabad, the firm said after a meeting of its leadership team with Telangana Information Technology and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao in Paris. The facility will be officially launched in the first week of December in the presence of Mr. Rao and the company’s founder and Chief Executive Officer Saeed Amidi, the Minister’s office said in a release. The Minister is in Paris, leading a delegation from Telangana, and the meeting with Plug and Play executives was held on the sidelines of the Ambition India event hosted by the French government and Business France. Headquartered in Silicon Valley and having 37 offices worldwide, Plug and Play serves as a platform connecting startups, companies, venture capital firms, universities and government agencies. Besides spurring innovation through the network, it is also an accelerator and early stage investor in startups. In India, it plans to build the biggest hub for startups, corporates and investors; partner with leading companies, including foreign firms, to accelerate their startup collaboration; help startups work with leading firms and expand internationally; and serve as a platform where innovative cutting-edge solution can be developed through cross-collaboration. Plug and Play will also invest in Indian startups and introduce its network of leading international venture capital funds. Building the ecosystem for Mobility, Internet of Things (IoT), Energy and Infrastructure would be the focus initially in Hyderabad. The next step would be to expand to Fintech and Life sciences/Healthcare. Seattle-based Triangulum Labs, a venture foundry will be partnering Plug and Play Tech Center here to run the incubation for the IoT and Smart Cities. Mr. Rao said this is a great boost to the innovation ecosystem in Telangana which is prominently known for T-Hub, India’s largest startup incubator, in Hyderabad. “We have been able to attract several major investments in the mobility sector in the recent past including ZF, Fiat Chrysler/ Stellantis and in the process of creating a world class mobility ecosystem in partnership with several OEMs and tier-I suppliers. Innovation is the key driver for growth of this sector and we are glad that Plug And Play has chosen Hyderabad for its entry into India.” The leadership team from Plug and Play that met the Minister consisted of Managing Director and co-head of EMEA Omeed Mehrinfahr, MD Germany & Startup Autobahn from the Stuttgart Center Sascha Karimpour and Program Director Startup Autobahn Hannah Boomgarden. IT and Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan was among those present at meeting in the French Senate, Paris.  This is a great boost to the innovation ecosystem in Telangana which is prominently known for T-Hub, India’s largest startup incubator. K.T. Rama Rao,IT and Industries Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/innovation-platform-plug-and-play-chooses-hyderabad-for-india-foray/article37263225.ece
31 October 2021||KADAPA,||A three-dimensional tribute to Sardar||The picture-perfect image is evidently a result of perseverance, professionalism and above all, patriotism. Laddagiri Narasimha Sri Charan, an engineering graduate of Kadapa, has paid a befitting tribute to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his birth anniversary, observed on Oct 31, by making an image of ‘Statue of Unity’ with 840 Rubik’s cubes. He was drawn to solving Rubik’s cubes when he was pursuing Electrical and Electronics Engineering five years back, but the passion for making mosaics using hundreds of such cubes started during the COVID-19 lockdown. “This is the first of its kind tribute ever paid to Sardar Patel, as there is no such image of the ‘Statue of Unity’ using Rubik’s cubes anywhere”, Sri Charan told The Hindu . He developed interest towards recreating a three-dimensional view of the statue using cubes, after it was inaugurated exactly three years back, and wanted it to be a tribute to the man who united the princely states. The portrait was made in a predominantly blue-and-white combination, with the words ‘Iron Man of India’ written on its side. Sri Charan has already made several such images in the past, such as the elephant-headed god Vinayaka, Adiyogi, former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, actors Sonu Sood and Prabhas, etc,. A picture of the portrait of ‘Power Star’ Pawan Kalyan was shared on the official page (verified account) of Jana Sena Party. “Actress Charmme shared my video of making film director Puri Jagannadh’s portrait on her Instagram profile”, says Charan gleefully. The graduate, who is already on a job hunt, intends to launch a startup on this front. “I am planning to develop a business model to make Rubik’s cube portrait of people on their birthdays, logo of organisations etc. I will even train aspiring youth on solving the cube”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-three-dimensional-tribute-to-sardar/article37262606.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Puneeth Rajkumar to be laid to rest today||The funeral of Kannada film star Puneeth Rajkumar will be held on Sunday at Dr. Rajkumar Punyabhoomi at Kanteerava Studio. Puneeth Rajkumar passed away on Friday following a cardiac arrest. He will be buried next to his parents, matinee idol Rajkumar and Parvathamma Rajkumar, after his mortal remains are taken there in a procession through the city. Public will not be allowed inside Kanteerava Studio. Though arrangements were being made to conduct the last rites on Saturday evening, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai announced it will be held on Sunday morning to allow thousands of the actor’s fans, who kept arriving in droves, to pay their last respects. The uncertainty over the arrival of the actor’s elder daughter from United States was another factor that was taken into account to postpone the funeral date. There were poignant scenes as daughter Dhrithi finally arrived by Saturday evening and joined her grieving mother Ashwini and sister Vandita. The family members, including Shivarajkumar and Raghavendra Rajkumar, were seen breaking down repeatedly. Puneeth was the youngest of Rajkumar’s five children. Thousands throng Saturday saw thousands of the 46-year-old actor’s fans thronging Kanteerava Stadium to take a last look at their beloved star. Some had travelled from faraway North Karnataka towns in buses and trains. The day also saw several dignitaries, politicians and film personalities from other southern film industries coming to pay their respects. The Chief Minister, while announcing postponement of funeral to Sunday, said: “I appeal to everyone to maintain calm and peace.” The violence that had broken out by angry fans unable to pay their last respects to Dr. Rajkumar back in 2006 weighed heavily on the mind of the administration, sources said. Producer Rockline Venkatesh appealed to respect the privacy of the family during the funeral on Sunday. Elaborate security The police have made elaborate security arrangements along the route of the procession. Ban on sale of liquor has been extended till Sunday midnight. On Saturday, though the city remained peaceful, the police struggled to keep the crowds under control at Kanteerava Stadium. The police caned the crowd to maintain queue. For many fans, it was impossible to get inside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/puneeth-rajkumar-to-be-laid-to-rest-today/article37262978.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Guidelines issued for Rajyotsava, Deepavali||The State Government on Saturday issued guidelines on festival celebrations for Deepavali as well as Rajyotsava amid fears of a third wave of COVID-19. For the second consecutive year, the Government has allowed only sale of green crackers and strict compliance of COVID-19 norms. SC guidelines As part of the guidelines that will be in force till December 31, only traders having licence are authorised to sell green crackers from November 1 to 10 at identified locations. Chief Secretary P. Ravikumar, who issued the guidelines on Saturday, stated that the norms had been framed as per the 2018 Supreme Court order on sale of green crackers. According to the guidelines, permission for putting up shops should be allowed only in public grounds or vacant spaces in non-residential areas. “Shops should maintain a six-metre distance to ensure free flow of air. All shops have to display licences granted to them to sell crackers,” according to the guidelines. Wearing masks and maintaining social distance have been made mandatory. Facilities such as sanitiser and thermal screening should be made available at each shop. No large gatherings should be allowed at the shops, the circular on guidelines stated. The police, departments of Fire and Safety and Health and Family Welfare, district administration, and municipal corporations should ensure that the guidelines are strictly followed. Rajyotsava celebrations In a separate circular, the Government permitted gatherings of not more than 500 people for Rajyotsava celebrations. There should be strict compliance of social distancing norms and use of masks and sanitisers, the circular stated. “Rajyotsava celebrations should be done in a simple manner without disturbing law and order in the State. Organisations celebrating Rajyotsava should take prior permission from police, BBMP, local bodies, electricity supply companies, departments of Health and Family Welfare and Fire Safety, Pollution Control Board and other authorities concerned. All cultural and entertainment programmes should be wound up in the minimum possible time. Senior citizens, children and those who are ailing should not attend such programmes, the circular added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/guidelines-issued-for-rajyotsava-deepavali/article37262981.ece
31 October 2021||HUBBALLI/ BELAGAVI,||Bypolls see slight decline in polling percentage||The polling for byelections to Sindgi and Hangal Assembly segments concluded peacefully on Saturday with people coming out in good numbers to exercise their franchise. However, both the constituencies registered a decline in the total polling percentage. As per the initial reports from the election authorities, Hangal constituency recorded 83.44% polling. However, officials said that this could be slight change after final data compilation. Turnout here was slightly less than that in the previous Assembly election. Hangal constituency recorded 84.40% polling in the 2018 Assembly election and 80.80% in the 2019 parliamentary polls. Sindgi too recorded a decline compared to the previous Assembly election with approximate 69.41%polling. The Assembly constituency had recorded 71.43% polling in the 2018 Assembly elections. The segment, however, saw 59.83% polling during 2019 parliamentary elections. At both places polling began at a slow pace, but picked up later. Barring reports of technical glitches at some polling stations in Sindgi, there were no major problems during polling, which was conducted with strict adherence to COVID-19 protocol and elaborate security arrangements. The bypolls were necessitated following the death of six-time MLA and former Minister C.M. Udasi in Hangal (BJP) and that of former Minister M.C. Managuli (JD-S) in Sindgi. The byelections have become a prestige issue for the ruling BJP, particularly for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. It is the first electoral challenge for Mr. Bommai after assuming office. Both the Assembly segments witnessed high decibel campaign for over a fortnight, with Ministers, former Ministers and leaders from mainstream political parties carrying out hectic campaigning. The Chief Minister himself spent more than a week in the region campaigning. Hangal has 2,04,481 voters, 263 polling stations, and 13 candidates while Sindgi has 2,34,584 voters, 297 polling stations and six candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/byelections-slight-decline-in-polling-percentage/article37262979.ece
31 October 2021||Vijayawada,||BJP demands repoll in 28 booths||P. Suresh, the BJP candidate in the byelection for the Badvel (SC) Assembly constituency, wrote a letter to the returning officer demanding a repoll in 12 polling booths in Atlur mandal, seven in Gopavaram, five in Badvel Rural and four in B. Kodur alleging that the YSRCP leaders resorted to rigging and committed other irregularities in collusion with the polling staff. The police and YSRCP supporters had threatened the BJP agents with dire consequences, he said. In spite of the BJP agents’ insistence that the election staff should ensure the conduct of polling in a democratic manner, they did nothing due to the influence of the ruling party, he alleged. Meanwhile, BJP State president Somu Veerraju complained to the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) that the police had remained mute spectators even as a large number of fake voters were lined up at the booths. ‘Police helped in rigging’ Staff Reporter adds from Kadapa: BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy alleged that the YSRCP leaders had “re-enacted the rigging spree in the Badvel byelection in connivance with the police personnel”. He said there was not much difference between the YSRCP cadres and the police personnel on poll duty as they kept cooperating with each other for rigging in several booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-demands-repoll-in-28-booths/article37262601.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||Byelections to 3 LS, 29 Assembly seats peaceful||A turnout of between 50% to over 81% was recorded on Saturday in byelections to three Lok Sabha seats and 29 Assembly seats spread across 13 States and one Union Territory. Prominent candidates The Congress’s Pratibha Singh, wife of the late Virbhadra Singh, former Chief Minister, and Abhay Chautala of the Indian National Lok Dal are among the prominent candidates in the fray. Officials said polling in all the States was peaceful and held under the COVID-19 protocol. Ellenabad in Haryana recorded 81% polling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/byelections-to-3-ls-29-assembly-seats-peaceful/article37262621.ece
31 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pope accepts India’s invite||Pope Francis, the head of the Catholic Church, has accepted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s invite to visit India. The invite was extended during a meeting between the two dignitaries in the Vatican on Saturday. The Pope described the invite as “the greatest gift”, said Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pope-accepts-indias-invite/article37262619.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Cracker of a purchase||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cracker-of-a-purchase/article37263228.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Going the extra mile||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/going-the-extra-mile/article37262976.ece
31 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||KAS advice memos on Monday||The first advice memos for appointments to the Kerala Administrative Services (KAS) will be distributed at the Public Service Commission (PSC) headquarters in the capital on Kerala Piravi Day on Monday. The first-ever rank list for KAS was published early October. A total of 533 candidates have been included on the rank lists for the three streams with 168 in Stream 1, 183 in Stream 2, and 182 candidates in Stream 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kas-advice-memos-on-monday/article37263261.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Spirit of democracy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spirit-of-democracy/article37263263.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Cracker of a purchase||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cracker-of-a-purchase/article37263448.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,||July 18 to be observed as T.N. Day||The DMK government on Saturday announced that July 18 would be observed as Tamil Nadu Day. Resolution adopted In a statement, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said a government order on this would be issued soon. July 18 was the day when a resolution, moved by the then Chief Minister, C.N. Annadurai, was adopted in the Assembly to rename the Madras Presidency as Tamil Nadu in 1967. It may be recalled that the previous AIADMK government had announced that November 1 would be observed as Tamil Nadu Day from 2019. The DMK government’s decision followed representations from many political parties, Tamil scholars and enthusiasts, who pointed out that parts of the Madras Presidency became Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala on November 1, 1956, and hence it might not be appropriate to observe it as Tamil Nadu Day. Financial aid Mr. Stalin said ‘Border Saviours’, who, throughout their lifetime resorted to the struggle for safeguarding the border of Tamil Nadu when the linguistic States were formed, would be honoured with a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh each on November 1 this year as a special case. There are a total of 110 ‘Border Saviours’ and they are being granted a monthly financial assistance of Rs. 5,500, along with a medical allowance Rs. 500. After their demise, a financial assistance of Rs. 3,000, besides the medical allowance Rs. 500, is provided to their legal heirs throughout their lifetime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/july-18-to-be-observed-as-tn-day/article37263012.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Franchise first!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/franchise-first/article37262614.ece
31 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||NIA to contact Iran over drug heist||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) will contact the authorities in Iran to gather information in connection with the 3,000-kg heroin seizure by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence at Mundra port in Gujarat this September. Further probe “The NIA has received all the documents from the DRI for further probe into the links of those involved in the case,” said an official. In due course, we will also seek necessary information from the Iranian authorities,” said an official. Six Afghan nationals, an Uzbek woman and three Indian nationals were earlier arrested by the DRI from different places. As it turned out, the contraband was packed in Afghanistan and sent by a Kandahar-based company, Hassan Hussain Limited, in the guise of a consignment of semi-processed talc stones being imported by Aashi Trading Company in Vijayawada. It was shipped from the Bandar Abbas port in Iran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-to-contact-iran-over-drug-heist/article37262616.ece
31 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Chinese build-up matter of concern’||While India has strengthened its defences as well as added offensive elements to its military posture in the Tawang sector of Arunachal Pradesh, the massive Chinese infrastructure development and troop build-up in the Rest of Arunachal Pradesh (RALP) area is a matter of concern, and efforts are on by the Indian side to address it, according to several officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chinese-build-up-matter-of-concern/article37263090.ece
31 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State sees only 2 COVID deaths in 24 hours||Two more deaths COVID-19 deaths and 349 infections were recorded in the State in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning.   During the past three days, only four deaths were reported, even as the number of active cases came down to 4,649. The total recoveries stand at 20,47,047. Four districts reported infections in single-digit in the past day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-sees-only-2-covid-deaths-in-24-hours/article37262607.ece
31 October 2021||Mangaluru,||‘No penalty on bulk waste generators from tomorrow’||The Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) from November 1 will not impose a penalty on such bulk waste generators which fail to set up on-site composting units on their premises, according to Mayor Premananda Shetty. He told a meeting of the council on Saturday that bulk waste generators are confused as to the method to be adopted for composting the wet waste. Hence, the corporation will conduct another workshop to enlighten the apartment owners’ associations and other bulk waste generators on the different types of composting methods available. No penalty will be imposed on them till then and it will temporarily suspend the move. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said in a press release a fortnight ago that in accordance with Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, and the MCC’s Solid Waste Treatment Bylaws, apartments and establishments, such as hotels, hospitals, lodges, wedding halls, catering etc., with more than 30 households are mandated to construct on-site composting units and process the waste at source. Several notices and press releases regarding the same have been issued to all the bulk solid waste generators. Yet, the directions have received only a few response. Hence, apartments that fail to comply with the rules will have to deposit Rs. 15 per flat at the beginning of the month in advance. Later the fine receipts must be handed to the driver of the solid waste collecting vehicle before handing over the waste. This will be followed by a fine of Rs. 25 per flat in the second month. The challan for paying the penalty can be obtained from the health section at the corporation office. Responding to the announcement of the Mayor at the meeting, Leader of the Opposition Congress A. C. Vinayraj said that the bulk waste generators are not confused but the officials of the corporation are. He wanted to know whether the corporation has obtained the approval of the Standing Committee on Taxation, Finance and Appeals before proposing to impose the fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-penalty-on-bulk-waste-generators-from-tomorrow/article37263377.ece
31 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Kakki-Anathodu dam opened||In view of the continuing rain in the Sabarimala forests, two gates of the Kakki-Anathodu reservoir were opened once again on Saturday. With the early morning showers pushing the reservoir level above the upper rule limit of 979.84 metres, Gates 2 and 3 of the reservoir were raised by 30 cm by 8.40 a.m. he opening caused a moderate spill of up to 200 cumecs of water into the Pampa river and the discharge was expected to push the water level in the Pampa by 15 cm. The dam safety wing of the KSEB had declared a red alert for the dam for the second time on October 28 when its water level reached 979.34 metres. With the live water storage in the dam touching 94%, the dam had to be opened earlier this month for 10 days from October 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kakki-anathodu-dam-opened/article37263257.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,||Delimitation panel term extended by six months||The Karnataka Government on Saturday extended the term of the committee constituted to take up the delimitation of wards in the BBMP limits by six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delimitation-panel-term-extended-by-six-months/article37262983.ece
31 October 2021||Chandigarh,||Decision to leave Cong. is final, says Amarinder||Former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Saturday dismissed reports of back-end talks with the Congress, saying the time for rapprochement is over and his decision to leave the party is final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-to-leave-cong-is-final-says-amarinder/article37263091.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||Traders demand proper space for street vendors||A day after the Delhi High Court pulled up the State Government over its “poor implementation” of The Street Vendors Act, 2014, traders welcomed the development, while street vendors expressed their discontent over the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/traders-demand-proper-space-for-street-vendors/article37263093.ece
31 October 2021||Mangaluru,||Kambala jockey selected for Rajyotsava award||Kambala jockey Ravikumar Aladangadi and writer Parvati G. Aital are among those who have been selected for the Rajyotsava awards of the twin districts this year. The awards will be presented on November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kambala-jockey-selected-for-rajyotsava-award/article37263378.ece
31 October 2021||Srinagar,||Two soldiers killed in Rajouri explosion: Army||Two soldiers were killed and another was injured in an explosion near the Line of Control in the Naushera sector on Saturday, a Jammu-based Army spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-soldiers-killed-in-rajouri-explosion-army/article37263332.ece
31 October 2021||Chandigarh,||Decision to leave Cong. is final, says Amarinder||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday dismissed reports of back-end talks with the Congress, saying the time for rapprochement is over and his decision to leave the party is final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-to-leave-cong-is-final-says-amarinder/article37263333.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,||AIADMK questions govt. on Mullaperiyar issue||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Saturday questioned the manner in which water was discharged from the Mullaperiyar dam, much against the stand of farmers of five districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-questions-govt-on-mullaperiyar-issue/article37263014.ece
31 October 2021||MADURAI,||CM, others pay homage to Muthuramalinga Thevar||T.N. Chief Minister M. K. Stalin, along with Ministers, MLAs and others, paid homage at the memorial of Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar on his 114th birth anniversary at Pasumpon village on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bars-attached-to-tasmac-shops-to-reopen-on-nov-1/article37263015.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The race to tackle global warming||The COP26 UN Climate Change Conference opening in Glasgow, Scotland, on Sunday has raised expectations, just as the COP21 conference in Paris did six years ago, that there will be determined action by 2030 on the defining challenge before humanity. After the COVID-19 pandemic forced a postponement of the event in 2020, nearly 120 countries are now ready to engage in environmental diplomacy until November 12, when major emitters of greenhouse gases, such as China, the U.S., the EU and India, and developing countries, including small island states, will try for consensus on rules to cut emissions, mechanisms to adapt to climate impacts and compensation for nations for loss and damage. The climate negotiations seek to raise the ambition of countries under the Paris Agreement of 2015 to cut carbon dioxide emissions, after a long spell of drift since 2015 caused by economic declines, an upsurge of nationalism, the withdrawal of the U.S. from the pact under President Donald Trump and the pandemic. Under President Joe Biden, the U.S. returned to multilateral diplomacy and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), giving new life to the idea that advanced nations will transfer green technologies without hard intellectual property barriers and provide the agreed $100 billion funding for developing countries annually from 2020 to help reduce emissions. The funds will also help them adapt to extreme climate events such as intense storms, fires, droughts, floods and food deficits. Climate impact The impact of the climate on the frequency and intensity of these events was documented by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in its special report of 2018 on 1.5 degrees C warming, and the just-released assessment on the physical science behind a warming world. All the headline points in the latest report point to a narrowing window for the world to taper down emissions before the temperature rises beyond 2 degrees C. At Glasgow, the poorer half of the world, which did not contribute to the problem but faces disastrous impacts, will press the key question of equity. Under the UNFCCC, all countries do not have the same responsibilities, given their respective levels of development. This principle of common but differentiated responsibilities guides the Paris Agreement. India, which has pledged to cut the emissions intensity of its growth by 33-35% of GDP from 2005 levels by 2030, has declared its pre-2020 performance on this metric achieved, at 24%, while it is working to fulfil other Paris promises — raising renewable energy capacity to make up a 40% share and expanding forest cover to create a 2.5 to 3 billion tonne carbon sink. More recently, it announced a scale-up of its renewable power plans to 450 GW by the end of the decade, and a national hydrogen policy to produce the chemical element through green methods, aiding its deployment in industrial sectors as well as transport, and aiming for export. Science sets tempo The tempo for the Glasgow conference has been set by scientific reports, warning of continuing extreme human pressure on the climate system. One IPCC report of August 2021 warned that the observed increase in global surface temperature showed unprecedented warming during the 1850-2020 period compared with reconstructed temperature data over a period of 2,000 years. On the eve of the climate meet, the UN Environment Programme issued its 12th Emissions Gap Report, comparing the updated emissions reduction pledges made by countries for 2030, with what is needed to keep the rise in global temperature to 1.5 degrees C or even 2 degrees C. That gap, between a projected emissions reduction of 7.5% for 2030 against the need for 30 to 55% cuts, and even taking into account the latest promises by countries, could lead to a rise in temperature by 2.7 degrees C by the end of the century. Moreover, G20 countries, accounting for nearly 80% of global emissions, are not on a clear course to achieving net zero (balancing out emissions) based on 2030 commitments. The net zero concept remains contentious, because of the uncertainties surrounding long-term targets, but big countries such as China have set such a goal, while the EU as a bloc, Germany, the U.K., France, Canada and others have legal mandates. At COP26, the road to these targets is set to become the focus of debate. Article 6 of the Paris pact provides for the establishment of rules, modalities and procedures, which will enable countries, public and private entities to reduce emissions, and which will be accounted towards national pledges. The private sector sees the potential for a market mechanism for emissions credits, while critics see scope for juggled numbers that do not cut real emissions, and lead to deception through creative accounting. Another conference priority is to raise the ambition of high carbon countries, notably China, to phase out coal in energy production. This is a contentious issue, since coal is a reliable option for many, despite its contribution to high emissions and atmospheric pollution, and even the U.S., along with India, emphasises carbon capture technology — expensive and nascent at present — rather than a quick move to alternatives. Australia too bats for coal. Power shortage The International Energy Agency (IEA) predicted a “rebound” in global coal use in 2021 spurred by COVID-19 recovery, and the recent power shortages worldwide have increased attraction for coal. Solar and wind are not adequate to meet the surge. That setback, however, has not eased up the pressure from young climate activists on countries to move away from “dirty” coal. Their disinvestment campaign is hurting, as public and private sectors pull out their money. The militant campaigners, led by the face of the youth movement, Greta Thunberg, will be heard in Glasgow. Scientists too are disappointed with the progress. James Hansen, the former NASA researcher whose testimony to the U.S. Congress in 1988 on human-caused global warming proved greatly influential, has called COP26 a ‘gas bag season’ since politicians are not ready to talk about the gravity of scientific evidence. The IPCC says in its latest report, “It is unequivocal that human influence has warmed the atmosphere, ocean and land. Widespread and rapid changes in the atmosphere, ocean, cryosphere and biosphere have occurred.” COP26 will be a stocktake of whether political will is strong enough to stave off disaster.  In Focus IPCC warned in August that the observed increase in global surface temperature showed unusual warming during the 1850-2020 period The gap between a projected emissions cut against the actual need could lead to a rise in temperature by 2.7°C by 2100, says a UN report India, which has pledged to cut the emissions by 33-35% of GDP by 2030, has declared its pre-2020 performance on this metric achieved, at 24%   G20 countries, accounting for nearly 80% of global emissions, are not on a clear course to achieving net zero based on 2030 commitments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-race-to-tackle-global-warming/article37262552.ece
31 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Chinese build-up in RALP a matter of concern’||While India has strengthened its defences as well as added offensive elements to its military posture in the Tawang sector of Arunachal Pradesh, the massive Chinese infrastructure development and troop build-up in the Rest of Arunachal Pradesh (RALP) area is a matter of concern, and efforts are on by the Indian side to address it, according to several officers. There has been an increase in Chinese patrols in the RALP, especially in the Asaphila area, along with massive development of infrastructure, at least two officers independently said. “They come for patrols and make a mess of the area. They leave stuff behind; in some instances, they had left tents and spades,” one of the officers with the knowledge of the matter said. “They have built extensive road construction all across,” the other officer noted. Two road axis Other than the Kameng area, which consists of East and West Kameng districts, the rest of the State is referred to by the Army as the RALP. India has two road axis in the forested RALP area in Lohit and Siang and now efforts are under way to improve infrastructure all across. China is now moving troops closer to the LAC in RALP and this fits into a similar pattern across the entire Line of Actual Control (LAC), a third officer remarked. In addition to roads, there is construction of tunnels, habitat and related facilities to support the troops. For instance, construction of tunnels has been reported opposite the Subansiri area in recent months, the officer said, citing intelligence inputs. In an interaction with a group of visiting journalists from Delhi in Tenga earlier this month, in response to questions on the situation in the Asaphila area, General Officer Commanding, Eastern Command, Lt. Gen. Manoj Pande, said: “We have observed build-up by Chine close to LAC essentially in terms of habitat and that has led to correspondingly more number of troops that are located there.” He noted that it was one of the areas on the LAC where the two sides had differing areas of perception. In terms of the number of patrols coming close to the LAC from the other side, there had only been a marginal increase vis-a-vis the “activities that were happening in the last couple of years”, he said. Last year, as the focus was on eastern Ladakh since the May stand-off, in addition to massive mobilisation and retasking of troops in Ladakh, the Army quietly reoriented troops in the eastern sector as well, against the backdrop of heightened Chinese activity across the LAC. Of the 3,488-km-long LAC, 1,346 km falls in the eastern sector. In Tawang sector In the Tawang sector, there has been significant push to expand infrastructure that enabled faster troops reorientation, which is a shortfall in the RALP area, one of the officers cited above said. Efforts were on by the Army and at the national level to speed up things, he stressed. The Army’s Engineering Task Forces have been employed. In terms of troops, till 2010, the Army had only one Division tasked for looking after RALP. With increased Chinese presence, the Army has since moved additional troops to strengthen its position. The construction activity across the eastern sector has been synced to the changing weather patterns in the region. For instance, in 4 Corps and 33 Corps area, the construction activity stops by September while in 3 Corps area, it begins after September. To keep the momentum on infrastructure development going and enable long-term planning, the Army has proposed a five-year roll-on infra development plan instead of the current two-year plan, officials have stated. 1,600-km highway In a broader national effort, work is also under way on the 1,600-km Trans-Arunachal highway with the alignment running along the LAC up to the Myanmar border. The highway, which had been delayed, was now gathering pace, at least two officials said. Union Minister Kiren Rijiju, who hails from Arunachal Pradesh, said on Facebook in March 2019 when he was the Minister of State for Home, that one of his biggest dream projects to connect the remote locations of Arunachal Pradesh was finally approved and a tender for the Detailed Project Report (DPR) was invited. “The Trans-Arunachal highway, which was delayed due to land compensation issue is also settled now. The DPR for industrial corridor along the Arunachal-Assam border is also under progress,” he had said. Tendering for some parts of the project had since been done, officials added. As reported by The Hindu recently, the Army has significantly augmented its firepower in the Tawang sector as well as strengthened its surveillance capabilities to keep an eye on Chinese activities across the LAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-build-up-in-ralp-a-matter-of-concern/article37262515.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi/Guwahati,||Bypolls held to three Lok Sabha seats||Byelections were held to three Lok Sabha seats — Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mandi in Himachal Pradesh and Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh — on Saturday in addition to 29 Assembly seats across 13 States. The counting of votes for all seats will take place on November 2. Dadra and Nagar Haveli recorded a 75.51% turnout as the voting concluded at 7 p.m., Election Commission officials said. Election to the seat was necessitated after the death of seven-time Independent MP Mohan Delkar whose wife Kalaben Delkar is contesting from the Shiv Sena against the BJP’s Mahesh Gavit and the Congress’s Mahesh Dhodi. The Mandi Lok Sabha seat, where the Congress candidate is pitted against a Kargril war hero and BJP candidate, Khushal Singh Thakur, registered a relatively lower turnout of 49.83% till 5 p.m. The seat fell vacant after the death of Ramswaroop Sharma (BJP) in March. Independent India’s first voter, 104-year-old Shyam Saran Negi, was among those who cast their votes in the bypoll for the Mandi seat. Besides the Lok Sabha seats, bypolls were held in three Assembly seats in Himachal Pradesh, five Assembly seats in Assam, four in West Bengal, three each in Madhya Pradesh and Meghalaya, two each in Bihar, Karnataka and Rajasthan and one seat each in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Mizoram and Telangana. Out of these, the BJP was holding around half a dozen seats, the Congress had nine, while the rest were with the regional parties. Among the Assembly seats, the Ellenabad Assembly constituency in Haryana is a keenly followed contest as INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala seeks re-election after resigning from the seat this year to protest against the Centre's farm laws. The byelections to nine Assembly seats in three north-eastern States on Saturday saw a high turnout. Deaths of the sitting MLAs or their defection to the BJP forced bypolls to five seats in Assam, three in Meghalaya and one in Mizoram. Election officials in Assam said over 70% cast their votes by 5 p.m. in the Bhabanipur, Gossaigaon, Mariani, Tamulpur and Thowra seats. The average voting percentage in Mawphlang, Mawryngkneng and Rajabala constituencies in Meghalaya was 78.79% and in Mizoram’s Tuirial seat was 78.49%. These are not the final figures, officials in the two States said. The Assam unit of the BJP and its regional ally, United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), were confident of sweeping the five seats. The BJP had fielded three defectors — Rupjyoti Kurmi from Mariani, Sushanta Borgohain from Thowra and Phanidhar Talukdar from Bhabanipur. The first two had defected from Congress and the third from the All India United Democratic Front. Candidates of the UPPL contested from Gossaigaon and Tamulpur in the Bodoland Territorial Region. The Congress, which contested all the nine seats in the region, hoped to consolidate its position besides retaining the Mawryngkneng and Rajabala seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bypolls-held-to-three-lok-sabha-seats/article37262533.ece
31 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Abortion rules to aid minors||The new abortion rules notified by the Union Government recently recognise minors as a vulnerable category and seek to make services more accessible to them. But social stigma and conflict with the POCSO Act, 2012, or the law against child sexual abuse, pose hurdles. The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Amendment Rules, 2021, define new categories of vulnerable women who are allowed termination up to 24 weeks upon meeting certain conditions and with the permission of two doctors. New categories These include minors, survivors of sexual assault and those with foetal malformation. Others may seek abortion up to 20 weeks with the permission of one doctor upon meeting certain criteria — earlier you needed the permission of one doctor for termination up to 12 weeks, and two doctors for 12 to 20 weeks. The amended law provides for setting up of State-level medical boards to decide if a pregnancy may be terminated after 24 weeks. “Minors were included as a special category because it was found that a large number of them were approaching courts for permission to terminate pregnancies beyond 20 weeks. They were the third largest category after those with foetal abnormalities and rape survivors. Moreover, if you look at the social context, the detection of pregnancies in case of minors gets delayed, and then after that the need to negotiate and seeking relevant care becomes all the more difficult.,” says Vinoj Manning, Chief Executive Officer of the Ipas Development Foundation and Member, Campaign Advisory Group, Pratigya Campaign.  There is a need to fight stigma around adolescent sex. Contraception services rarely reach adolescents. Medical practitioners also rue the obstacles posed by the POCSO Act, 2012, in providing services. Section 19 of the Act requires any person aware of a minor engaging in sex to report the matter to the local police even if it was a consensual act as the law pegs the age of consent at 18. “While the Government has extended the upper limit to 24 weeks for minors, we don’t know how much this move will help as adolescent girls find out about their pregnancy in the last minute, when they will be forced to go to medical boards. We need to do more for young people. We need to have information on having sex, ensure access to contraception and be less judgmental so that they don’t delay expressing their need for abortion,” says Poonam Muttreja, Executive Director, Population Foundation of India. “There is evidence that as a result of POCSO, there is a dramatic drop in the percentage of minors seeking abortion. We have to find a solution for allowing a minor to get a safe termination without the fear of the police harassment,” says Dr. Nozer Sheriar, former Secretary-General and MTP Chair, Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India. Acknowledging that POCSO introduces “a chill factor” for doctors, Mr. Manning says the challenge lies in educating them that mandatory reporting should not result in denial of service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/abortion-rules-to-aid-minors/article37262540.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The divisive monk||Even the most charitable account of Sri Lanka’s civil war cannot term the “peace” that followed its bloody, May 2009 end anything but tentative. The ethnic conflict between the majority Sinhalese and minority Tamils remains unresolved. The period has also witnessed a spike in violence directed at the Muslim community. News of every such attack in recent years has invariably come alongside an influential religious figure making emphatic claims about the country belonging first and foremost to Sinhala Buddhists. Galagodaaththe Gnanasara ‘Thero’ [as Buddhist priests in Sri Lanka are respectfully referred to], 46, is arguably Sri Lanka’s most controversial monk, whom President Gotabaya Rajapaksa recently appointed as chairman of a 13-member task force to evolve proposals for the government’s ‘One Country, One Law’ endeavour. The saffron-robed monk, who hails from the southern Galle district and entered priesthood as a child, came to prominence in 2012 when he founded the Bodu Bala Sena (BBS, or Buddhist Power Force) with a fellow priest. The stated vision of the organisation, which Gnanasara Thero describes as a “national movement”, is to protect Buddhism for future generations. Within the next year the ethno-religious organisation unveiled the rather divisive terms of its activism. In January 2013, the BBS, led by its General Secretary Gnanasara Thero, campaigned aggressively against the halal certification of meat, that attests food items as being compliant with Islamic conventions, therefore allowing Muslims to consume it both domestically and in the export market. The following month, the BBS held a rally in a Colombo suburb, calling upon on supporters to become a Sinhala civilian police force against Muslim extremism. “This is a Sinhala country; there is a global principle that minorities must reside in a country in a manner that does not threaten the majority race and identity,” Gnanasara Thero said at the rally. Violent mob In March that year, images of a violent mob led by Buddhist monks pelting a Muslim-owned store with stones, and setting fire to another took the country by shock. It was the surest sign at the time, of the fragility of Sri Lanka’s post-war “peace”, under persisting threat with majoritarian Sinhala Buddhist forces that had now found a new target. The monk repeatedly made news thereafter, like in June 2014 when he referred to Muslims in derogatory terms at a rally in the southern Aluthgama town. “This country still has a Sinhala police. A Sinhala army. If a single Sinhalese is touched, that will be the end of them all,” he warned. The ensuing violence claimed at least four lives and injured dozens. The same year, the monk signed a pact with Myanmar’s Buddhist monk Ashin Wirathu of the extremist 969 movement. Gnanasara Thero was also present at the central Digana town ahead of a series of targeted attacks on Muslim homes and Muslim-owned shops in early 2018. While probing Sri Lanka’s Easter Sunday terror bombings of April 2019, investigators pointed to the Aluthgama and Digana violence as possible triggers for some Muslim youth to radicalise and be drawn to the suicidal terror network. In fact, a Presidential Commission of Inquiry appointed to investigate the serial bomb attacks even recommended that Gnanasara Thero be charged for for “inciting racial tensions” in Aluthgama. But he has been to prison. In August 2018, Sri Lanka’s Court of Appeal gave him a six-year jail sentence, convicting him for contempt of court. Except, President Maithripala Sirisena pardoned him when he had served barely nine months. Gnanasara tried entering Parliament twice — in 2004, and 2020 — but was unsuccessful. He, nevertheless, chairs a crucial task force on legal reforms in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-divisive-monk/article37262548.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A force of the status quo||For several Sudanese who took to the streets in protest after General Abdel Fattah Abdelrahman al-Burhan ousted civilian Prime Minister Adballa Hamdok and took absolute power in a military coup on October 25, the events would have reminded of Karl Marx’s words — “the first time as tragedy, the second as farce”. After all, Sudan had in 1964 and in 1985, seen transitions from military dictatorships, only for political infighting, economic crisis and military coups to follow leading to another spell of authoritarian rule. Little is known of Gen. al-Burhan, 61, who was already the chairman of the Sovereignty Council of Sudan (SCS). The Council was formed after the Sudanese revolution in 2019 that ousted dictator Omar al-Bashir’s regime. The transition was first conducted by a Transitional Military Council (TMC) under the leadership of Lt. Gen. Ahmed Awad Ibn Auf, who served as de facto head of State for one day, before naming General al-Burhan as his successor and head of the Council. After civilian protests, aimed at rejecting this council which consisted of military officers who either served or were seen as close to the Bashir regime, were violently put down, the African Union suspended Sudan and imposed sanctions even as agitations led by Force of Freedom and Change (FFC), a joint social movement comprising 22 Sudanese political parties and social groups, escalated. The TMC under Gen. Burhan’s leadership finally relented and the FFC was incorporated into a new body, the SCS, which was formed after the Draft Constitution Declaration was signed on August 4, 2019, along with a power sharing agreement, promising elections in late 2022. Return of tensions Initially, there were some promising signs that the civilian-military transitional partnership was working. But tensions between the civilian leadership and the military leaders remained over at least one issue — bringing Bashir’s regime to account for genocidal acts, human rights abuses and corruption. Analysts say the military was uncomfortable with this as it would expose their own acts and their financial interests that were entrenched during Bashir’s rule. Gen. Burhan, after all, played a key role as inspector general of the armed forces during the fag end of Bashir’s tenure – overseeing Sudan’s intervention in the Yemen Civil War. He had also been a regional army commander in Darfur between 2003 and 2008, a period that coincided with the deaths of hundreds of thousands of civilians. Gen. Burhan’s military cohort that came into prominence are also accused of being part of a small elite that had garnered significant financial clout during the oil boom in the 2010s along with select supporters of the Bashir regime. A New York Times report points out that Gen. Burhan and Lt. Gen. Mohamed Hamdan, the head of the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces that is accused of genocide in Darfur and is also the deputy Chairman of the TMC, together controlled “hundreds of state-owned enterprises dealing in the production and sale of minerals, including gold, imports and exports of livestock, construction materials and pharmaceuticals”. Clearly, the military coup is an attempt to deter greater civilian control in a country ravaged by poverty and years of misrule. Western governments have promptly cancelled promised tranches of aid and are compelling the return to the transitional regime even as new protests have erupted. But Gen. Burhan seems to be emboldened due to his regime’s closeness with those in Egypt and some Gulf countries and would seek to control the transition of power with a pliant technocrat in charge rather than an assertive civilian-linked to political and social movements. Sudan is in for another spell of turmoil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-force-of-the-status-quo/article37262550.ece
31 October 2021||Pune,||A movement to root out invasive alien species||Dr. Sachin Punekar is a man on a mission: the noted city-based botanist, finding his world of flora and fauna increasingly under siege from invasive alien species (IAS), has launched a green forum to combat the menace. Dr. Punekar, along with a number of environmentalists, retired Forest Department authorities, farmers, green activists and other stakeholders has come together to form a forum called Movement Against Biological Invasions (MABI) – a green movement aimed at systematically charting and rooting out IAS. The Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) defines IAS as “an alien species whose introduction and spread threaten ecosystems, habitats, or species with socio-cultural, economic and environmental harm and harm to human health”. “Forest-invasive species can supplant native plants, eliminate food and cover for wildlife and threaten rare plant and animal species,” says Dr. Punekar, adding that the impact of globalisation leading to the increased movement of people, trade and de-forestation have led to the introduction of IAS in the indigenous environment in massive quantities. ‘Spread is alarming’ “The spread of IAS spread is alarming and is wiping out local native species like grasses and other herbaceous species. As a result, the local food chain is afflicted with the IAS competing for space and light with native flora. For instance, the Cosmos sulphureus IAS is now almost taking up all the space in roadside shrubbery and is widely prevalent in Pune,” he notes. MABI has so far conducted several ‘obnoxious weed eradication’ drives in various parts of Maharashtra as well as across the country, namely in Northeastern States like Sikkim. Seeds of the MABI movement were sown in 2016 when a “bonfire” was organised by Dr. Punekar’s environmental NGO Biospheres on the occasion of Holi in association with the Pune Municipal Corporation and State Forest Department. Each week, green spaces in Pune district hum with the activity of MABI members, determinedly rooting out IAS and holding weed bonfires. “The knock-on effects of unchecked IAS are alarming. These species can change the functions of ecosystems and increase losses in forestry and natural resource management costs, while also posing a danger to biological diversity and other human enterprises – as well as to human health,” says Dr. Punekar. He further observes the potential threat to livestock health as the IAS hamper the growth of native grasses which are fodder species for herbivores and livestock. “Some IAS are poisonous which may cause allergies and skin diseases among the animals. Furthermore, given that it is virtually impossible to segregate pure fodder from IAS, the chances that livestock will be consuming adulterated fodder is high,” Dr. Punekar said. Another indirect effect of the rise in IAS is a heightening of the man-animal conflict. “The widespread prevalence of IAS like Lantana camara has reduced the proportion of natural grasses for herbivorous animals forcing their movement to human habitats in search of paddy crops and other edible items. This has resulted in the movement of animals like the Indian gaur and the chinkara (Indian gazelle) from their natural habitats to human settlements, thus endangering them,” Dr. Punekar said. Spreading awareness Given the poor appreciation of this phenomenon in India and other developing countries, awareness was generally low regarding IAS and its baneful effects. “Policymakers and other stakeholders are not yet sensitised to the magnitude of problem. So, awareness is our first priority,” he says. One of the MABI’s prime objectives is to help farmers improve their productivity by identifying IAS and rooting it out. Through seminars, workshops, slideshows, video teasers, documentary, information brochures, the forum is helping making people literate about various aspects of IAS. “On an average, 32% of the farmers’ budget goes into the control of weeds, which includes the regular spraying of insecticide and labour costs. Moreover, weeds change according to climatic conditions,” says Maruti Chavan, a farmer from Indapur in Pune district. He added that unchecked growth of IAS was baneful for soil health, which was prone to faster deterioration. To help farmers relate better to the phenomenon, the MABI has hit upon the idea of using historical analogies to explain the potential ill-effects of IAS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-movement-to-root-out-invasive-alien-species/article37263098.ece
31 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cyber criminals stalk shoppers||Tushar Mathur (name changed), 48-year-old Delhi-based creative art director, wanted to gift his wife a Louis Vuitton bag for Deepavali and decided to order it online. After seeing great ‘festive’ deals on the seemingly-genuine website, LouisVuitton.in, Mr. Mathur paid Rs. 36,000 for the bag. The bag was delivered to his place as promised, only it turned out to be a cheap imitation. Mr. Mathur tried to visit the website again to complain but the website no longer existed. He is not alone. While the festive season is a booming time for online retailers and bargain hunters, cyber criminals also take advantage of this surge in online transactions. According to cyber security solution provider Check Point Software Technologies (CPTS), every year around festive season there is a spike in the number of new domains registered that contain the word ‘Deepavali’. “This year we found a 200% increase in the number of new domains registered that contain the word ‘Deepavali’. Three per cent of these domains have been found to be malicious and another 31% are suspicious,” Harish Kumar, Head, Enterprise & Government, CPTS, India & SAARC told The Hindu . Likewise Amit Jaju, Sr. Managing Director for India at advisory firm Ankura, said based on the inquiries they have received and online statistics, there had been over 300% increase in cyber incidents in recent weeks leading up to Deepavali. “Social engineering attacks are the most commonly deployed form of attacks,” Ritesh Chopra, Director Sales and Field Marketing, India & SAARC Countries, NortonLifeLock said. These attacks use psychological manipulation to trick users into making security-related mistakes such as clicking on legitimate looking emails, weblinks or social media messages. While such attacks fall under the umbrella of ‘phishing attacks’, these are more sophisticated. Attackers may pick up some information already available about consumers and then build on it to trick them into taking an action. “We all know about cookies… if cookies are being tracked and you have been looking to travel or buying a gift card… a threat actor can come back to you with a fake offer specifically for what you want,” Mr. Chopra said. Nitin Bhatnagar, Associate Director, PCI Security Standards Council said, “The most effective way to avoid these attacks is to keep devices used for social media browsing and general internet surfing separate from devices used for financial transactions.” One can avoid these traps by regularly changing passwords, deleting unwanted apps, blocking high value international and e-commerce transactions on their cards through the Bank’s app and only enabling them when performing a transaction, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cyber-criminals-stalk-shoppers/article37262525.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||The good business of intimate spaces||Started in 2016 with claims of pioneering a social movement and breaching an enormous taboo — offering to provide a hotel room for a very short stay for couples — StayUncle has stayed the course. The name of the start-up, a play on then dominant Internet hosting service, Go Daddy, and perhaps, a nod to ‘uncles and aunties’ who have been at the vanguard of upholding middle-class morals, StayUncle, is considering a name change to reflect its anti-patriarchal, anti-caste, gender-neutral and inter-faith credo. “While the name was just a on-the-spur kind of a thing, the time is now right for a name change,” said Amit Sharma, the CEO of StayUncle, where everyone goes by the suffix of ‘aunty’ or ‘uncle’. Operating today in 40 cities and with linkages with 1,800 five-star, four-star and three-star hotels, the start-up is by no means the first in the hospitality business to offer a ‘no questions asked’ stay. OYO had started its relationship mode a couple of years ago. But with an aggressive positioning of the brand and single-minded focus on couples, and a cheeky tagline post-COVID — “We are clean to get you dirty” — the managers of the start-up are not worried about with the comparison. Neither are they apologetic about their tagline. Obstacle course “We are singularly focused on couples,” reminded Sanchit Sethi, the co-founder of the start-up. To this end, the entire process of booking a room is literally a phone call and an app away. No questions asked other than preferences according to the customer’s budget. An identification document, namely driver’s licence or Aaadhar is, however, necessary at the time of booking a hotel. Couples from different religions or castes in India have long faced hurdles — from family opposition to death threats, some even paying with their lives — for daring to fall in love. Moral policing has reared its head in major cities in North India, making it virtually impossible for couples even to be seen in public places. However, StayUncle has managed to steer clear of such controversies by what it calls ‘sensitising’ its partners. “We carry out sensitising exercises with the hotels and tell them that caste and religion is not their business to meddle with,” said Mr. Sethi, a BITS Pilani graduate. The first two years did see threats over the phone and odd-demonstrations by people airing their concern about the corrupting influence of StayUncle. “The real challenge before us was to persuade hotels to be LGBT friendly. It took us a long time to win them over along with the help of an NGO,” he recalled. And business was not really easy for the odd bunch of fresh graduates who fancied themselves as relationship managers, after managing short stays of business professionals to begin with. “The first 20 hotels we reached out to said a flat ‘NO’. The 21st hotel in Greater Kailash said ‘yes’ and from there, there was no turning back,” Mr. Sethi said. Five years later, around 1,800 hotels, big and small have now tied up with StayUncle. Post-COVID revamp And the hotels too are changing their business plans. The post-COVID opening up of the economy has also forced hotels to change their conventional bookings to include short and very short stays to recoup their losses — unthinkable earlier. Time slots were worked out. And over the years, interesting facts have emerged, indicating how far the start-up could go. While cities like Nagpur refused to play host to StayUncle, Thiruvananthapuram, initially reluctant to partner, has slowly waded in along with other cities in Kerala, which has had its share of tensions over so-called “Love Jihad”. Then, there are cities in the north of the country marked as sensitive and a ‘no go’ for the start-up. Kolkata has emerged as the most progressive city where StayUncle’s social media campaign went viral and was embraced. Bangalore, too, has said a resounding ‘yes’. And across the country, in Guwahati there are requests for at least 30 bookings a month. Sikander Yadav, the group owner of Orion Hotels, said, “Initially, our staff was reluctant go along with StayUncle; we had to sensitise them.” Business is slowly picking up after the pandemic. From a pre-COVID turnover of Rs. 12 crore, the managers of the startup say they have regained 50% of the target. Presence on Instagram and Facebook has helped them reach their young audience. With good music, clean and safe surroundings and now kits to practise safe sex, StayUncle aims to put the romance back in relationships even if only for a short while.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-good-business-of-intimate-spaces/article37262527.ece
31 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Congress practised appeasement’||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday charged the Congress with playing appeasement politics. Addressing a public rally in Dehradun, he said when he visited the city earlier during the Congress’s reign, his convoy got stranded and he was told that on Fridays, there was permission to block the national highway to allow ‘namaz’. “They even thought of giving a break on Friday... those who indulge in appeasement can never work for ‘devabhoomi’,” he said. Mr. Shah sought another term for the BJP for continued development of Uttarakhand, which is set to go to the polls in the first quarter of 2022. He said the Congress captured power to merely enjoy it, went back on its poll promises and never worked for the welfare of the poor. Its leaders were missing in action during public crises such as floods and COVID-19, but would congregate for dharnas, protests and press conferences on different issues just ahead of elections, Mr. Shah said. During the BJP rule, he said Uttarakhand recorded development on all fronts. It was one of the few States to have achieved 100% first dose of COVID-19 vaccination. Swift rescue operations were conducted by the State administration during the recent natural disasters. The BJP had fulfilled about 85% of the promises made in its election manifesto, he said. New scheme launched Under the Ghasyari Kalyan Yojana, which he launched on Saturday, nutritious fodder would be provided to cattle owners. He said the initiative would help in improving milk production. Mr. Shah said all rural societies had been computerised and they were being linked to banks at the district and State levels. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development would prevent embezzlement of funds, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-practised-appeasement/article37262529.ece
31 October 2021||Washington DC,||U.S. Trade Representative to visit India on November 22||U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Katherine Tai will travel to India and other Asian countries next month, in her first trip to the region as the country’s chief trade negotiator. Ms. Tai and Deputy USTR Sarah Bianchi will travel to Tokyo, Seoul and New Delhi “to meet with government officials and stakeholders to discuss the enduring U.S. commitment to the Indo-Pacific region and to strengthen trade and economic relationships with key allies and partners,” the office of the USTR said in a press statement. The officials will be in New Delhi on November 22 and return to Washington on November 24 . The officials will be in Tokyo on November 15 and Seoul on November 18, the announcement said. The visit is presumably connected with the two countries’ intention to re-start the Trade Policy Forum – a dialogue to progress trade ties. A joint statement following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the White House last month, said the two countries “looked forward to reconvening the India-U.S. Trade Policy Forum before the end of 2021, to enhance the bilateral trade relationship by addressing trade concerns, identifying specific areas for increased engagement and developing an ambitious, shared vision for the future of the trade relationship.” Nevertheless, during remarks in front of the press at the Oval Office last month, Mr. Modi brought up trade, but U.S. President Joe Biden did not mention it. Enhancing global access to COVID-19 vaccines and therapeutics, via a waiver of intellectual property rights at the World Trade Organisation (WTO), is expected to come up during Ms Tai’s visit. The WTO proposal, introduced by India and South Africa, has the support of the Biden administration. The discussions in New Delhi are likely to be broader though, as suggested by the USTR statement. Issues that have been challenges to the relationship include India’s access to the U.S.’s preferential trade program (the Generalised System of Preferences or GSP) being revoked during the Trump years, agricultural market access for both countries, the concerns of the U.S. over the direction of digital trade policy in India among others. The GSP program expired — for all countries — on December 31 last year and has not been renewed by the U.S. Congress. For India to be re-admitted to the program, Congress would first need to reauthorise it. In general, the activity in Washington around trade talks with India has been relatively tempered in the Biden administration, compared to the activity (and unpredictability) during the Trump administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-trade-representative-to-visit-india-on-november-22/article37262534.ece
31 October 2021||Srinagar,||An evening to remember with Kashmir Ki Kali, shikaras, music||Otherwise, a place with no night life or cinema halls, Srinagar saw the Dal Lake again reverberating with musical evenings and a big-screen floating cinema with the 1964 Shammi Kapoor starrer Bollywood blockbuster Kashmir Ki Kali opening to an audience seated on decked-up shikaras (hooded boats). The lake, a centre of tourist attraction, on Friday evening saw a fleet of shikaras and houseboats filled with tourists witnessing a gripping laser show and a film on the history of houseboats in Kashmir. The biggest attraction was the open-air theatre set up in the middle of the lake. Several top officials, including Chief Secretary Arun Kumar Mehta; Nitishwar Kumar, Principal Secretary to Lieutenant Governor; Dheeraj Gupta, Principal Secretary, H&UDD, Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, Pandurang K. Pole; Tourism Secretary Sarmad Hafeez; and Tourism Director G.N. Itoo, watched the first show of the movie, which was shot in Kashmir in the 1960s. “This will revive Kashmir’s Bollywood links and provide tourists recreation while they stay in houseboats,” a senior tourism official said. The Government has been organising a series of events marking the 75th Independence Day in the Valley. The Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music And Culture Amongst Youth (SPIC MACAY) foundation also participated in a week-long iconic musical festival, which saw local as well as outside audience immersed in musical evenings. Play of ragas Music director Padma Vibhushan Pt. Hari Prasad Chaurasia, accompanied by Pt. Ram Kumar Mishra, rendered Raag Yaman and Dadra Dhun in Mishr Khamaj, which left the audience spellbound at the Chashm-e-Shahi garden in Srinagar earlier this week. “I was very happy to perform in the Valley after many years. I wish to come back soon. I congratulate the Jammu and Kashmir Government and all the departments for this festival,” Mr. Chaurasia said. A spokesman of SPIC MACAY said it was trying to contribute in spreading peace and harmony through classical traditions of the country and bring cultural heritage to the young people. “This concert was an attempt towards the same objective. We hope and pray that Jammu and Kashmir organises more such festivals and brings the composite culture of our country to the young and old of Kashmir,” Rashmi Malik, chairperson of the SPIC MACAY Foundation, said. Sufi musical evening The week-long Aaghaz e Nashist also saw local singers performing at a Sufi musical evening on the lawns of the picturesque Botanical Garden. Local Sufi singers, Abdul Rashid Hafiz and Gulzar Ganai, also mesmerised the audience with their renditions. Introducing local people to different genres of storytelling, the festival saw famous Kathak exponent Vidha Lal and Vusat Iqbal Khan, a Dastango from the Delhi Garana, telling the tales of mystics and literary legends. “A unique feature of the event was the participation of a large number of tourists, currently in the Valley, who remained glued to the performances despite the autumn cold. The musical evening was organised with an aim to promote the iconic role of rishis and Sufi saints in disseminating peaceful and syncretic traditions for which Jammu and Kashmir is known across the globe,” a Tourism Department spokesperson said. Jammu and Kashmir hosted a good number of tourists this year, with the top hotels in many of the tourist destinations running at full capacity. It has emerged as a favourite destination among the domestic tourists during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/an-evening-to-remember-with-kashmir-ki-kali-shikaras-music/article37262543.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,||Rs. 12,000 crore to upgrade stations, boost amenities||In a major plan to boost passenger amenities, the Indian Railways plan to spend Rs. 12,000 crore to upgrade major railway stations across the country. Of the 21 stations identified in the first phase, six have been chosen from Southern Railway comprising the States of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. After reviewing the ongoing modernisation works of railway stations, a proposal for the introduction of “major upgradation of Railway Stations on Indian Railways” costing Rs. 12,000 crore under the Head of “Passenger Amenities” would be processed for inclusion in the supplementary budget for the year 2021-22. The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) had developed the Master Plans of stations that would be included in the major upgrade scheme. While a detailed note on the scope of work would be communicated soon after the scheme is notified under the Umbrella Work of the Supplementary Budget, 2021-22, General Managers of eight Zonal Railways were told to initiate preliminary work nomination and prepare draft for inviting tenders. Under the Southern Railway, Madurai, Rameswaram and Kanniyakumari in Tamil Nadu; Ernakulam and Kollam in Kerala; and Puducherry stations have been identified for the scheme in the first phase. Other prominent stations are Tirupati and Nellore (South Central Railway), Surat in Western Railway, Gandhi Nagar, Jaipur and Udaipur in North Western Railway; Pragyaraj and Kanpur in North Central Railway, and Ghaziabad and Lucknow in Northern Railway. The Railways have a total of 7,325 railway stations with a running track of 99,235 km. Dozens of these stations were developed with modern amenities in the recent years under schemes such as “World Class Stations”, “Multi-Functional Complexes”, “Adarsh Stations” and “Touch and Feel” Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-12000-crore-to-upgrade-stations-boost-amenities/article37262545.ece
31 October 2021||Lucknow,||BJP MLA, 6 rebel BSP legislators join SP||Seven legislators — one from the BJP and six suspended from the BSP — joined the Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday in the presence of Akhilesh Yadav, who hit out at Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Mr. Yadav claimed the BJP and the Congress “are the same”. “The people of the State are so agitated that the BJP will be wiped out in the coming days and Bhajpa pariwar (BJP family) will appear as Bhaagta Pariwar (runaway family),” the SP chief said here while taunting the ruling party over its MLA Rakesh Rathore’s desertion and indicating that some others from the BJP were also in touch with him. Those who joined the SP — BJP MLA from Sitapur Rakesh Rathore and BSP rebels Aslam Raini (Shrawati), Sushma Patel (Madiyahon), Aslam Ali (Hapur), Hakim Lal Bind (Handia), Mujtaba Siddiqui (Phoolpur) and Hargovind Bhargava (Sidhauli) — expressed their resolve to make Mr. Yadav the Chief Minister again. Taking to Twitter, Mr. Yadav claimed that the BJP will not get enough ticket aspirants “'even if it declares 403 Chief Ministers”. Earlier this year, an audio clip purportedly of Mr. Rathore criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi had gone viral on social media, after which he was asked by the party leadership to explain his alleged anti-party activities. The BSP rebels were suspended by party president Mayawati after they had opposed the nomination of the party’s official candidate Ramji Gautam for Rajya Sabha in October 2020. He also distanced himself from the party’s former ally, the Congress. “The opinion of Samajwadis for the Congress and the BJP is that both are the same.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mla-6-rebel-bsp-legislators-join-sp/article37263096.ece
31 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan released from jail in Mumbai||Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, was released from the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai on Saturday morning. Mr. Khan, 23, was arrested on October 3 by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after a drug bust on a cruise ship. He was sent to the jail on October 8. After 25 days in prison, he was granted bail by the Bombay High Court on Thursday but the detailed order, citing bail conditions, was made available only on Friday. However, his release papers did not reach the jail on time. One of the advocates appearing for Mr. Khan told The Hindu that there was delay in taking the papers to the jail, and as per protocol, no inmate would be released after 5.30 p.m. Hence, Mr. Khan had to spend one more night in prison. The High Court on Thursday directed Mr. Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha to execute a bond of Rs. 1 lakh with one or more sureties in order to be released from jail. The order granting bail to Mr. Khan was hailed by several film personalities, while a huge group of fans gathered outside Mr. Shah Rukh Khan’s sea-facing bungalow ‘Mannat’ in suburban Bandra in a show of solidarity and to celebrate the end of his son’s incarceration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-rukh-khans-son-aryan-released-from-jail-in-mumbai/article37262518.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||Ex-Youth Congress leader files plea on parties’ internal polls||Barely two weeks after the Congress Working Committee (CWC) announced an elaborate schedule for organisational polls, a former Youth Congress leader moved the Delhi High Court to direct the Election Commission of India (ECI) to regulate the internal polls of all political parties. And on Thursday, the court issued a notice to the ECI after hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) plea of C. Rajashekharan, a former general secretary of the Youth Congress (IYC). ‘Feudal’ character The petitioner, who is now a senior advocate, argued that most internal polls were an “eyewash” and most parties had a “feudal” character. “It is submitted that although most political parties provide for elections through the provisions, said elections are often an eyewash for established political families within the said parties to continue to retain power as the top leadership of said party ....” the plea contended. “The continued sidelining of the political process has been made possible on account of the lack of regulatory oversight and uniform norms of internal democracy applied to political parties,” it added.. Speaking to The Hindu , the petitioner insisted that his PIL petition was not aimed at a particular party, especially the Congress. G-23 reformists’ plea Asked to comment about his plea coinciding with the demand for transparent internal polls by the Congress’s group of 23 reformists (G-23), he stressed, “I have raised the issue of internal democracy and transparent organisational polls much before G-23”. Clean-up system Mr. Rajashekharan, who had worked with G-23 leaders like Manish Tewari in the Youth Congress, said, “This is my second PIL, as I am determined to bring the second wave of democratic reforms”. “I am no longer associated with any party but I want to clean up the system. Only courts can do that and ensure internal democracy in political parties,” he stated. “I am not a Communist but I must admit that only Left parties hold their intra-party elections in a democratic manner,” he added. Mr. Rajashekharan, who shuttles between Chennai and Delhi, observed that the trigger for filing the PIL petition was the ‘rush’ among people to register political parties and resort to crowd-sourcing. Major loopholes “The rules to register a political party are fairly strict but once the registration is done, there are enough provisions in the rules that be used as loopholes,” noted Mr. Rajashekharan, who was also associated with a couple of regional parties in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-seeks-to-regulate-internal-party-polls/article37262535.ece
31 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||App to give no-fishing zone alerts||With the mass nesting season of the endangered Olive Ridley sea turtles approaching, the Odisha Government, in collaboration with the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF), has come up with a customised mobile application to alert fishermen to no-fishing zones in the Bay of Bengal. Fishermen and boat crew members can download the offline Fisher Friend Mobile Application (FFMA) free to know the GPS locations and the boundaries of the zones. According to the Government, the app will not require cellular network coverage and will work in offline mode in the outer sea. The Gahirmatha Marine Sanctuary, located off the Odisha coast, has been declared a no-fishing zone. Each year, the turtles congregate near the Dhamara, the Devi, and the Rushikulya river mouths and along the sanctuary for mass nesting. “The app also has additional features for providing fishing boats with near real-time information regarding weather, potential fishing zones, ocean state forecasts, disaster alerts and other information provided by the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information System, which will further strengthen the safety and security of the fishermen,” the Government said. The app would benefit more than 22,000 fishing boats, including trawlers, motorised and non-motorised vessels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/app-to-give-no-fishing-zone-alerts/article37262538.ece
31 October 2021||Mumbai,||Deshmukh plea to quash probe denied||The Bombay High Court on Friday rejected the plea from former Home Minister of Maharashtra Anil Deshmukh to quash the summons against him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Commenting on the allegations of money laundering against Mr. Deshmukh, the court said, “he has without any valid reason, refused to cooperate with the investigation by not attending the summonses issued by the authorities”. A Division Bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and S.V. Kotwal, in a detailed order made available on Saturday, recorded: “A search was carried out at the residence of Mr. Deshmukh and his son on June 25, 2021 and issued summons against him requiring him to remain present on an assigned date.... On July 30, the ED sent fourth summons and then the agency issued an order of provisional attachment on July 16, 2021.” The case dates back to March 20, 2021 when former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh wrote a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray accusing Mr. Deshmukh of abusing his position and power to seek illegal monetary benefits. Soon thereafter a petition was filed before the High Court which led to a preliminary inquiry against him by the CBI. The ED then stepped in and started a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deshmukh-plea-to-quash-probe-denied/article37262520.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,||ED freezes chopper stored in Chennai||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has frozen a BELL-214 Helicopter that was dismantled and stored at a warehouse in Chennai. The action follows a request made by the U.S. Department of Justice and in accordance with the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty with that country. The ED said the helicopter was imported by Hameed Ibrahim and Abdulla of M/s Marilog Avion Services Co. Ltd., Bangkok from AAR Corporation, United States and shipped to India through Thailand in 2019. It was dismantled and stored on the premises of J. Matadee Free Trade Warehouse Zone in Chennai. The helicopter was frozen under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, on October 23, the agency said in a statement. Sources in the intelligence agencies said a logistics service provider involved in Customs clearances was examined by a central agency in Chennai a few days ago in connection with an input relating to shipment of helicopter components. State law-enforcing agencies said they had no formal communication about the case. However, it is not clear whether the ED freezing the BELL-214 helicopter pertains to the same investigation. After the helicopter was purchased from the U.S. by a Thailand company and then moved to India, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security registered a case over its alleged end use in a prohibited country. The U.S. Department of Justice made a request for assistance in executing the ‘Warrant for Arrest in Rem’ on the helicopter located in Chennai issued by the U.S. District Court, Columbia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-freezes-chopper-stored-in-chennai/article37262950.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||Lakhimpur violence: SKM forms 7-member panel of advocates||The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday said a seven-member panel of lawyers has been formed to fight cases in courts in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The SKM, an umbrella body of 40 farm unions spearheading the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three agricultural laws, said the panel comprises advocates Suresh Kumar Munna, Harjeet Singh, Anupam Verma, Mohammad Khawaja, Yadvinder Verma, Surinder Singh and Israr Ahmed. “The seven-member team will pursue the legal fight against main accused Ashish Mishra and others in the Lakhimpur Kheri case,” it said in a statement. The farmers’ body said it will also fight for the dismissal and arrest of Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra. It added that the panel of advocates will work continuously under the guidance of senior advocates of the Morcha to bring justice to the deceased and injured farmers, including the family of the young journalist who was killed in the incident. Eight people were killed in the October 3 incident. Four farmers and a journalist were run over when a car allegedly driven by Ashish Mishra ploughed through a walking column of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri district’s Tikunia village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lakhimpur-violence-skm-forms-7-member-panel-of-advocates/article37263100.ece
31 October 2021||Mumbai,||Aryan Khan saga raises questions at the NCB||Arrest and bail of Aryan Khan in a drug case and subsequent allegations on the functioning of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), especially of its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, has raised questions on the past cases of the agency. A Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader raising suspicion on the functioning of Mr. Wankhede had pointed out that none of the high-profile cases where Bollywood celebrities were called in for questioning have been taken to their logical conclusion; instead all those are either pending for investigation or trial has not yet begun. In 2020, the NCB under Mr. Wankhede stepped in to investigate the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and arrested his girlfriend and actor Rhea Chakraborty for allegedly supplying drugs to him based on her WhatsApp chats. In the following months, a total of 33 individuals, including her, were arrested by the NCB. A year later, a majority of the 33 arrested have been granted bail, including Ms. Chakraborty and her brother Showik, while six others remain imprisoned. The NCB filed an 11,700-page chargesheet in this case in March 2021 but the trial is yet to begin. After the arrest of Ms. Chakraborty, top actors of Bollywood including Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor, Arjun Rampal and Rakul Preet Singh were questioned by the NCB. The agency claimed that they were cracking down on the drug nexus in Bollywood. Agisilaos Demetriades, brother of actor Arjun Rampal’s partner, was arrested in October 2020 over alleged possession of drugs. He too was granted bail in December 2020. In September 2021, he was again arrested in Goa in relation to the case involving seizure of a small quantity of hashish and contraband. Actor Armaan Kohli’s house was also raided by the NCB earlier this year. He was questioned and arrested. In August 2021, actor Armaan Kohli’s house was searched by the NCB, a day after the arrest of drug peddler Ajay Raju Singh. Mr. Kohli was questioned and arrested. According to the officials, a small amount of drugs was found in his home. In October 2021, Kohli’s bail plea was rejected by the special NDPS court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aryan-khan-saga-raises-questions-at-the-ncb/article37262512.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||NIA to contact Iran over drug heist||In due course, we will also seek necessary information from the Iranian authorities,” said an official. Six Afghan nationals, an Uzbek woman and three Indian nationals were earlier arrested by the DRI from different places. As it turned out, the contraband was packed in Afghanistan and sent by a Kandahar-based company, Hassan Hussain Limited, in the guise of a consignment of semi-processed talc stones being imported by Aashi Trading Company in Vijayawada. It was shipped from the Bandar Abbas port in Iran. Land route Based on the findings, the agencies suspect that the consignment was transported from Afghanistan to Iran by land route, and the drug traffickers roped in some middlemen in Iran to get the documents prepared for cargo shipping. They may get information from the Iranian authorities on those who booked the consignment at the Bandar Abbas port. After taking over the case, the NIA has conducted searches at multiple locations in Delhi's Lajpat Nagar, Alipur, Khera Kalan, Nebsarai and neighbouring Noida. The premises included a warehouse from where the agency seized some white powdery substance, suspected to be talc mixed with narcotics, on October 20. The samples were sent for chemical examination. The seized consignment was meant to be transported from Mundra to Delhi for further distribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-to-contact-iran-over-drug-heist/article37262513.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||PM calls for united fight against COVID at G20||“India has not only vaccinated over a billion persons, but will be able to produce more than five billion vaccine doses that will reduce vaccine inequity in the developing world,” said Mr. Shringla. Mr. Shringla explained that the certification of India’s Covaxin is “pending” with the WHO and that the emergency use authorisation of WHO will help India meet this goal. Mr. Modi also met French President Emmanuel Macron on the sidelines of the G20. “France has played an important role in developing the EU’s Indo-Pacific strategy. The two leaders agreed to cooperate for rules based order in the region,” said Mr. Shringla. Mr. Modi also met Prime Minister of Singapore, Lee Hsien Loong, and the discussion covered India-Singapore cooperation that was visible during the second wave of COVID-19 in April-May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-urges-united-fight-against-covid-at-g20/article37262522.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Pope Francis accepts India’s invite||“Had a very warm meeting with Pope Francis. I had the opportunity to discuss a wide range of issues with him and also invited him to visit India,” said Prime Minister Modi in a social media post after the meeting. One-hour meet Prime Minister Modi was scheduled to meet the Pope for half an hour but an informed source said that the meeting went on for an hour. “PM Modi and the Pope discussed a wide range of issues aimed at making our planet better such as fighting climate change and removing poverty,” said the source. Prime Minister Modi gifted a silver candle stand to the Pope and the latter gifted Mr Modi a bronze plaque bearing an inscription from the Old Testament. Cordial relations The Vatican issued a statement after the meeting and said, “During a brief conversation, the cordial relations between the Holy See and India were discussed.” PM Modi also met Cardinal Secretary of State Pietro Parolin and Archbishop Paul Richard Gallagher, Secretary for Relations with States, the statement declared. Mr. Modi was accompanied by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla during the visit to the Vatican. Later, briefing the media, Mr. Shringla said the meeting between PM Modi and Pope Francis was “one to one”. Pope Francis has been vocal about the need to act on climate change and spoken in the past against enduring conflicts in Syria and Afghanistan. He has called upon countries to take in refugees from Afghanistan and spoken against racism and other forms of hate crimes. Call on climate change The Pope has called on countries to act urgently to deal with the issue of climate change. On Friday, he said, “Climate change can be faced with a renewed sense of shared responsibility for our world, and an effective solidarity based on justice, a sense of our common destiny and a recognition of the unity of our human family in God’s plan for the world.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi became one of the leaders of the G20 who met the Pope on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Rome. President Joe Biden of the United States met Pope Francis on Friday. The last Papal visit to India took place in 1999 when Pope John Paul II was hosted here. Pope Francis visited Sri Lanka in 2015 and he was hosted by Myanmar and Bangladesh in 2017 but on both the occasions, India was not part of his travel plans. The Pope made history by visiting Iraq earlier this year which was his first visit to the war-torn country. He also visited the United Arab Emirates in 2019. Prime Minister Modi's personal invite indicates that a Papal visit to India is likely to take place soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pope-francis-accepts-indias-invite/article37262523.ece
31 October 2021||Kolkata,||Congress driving Modi’s growth, says Mamata||“Modi ji is going to be more powerful because of the Congress,” Trinamool Congress chairperson Mamata Banerjee said as she continued her attack on the Congress during her visit to Goa. The West Bengal Chief Minister also accused the Congress of not being serious about politics. It was not taking decisions on time, she alleged. “They did not take politics seriously. Modi ji is going to be more powerful because of the Congress... If one cannot make the decision, why the country should suffer for that. They [Congress] have got enough opportunities,” she said. This was the second day in a row that the she had targeted the Congress. Her criticism came on the day when Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was visiting Goa. Ms. Banerjee arrived in Goa on October 28. On Saturday, she interacted with media persons and visited the Mapusa market and interacted with locals. Ms. Banerjee noted that the Congress fielded candidates against her party in West Bengal Assembly polls and one should not expect her to throw flowers at them. “Instead of the BJP, they contested against me in my State. When they contested against my party in Bengal, how can they expect that we will shower flowers in return,” she remarked. The Congress, along with Left parties and the Indian Secular Front, fielded candidates against the Trinamool Congress. It, however, did not field a candidate against Ms. Banerjee in the Bhabanipur bypoll on September 30. ‘Trojan Horse of BJP’ Reacting to her remarks, West Bengal Pradesh Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said Ms. Banerjee was the “Trojan Horse” of the BJP. “Before August 20, the Congress was all good. What happened between August 20 and September 16 that the Chief Minister’s nephew [Abhishek Banerjee] came out of the office of the Enforcement Directorate and started targeting the Congress,” Mr. Chowdhury asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-driving-modis-growth-says-mamata/article37262952.ece
31 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||AAP to project Delhi model for U.P. elections||Contesting all 403 seats in its very first outing in Uttar Pradesh, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) wants to cast its net wide beyond a particular religion or caste, yet at the same time, it is not shrinking away from its saffron hues, as its national convener Arvind Kejriwal last week initiated the party’s campaign with a visit to the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Party leader in charge of U.P. and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said the primary vote plank will be the ‘Delhi Model’ of governance. The AAP has already promised 300 units of free electricity. The next rounds of the poll campaign will be focused on rising unemployment, decrepitude of U.P. Government schools and the State’s crumbling health infrastructure, he said. For now, though, it is Mr. Kejriwal’s temple run that is making news, not the ‘Delhi Model’. Mr. Singh said, “Should we leave temples in the hands of adharmi [sinners]? Should we leave religion in the sole ownership of those who utilise it to spread communal tension? Is Yogi Adityanath the gatekeeper of the Ram Temple?” He alleged that there was corruption in the acquisition of a piece of land by the Ram Temple trust in March. He said, “We have been working for nearly two years in the State. It is a sign of the Government’s nervousness about our presence that they have slapped 17 cases on me, including that of sedition.” The party is more than ready to take on the BJP, Mr. Singh said. “For 170 seats, we have announced our probable candidates and we are going to announce the next set of names soon,” he said. Importantly, the party believes it will perform better than the Congress. “In the recent panchayat elections, we got 40 lakh votes and won 83 seats, while the Congress could only secure 59 seats,” Mr. Singh said. ‘Record of defeating BJP’ If the BJP is the key opponent, would it have been better to work with the other Opposition parties rather than going it alone? Mr. Singh says an emphatic no. “We have a proven record of defeating the BJP. We did it twice in Delhi. And whichever State we have fought in, the BJP has lost,” he said. The AAP, however, is yet to reveal its chief ministerial candidate. The party is facing a similar problem in Punjab, with its Delhi leader Raghav Chadha being a more prominent face than the party’s State leaders. “We will reveal it when the right time comes,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-to-project-delhi-model-for-up-elections/article37262537.ece
31 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||‘Crossbelt’ Mani passes away||Filmmaker K. Velayudhan Nair, better known as ‘Crossbelt’ Mani after one of his first hits, passed away at his home near Vattiyurkavu here on Saturday. He was 86. After making his debut in 1967 with Midumidukki , he went on to direct around 40 films over the next two decades. He became known for his action-oriented films including Blackmail , Chorakku Chora, and Ottayan . ‘Crossbelt’ Mani also directed films based on S.K. Pottekkatt’s Nadan Premam and N.N. Pillai’s Kaapalika .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crossbelt-mani-passes-away/article37263289.ece
31 October 2021||Srinagar,||Army: two soldiers killed in Rajouri explosion||Two soldiers were killed and another was injured in an explosion near the Line of Control (LoC) in the Naushera sector on Saturday. “During an area domination patrol in the Naushera sector in Rajouri, a mine blast occurred. Two soldiers suffered critical injuries and later succumbed to their injuries,” a Jammu-based Army spokesman said. He said another soldier was under treatment. Officials said the blast took place when the Army was on patrol duty as part of measures to check infiltration of terrorists from across the border. The deceased soldiers were identified as Lt. Rishi Kumar, a resident of Bihar’s Begusarai, and Sepoy Manjit, a resident of Punjab’s Sirvewala, Bathinda. “They were brave and extremely committed to the profession of soldiering and have made the supreme sacrifice for the nation in the line of active duty. The nation and the Army shall forever remain indebted to the bravehearts for their supreme sacrifice,” the spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-two-soldiers-killed-in-rajouri-explosion/article37262516.ece
31 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Blast rekindles border row in the northeast||The arrest of a Mizo security person following a low-intensity blast has rekindled the Assam-Mizoram border tension. Officials in southern Assam’s Hailakandi district said the police cordoned off the Bhaicherra area near the inter-State border after an explosion at 1:30 a.m. on October 29. An Indian Reserve Battalion jawan from Mizoram identified as Laldintluanga was found loitering at the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/blast-rekindles-border-row-in-the-northeast/article37262530.ece
31 October 2021||Srinagar,||Patriotism can’t be forced by guns: Mufti||Former J&K Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention in the recent arrests of Kashmiri youth for allegedly celebrating Pakistan’s win against India in the T20 World Cup match. “Patriotism and a sense of loyalty has to be cultivated with compassion and can’t be forced by wielding the baton or by the barrel of a gun,” Ms. Mufti wrote. Referring to the arrests of the three Kashmiri students in Uttar Pradesh and lodging of a case in Srinagar against medical students, Ms. Mufti said, “A friendly cricket match between India and Pakistan that was solely a source of entertainment for people here bruised by incessant lockdowns, Internet gag and restriction of movement, led to booking of youngsters under the draconian UAPA for simply choosing to cheer the winning side.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/patriotism-cant-be-forced-by-guns-mufti/article37262531.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ISWD project work in full swing||The Greater Chennai Corporation is speeding up the Integrated Storm Water Drain (ISWD) project being implemented in the Kosasthalaiayar basin. As the northeast monsoon has started in the State, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has asked the civic body to take steps to desilt the stormwater drain network in the city. Mr. Stalin visited the construction site on September 28. Having completed the work in Adyar and Cooum basins, the civic body is implementing ISWD project of the Kosasthalaiyar basin for a length of 769 km to prevent flooding in the north Chennai covering Manali, Tiruvottiyur, Tondiarpet, Madhavaram, Royapuram, Kolathur and Ambattur. The Asian Development Bank is funding the Rs. 3,220-crore project. Once completed, it is expected to benefit more than 30 lakh families which bear the brunt of flooding every year in these areas. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi on Saturday inspected the work executed in Division 94 of Anna Nagar zone, which was severely affected by flooding last year. Spot inspection He inspected the site of the project taken up for a length of 4.5 kms at a cost of Rs. 22 crore and the drain network would be linked to the macro canal for the rainwater to flow into the Kolathur lake which in turn would be linked to flow into the Kosasthalaiyar river A senior official said several areas in Kolathur, including Baba Nagar, Srinivasa Nagar, Poompuhar Nagar, Janakiraman Colony, SRB Nagar, Senthil Nagar, Anjugam Nagar, Selvi Nagar, KKR Garden, were affected by flooding last year. The SWD network being constructed for a length of 33 kms at a cost of Rs. 102 crore in these affected areas had almost been completed. Mr. Bedi visited the Ambattur zone where the project would cover Dadhankuppam and Thirumalai Nagar and inspected the macro canal being constructed to divert the rainwater along the 100-feet Road of Thiru Vi Ka Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iswd-project-work-in-full-swing/article37263021.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bars attached to Tasmac shops to reopen on November 1||Ahead of Deepavali, the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) has instructed bars attached to its retail vending shops to be reopened from November 1. A notice issued by L. Subramanian, Managing Director of Tasmac, to all senior regional managers and district managers mentioned that all standalone bars that are attached to the liquor retail vending shops (except in containment zones) can commence operations from November 1 between 10 a.m. and 8 p.m., following Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued for controlling COVID-19.They The bars were closed down after the second wave of COVID-19 early this year. Experts who were tracking the liquor market closely in the State pointed out that this move would help bring in additional monies into the coffers. Salesmen from two different outlets in Chennai told The Hindu that Deepavali was one festival during which liquor sales peak. During Deepavali last year, Tasmac netted Rs. 465.79 crore in revenue in two days. On the day of the festival, liquor worth Rs. 237.91 crore was sold. On the day before Deepavali (November 13), Tasmac registered sales worth Rs. 227.88 crore. In 2019, the State government fetched Rs. 355 crore from the sale of liquor during Deepavali and the preceding day. Tasmac has also laid down a series of protocols and norms that need to be followed at the bars once they resume operations. But a visit to some of the Tasmac outlets showed that even basic norms are not being followed, and people continue to crowd at the counters and stand in groups right outside the shops and consume alcohol. The person in charge of an outlet in T. Nagar said handling tipplers at the counter itself was difficult, and advising them to follow rules at the bar would certainly be a tedious task. He pointed out that one of the guidelines called for maintaining physical distancing of 6 feet and seating arrangement had to be done with adequate distancing, which was impossible to monitor while drinking. “After drinking, people will not be in a state to listen to or follow what we say,” he added. Fresh tenders called The board of Tasmac has authorised all district managers to call for fresh tenders for the purpose of granting permission for sale of eatables and to collect empty bottles in the bars attached to retail vending shops. The bar eatable licence contract period ended on September 30 in 35 districts, and ends on October 31 for three other districts. Tasmac officials said the existing licenses would be extended up to December 31 or up to the date of finalising of the fresh tenders, whichever is earlier on the existing terms and conditions. On an average Tasmac sells liquor worth over Rs. 130 crore to Rs. 140 crore per day through over 5,300 shops across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bars-attached-to-tasmac-shops-to-reopen-on-nov-1/article37263054.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||17.14 lakh people get jabs at 7th mega camp||Fresh infections continued to gradually fall in the State, with 1,021 people testing positive on Saturday. Fourteen people succumbed to the infection, even as Chennai and 28 other districts reported no deaths due to COVID-19. The seventh mega vaccination camp, held in 32,205 centres, covered more people who were due for their second dose. A release said 17,14,111 people got jabs at the camp. Of them, 6,26,955 people received the first dose and 10,87,156 the second. More than a lakh doses were used for the drive in Chennai and Villupuram — the former led the table, administering 1,52,849 doses (47,652 first dose and 1,05,197 second dose), while the latter followed with 1,05,694 (46,055 first and 59,639 second). While Cuddalore administered 98,619 doses, Tiruvannamalai administered 78,097. Thanjavur’s coverage stood at 73,919 doses. Apart from these districts, seven others administered over 50,000 doses each.  There will be no vaccination on Sunday. In Chennai, 120 people tested positive, followed by Coimbatore with 116 cases. Chengalpattu logged 85 cases and Erode 76. While 69 people tested positive in Tiruppur, Salem saw 59 infections. Ten districts saw under 10 cases each. The State’s tally touched 27,01,614. So far, 36,097 people have died of the infection. Of the 14 deaths, Coimbatore recorded three. Erode, Nagapattinam and Tiruchi saw two deaths each. Among the deceased were three people in their 30s. As many as 1,172 people were discharged after treatment, bringing the active caseload to 11,685. As many as 1,24,055 samples were tested. The number of people tested so far crossed five crore — 5,01,12,592.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1714-lakh-people-get-jabs-at-7th-mega-camp/article37263034.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stroke doubles chances of developing dementia’||Dementia, stroke and heart disease share common risks. Stroke increases the possibility of heart disease and doubles the chances of developing dementia. Risk factors include hypertension, lack of exercise and a diet high on salt, sugar and fats. The common protective factor is educating people on the dangers, said Vladimir Hachinski of Robarts Research Institute, University of Western Ontario, Canada. At the 41st T.S. Srinivasan Endowment Oration titled “Promoting brain health to prevent dementia, heart disease and stroke” held virtually on Saturday, he explained that brain health was essential for physical and mental health, social well-being, productivity and creativity, calling for making brain health the priority worldwide. Communities should develop common measures and definitions to enhance research and policy and apply comprehensive customised, cost-effective preventive solutions, Dr. Hachinski said. “Stroke, heart disease and dementia, the greatest threats to the brain, are increasing worldwide and the situation will get worse in India.” Even medical practitioners think dementia is a natural part of ageing, a point borne out by the fact that only 27 of the 194 member countries who approved WHO’s global action plan on public health response to dementia, have functioning dementia risk reduction campaigns, he said. Ischaemic heart disease, stroke and dementia are set to affect 158.6 million, 122.4 million and 74.7 million people respectively. Even air pollution played a part. What happens in New Delhi would impact far off Canada, he said. Pollution harmed the heart, stressed the lungs and damaged the brain. “We breathe the same air in the bio-hemisphere since there are jet-streams of air in the atmosphere that move across oceans and continents. For example, pollution in New Delhi would affect even far off Canada. The urgency to do something to reduce pollution increases with each passing year,” he said. At least half of all strokes were preventable and yet only one in four people could identify a single risk factor, he said. A family history of high blood pressure should be enough to monitor and control BP by cutting salt intake and exercising regularly. In the case of family history of diabetes, the emphasis was on ensuring that there was no weight gain. “This would enhance brain health, which is the basis for overall health and in the long term decrease the chances of having a stroke, or a heart attack or dementia,” he said.  Stroke, heart disease and dementia, the greatest threats to the brain, are increasing worldwide Vladimir Hachinski, University of Western Ontario, Canada||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stroke-doubles-chances-of-developing-dementia/article37263018.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||In a model State, we have to be a model institution, CJ tells HC administration||“We are in a model State. We have to be a model institution in that model State so that the rest can emulate us,” Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee of the Madras High Court said on Friday, underscoring the need for opening up as many posts as possible at the High Court for the physically challenged. Presiding over the first Division Bench, along with Justice P.D. Audikesavalu, the Chief Justice ordered identification of all posts which would be suitable for the physically challenged, particularly the visually challenged, so that the fullest opportunity could be given to them to participate in the selection process. The orders were passed while the Bench disposed of a writ petition filed by the College Students and Graduates Association of the Blind against the High Court administration for not having allowed visually challenged candidates to be accompanied by scribes for the written test conducted in August for menial jobs at the court. In reply to the petition, advocate B. Vijay, representing the High Court administration, said the notification calling for applications for the posts of ‘chobdar’, office assistant, cook, waterman, room boy, watchman, book-restorers and library attendants was issued on March 14. The nature of the work to be performed by the recruitees included cooking, cleaning utensils, washing clothes, mopping floors, cleaning bathrooms, toilets, urinals, lavatories, attending to gardening work, on the need and exigency, either at the court or at the residences of judges or registrars. Therefore, the notification stated that only the visually challenged candidates who could write without the help of a scribe would be eligible. Then, no one challenged the stipulation. Hence, the examination was conducted across the State in August and the results were declared in September, he said. Waste of public money Now, if the examination had to be conducted afresh as sought for by the petitioner association, it would amount to waste of public money spent on the enormous exercise, counsel said. Finding force in his submissions, the judges said the association could have approached the court much earlier but decided to lay out a road map for future. “It is necessary that this High Court open up and allow persons with disabilities, including those suffering from any form of vision impairment, to have a level playing field and participate in the process of recruitment at various levels,” the Bench said. It ordered identification of posts suitable for the physically challenged. The judges requested R. Prabhakaran, counsel for the petitioner, and Mr. Vijay to put their heads together and forward their suggestions to the High Court’s Registrar-General by November 30. The Registrar-General was directed to depute a court official to assist the two lawyers and explain to them the details of all posts at the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-a-model-state-we-have-to-be-a-model-institution-cj-tells-hc-administration/article37263084.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre allocates 1.40 cr. doses||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Saturday that the Union Government allotted 1.40 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines to Tamil Nadu for November and called for efforts to ensure that the State completed 100% first dose coverage and 50% second dose coverage by November-end. After inspecting a camp held as part of the seventh mega vaccination drive in the Adyar zone of the Greater Chennai Corporation, he said that as of Friday night, 5,73,91,006 persons had been vaccinated in the State. While the first dose coverage stood at 70%, the second dose coverage was 29%. He said the State had 59 lakh doses of vaccine. About 13 lakh persons were due for the second dose of Covaxin. “We had three lakh doses of Covaxin. At our meeting with the Union Health Minister a few days ago, we put forward the demand for 10 lakh doses of Covaxin. On Friday evening, we received four lakh doses of Covaxin,” he said. The Minister added that 47-48 lakh persons were due for the second dose of Covishield. About 53 lakh doses of Covishield was available in the State, he said, urging those who were due for the second dose of the vaccine to get it at the camps. Mr. Subramanian pointed to the third wave of the contagion that was posing a threat to countries such as the U.S., Russia, the U.K. and Singapore. He said there was an uninterrupted supply of vaccine for the last three months from the Union government. Mr. Subramanian said that among the major cities in the country, Chennai continued to be in a good position in vaccination. It was the Greater Chennai Corporation that introduced vaccination of differently abled persons at their homes. Similarly, the city ranked top in the line-listing of persons due for the second dose, identification and administration of vaccines. “The second dose coverage remained within 35% in the country. Chennai’s second dose coverage has reached 48%. The Greater Chennai Corporation has achieved a first dose coverage of 87%,” he said. After inspecting a camp in the Alandur zone, he said 98% residents of the zone had received the first dose, while the second dose coverage stood at 81%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-allocates-140-cr-doses/article37263032.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Water to be stored at 142 feet in Mullaperiyar dam from Nov. 30||The Tamil Nadu government will store water in the Mullaperiyar dam at the permitted level of 142 feet from November 30, depending on the inflow, as per the Supreme Court order and the approval of the Central Water Commission, Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan said on Saturday. He further clarified that Tamil Nadu engineers released water from the dam on October 28, while the Kerala Minister and officials were present when the sluices were opened. “In line with the direction of the Supreme Court and the approval of the Central Water Commission, the Water Resources Department is regulating the level in the dam as per the rule curve. There is no doubt in the [Tamil Nadu government’s] resolve that water would be stored at the permitted level of 142 feet from November 30, depending on the inflow. The Tamil Nadu government has been monitoring, maintaining and operating the Mullaperiyar dam,” he said in a statement. Referring to reports published in a section of the media, he clarified that the dam was “completely under the control of the Tamil Nadu government”. Certain reports published in a section of the media created an impression that it was under the control of Kerala, “which is not true”, he said. Elaborating on the circumstances that led to water release on October 28, Mr. Duraimurugan said the Madurai Region of the Water Resources Department decided to open two sluices “in view of the rising water level”. As per the standard operating procedure, Kerala officials were informed, he said. As of 8 a.m. on October 30, the level stood at 138.85 feet, and the inflow came down to 3,404 cusecs. About 2,340 cusecs was being drawn through the tunnel to the Vaigai dam, with a discharge of 875 cusecs, he said. “These figures will vary, depending on the inflow.”  In line with the direction of the Supreme Court and the approval of the Central Water Commission, the Water Resources Department is regulating the level in the dam as per the rule curve Duraimurugan Minister for Water Resources||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-to-be-stored-at-142-feet-in-mullaperiyar-dam-from-nov-30/article37263044.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IMD issues red alert for four southern districts||The State may experience widespread rain till Deepavali. Some of the districts, particularly in the southern region, may receive rainfall of very heavy intensity till November 1. Though the intensity may come down on Sunday, the India Meteorological Department has issued red alert for four districts in southern parts. Several districts in southern parts received heavy to very heavy rainfall since the onset of northeast monsoon. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Saturday, Srivaikuntam in Thoothukudi district received 18 cm, which was also the highest in the State for the day. As the low pressure area still persists over Sri Lanka off Tamil Nadu along with a cyclonic circulation, south Tamil Nadu has had an edge over other parts in terms of very heavy rainfall (up to 24.4 cm) covering several districts. There are possibilities for the system to further weaken into cyclonic circulation. IMD officials said very heavy rain may lash a few places in Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli, Ramanathapuram and Thoothukudi on Sunday. Delta districts and seven other districts, including Madurai, Chengalpattu, Salem and Kancheepuram, may receive heavy rain (up to 12.4 cm). “We have given red alert warning on Sunday too as these districts have already been pounded by heavy rain and are vulnerable to flooding. Those in northern parts too will receive rain of moderate intensity due to a weak trough extension along the coastal belt,” said S.Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai. As some of the areas in Tiruvallur district received heavy rain up to 6 cm, the city’s major reservoirs, including in Red Hills and Chembarambakkam, which are 82% and 76% full respectively, got some inflow. Officials said Red Hills reservoir had a buffer space of 600 million cubic feet now and tanks such as Pammathukulam and Vellanur were yet to fill up. It needs few more days of intense rain for the lakes to touch full level. Chennai may enjoy intermittent rains of moderate spells till Monday. The Meteorological Department forecasts the day temperature to remain around 30 degree Celsius in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/imd-forecasts-very-heavy-rain-in-four-southern-districts-today/article37263050.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NEP will transform education in country: Union Minister||The National Education Policy (NEP), once implemented, will transform the educational landscape of the country, Union Minister for Education, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Dharmendra Pradhan said on Saturday. Addressing the 17th convocation of the SRM Institute of Technology virtually, he said NEP focused on the close linkage between academic institutions and industry. He said the idea behind NEP was to ensure affordable, accessible, equitable and quality education for all. Highlighting the role played by technology in changing people’s lives on a large scale, he said COVID-19 had made the country realise this even more. He said it was important for the education sector to keep itself updated, in tune with the changing dynamics of the contemporary world. In his convocation address, delivered virtually, G. Satheesh Reddy, Secretary of the Department of Defence Research and Development and chairman of the Defence Research and Development Organisation, stressed the need for academic institutions to be the drivers of innovation. He said if the country had to become a net exporter of technology, academic institutions should focus on cutting-edge research that could in turn be put to use by the country’s research organisations, like the DRDO, and the industry. He said the government was implementing a number of initiatives to encourage innovations and appealed to the youngsters to make use of such opportunities. T.R. Paarivendhar, MP and founder-chancellor of SRMIST, presided over the convocation and awarded the degrees. C. Muthamizhchelvan, Vice-Chancellor, SRMIST, presented the annual report. N.R. Aditya was given the award for the best overall outgoing student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nep-will-transform-education-says-minister/article37263055.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Animal crematorium opened at Blue Cross||A dedicated crematorium facility for small animals was inaugurated on the Blue Cross of India premises on Saturday. The Chennai Willingdon Corporate Foundation joined hands with the Blue Cross for this facility and has sponsored the same.The CWCF has in the past supported the construction of the concrete roads within the Blue Cross premises and the construction of a geriatric ward for old, abandoned dogs. Foundation chairman L. Ganesh inaugurated the facility. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said that instead of animals getting abandoned somewhere after they die, the crematorium would ensure that they get a dignified end. “We welcome this initiative by the Blue Cross and CWCF. The Corporation as well has a similar proposal for an animal crematorium either at Kannammapet or Tondiarpet under the Smart Cities Project.” Speaking about the initiatives by the Corporation for the welfare of animals, Mr. Bedi urged the Blue Cross to work in close coordination with them to improve their efforts. “The Corporation is engaged in Animal Birth Control activities and last year, 10,193 surgeries were carried out. We want to work with organisations like the Blue Cross to improve how these surgeries are carried out so that the health of the animals are not affected,” he said. They would greatly benefit with some hand-holding from experts, he said. Speaking about the ESSCO crematorium furnace system which has been installed, Manoj Murali, Managing Director, ESSCO Furnaces Pvt. Ltd., said the new facility had one large and one small chamber depending on the size of the animal. A five-step process would be followed for emission treatment. “There are several pet owners, especially those who live in apartments who struggle to find space to bury their pets. We have heard of many pets being buried in the beaches, which is not only a health hazard but also heartbreaking for pet owners,” said S. Chinny Krishna, Co-Founder, Blue Cross of India. “In 2015 after the floods in Chennai, we had worked closely with N. Sankar, former chairman of CWCF and he had conceived the idea then of establishing an animal crematorium,” he said. A request for an animal cremation slot could be placed online with the Blue Cross of India atbit.ly/animalcremation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/animal-crematorium-opened-at-blue-cross/article37263047.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Life sentence of CISF constable who shot 3 colleagues set aside||The Madras High Court has set aside the conviction and life sentence imposed on Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) head constable Vijay Pratap Singh, who shot down three of his colleagues with a machine gun at Kalpakkam Atomic Power Plant in 2014. The court ordered that he be shifted to a mental hospital in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh, since he suffered from schizophrenia and auditory hallucinations. Justices P.N. Prakash and R.N. Manjula passed the orders while disposing of an appeal preferred by him in 2018 against the conviction and punishment imposed by a Sessions Court in Chengalpattu. The judges felt that it would be better if the appellant was treated in his home State and said the authorities in Uttar Pradesh could take a call on letting him go with his family as and when the latter takes out an application. The judges expressed surprise over the CISF brass not having known about the mental illness suffered by Mr. Singh, who, according to the Director of Institute of Mental Health in Kilpauk, turns violent when he is not on medication. His family had claimed that he used to skip medication because he felt sleepy whenever he took the pills and therefore could not concentrate on his work due to frequent change in the shifts. “Oblivious of this fact, they have allowed him to bear firearms, resulting in the loss of three precious lives and injuries to two,” the Bench lamented and recorded the submission of the CISF that even his buddy pair was not aware of the illness. Delivering the verdict, Justice Prakash said: “It is true that none would easily accept that he has some mental illness and requires treatment. People will normally go on a denial mode.” Taking note that the families of the three victims alone had been paid ex-gratia of Rs. 10 lakh and nothing was paid to the two injured CISF personnel, the judges ordered payment of Rs. 3 lakh each to the three widows from State government’s victim compensation scheme and Rs. 2 lakh each to the injured. The judges recorded their appreciation for CISF inspector Shoba for exhibiting extraordinary courage by confronting the appellant when he was on a killing spree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/life-sentence-of-cisf-constable-who-shot-3-colleagues-set-aside/article37263488.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Spell out stand on K.P. Park report’||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has appealed to the State government to clearly spell out its stand on the report submitted by the Centre for Urbanisation, Building and Environment (CUBE) on the quality of the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB) tenements at Kesava Pillai (K.P) Park in Pulianthope. The executive summary of the report was made public by TNUHDB on Thursday. In a statement on Saturday, the Chennai central district committee of CPI(M) urged TNUHDB to make the full report public. Pointing out the report had found that the building was not constructed by the private contractor as per the required quality standards, the CPI(M) said that the government should take stringent action against the private contractor and the senior officials of TNUHDB who were responsible for ensuring quality. Committee secretary G. Selva said there was a need to investigate the irregularities and lapses on the part of the government that led to the poor quality of the construction. Apart from ensuring that the tenements were safe to live after the necessary repair work was carried out to address quality related issues, he said the government should waive Rs. 1.5 lakh demanded from the allottees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spell-out-stand-on-kp-park-report/article37263017.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police intensify probe into murder of elderly woman||M.G.R. Nagar police intensified their investigation into the murder of a 75-year-old woman at Bharathidasan Nagar on Friday. The police identified the victim as Seethalakshmi. Her daughter Bhuveneshwari had gone abroad, and son Rithesh stayed in Adyar. Ms. Bhuveneshwari used to talk to her mother over phone every day, but there was no response on Friday. On information, the police reached the spot and Seethalakshmi was found dead with injury marks on her neck and face. Sixteen sovereigns of gold jewellery had been stolen from the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-intensify-probe-into-murder-of-elderly-woman/article37263024.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stroke can be reversed in elders with right diagnosis, treatment’||At Kauvery Hospital, two persons, aged 91 and 80, were recently treated for stroke and have since recovered. “The nonagenarian was brought to the hospital with a slight paralysis on the right side of his face, and we proceeded for a CT scan of the brain to rule out any bleeding,” said Sivarajan Thandeswaran, senior consultant, stroke and neurovascular medicine. “He presented with weakness on the right side of his body and was unable to speak or move his limbs freely. But within a couple of days, with treatment to remove clots in blood vessels and later physio- and speech therapy, he improved and was able to walk,” he said. “With advanced treatment and technology, a stroke can be reversed, but only with the right diagnosis and right treatment at the right time,” Dr. Sivarajan added. The octogenarian woman, who had developed sudden weakness on the left side of her body and lost consciousness, was evaluated by her family doctor and transferred to the hospital in 35 minutes. A CT scan revealed she had a long clot that was removed using a stent retriever technology. She was discharged a week later and is now stable, Dr. Sivarajan said. Though stroke is associated with high blood pressure, uncontrolled diabetes and poor lifestyle patterns, such as smoking and alcohol consumption, age is also a major risk factor. People over 60 years are affected. “The symptoms include weakness of facial muscles, legs or hands, difficulty to move, inability to speak. The first 4.5 hours is the golden period to reverse a stroke attack,” he said. Hospital co-founder Aravindan Selvaraj said during a stroke, the individual should be rushed to the nearest hospital to begin treatment within the golden period. “Right diagnosis is required to provide the right treatment as anything which may go unnoticed can lead to further complications or turn fatal,” he said.  The symptoms include weakness of facial muscles, legs or hands, difficulty to move, inability to speak. The first 4.5 hours is the golden period to reverse a stroke attack Sivarajan Thandeswaran Senior consultant, stroke and neurovascular medicine, Kauvery Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stroke-can-be-reversed-in-elders-with-right-diagnosis-treatment/article37263064.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Routine immunisation in schools from Nov. 5||The Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine is planning to conduct routine immunisation for schoolchildren from November 5. With schools all set to reopen for Classes I to VIII on November 1, the directorate has planned to carry out DPT (Diphtheria Pertussis and Tetanus) vaccination for five to six year olds and Td (Tetanus and adult diphtheria) vaccination for 10-year-old children in schools. In a circular to deputy directors of health services and the city medical officer of the Greater Chennai Corporation, the Director of Public Health issued guidelines for conducting school immunisation, from November 5 to December 31. The routine immunisation will be held every week on Thursdays and Fridays. The Union government has instructed States to carry out routine immunisation for schoolchildren, as early as possible, to prevent the spread of diphtheria among them. In Tamil Nadu, 204 cases of diphtheria were reported during 2019-2020, 15 during 2020-2021 and eight in 2021-2022. Due to COVID-19 the re-opening of schools was delayed, and a decision was taken during the State-level immunisation advisory committee meeting to conduct the drive for students by utilising services of all village health nurses/urban health nurses/anganwadi workers and schoolteachers. As schools are already functioning for Classes IX to XII, Td vaccination for 16-year-olds will be conducted at the school itself, the directorate said. While jabs will be given through outreach sessions on Thursdays and Fridays every week, immunisation drives for schoolchildren will be held at all primary health centres from Monday to Saturday. Parents should be informed by VHNs, anganwadi workers and schoolteachers about the campaign. Schools/ICDS centre/health sub-centres may be selected as centres for the campaign. Before the campaign day, time slots should be allotted to each beneficiary and parents should be informed that only one parent/care giver will be allowed inside the room with the child. In addition to regular activities, high-risk areas may require additional efforts, the DPH said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/routine-immunisation-in-schools-from-nov-5/article37263031.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six held for possessing weapons, bombs||The city police on Saturday arrested six persons with country-made bombs and weapons as they were planning to kill a rival in Vyasarpadi. Following a tip-off on the movement of criminals, a team of police personnel from Red Hills Station was on surveillance duty near Konimedu junction from Friday night and intercepted some people on motorcycles. On searching their vehicles, police recovered country made bombs, a pistol, bullets and knives. They were brought to the police station for an inquiry. The accused were identified as Sethu alias Sethupathi, 32, Vijay alias Thalapathy Vijay, 26, of Red Hills, Vignesh alias Vicky, 24 of Kancheepuram and three others. Three of them had kidnapped Rajesh a fortnight ago and robbed him of Rs. 20,000 before allowing him to go. With the money, they prepared country-made bombs. Then they accompanied other friends who were preparing to murder Muthusaravanan who was expected to pay a visit to Vyasarpadi to observe the death anniversary of Palani, a rowdy. Police produced them before a court and lodged in a prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-held-for-possessing-weapons-bombs/article37263048.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GCC to take over MRTS Station Service Road||With the culvert work along the Station Service Road in Velachery to be completed by mid November, the residents are eagerly expecting the railway authorities to take steps for a safe ride. The three-kilometre stretch between Velachery and Taramani railway stations of the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) could not be opened to traffic because of the delay in the construction of the culvert near Velachery station. The culvert, which would drain rainwater from the residential colonies to the Pallikaranai marshland, is all set to be completed and the road opened for traffic. Poor illumination Motorists complain that the absence of street lights along the stretch would pose a risk. S. Parandhaman, a resident of Annai Indira Nagar in Velachery, said hundreds of commuters use the road to reach Velachery and Perungudi railway stations as also motorists bound for the Information Technology corridor. But the absence of street lights was causing severe hardship to drive on the road at night. B. Guganesan, Chief Public Relations Officer, Southern Railway, said the Station Service Road will be completed soon. Once the culvert near the Velachery station is completed, it is proposed to hand over the road to Greater Chennai Corporation for maintenance. A senior official said that if the railway hands over the road, the civic body would take steps to install street lights for the safety of motorists.  Motorists complain that the absence of street lights along the stretch would pose a risk||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gcc-to-take-over-mrts-station-service-road/article37263022.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DVAC conducts surprise raids||The DVAC officials conducted surprise checks at 33 government offices of 14 departments across the State on Friday to prevent corruption during Deepavali festival. They seized Rs. 18 lakh, Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) bottles worth over Rs. 6 lakh, 36 cracker boxes and incriminating documents. Sources said the departments inspected were Tangedco, Transport, Registration, Fire and Rescue Services, Commercial Tax, Police, Land Reforms, Taluk Supply Office, Tasmac, Rural Development, Drug control, Industrials Safety and Health, Municipality, Town and Country planning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-conducts-raids/article37263016.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sekarbabu ensures dignity for Narikurava woman at temple||Ashwini, a Narikurava woman at Mamallapuram, was all over the social media last week. She was angry at the denial of permission for her to partake of ‘Annadhanam’ served at the Sthalasayanaperumal temple. On Friday, she ate a full meal at the temple, seated between Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Minister P.K. Sekarbabu and Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran. “She was extremely happy and wanted to meet the Chief Minister. I told her that I would convey her wish to the Chief Minister,” Mr. Sekarbabu told The Hindu . Ashwini had alleged that she and other members of her community were not allowed to partake of ‘Annadhanam’ at the temple. “When I questioned the man who wanted us to leave, he beat me with a stick. How can he do that? It was not his family wedding. They deny us a place because we are not educated. One day my son will come up in life,” she had said. The Chief Minister’s Office brought the issue to the notice of Mr. Sekarbabu. Mr. Kumaragurubaran asked P. Jayaraman, Joint Commissioner, HR&CE, Kancheepuram, to trace her. “All we knew was that she had been denied food at a Perumal temple. We could spot her at Mamallapuram at last. She and her family are selling beads and bangles” Mr. Sekarbabu said. Mr. Jayaraman said she and others were allowed to eat at the temple on Monday itself. “When I decided to visit the temple, I wanted to see her. She told me that she was not able to believe that it would happen. We also distributed saris and dhotis to those who partook of ‘Annadhanam’,” Mr. Sekarbabu said. The government sanctioned Rs. 63 lakh for conducting ‘Samprokshanam’ of the temple. It was last conducted in 1998.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sekarbabu-ensures-dignity-for-narikurava-woman-at-temple/article37263061.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dispel students’ anxiety ahead of school reopening: CM||Ahead of the scheduled reopening of schools for students in Classes I to VIII from November 1, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday called upon teachers to welcome children and dispel their anxiety over the pandemic. He advised them to opt for storytelling, playing, singing and painting during the first two weeks of school. “The students are coming to schools after a great crisis. Though a full stop has been put to coronavirus, people are still anxious. The anxiety is especially widely prevalent among schoolchildren. It is our duty to embrace children to dispel their anxiety,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. The Chief Minister also called upon Parliamentarians, legislators, local body representatives, school managements and headmasters to offer students sweets and flowers. He also requested teachers to use stories, songs and painting to boost their confidence and memory during the first two weeks. “There is a possibility that children may not have acquired abilities according to their classes, as they were not in the regular stream of school education for the past year and a half. Teachers should act to compensate this loss. I request them to offer training in this regard,” Mr. Stalin said. Welcoming the students of Classes I to VIII to schools, Mr. Stalin requested them to get over the past and look forward to a positive future, as they enter schools from next month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dispel-students-anxiety-ahead-of-school-reopening-cm/article37263037.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Study shows some biomarkers in blood could predict diabetes||A recent study has found that higher presence of certain biomarkers could indicate that a person might become diabetic in future. The study by Dr. A. Ramachandran’s Diabetes Hospitals found that some people considered predisposed to diabetes owing to family history could develop the condition sooner. The researchers took two adipokines specifically, visfatin and resistin, to understand their correlation with obesity, metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular diseases. A total of 144 persons (115 men and 29 women) aged 46-50 years, whose HbA1c ranged 6% to 6.2%, were followed up over a period of two years. It was found that while 72 among them developed diabetes (HbA1c - 6.5%) another 72 members had normal (HbA1c <5.7%). Those who developed diabetes had significantly higher body fat and showed higher insulin resistance leading researchers to conclude that progressive, chronic-low grade inflammation could have been present in these persons. “Other than family history and obesity, we have identified that certain biomarkers measured in the blood can predict diabetes. In this community-based study we have taken people from Chennai and Visakhapatnam, where we have a large prevention programme. We took people in the pre-diabetic stage as we wanted to find if there were other identifiable factors in people who became diabetic,” said A. Ramachandran, chairman of Dr. A. Ramachandran’s Diabetes Hospitals, one of the authors. “In pre-diabetic stage people are at risk for complications such as atherosclerosis, heart attacks. A new concept is that diabetes is an inflammatory disease. It produces a constant inflammation in the body which can trigger atherosclerosis (vascular injury) and vascular abnormality can start at an earlier stage,” he explained. The researchers returned to check the blood samples of those who had developed diabetes and found that they had a high level of two adipokines, which together put them at 44% risk of developing diabetes. The adipokines were independent of other risk factors such as obesity and family history, Dr. Ramachandran said. Abnormal increase The researchers concluded that an abnormal increase in fat cells in the body (adipokines levels) is related to some extent to the inflammatory process and also related to some of the complications even in non-diabetics. “We do not know how many years it takes for a pre-diabetic to get diabetes. Some of them can reverse to normal. This is another important risk factor to identify the people who are likely to develop diabetes in a short period of time,” Dr. Ramachandran said. “There are two things coming out of the study — diabetes is an inflammatory disease — inflammation seems to be an underlying pathogenesis for producing not only the complications but even diabetes itself. That is interesting. When the biomarkers are high it requires more aggressive measure to prevent diabetes,” he added. The study, Analysis of an Indian diabetes prevention programme on association of adipokines and a hepatokine with incident diabetes, was authored by Priscilla Susairaj, Dr. Ramachandran et al and published in ‘Scientific Reports’, an online multidisciplinary, open access journal brought out by Nature .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/study-shows-some-biomarkers-in-blood-could-help-in-predicting-diabetes/article37263057.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor lauds govt. over GER||Governor R.N. Ravi on Saturday appreciated the Tamil Nadu government for having 20 State Universities, and also over the impressive gross enrolment ratio (GER) in the State. During a meeting of Vice-Chancellors of State universities in the Raj Bhavan in the city on Saturday, the Governor appreciated the way the Tamil Nadu government has been helping the varsities, especially in mitigating their financial distress, an official release said. He insisted on the need for continuous improvement in knowledge creation to assure quality in higher education. Mr. Ravi, who is also the Chancellor of State Universities, saw presentations made by the Vice-Chancellors. Mr. Ravi also advised them to ensure quality in recruitment of faculty. “The presentations were part of the briefing about the universities and their achievements,” the release said. The Governor urged the Vice-Chancellors to focus on academic excellence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-lauds-govt-over-ger/article37263058.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP man charged under Goondas Act||Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal has issued orders detaining R. Kalyanaraman, a BJP functionary, and 10 others, who were arrested recently, under the Goondas Act. On October 16, the Cyber Crime Wing of the Central Crime Branch arrested R. Kalyanaraman, 55, on charges of posting tweets which allegedly promoted enmity and hatred between classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-man-charged-under-goondas-act/article37263025.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eye camp conducted||Around 120 photojournalists were screened for various eye ailments at a day-long free eye camp, organised by the Tamil Nadu Press Photographers Association and Rajan Eye Care Hospital, at Kalaivanar Arangam in Chennai on Saturday. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu inaugurated the camp. Mohan Rajan, Chairman and Medical Director, Rajan Eye Care Hospital, provided free lifetime privilege cards for all members of the association, which was formed in 2006 for the welfare of photojournalists in the city, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eye-camp-conducted-for-photojournalists/article37263045.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNFRS gears up for Deepavali||Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) department has kept ready 1,200 personnel and over 60 fire tenders in the city to attend to emergency calls during Deepavali. A senior officer of the TNFRS said, “Over 6000 no-objection certificates were issued to set up temporary firecracker shops in the State. There will be over 700 shops in the city. Fire control rooms will function round-the-clock as usual.” N. Priya Ravichandran, Joint Director of the TNFRS, said, “We have asked personnel in 42 fire stations to be ready with fire tenders and water lorries to handle any emergency during Deepavali. Additional deployment from other districts will also be done this time. About 66 areas were identified as fire-prone.” Accident-free Deepavali The TNFRS personnel also launched an awareness campaign, stressing accident-free Deepavali. They highlighted the importance of fire safety, emergency evacuation and COVID-19 norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnfrs-gears-up-for-deepavali/article37263023.ece
31 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Kerala trying to deprive T.N. of rights: Vaiko||MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Saturday said the Kerala government was trying to deprive the people of Tamil Nadu of their rights in the Mullaperiyar dam issue. In a statement, he said parties and politicians in Kerala were spreading false information about the dam’s safety. The Tamil Nadu and Kerala governments should work towards strengthening their relationship, which is their primary duty. The people of Tamil Nadu are ready to offer all possible help to the people of Kerala, Mr. Vaiko said. In 2014, the Supreme Court had said that water should be stored up to 142 feet in the Mullaperiyar dam, and any water above the level would go to the Idukki dam in Kerala. Storage level at the Idukki dam should be reduced to 455 feet from the 555 feet during monsoon after issuing a red alert, Mr. Vaiko said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-trying-to-deprive-tn-of-rights-vaiko/article37263035.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Meat stalls to be kept open for Deepavali||The State government on Saturday announced that meat stalls would be allowed to function on Deepavali on November 4. However, they would remain shut in areas with a sizeable Jain population and Jain religious places in view of the Mahavir Jayanti, an official release said. The State government’s decision was taken after “considering the sentiments of the people” and representations received from various quarters in this regard, it said. This year, Deepavali and Mahaveer Jayanti fall on November 4. Usually, meat stalls stay shut on the occasion of Mahaveer Jayanti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meat-stalls-to-be-open-on-deepavali/article37263026.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Elambahavath named OSD for ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday posted IAS officer K. Elambahavath as the Officer on Special Duty (OSD) for its ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ scheme launched by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin last week. In a government order, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu issued orders towards posting IAS officer Nishant Krishna as the Executive Director of State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu (SIPCOT). IAS officer Monica Rana is set to take over as the Project Director of Hills Area Development Programme, Udhagamandalam. Other appointments The government also posted Anand Mohan as Joint Commissioner (State Taxes), Commercial Taxes, Coimbatore, and I.S. Mercy Ramya as Joint Commissioner (Intelligence-I), Commercial Taxes, Chennai. S. Balachander has been posted as Joint Director of e-Governance and he would also function as Joint Chief Executive Officer, Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency. V. Sivakrishnamurthy would replace Mr. Elambahavath as Joint Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board & Project Director (World Bank & Asian Development Bank Project).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/osd-for-illam-thedi-kalvi/article37263056.ece
31 October 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Ship to be built for seabed exploration’||A ship will be built for exploring the seabed as part of India’s massive Deep Ocean Mission project, M. Ravichandran, Secretary of the Ministry of Earth Sciences, said. Speaking to the media during his visit to National Institute of Ocean Technology, he said Cabinet clearance for the project had been received and the work on constructing the ship would begin in six months. “It will take about three years to build the ship and the estimated cost is Rs. 1,200 crore. We will finalise shipyard in the next few months and it will be built with indigenous components,” he said. He noted that the Ministry is planning to develop technology for studying the seabed at a depth of 6,000 metres for minerals like manganese, copper and cobalt. This will be done after taking permissions and measures to ensure that the ecosystem is not disturbed. “Under the Deep Ocean Mission project, we will also look at the hydrothermal vent area and hunt for the active vent. This will help in knowing what kind of metals are present underneath and how much of these exist. Then, we will see how to tap energy from ocean and harness it,” he said. He also said plans were being made to extend the continental shelf of the country. “When the sediments under the sea get extended beyond our land, then up to 350 nautical miles we can claim that area. We are in the process of taking this forward too,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ship-to-be-built-for-seabed-exploration/article37263085.ece
31 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||High raw material prices hit industries in Coimbatore region||High raw material prices has hit the pumpset, garment, and property sectors in the region. Prices of steel, aluminium, copper, fuel, plastic and paper are surging again, forcing pumpset manufacturers to increase prices for the fifth time in 12 months, said Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association president K.V. Karthik. Price of copper, one of the main raw material used in the manufacture of motors and pumps, is now 66 % higher than last year. Prices of aluminium used for motors has jumped more than 68 % and that of lamination steel, pig iron and castings are up more than 50 %. Farmers, who are the main users of pumps, are delaying the decision to purchase a new pumpset because of the high prices. Pumpset manufacturers are working at only 40% of their capacities and most of the units may not be able to pay bonuses to their employees during this festival season, he said. The SIEMA and the Indian Pump Manufacturers’ Association have jointly appealed to the Union government to take immediate steps to control the raw material prices. Tiruppur Exporters’ Association president Raja M. Shanmugham said in a press release that instability in cotton yarn prices because of increasing cotton prices has hit the garment sector. The increase in raw material prices is affecting the competitiveness of the Indian apparel exporters in the international market. The Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) should protect the cotton farmers and the consuming industries. Since Indian textile sector is largely cotton-based, it is important to make cotton available to the industry in such a way that the value-adding units benefit. The CCI should opens its supply chain centre based on demand and ensure cotton is available to the users at the earliest. There are several textile mills in the small and medium-scale segment and the CCI should be mandated to supply cotton directly to these units. The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India, Coimbatore unit, said raw material prices escalated in the last six months resulting in a surge in construction costs. For instance, the price of cement is Rs. 480 to Rs. 520 a bag now compared to Rs. 280 to Rs. 300 a bag last March. Similarly, the price of steel is Rs. 76,000 a tonne as against Rs. 42, 000 a tonne a year or so ago. Gugan Ilango, president of CREDAI Coimbatore, said with the cost of materials shooting up, construction cost has increased Rs. 300 to Rs. 450 a sq.ft. Property promoters who were into affordable housing projects are facing several difficulties because of this. Further, the GST regulations do not permit builders to avail of input tax credit on raw materials. The tax component alone has gone up by Rs. 200 to Rs. 250 a sq.ft because of this, added Rajiv Ramasamy, secretary of CREDAI Coimbatore. The Association sought measures to control raw material prices and restoration of the facility to avail of input tax credit.  Instability in cotton yarn prices because of increasing cotton prices has hit the garment sector Raja M. Shanmugham president, Tiruppur Exporters’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-raw-material-prices-hit-industries-in-coimbatore-region/article37263063.ece
31 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC to run 230 more buses for Deepavali||The Coimbatore Division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) said that 230 additional buses would be operated from Coimbatore from November 2 to clear the passenger rush for Deepavali festival. Bus terminus A temporary bus terminus would be set up on the CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex grounds on Avinashi Road to accommodate the additional buses. In a statement, TNSTC Coimbatore Division said these buses would be operated from the temporary bus terminus as well as Singanallur Bus Terminus from November 2 to November 4. A total of 50 buses to Salem and 50 buses to Tiruchi would be operated from the CODISSIA bus terminus, while 100 buses to Madurai and 30 buses to Theni would be operated from Singanallur terminus. On the day of Deepavali, the TNSTC would operate buses from Gandhipuram Mofussil Bus Terminus to Erode, Salem, Tiruppur, Dharmapuri, Namakkal and Chennai. From Singanallur Bus Terminus, the buses would be operated to Madurai, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Tiruchendur, Tirunelveli, Rajapalayam, Dindigul and Theni. Buses to Pollachi, Palani, Udumalpet, Valparai, Madurai and Theni would be operated from Ukkadam Bus Terminus, the statement added. Adequate number of buses to link these four bus terminuses in the city would also be operated, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-to-run-230-more-buses-for-deepavali/article37263069.ece
31 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NEET aspirant belonging to Kinathukadavu dies||A young man from Kinathukadavu in Coimbatore district, who had appeared for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for the fourth time in September this year, died at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) late on Friday. According to the police, K. Keerthivasan (21), was the son of a farmer from Sangarayapuram in Kinathukadavu, and he had finished his schooling at a private school in Pollachi in 2018. Aspiring to clear NEET to pursue medicine, he appeared for the examination thrice -- in 2018, 2019 and 2020. He wrote NEET for the fourth time in September this year, hoping to improve his score, the police said. With the examination’s results yet to be declared, Keerthivasan was found unconscious by his parents at his residence in Sangarayapuram at around 8.30 p.m. on Friday. He was rushed to the Government Hospital in Pollachi for first aid and the doctors referred him to CMCH for further treatment. However, the youth was declared dead on arrival at CMCH late on Friday, according to the police. Based on a complaint from the deceased’s father Kuppusamy, the Kinathukadavu police registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. No suicide note was found at the residence and the deceased’s body was autopsied at CMCH on Saturday, the police said. Further investigations are on.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neet-aspirant-belonging-to-kinathukadavu-dies/article37263062.ece
31 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CITU to protest against fuel price hike across State||The CITU will organise protests across the State against the steep hike in fuel prices, said A. Soundararajan, State president of CITU, here on Saturday. The State committee meeting of CITU was held here for three days. Mr. Soundararajan told presspersons it was decided at the meeting that apart from a series of protests across the State, all vehicles would stop for 10 minutes (12 to 12.10 p.m.) on December 10 across the State to condemn the steep hike in fuel prices. Be it traffic signals, toll plazas, or on the road, the vehicles would stop for 10 minutes, he said. The trade union also urged the State government to intervene and ensure higher wages for textile mill workers. The number of permanent workers employed at the mills was dwindling and the temporary workers had not got a wage hike for almost two decades. Several industries in Coimbatore district had not paid bonus to workers this year and had not called the unions for bonus talks too, he said. The union also called for withdrawal of outsourcing of jobs by the local bodies. This was started by the previous AIADMK government and continued now. It could not be accepted, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citu-to-protest-against-fuel-price-hike-across-state/article37263081.ece
31 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CPI urges Centre to control fuel prices||Members of the Communist Party of India (CPI) staged protests in different parts of the district on Saturday against the high fuel cost. The party organised cycle rallies in nearly 15 places in the district and protests in the city and rural areas, including Valparai. A release from the party said the retail price of petrol was Rs. 105.13 a litre now, diesel Rs. 101.59 a litre, commercial LPG cylinder Rs. 1,831.50 and domestic LPG cylinder Rs. 900. The Central government should take steps to control the prices as the common man was hit by the high prices. State-wide protest This was part of the State-wide protest organised by the party on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-urges-centre-to-control-fuel-prices/article37263082.ece
31 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Minister inaugurates ICU for stroke patients at CMCH||Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji on Saturday inaugurated two renovated facilities – a paediatric ward and an intensive care unit (ICU) exclusively for stroke patients – at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). A release said the upgraded paediatric ward with 30 beds was renovated at a cost of Rs. 29 lakh through the corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative of motorcycle maker Royal Enfield in collaboration with NGO Native Medicare Charitable Trust. The ICU dedicated to patients suffering from stroke was renovated by the CMCH administration at the cost of Rs. 10 lakh and the facility had 10 beds. These two renovated facilities would strengthen the hospital’s ability to fulfil the medical needs of the poor and the needy, the press release quoted Mr. Senthil Balaji as saying. The Minister also flagged off an Advanced Life Support Ambulance which was donated to the Health Department as part of the CSR initiative. Awareness Dean A. Nirmala said the CMCH had dedicated this 10-bed ICU for stroke patients to generate awareness among the public on early diagnosis and treatment. “Early admission of patients suffering from stroke will help them revert to their normal lives,” Dr. Nirmala said. District Collector G.S. Sameeran, Commissioner of Coimbatore Corporation Raja Gopal Sunkara, Head of Department of Paediatrics at CMCH V. Booma and other officials were present during the inaugural event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inaugurates-icu-for-stroke-patients-at-cmch/article37263071.ece
31 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 116 new COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district reported 116 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 2,46,660. The Health Department reported three new deaths, causing the district’s toll to touch 2,415. The district had 1,301 active cases and 124 patients were discharged on Saturday. The positivity rate of the district was 1.2%. Tiruppur district reported 69 fresh cases, which increased its case tally to 95,336. The district had 728 active cases and 51 persons recovered on Saturday. The positivity rate of the district was 1.4% The Nilgiris district reported 17 new cases and the tally stood at 33,546. The district had 197 active cases and 29 patients were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-116-new-covid-19-cases/article37263074.ece
31 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Sale mela||Sree Annapoorna Group, Coimbatore, has launched a sale mela of Deepavali sweets at its outlets on Mettupalayam road, Avinashi Road, at RS Puram, Ganapathy and at People’s Park. The mela will be on till November 3. Gift vouchers are also available from Rs. 100 to Rs. 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-mela/article37263065.ece
31 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Skeletal remains found||The Madukkarai police on Saturday launched an inquiry into the skeletal remains of a man found near Marappalam in Coimbatore district. Police sources said the remains were buried near a police checkpost at Marappalam and were discovered by the residents, who alerted the police. Preliminary investigations revealed that the skeletal remains belonged to a man of around 30 years of age. However, the identity of the deceased and cause of death remains to be ascertained, according to the sources. The Madukkarai police sent samples of the skeletal remains for forensic analysis and further investigations are on. Unaccounted cash seized in Tiruppur As part of a State-wide search at offices of government departments ahead of Deepavali, the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Friday seized over Rs. 1 lakh of unaccounted cash from the Integrated Sub-Registrar Office at Neruperichal on the outskirts of Tiruppur. Sources said the DVAC sleuths commenced the surprise check on Friday evening and seized the cash from an official. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/skeletal-remains-found/article37263083.ece
31 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Coimbatore Corpn. to improve water supply’||To improve water distribution and supply from once in nine days to once in two days in city, the Coimbatore Corporation was drawing plans for a project, said Minister for Electricity, V. Senthil Balaji at a press meet held on the sidelines of the inauguration of Makkal Sabai programme here on Saturday. Once the Corporation prepared estimates for the project, he would take steps to have funds sanctioned. Likewise, the Corporation was also preparing a plan to include those areas in the old city that were excluded from the underground drainage network. These steps were a part of the DMK government’s commitment to improve basic amenities in Coimbatore, he said. He said there would be 100 Makkal Sabai programmes in the city at one each a ward and another 50 in municipalities and town panchayats in the district. To a question, the Minister said it was wrong to say that the DMK government had not fulfilled its election promises. Soon after assuming office, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had issued orders for giving the COVID-19 relief of Rs. 4,000 each to all beneficiaries, enabling women to travel in government buses at no cost and reducing petrol price by Rs. 3 a litre. He pointed out that thus far, 202 of the 505 promises were fulfilled. To a query, he said the Coimbatore Collector would reach out to the farmers in and around Annur to hear their grievances regarding the proposed industrial estate. After compiling their objections, he would send inputs to the government, which would then take a decision. Likewise, he asked the Collector to forward a list of farmers who were excluded from the list of beneficiaries eligible for compensation for parting with their land for erecting power transmission towers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-plans-to-improve-water-supply-minister/article37263067.ece
31 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Knowledge marketplace launched||Effitrac, a SaaS platform that helps small and medium businesses, has recently launched a knowledge marketplace called “Effitrac Partner Connect.” With this initiative, the company aims at helping business owners gain access to technical and soft talent through its platform, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/knowledge-marketplace-launched/article37263080.ece
31 October 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||71,166 vaccine doses administered||The Health Department administered 71,166 COVID-19 vaccine doses in Coimbatore district during the seventh mega vaccination drive held on Saturday. According to the district administration, 56,813 beneficiaries received their second dose while 14,353 received their first dose. Of the 71,166 vaccine doses, 62,338 were Covishield and 8,828 were Covaxin doses. Vaccination camps were held at 841 locations in Coimbatore (rural) district and 271 locations at the Corporation limits. Tiruppur Tiruppur district administered 51,239 vaccine doses during the drive held at rural and Corporation areas through 660 stationary and 82 mobile camps. As many as 2,968 Health Department personnel and volunteers were involved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/71166-vaccine-doses-administered/article37263073.ece
31 October 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU convocation||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University’s 42nd annual convocation on Monday would see the participation of Governor R.N. Ravi, said a release. Minister for Agriculture M.R.K. Panneerselvam and Department of Agricultural Research and Education Secretary Trilochan Mohapatra would also be a part of the convocation, which would be held at the Convocation Hall at 10.30 a.m., the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-convocation/article37263066.ece
31 October 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Upgrade hospital: Dharmapuri MP||S. Senthil Kumar, MP, has submitted a petition to Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya seeking upgrading of Dharmapuri Government Medical College Hospital to a Super Speciality hospital. In the petition, Dr. Kumar, who is also a member of the Standing Committee on Health and Family Welfare, has called for upgrading the hospital under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana. “Correcting the regional imbalances in the availability of affordable healthcare facilities is needed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/upgrade-hospital-dharmapuri-mp/article37263178.ece
31 October 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rain in Dindigul, Ramanathapuram districts||Widespread rain in Dindigul town and many suburban areas, including upper reaches of Kodaikanal during the day, resulted in steady rise in storage levels in reservoirs in the district on Saturday. Though the city has been experiencing rainfall over the last three to four days, it has not been very heavy. Very few pockets in the city experienced showers and normal life was not affected. Even on Saturday, it was a light drizzle between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. and motorists were seen criss-crossing the town. However, Corporation authorities had identified low lying areas in advance and planned to ensure that there were no untoward incidents due to the rain. Kodaikanal The Highways authorities said that a fortnight ago, the stretch between Adukkam and Kodaikanal had been hit following incessant rains. During that time, they had cleared some of the uprooted trees and installed new electric poles. Since then, they had not received any panic calls from the residents in the region, they added. Most of the reservoirs in the district had steady inflow. Sothuparai, Manjalar and Marudanadhi had reached their maximum levels. Ramanathapuram In Ramanathapuram district, widespread rainfall during the last 24 hours ending on Saturday 6 a.m.., compelled the district administration to declare a day's holiday for schools alone. The PWD officials in the district said that Ramanathapuram recorded 52 mm rainfall, Kadaladi: 40 and Valinokkam recorded 85 mm rainfall. Many other rain gauge stations also recorded rainfall, though they were not appreciable. Pasumpon village, wherein the Muthuramalinga Thevar's guru puja was being observed also had its quota of rainfall since forenoon, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-rain-in-dindigul-ramanathapuram-districts/article37263162.ece
31 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Shopping areas in Erode crowded ahead of Deepavali festival||With four days left for Deepavali, people thronged the shopping areas in the city leading to traffic congestion on Saturday. Most of the textile showrooms, firecracker shops, jewellery showrooms and commercial establishments are situated on Cauvery Road, R.K.V. Road, Manikoondu, Meenatchi Sundaranar Road, Panneerselvam Park, Gandhiji Road and Mettur Road. These roads witnessed heavy flow of vehicles during the day. The crowd movement that was normal till afternoon surged later in the day affecting vehicle movement on the arterial roads and in bazaar areas. Drizzle in the evening did not dampen the shopping spree as shoppers purchased dresses for the festival. Also, more crowd was seen in mobile shops, hotels and departmental stores even as the police, through the public address system, warned the shoppers to be cautious against bag-lifters. Many were found without masks while personal distancing went for a toss in the market areas. Awareness messages asking the shoppers to follow COVID-19 norms were played continuously in the market areas. But, the crowd moved at a snail’s pace due to heavy rush, mostly on R.K.V. Road where textile showrooms are situated. Since shoppers occupied a major part of the roads, movement of vehicles was completely disrupted causing congestion. Police also intensified their vigil and surveillance and warned the shoppers to be cautious while in the market areas. Police in plain clothes were also deployed to check for criminal elements. Since, the crowd is expected to be more in the next four days, vehicle movement will be restricted on R.K.V. Road and other bazaar areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shopping-areas-in-erode-crowded-ahead-of-deepavali-festival/article37263184.ece
31 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Bonus distributed to cooperative societies||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan in the presence of Collector H. Krishnanunni distributed Deepavali bonus and dividend to 141 weavers’ cooperative societies comprising 24,091 members to the tune of Rs. 11.57 crore at Chennimalai here on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said that under the Department of Handloom and Textiles, there are 188 weavers’ cooperative societies in the district and bonus and dividend were distributed to societies that were running in profit during the period 2020-21. He said that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had announced Cauvery drinking water project for Chennimalai Union and Chennimalai Town panchayat at a total cost of Rs. 250 crore and it would solve the drinking water needs in the area. Later at a function held here, the Minister distributed welfare assistance to 90 beneficiaries to the tune of Rs. 9.63 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bonus-distributed-to-cooperative-societies/article37263188.ece
31 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Protests against hike in fuel prices||Condemning the hike in price of petrol, diesel and LPG, members of Communist Party of India staged protests across the district on Saturday. In Sathyamangalam, members took out a bicycle rally and raised slogans against the hike in price of fuel every day. They said that the price of both petrol and diesel had crossed Rs. 100 per litre leading to rise in prices of all essential commodities making it difficult for common man to purchase essentials. The protestors also carried an empty LPG cylinder in a pushcart and raised slogans that people were forced to turn to wooden logs for cooking. Likewise, a protest was organised at Punjai Puliyampatti and at Bhavanisagar. At Sivagiri, a two-wheeler was carried in a bullock cart to symbolise that re-filling of vehicles is not possible for the common man due to increase in price of petrol. Party members took out a bicycle rally and later staged a demonstration at the bus stand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protests-against-hike-in-fuel-prices/article37263189.ece
31 October 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance work in the Kaspapettai sub-station – Kulur electric line, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on November 1 at Kandasamipalayam, Saminathapuram, Kattupalayam, Panjalingapuram, Chavadipalayam, Sengarapalayam, Velankattuvalasu, Pottinaickenvalasu, Andakothampalayam, Sivalingapuram, Sengodampalayam, Chellapampalayam, Govindanaickenpalayam and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37263185.ece
31 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Recruitment for posts under rural project||A One Stop Facility (OSF) is proposed to be set up for the Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project in Krishnagiri. According to the administration, recruitments will be made for the posts of Employment Development Officer (EDO), and Employment Finance Officer (EFO). The positions will be temporary posts. Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project is being implemented by the State Government under funding from the World Bank. The project is under implementation in 102 panchayats in Bargur, Kaveripattinam and Krishnagiri. The project aims to build sustainability in the rural areas through rural enterprise promotion, access to finance and employment opportunities in the selected blocks of the State. For the benefit of the beneficiaries under the project, an OSF is proposed to be set up in Krishnagiri. The facility will help rural ventures (micro, small, and tiny) by helping prepare detailed project report, provide financial guidance, and provide skill training for ventures. The applicant shall be experienced and not exceed 40 years of age. Eligible candidates may ascertain further details onwww.tnrtp.organd the duly filled applications shall be sent to the district project office by November 15, 5 p.m. Further details may be ascertained from the District Project Office, Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project, Kattiganapalli, near Rayakottai flyover, Krishnagiri-635 001, phone- 04343-296718.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recruitment-for-posts-under-rural-project/article37263177.ece
31 October 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for dole||Applications for unemployment allowance is invited from educated unemployed youth, who are registered with the District Employment Office for not less than five years. According to an administration release, the applicants with varying educational qualifications of class 10 (failed), class 10 passed, class 12 and graduation will be entitled to monthly unemployment assistance of Rs. 200, Rs. 300, Rs. 400 and Rs. 600 respectively and the corresponding assistance for the differently abled shall be Rs. 600, Rs. 600, Rs. 750 and Rs. 1000. The applicant’s annual family income shall not exceed Rs. 72,000. The applicants may download the applications fromwww.tnvelaivaaippu.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-dole/article37263179.ece
31 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not merge Chennai facility with Secunderabad institute’||The Centre’s plan to merge the National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD), Chennai, and the National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Intellectual Disabilities (NIEPID), Secunderabad, has been opposed. Madurai Phoenix Parents Association that works for the welfare of specially abled persons has filed a public interest litigation petition before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday opposing the move. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar ordered notice to the Centre. Association president A. Kasthuri of K.K. Nagar, Madurai, said that the National Policy for Persons with Disabilities recognised that persons with disabilities were valuable human resources for the country. The National Policy seeks to create an environment that provides equal opportunity and the protection of their rights. It is an obligation on the part of the Centre and the State to develop programmes and activities for their welfare, she said. The National Institute for the Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities in Chennai, set up in 2005, focuses on persons with multiple disabilities. Nine institutes have been set up in the country that focuses on specific disabilities and rehabilitation services. The National Institute in Chennai provides M.Phil., postgraduate, undergraduate, diploma courses, rehabilitation services to persons with multiple disabilities, early intervention and assessment services, psychological assessment, inclusive preparatory school and vocational training. Under these circumstances, the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, in a letter to all Directors of the National Institutes, outlined the proposal to merge various institutes and reduce their total number. If the institutes in Chennai and Secunderabad are merged, it would result in the Chennai facility becoming only a branch institute. Though objections were raised to this move, the Centre did not consider them. Therefore, the petition has been filed, she said.  If the institutes in Chennai and Secunderabad are merged, it would result in the Chennai facility becoming only a branch institute A. Kasthuri President, Madurai Phoenix Parents Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-merge-chennai-facility-with-secunderabad-institute/article37263168.ece
31 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Deepavali cracker sale on||The Madurai District Pandian Consumer Cooperative Wholesale Stores on Saturday commenced sale of crackers for Deepavali. Minister for Registration and Commercial Taxes P. Moorthy inaugurated the sale. The stores in Tiruppalai and Kannanendhal have obtained licence to sell the crackers during Deepavali. Quality crackers will be available at nominal prices at these stores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deepavali-cracker-sale-on/article37263371.ece
31 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin helps poor girl get admission in college||It was a special day for Shobana, a student, who had a chance to meet Chief Minister M. K. Stalin at the Circuit House in Madurai on Friday evening. After passing Plus Two examination few months ago, she wanted to join a college but her family circumstances made her stay at home in Tiruvedagam near Sholavandan. Her father Manoharan, a casual worker, and others in the family suggested her to go for some job or other to support the family. But this girl was determined to study and wrote a letter stating her plight to the Chief Minister. To her surprise, Shobana not only received a prompt reply from the CM’s office, but also received an admit card for the B.B.A. course in Government Meenakshi College for Women in Madurai. She told reporters that she wrote a letter thanking the Chief Minister. She also stated that though she desired to meet him in person to express her gratitude, she may not be able to travel all the way to Chennai. Utilising the CM’s visit to Madurai, officials made arrangements for Shobana and her parents to meet Mr. Stalin at the Circuit House. On seeing the CM, the family could not find words to express their joy. Mr. Stalin handed her a college bag with books on her subjects, educational and financial aid. He advised her to study well and wished her good luck. Shobana and her family were moved by the simple and unassuming Chief Minister. “I will never forget the gesture of the Chief Minister,” she said, tears rolling down her cheeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-helps-girl-get-admission-in-college/article37263087.ece
31 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Stakeholders’ meeting||An awareness meeting among stakeholders of the proposed Agro Processing Cluster at Mukkampatti was held at the Collectorate here on Friday. Commissioner for Agricultural Marketing and Agribusiness M. Vallalar presided over the meeting. It will be established under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana (PMKSY). Farmers can bring their surplus agricultural produce to the facility where it will be stored and processed. It would provide a big boost to the food processing sector and yield better returns to the farmers, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stakeholders-meeting/article37263152.ece
31 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Forum conducts 150th CME programme||The Devadoss Hospital Academic Forum’s monthly meet on Friday marked the milestone of 150th session of Continuous Medical Education (CME) for doctors from within and outside the hospital, both in private and government sectors. From 2007, the forum has been meeting on last Friday of every month. During the lockdown, the virtual meetings kept the momentum going as medical professionals presented their scientific papers online. The CMEs were started by the hospital’s founder-chairman A. Devadoss to keep the medical professionals updated on their respective disciplines. Government Rajaji Hospital Dean A. Rathinavel, the chief guest at the 150th meeting, said the occasion was special because he was a student of Prof. Devadoss and even now referred to his notes taken during his medical college days. A regular participant of the CMEs himself, he said that the pandemic made him realise how important it was to embrace latest technology and be self-sufficient in indigenous medicines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/150th-cme-programme/article37263153.ece
31 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea against panchayat office building on school premises||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered status quo to be maintained with regard to the construction of a panchayat office on the premises of a panchayat union school in Thanjavur district. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar ordered status quo and directed the district administration to file a counter affidavit on the petition filed by N. Neelakandan of Ponnavarayankottai near Pattukkottai. He said that the Panchayat Union Middle School was built in 1957. Subsequently, in 1986 the village panchayat office was constructed on the same land. An anganwadi, a library, a public distribution system store and a post office were functioning on the same land. Since the village panchayat office was in a dilapidated condition, the office was functioning in the library building. The library building was also damaged in 2018 due to Cyclone Gaja. A proposal has been made to construct the new office on the school premises, he said. The petitioner said that if the Village Panchayat Office was constructed on the school premises, it would cause disturbance to the students. Therefore, the authorities should be restrained from constructing the building there, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-against-panchayat-office-building-on-school-premises/article37263136.ece
31 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea alleges environmental clearance granted illegally||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered notice to authorities in the public interest litigation petition that has alleged that nearly 33 minor mineral quarries were granted environmental clearance illegally in Virudhunagar district. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar ordered notice in a PIL petition filed by M. R. K. Siva of Karur district. The petitioner said that the National Green Tribunal in 2018 had passed an order that stated that the officials at the district-level committee lacked expertise to assess environmental impact. In pursuant to the order, the district-level Environment Impact Assessment Authority was suspended and all the applications were transferred to the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority. The Virudhunagar committee had not conducted any meeting before the suspension. But, at least 33 minor mineral quarries were granted permission by preparing false documents. It was stated that the meetings were held and environmental clearance was issued before the suspension of the committee. The petitioner sought a direction to the Director of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption to take action against the authorities involved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/environmental-clearance-granted-illegally/article37263154.ece
31 October 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Rotarians’ gesture||Minister for Registration and Commercial Taxes P. Moorthy handed over keys of houses to 15 visually challenged people at Sakkimangalam near here at a function organised recently by the Rotary Club of Madurai Star. When the speakers pointed out that because of fund crunch, many houses remained under construction, the Minister said he would donate Rs. 5 lakh, the cost of building one house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotarians-gesture/article37263369.ece
31 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 138.85 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 3,404 cusecs and a discharge of 2,352 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 61.42 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 2,184 cusecs and a discharge of 1,186 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 9,084 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37263165.ece
31 October 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Unauthorised construction: HC seeks response from administration||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought a response from the authorities in a public interest litigation petition that complained about an industrial unit operating within a residential area in Reethapuram, Kalkulam in Kanniyakumari district. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar ordered notice in a PIL petition filed by V. Thiraviam of Reethapuram, Kanniyakumari district. She complained that Selva Electrical Industries was operating without prior approval from authorities. She sought a direction to the authorities to take appropriate action against the unauthorised construction in Reethapuram. The case was adjourned for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrial-unit-in-residential-area-petition-filed-in-hc/article37263140.ece
31 October 2021||MADURAI/RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||CM, leaders pay homage to Muthuramalinga Thevar||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and DMK president M.K. Stalin paid homage at the ‘samadhi’ of Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar at Pasumpon in Ramanathapuram district on the 59th guru puja and 114th birth anniversary of the late leader on Saturday. Mr. Stalin, who had arrived in Madurai on Friday and stayed overnight at the Circuit House, drove down to Pasumpon village around 9.30 a.m. Elaborate security arrangements were in place under the supervision of Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Thamaraikannan. The Chief Minister, who was received by Ramanathapuram Collector Shankar Lal Sumawat, placed a wreath at the ‘samadhi’ and visited the memorial. He was accompanied by Ministers I. Periasami, K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, Thangam Thennarasu, K.R. Periakaruppan, Geetha Jeevan, Anitha Radhakrishnan, Raja Kannappan, R. Sakkarapani, P. Moorthy, Palanivel Thiaga Rajan and Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi and MLAs Tamilarasi, Kadarbasha Muthuramalingam and Murugesan. After spending about 15 minutes, he left for the Madurai airport, officials said. Mr. Stalin also garlanded the life-size statue of Muthuramalinga Thevar at the Goripalayam junction in the city. Former Ministers Dindigul C. Srinivasan, C. Vijayabaskar and Sellur K. Raju of the AIADMK and MDMK general secretary Vaiko, accompanied by his son and party headquarters secretary Durai Vaiko, BJP State president K. Annamalai and NTK coordinator Seeman were among those who visited the ‘samadhi’ at the slots allotted by the Ramanathapuram police and revenue officials. Speaking to reporters, Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan appealed to the government to ensure that the Mullaperiyar dam row was amicably resolved in the larger interests of farmers. The AIADMK leaders said former Chief Ministers Edappadi K. Palaniswami and O. Panneerselvam paid homage to the Muthuramalinga Thevar statue in Chennai. Bus attacked Around 2 p.m., a group of youngsters pelted stones at a State Transport Corporation bus near the Goripalayam junction in Madurai and escaped, despite the presence of a large posse of police. There were also complaints of the public being harassed by some motorcyclists at K. Pudur, Tallakulam and other areas in Madurai city. Many shoppers chose to stay indoors. The police called it a stray incident, when mediapersons asked about the rash driving by the youths who wore a headband in yellow, representing the Thevar outfits. When the issue was brought to the notice of Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha, he promised to keep a close watch on the miscreants.  Mr. Stalin also garlanded the life-size statue of Muthuramalinga Thevar at the Goripalayam junction in the city||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-leaders-pay-homage-to-muthuramalinga-thevar/article37263041.ece
31 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 39 fresh cases of COVID-19||The Union Territory has registered 39 new COVID-19 cases from 2,786 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, ending Saturday 10 a.m. As per data released by the Health Department, 23 new cases were reported from Puducherry, 10 from Mahe and 6 from Karaikal. No deaths in six days No death related to COVID-19 was reported in the last six days. So far, 1,857 people have succumbed to the virus in the Union Territory and 1,279,75 persons have been infected by COVID-19, data from the Health Department said. On the vaccination front, 11,265,80 people had taken the jab as on Friday. Of the total number of people vaccinated so far, 7,259,56 got the first dose and 4,006,24 the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-39-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/article37263428.ece
31 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||15 history-sheeters arrested in Uppalam||In a crackdown on anti-social elements, the police on Saturday arrested 15 persons with criminal history from Uppalam. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Senior Superintendent of Police (Law and Order) Lokeshwaran said a team of personnel from various divisions of the territorial police conducted a search in Uppalam area on Saturday morning, and arrested 15 history-sheeters. The arrests were made from areas such as David Pettu, Dubrayapet, Veembakeerapalayam and Attupetti in Uppalam. Five teams conducted the search in various places and made the arrests. The team also recovered lethal weapons from their custody, he added. Superintendent of Police (East) Deepika and SP (North) Subham Sundar Ghosh were part of the search. The search was conducted in the backdrop of widespread criticism against the police, following the murder of two history-sheeters in Uppalam last week.  The search was conducted in the backdrop of criticism against the police, following the murder of two history-sheeters in Uppalam last week||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-history-sheeters-arrested-in-a-crackdown-in-uppalam/article37263159.ece
31 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CPI demands inclusion of 4 tribes in ST category||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has demanded the inclusion of the Kattunayakan, Malakkuravan, Kuruman and Yerukula tribes under the Scheduled Tribes category in the Union Territory. CPI secretary A.M. Saleem, in a letter to the Additional Director of the Department of Anthropology, Government of India, said the Presidential notification of Scheduled Tribes (Puducherry), 2016, only included the Irula community in the Union Territory. The party has been demanding adding the Kattunayakan, Malakkuravan, Kuruman and Yerukula tribes in the list of Scheduled Tribes community residing in Puducherry. Mr. Saleem urged the Department to recommend the inclusion of these four tribes under the Scheduled Tribes category. The Union Territory’s government had already recognised the four tribes as Backward Tribes. The presence of these four tribes in Puducherry had been established in a study. The report of the study is available at the French Institute, he said.  The presence of the Kattunayakan, Malakkuravan, Kuruman and Yerukula tribes in Puducherry has been established in a study A.M. Saleem CPI secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-demands-inclusion-of-4-tribes-in-st-category/article37263160.ece
31 October 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Hand over control of prison to Central forces, says AIADMK||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has demanded that the control over the the security of the Kalapet prison be handed over to the Central forces. AIADMK secretary (East) A. Anbalagan, in a letter to Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Saturday, said the government should actively intervene to bring law and order under control. Hardcore criminal elements are having a free run and anti-social elements are operating from the jail, he said. “The Police Department had failed to put down the activities of history-sheeters. The best way to handle the situation is to handover the security of the prison to the Central forces. The Chief Minister should intervene to bring the law and order situation under control,” he said, and also demanded a crackdown on the sale of ganja and narcotic substances in the Union Territory.  The Police Department has failed to put down the activities of history-sheeters A. Anbalagan AIADMK secretary (East)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hand-over-control-of-prison-to-central-forces-says-aiadmk/article37263158.ece
31 October 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Two die in road accidents||Two youngsters aged about 22 and 29 years, died in road accidents in the district on Saturday. Preliminary inquiries revealed that they were on their way to Pasumpon village to participate in the guru puja of Muthuramalinga Thevar. In the first incident, police said Vasanth (29) son of Davamani of Madhichiyam, Madurai, was travelling to Pasumpon along with some youths in an SUV. He along with others was seated on the roof of the SUV, when the driver lost control of the vehicle and it suddenly toppled. In the impact, Vasanth died on the spot. The incident happened in Abiramam police station limits. In the second incident, about six youth, who were coming from Perungulam, were allegedly in a inebriated state. The vehicle was also being driven in a reckless manner. As the vehicle (a sports model) approached Uchipuli, the driver lost control and one of the occupants identified as Vigneswaran (21) was thrown off and he died. Another person identified as Manikandan (22) was said to be in a critical condition. The injured persons were admitted at the Ramanathapuram Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-in-road-accidents/article37263141.ece
31 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC to operate special buses from November 1 to 8||The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) will operate special buses from Salem and other districts in view of Deepavali from November 1 to 8. A press release from R. Mohan, Managing Director, TNSTC Salem Division, said that special buses would be operated in the Chennai, Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Hosur and Namakkal routes. Buses would be operated from Hosur to Salem, Tiruchi, Madurai, Kumuli, Tiruvannamalai, Dharmapuri, and Krishnagiri. Also, buses would be operated from Salem to Madurai, Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Chidambaram, Tiruppur, Cuddalore, Hosur, Tiruvannamalai and Vellore. Likewise, additional buses would be operated from Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri to other important cities. Based on the crowd, more buses would also be operated, the release added. During the above days, town buses would be operated during night also, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-to-operate-special-buses-from-november-1-to-8/article37263186.ece
31 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Railways to activate unreserved ticketing system at stations||With the restoration of unreserved coaches in four pairs of trains running through Salem Division, unreserved ticketing system (UTS) will be activated at the railway stations in division. A release said that based on public demand and instructions from the Railway Board, unreserved coaches are to be restored in Train No.06843 / 06844 Tiruchchirappalli Junction - Palakkad Town - Tiruchchirappalli Junction daily special and Train No.06607 / 06608 Kannur – Coimbatore Junction - Kannur daily special from November 1. Unreserved coaches will also be restored in Train No.06323 / 06324 Coimbatore Junction – Mangalore Central – Coimbatore Junction daily special and Train No.06321 / 06322 Nagercoil Junction – Coimbatore Junction – Nagercoil Junction daily special from November 10. To enable passengers get unreserved tickets to travel in the trains, UTS will be activated at all the railway stations where the above mentioned trains have stoppages. Issue of season tickets will also be enabled. Similarly, season tickets shall be revalidated with effect from November 1. For example, if on the date of declaration of lockdown (March 24, 2020) 20 days were left in the season ticket, the same number of days will be revalidated with effect from November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railways-to-activate-unreserved-ticketing-system-at-stations/article37263191.ece
31 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Biomining projects to be extended to town panchayats: Minister||Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru said that biomining projects would be extended to town panchayats and to villages in a phased manner. Addressing the media here on Saturday, the Minister said that biomining was effective in disposal of municipal solid waste and the project was being currently implemented in major cities in the State. He said the project was implemented on 350 acres at two places in Chennai while in Tiruchi it was on 26 acres. “It ensures zero percent disposal of garbage and the project would be implemented in town panchayats and villages in a phased manner”, he added. Mr. Nehru said that desilting of storm water drains, taken up ahead of North-East Monsoon, was being carried out across the State to prevent flooding. He said that steps would be taken to recycle sewage so that the reprocessed water was used for agriculture. The Minister said that soil testing would be done while preparing detailed project reports (DPR) for underground sewerage scheme (UGSS) so that delay in project execution was prevented. Mr. Nehru said that of the total 80 projects undertaken under the Smart City Mission by the Salem Corporation, 46 projects worth Rs. 273.69 crore had been completed and the remaining 34 works at Rs. 672.86 crore were in progress. “All the projects would be completed by the end of the year”, the Minister said. Earlier, the Minister chaired a review meeting with heads of the departments at the Collectorate in the presence of Collector S. Karmegam, MPs and MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/biomining-project-to-be-extended-to-town-panchayats-minister/article37263176.ece
31 October 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Water level nearing 110 feet in Mettur||Water level at Stanley Reservoir in Mettur Dam is nearing 110 feet against the full reservoir level of 120 feet on Saturday. Officials of the Public Works Department said that at 8 a.m., the inflow stood at 16,795 cubic feet per seconds (cusecs) and the discharge at 500 cusecs into the canal and 100 cusecs into the River Cauvery. The water level stood at 109.70 feet while the storage was 77.98 tmc feet. At Bhavanisagar Dam in Erode district, the inflow was 3,309 cusecs while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs into the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal, 800 cusecs into the River Bhavani and 200 cusecs into the Arakkankottai - Thadappalli canals. At 8 a.m., the water level stood at 102 feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-nearing-110-feet-in-mettur/article37263190.ece
31 October 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Dams fill up in Tenkasi||All the five dams in Tenkasi district are just a few feet away from attaining the maximum storage level. The district recorded good rainfall on Saturday and farmers are expected to start ‘pisanam’ paddy operations after Deepavali. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Karuppanadhi dam – 64, Sankarankovil – 61, Adavinainar dam – 48, Aayikudi – 36, Gundar dam – 32, Shencottai – 29, Tenkasi – 27, Sivagiri – 22, Gadana dam – 12 and Ramanadhi dam – 5. Kanniyakumari Kanniyakumari district also experienced widespread rain on Friday night. Collector M. Aravind declared holiday for schools. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Bhoothapandi - 43, Chittar I – 52, Kaliyal – 50, Kannimar- 95, Kottaram – 15, Kuzshithurai – 39, Mayilaadi – 42, Nagercoil – 54, Petchipaarai – dam – 50, Perunchaani Dam – 60, Puththen Dam – 58, Chittar II – 54, Surulacode – 71, Thuckalay – 20, Coalchel – 14, Eraniel – 16, Kozhiporevilai – 33, Adaiyaamadai – 57, Aanaikidangu – 40, Kurunthancode – 35.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dams-fill-up-in-tenkasi/article37263471.ece
31 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CPI cadre stage various novel protests||Cadre of the Communist Party of India staged demonstrations protesting the increasing retail price of fuel in Thanjavur on Saturday. While two-wheelers were towed by bullock carts in the demonstration organised by the Ammapettai Union in Thanjavur district, a cycle rally was organised by the Mannargudi unit of the party at Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district The bullock cart-towed motorcycles moved around the main thoroughfares at Ammapettai where the LPG domestic gas cylinder was also carried on a bier by the demonstrators led by the CPI Ammapettai union secretary R.Senthilkumar. At Mannargudi the cycle rally which commenced from near the `Keezhapalam’ area wended its way through important streets before culminating near the Head Post Office where the demonstrators led by party’s State Executive Committee member Vai.Selvaraj raised slogans condemning the price hike. At the demonstration staged near the Thanjavur railway station, the agitators said that the subsidy amount for LPG cylinder which was credited as Rs. 267 per refill earlier had now been reduced to Rs. 26.43 per refill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-cadre-stage-various-novel-protests/article37263137.ece
31 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Defects found in six school vehicles||Some defects were detected by Regional Transport Office personnel during a special school vehicle inspection at Kumbakonam on Saturday. Only 74 vehicles out of the 141 vehicles registered as school vehicles with the RTO, Kumbakonam, were brought to the Government Mens’ College for inspection. Out of this 74 vehicles, some defects were found in six vehicles and notices issued directing the vehicle owners to rectify and produce them for re-inspection at the RTO office. The school vehicles which have not been produced for inspection by the officials headed by the RTO, Mukkannan and the District Education Officer, Shanmuganathan, at the special inspection exercise, were directed to be produced for inspection at the RTO office, sources said. Meanwhile, 325 vehicles were inspected by the officials in Thanjavur and 238 in Pattukottai on October 30. The inspection of school vehicles in Thanjavur was supervised by Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver and Superintendent of Police C. Ravali Priya Gandhapuneni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/defects-found-in-six-school-vehicles/article37263142.ece
31 October 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Special buses to be operated for 8 days in view of Deepavali||Elaborate arrangements have been made by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Kumbakonam division, for the operation of special buses from November 1 to 8 in view of Deepavali within its jurisdiction and to major destinations in other parts of the State. Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver in a press release said that the services will be operated connecting important towns in the division and connecting Chennai and other towns like Madurai, Coimbatore and Tiruppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-buses/article37263143.ece
31 October 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Devotees take part in temple car festival||The ‘Aippasi Thirukkalyaanam’ car festival of Sri Sankararameswarar Temple here, popularly known as ‘Sivan Kovil’, which could not be conducted last year due to COVID-19, was organised on Saturday. Since COVID-19 restrictions were in place last year, the car festival was conducted on the temple premises in a simple manner. As relaxations have come into force now, the car festival was conducted on Saturday in which devotees participated. Following special ‘abhishekam’ and ‘deepaaraadhanai’, the festival started from East Car Street and reached the station at 12 noon. Joint Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Anbumani and Administrative Officer of Sri Sankararameswarar Temple Krishnamurthy participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/car-festival/article37263150.ece
31 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NRCB transfers technology for making banana powder||The ICAR- National Research Centre for Banana,Tiruchi, has transferred the technology for making banana flour and powder to Cake Bee, a city-based bakery and confectionery chain. Besides Tiruchi, Cake Bee has a presence in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and other places in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The bakery chain is said to be keen on popularising banana-based products and an MoU was signed between the NRCB and Cake Bee on Friday. Ripe banana’s short shelf life of 2-3 days causes high post-harvest losses. To overcome the problem, the NRCB had developed the technology for making flour from green banana and banana powder using low-cost foam mat drying and the same was transferred to the bakery. Foam mat drying could be an alternative to the highly sophisticated spray and freeze drying. It offers a solution for utilisation of ripe, market rejected bananas for producing powder in a cost efficient way, making it a boon for small and capital-sensitive food industries, a NRCB press release said. S. Uma, Director, NRCB, said the MoU would change the way banana was being handled and ensure quality products would be available to consumers. It could also help end price fluctuations and reduce the post-harvest loss of banana, she said. The inventors of the technology P. Suresh Kumar and K.N. Shiva said that banana, a crop of choice for Tiruchi under One District One Product scheme, was ideal for making healthy, processed food products. S.P. Sethu Subbaiah of Cake Bee Deli Fresh Pvt Ltd expressed hope that the new technologies learned from ICAR-NRCB will enable them to deliver quality and healthy food products to consumers and diversify their product portfolio with innovative options.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nrcb-transfers-technology-for-making-banana-powder/article37263148.ece
31 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Seventh round of mega vaccination camp held||The central districts inoculated a large number of people in the seventh round of the mega vaccination camp held on Saturday. More than half of the population who took the vaccination took the second dose. Thanjavur district stood fourth among the other districts in the State, while Tiruchi stood sixth in the total number of people vaccinated at the special camps arranged on Saturday. In Tiruchi, 65,585 people took the jab, and in Thanjavur, 73,919. Of the 73,919 in Thanjavur, 49,058 people took the first dose, and 24,861, the second. Similarly, in Tiruchi , 26,989 took the first dose, and 38,596 the second. Around two lakh people who had taken the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine and were due to take the jab had not turned up to vaccination centres to take it yet, officials in Tiruchi said. District authorities advised the people to get the jab prior to the upcoming festival season. On Saturday, a total of 14,105 people took the jab in Perambalur district. The neighbouring Ariyalur district has so far inoculated a total of 4,82,032 people with at least one dose - 80% of the districts' population. On Saturday, 41,141 people took the jab, of which 24,840 took the second dose. In Karur, a sizeable population took the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. Of the total 23,128 people who took the jab at the various camps on Saturday, 19,425 took the second dose. Officials in Tiruvarur vaccinated a total of 22,343 people, of which 15,840 took the second dose. In Nagapattinam, 13,222 people took the COVID-19 vaccination, and in Mayiladuthurai, 10,872. In Pudukottai district, 32,235 people were vaccinated, of which 25,022 took the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seventh-round-of-mega-vaccination-camp-held/article37263156.ece
31 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cattle markets witness brisk business||The cattle shandies at Samayapuram and Thayanur near here witnessed brisk sale of sheep and goats on Saturday ahead of the Deepavali festival. To cash in on the demand that usually soars ahead of Deepavali, farmers from Lalgudi, Mannachanallur, Pullambadi, Musiri, Thottiam, Perambalur, Thuraiyur and other areas brought sheep and goats to the shandy at Samayapuram. Similarly, a large number of meat traders too assembled at the shandy. The arrival of goats registered at least two-fold increase this week. According to a rough estimate, the shandy transacted about Rs. 80 lakh to Rs. 1 crore worth of business. It is almost double than the normal business transacted every week. The prices were also quoted on a higher side. A goat, which was sold for Rs. 5,000 last week, was sold for Rs. 6,000 on Saturday. There were traders, who chose to explore other opportunities in procuring goats, citing high prices in Samayapuram market. “It is quite understandable if the prices are 5% more than the normal. But, we noticed 10% increase in the prices of goats. We cannot pass on 10% difference in rate to customers,” says M. Abbas, a meat trader in Tiruchi. He said that many traders had opted to visit the villages known for growing sheep and goats. The Manapparai cattle shandy that met on Wednesday reported dull business due to high prices quoted by sellers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cattle-markets-witness-brisk-business/article37263149.ece
31 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Rectify shortcomings in crop insurance scheme’||The Federation of Farmers Associations of Cauvery Delta Districts on Thursday urged the Centre to address certain shortcomings in the Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme (PMFBY) Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana. There are many shortcomings in the scheme, which favoured insurance companies rather than farmers, it contended. Raising the issue through a representation at the farmers’ grievances meeting at Mayiladuthurai, federation general secretary Arupathy Kalyanam urged the Prime Minister to fix the base compensation under the scheme at 20% of the insured amount so as to safeguard the interest of farmers. He alleged that over the past five years, only 28% of farmers, who had insured their crop, received compensation and suggested implementation of a new incentive-linked crop insurance scheme to ensure that they got at least 20% of the insured amount as compensation. The crop insurance scheme should be implemented by the government as a social obligation without being viewed as a business. Referring to the sanction of compensation to farmers in Tamil Nadu for the 2020-21 samba season, Mr. Kalyanam claimed that insurance companies mopped up a crop insurance premium of Rs. 3,176.53 crore from 13.01 lakh farmers, but paid compensation of Rs. 1,597 crore to about six lakh farmers. Farmers got a maximum compensation of 19%. He demanded that the last date for insuring samba/thaladi crops for the current season be extended up to November 30 from November 15. The transplantation would not be completed before November 15 in the delta and farmers should be allowed to insure the crop till the end of the month as was the practice earlier. In her address, Mayiladuthurai Collector R. Lalitha said kuruvai paddy harvest had been completed on about 97,825 acres and samba paddy was expected to be raised on about 1.62 lakh acres in the district. So far, samba paddy had been raised on 33,863 acres under direct sowing and on another 1.31 lakh acres through transplantation. Adequate quantity of fertilizer stocks was available in the district, she said, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rectify-shortcomings-in-crop-insurance-scheme-farmers-body/article37263174.ece
31 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dip in COVID-19 cases||The central region reported 160 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. The number of cases continued to reflect a dip prevalent across most districts in the region. Five deaths due to the viral infection were registered — two each in Tiruchi and Nagapattinam, and one in Tiruvarur district. Thanjavur continued to report a dip in the number of cases. On Saturday, 40 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Tiruchi, meanwhile, registered 39 fresh cases. The other seven districts in central Tamil Nadu reported less than 25 COVID-19 cases each. In Tiruvarur, 24 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Karur registered 23 fresh cases, and Nagapattinam, 12. Pudukottai district registered 11 cases. Ariyalur and Perambalur districts reported four fresh cases of COVID-19 each. Meanwhile, in Mayiladuthurai, three patients tested positive- the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dip-in-covid-19-cases/article37263147.ece
31 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special summary revision of poll rolls||A special summary revision of the photo electoral rolls will be taken up from November 1, with January 1, 2022, as the qualifying date for enrolment, as per the instruction of the Election Commission of India. The revision will begin with the publication of the draft electoral roll on November 1 and copies of the electoral rolls will be kept in all Electoral Registration Officers/Revenue Divisional Officers offices and Assistant Electoral Registration Officers Office/Taluk Office for electors to verify their entries. All those who attain the age of 18 as on January 1, 2022 (those born on before December 31, 2003) can apply for inclusion of their names in the electoral rolls by submitting Form 6 to the Electoral Registration Officer concerned. For deletion of names, Form 7 should be submitted. Electors can apply for correction of names and other details by submitting Form-8 and electors who have shifted within Assembly constituency can submit form-8A for address change. The Electoral Roll will be read at the special grama sabha meetings to be held on November 13, 14, 27 and 28. As per ECI instructions, four special camps will be conducted on these Saturdays and Sundays at all Polling Stations, for receiving claims and objections in Form 6, 7, 8 and 8A. Overseas electors may submit Form 6A to the Electoral Registration Officer concerned, an official release said. Electors may also apply online in www.nvsp.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-summary-revision-of-electoral-rolls-from-tomorrow/article37263138.ece
31 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Police Commissionerate reorganised||Re-organisation of the Tiruchi City Police Commissionerate has been carried out with new police ranges having been created at Thillai Nagar, Gandhi Market and K.K. Nagar. Senior police officers in the rank of Assistant Commissioner of Police have been posted to head the newly created ranges. Now, it will have Cantonment, Srirangam, Gandhi Market, Ponmalai, K.K. Nagar and Thillai Nagar ranges - each of which is headed by an Assistant Commissioner of Police. Earlier, it had four ranges: Cantonment, Fort, Srirangam and Ponmalai with a set of police stations falling under the jurisdiction of each range. The re-organisation of the Tiruchi Police Commissionerate, which is headed by an officer in the rank of an Inspector General of Police, has been carried out consequent to an order issued by the State government for effective functioning and to improve the performance of both Law and Order and Crime Units. The 14 police stations falling under a particular range have also been worked out and put in place accordingly. As per the re-organised scheme of things, police stations at Thillai Nagar, Woraiyur and Government Hospital (covering both law and order and crime) have been brought under the Thillai Nagar Range. These stations were hitherto under the Srirangam Range. Similarly, police stations at K.K. Nagar and Airport (covering both law and order and crime) now come under the K.K. Nagar Range. The police stations at Cantonment, Sessions Court and Edamalaipattipudur (covering both law and order and crime ) fall under the Cantonment Range, while Srirangam and Fort police stations (covering law and order and crime) come under the Srirangam Range. The police stations at Gandhi Market and Palakkarai (law and order and crime ) fall under the Gandhi Market Range. The All Women Police stations at Srirangam, Fort, Cantonment and Ponmalai will now come under Srirangam, Gandhi Market, Cantonment and Ponmalai Ranges respectively. The Traffic Investigation North and South units will come under the Gandhi Market and K.K. Nagar ranges respectively, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-police-commissionerate-reorganised/article37263151.ece
31 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Couple return missing bag with Rs. 50,000 to owner||A couple hailing from Manapparai here came in for appreciation from the police for returning Rs. 50,000 they found on road. They had been walking when they found a bag with money and handed it over at police station. J. Kunjipillai, a resident of Nagamangalam in Tiruchi, had travelled to Tiruchi for a personal work carrying the money. While travelling on his two-wheeler, the bag fell down. On realising that he misplaced the bag, he rushed to the Manapparai police station. Meanwhile, the couple Rajiv Gandhi, a 39-year-old resident of Kumarapatti in Manapparai, and his wife had already spotted the bag and handed it over at the station. Mr. Kunjipillai thanked them and the Inspector Mr. Karunaharan appreciated the couple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-return-missing-bag-with-rs-50000-to-owner/article37263146.ece
31 October 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at the Mettur dam stood at 109.98 feet on Saturday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 14,572 cusecs and the discharge 100 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article37263145.ece
31 October 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Rally taken out||Cadre of Communist Party of India and its affiliate organisations took out a bicycle rally in the city on Saturday condemning the unabated rise in the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG. The rally was organised in response to a Statewide protest called by the party. The bicycle rally was flagged off at Woraiyur by K.Suresh, district general secretary, AITUC. The rallyists raised slogans against the ‘anti-people’ policies of the Centre. The cadres also staged demonstrations in Thanjavur. While two-wheelers were toed by bullock carts in the demonstration organised by the Ammapettai Union in Thanjavur district, a cycle rally was organised by the Mannargudi unit of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rally-taken-out/article37263469.ece
31 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain throws life out of gear in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi||Southern districts, including Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari, received heavy rainfall on Friday night and this ensured good influx of water into rain-fed irrigation tanks. The intermittent strong drizzle that started around 8.30 p.m. on Friday continued till 3 a.m. to ensure the first decent spell of the northeast monsoon this year. Following the overnight widespread rain across the district, Tamirabharani swelled slightly on Saturday to submerge the Kurukkuthurai Murugan Temple on the banks of the river near Tirunelveli Junction. Collector V. Vishnu declared a day’s holiday for schools in view of the overnight rain. However, the rain did not considerably raise the water level in the dams, especially Papanasam and Manimuthar, the chief reservoirs of the district that decide the fate of agricultural operations in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Palayamkottai – 75, Moolaikkaraipatti – 67, Kodumudiyar Dam – 65, Tirunelveli – 57, Nanguneri – 51, Kalakkad and Papanasam Dam – 42, Nambiyar Dam – 39, Servalar Dam – 38, Manimuthar Dam – 33, Ambasamudram – 30, Cheranmahadevi – 29 and Radhapuram – 21.  Thoothukudi The already waterlogged Thoothukudi town, is now unbearably slushy after it recorded a rainfall of 91.6 mm on Saturday. Since all the arterial roads in the port town look like ploughed fields as these stretches were dug up for implementation of ‘Smart City’ projects, manoeuvring through these roads in bikes and cars has become a challenge now. Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi, who after her inspections in June and August last, had assured that the ongoing ‘Smart City’ works would be completed before the onset of northeast monsoon, was visibly upset when she inspected waterlogged Selvanayagapuram, Kurinji Nagar, State Bank Colony, St. Mary’s Colony, Lourdhammalpuram, Murugan Theatre, DSF Corner, and a few more areas along with Collector K. Senthil Raj and Corporation Commissioner T. Charusree. She urged the Corporation officials to take every possible step to drain the stagnant rainwater at the earliest. “The Corporation has kept ready 200 motors to pump out the stagnant rainwater,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. As rainwater submerged the railway track at Thoothukudi Keezhur Railway Station, the Chennai – Thoothukudi Pearl City Express Train was stopped at Thoothukudi Melur Station itself. The rural parts of the district, especially the western and north western parts, also received good rainfall on Friday night. While places like Kayathar, Kadambur, Ottapidaaram and Maniyaachi recorded over 75 mm rainfall, Srivaikundam recorded the highest precipitation of 184 mm. Five houses collapsed in the rain at Kayathar, Srivaikundam and Eral. Since over 1,400 cusecs of water was being discharged from Papanasam dam. Over 4,000 cusecs of water was going waste into the Gulf of Mannar through the 18 shutters of Srivaikundam check-dam. Though 500 cusecs of water was released in the Vadakaal channel, water was not released in the Marudhur Melakkaal, Marudhur Keezhakkaal, Sadayaneri and Thenkaal channels. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Tiruchendur – 47, Kayalpattinam – 85, Kulasekarapattinam – 19, Vilaathikulam – 32, Kaadalkudi – 12, Vaippar – 72, Soorangudi – 42, Kovilpatti – 33, Kazhugumalai – 7, Kayathar – 75, Kadambur – 76, Maniyaachi – 75, Ottapidaaram – 127, Vedanaththam – 20, Keezha Arasadi – 13, Ettaiyapuram – 31, Sattankulam – 48.40, Srivaikundam – 184 and Thoothukudi – 91.60.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-in-southern-districts/article37263134.ece
31 October 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||CPI deplores steep rise in fuel price||Condemning the fuel price hike, cadres belonging to the Communist Party of India staged a demonstration here on Saturday. After garlanding an empty Liquefied Petroleum Gas cylinder at Vannarpet, the CPI cadre, led by party’s district secretary S. Kasi Viswanathan raised slogans against the unprecedented fuel price hike. While the price of one litre petrol and diesel had crossed Rs. 100, the cooking gas price had almost touched Rs. 1,000. The protestors also condemned the “outright sale” of public sector undertakings to corporate giants. They also demanded the withdrawal of Farm Laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-deplores-steep-rise-in-fuel-price/article37263170.ece
31 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Over 1.5 lakh vaccinated in Vellore and nearby districts||The district administrations in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur vaccinated more than 1.5 lakh persons in 2,996 camps in the seventh mega vaccination camp on Saturday. Among the four districts, Tiruvannamalai set up 1,075 camps, highest among four districts, vaccinating 78,097 persons including 26,067 persons from Cheyyar block on Saturday. This is slightly less than the sixth mega camp that was held on October 23. At present, the district has a total of 19.62 lakh persons in the 18 plus population. So far, 68% have been vaccinated. “Apart from mega camps, our health staff also conduct door-to-door vaccination. On an average 10,000 people are vaccinated in the district every day,” said Tiruvannamalai Colletor B. Murugesh. In Vellore, 1,000 camps were organised covering 247 villages, four town panchayats and two municipalities. As many as 41,409 persons were vaccinated. Tirupattur and Ranipet districts organised 421 and 500 camps covering 23,000 and 17,040 persons respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-15-lakh-vaccinated-in-vellore-and-nearby-districts/article37263485.ece
31 October 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||19 fresh cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,852, with 19 new cases reported on Saturday. While 48,549 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases stands at 172. The death toll is 1,131. Other districts In Ranipet district, 11 cases were reported, taking the total to 43,422. In Tirupattur district, 8 new cases took the total to 29,291. In Tiruvannamalai district, 15 fresh cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 54,950. Of them, 54,094 have been discharged while the number of active cases stands at 189.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-fresh-cases-reported-in-vellore/article37263486.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Separating the grain from the chaff||Even if it seems the food on your table takes a simple route to reach you, the process of fetching the grain from the field is complex. In welfare states, it involves government participation in the massive exercise called paddy procurement. Assisting farmers in getting the right or fair price for their produce, avoiding fleecing by middlemen and ensuring that the farmer who raised the crop is able to sell it without wastage are what the exercise is all about. While it sounds simple, there are myriad issues in the process. The problems range from lack of information on opening of direct purchase centres (DPCs) and inadequate number of drying yards to high moisture content in paddy (which happens invariably during the ‘Kuruvai’ cultivation season) and manpower shortage at DPCs. To top them all, farmers are forced to pay load men at the DPCs Rs. 40-Rs. 60 a bag. Drawn from local labour, the load men are employed at the DPCs from season to season. Sections of farmers feel that it is “these load men who control everything” at the DPCs. At the same time, many farmers concede that the load men are not the only ones who benefit from the scheme of payment. Local officials, traders and politicians are part of the chain, they feel. On their part, the load men reject any suggestion of politicians' involvement in the entire network, although the involvement of officials at the lower levels has been noticed by vigilance sleuths. A month ago, two officials of a DPC at Alapakkam in Cuddalore district were nabbed by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption when they allegedly took Rs. 15,000 from a farmer for procuring 250 bags of paddy. A year ago, while hearing a public interest litigation petition that alleged irregularities, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the DVAC to raid all DPCs. The main reason cited in the justification of payment to the load men is that a load man gets a mere Rs. 3 per bag in wages. While everyone agrees that the wages have to be raised, there are questions whether the load men will stop their practice even if they are given a manifold wage hike. “Yes, the load men will fall in line, provided committees, comprising competent persons and genuine representatives of farmers, are in place to man every DPC,” says K.M. Ramagoundar, a farmer of Krishnagiri district, who has facilitated the paddy procurement at a DPC in his village for a few years. In addition to providing “reasonable income” to the load men, the extra money is used for a host of purposes, including payment of honorarium for lorry drivers who transport the paddy bags to godowns of the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) and the cost of gunny bags. In some areas in the northern districts such as Madurantakam taluk, a portion of the amount goes towards electricity consumption at the DPCs, the arrangement of which, a TNCSC senior official says, will be set right in due course. Another portion is set aside for temples if the DPCs are located on temple lands. In some places of the Cauvery delta, a small portion goes to the kitty of the village panchayats concerned. “Why don’t you tell officers to ensure that the lorry drivers do not fleece us,” asks Pugalenthi, 66, a load man at the Keelathirupoonthuruthi DPC. “If that happens, I would not demand anything from farmers. For that matter, my fellow load men too,” he adds. Interestingly, a resident of Palavedu village in Tiruvallur district says it is the farmers themselves who decide how much they should pay to the load men every year. However, those who oversee the procurement emphasise that they are taking every step to eliminate the “load men problem”. Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, Collector of Thanjavur, one of the major paddy-supplying regions, says TNCSC staff members have been given “strict instructions” to procure paddy without anyone demanding money from farmers. “If any complaint comes from agriculturists, the bill clerk, the helper and the watchman concerned will be relieved immediately,” he says. B. Gayathri Krishnan, Collector of Tiruvarur, another key paddy-producing district, denies the contention that the load men run the show at the DPCs. Only senior regional managers control the movement of paddy on lorries. “There is no role for the load men in deciding when lorries go to a DPC or where they are sent for hulling or storage after procurement.” A senior official observes that there is an element of “master-servant culture” associated with the practice of the load men collecting money. Most of the farmers acquiesce in “the system”; otherwise, there would be reprisal. Likewise, if any farmer tries to circumvent the load men, one does not require any special knowledge to anticipate the consequences. But, not many load men agree with this view. L. Ravindran, a load man of Papanasam taluk in Thanjavur district, says, “If any farmer is not inclined to pay me and my colleagues, who are 10 in number, we would quietly withdraw...” The payment of extra money is not the only major problem. The role of sections of traders and middlemen has permeated into the overall system. It is through this network that the supply of paddy takes place, which is, of course, not unique to Tamil Nadu. Either paddy from small and marginal farmers is “collected and supplied” by the traders at the DPCs, using land records such as ‘ patta ’ and ‘ adangal ’ of the farmers themselves (‘ Adangal ’ is a key document that gives an account of the status of the cropped area of a farmer). On paper, nothing appears to be illegal as the money will get credited to the bank accounts of the farmers, from whom the traders will “take back their money”. The only aspect is that the traders act as intermediaries, and it is they who physically supply paddy at the DPCs. Another method is that paddy, raised elsewhere, tends to get presented at DPCs as if it was from the jurisdiction of the centres. Prior to May, even Ranipet, not known to be a major paddy producer, witnessed procurement of an unusual quantity of paddy. An investigation is on. In August, 14 lorries, transporting paddy from other districts, including Madurai, were seized in Thanjavur district while transporting scores of bags of “unauthorised paddy”. In a similar operation in Kudavasal taluk of Tiruvarur district, the authorities got hold of 358 bags of paddy. “We are doing our best to avoid the DPCs being hijacked by traders. We have over 325 DPCs and 8 mobile DPCs opened to make the centres more accessible to each farmer and ensure that the paddy of every genuine farmer is procured based on seniority and moisture content,” explains the Tiruvarur Collector. Aware of the problems, the government is making efforts to simplify and improve upon the system, say officials who are in charge of procurement. In mid-July, a government order was issued, giving a set of guidelines for every important stage of procurement — opening of DPCs, purchase procedure and storage and movement — and “this is for the first time that such an order has been issued,” one of the officials points out. The location of DPCs on government lands “as far as possible,” treatment of farmers on the “first come first served” basis, the movement of paddy from the DPCs to the storage point — Cover and Plinth (CAP) of open type or covered — “preferably, the same day [of purchase] or the latest by the next day,” having an adequate stock of tarpaulin sheets and water-resistant materials for the protection of paddy, and “not even a single bag of paddy” to be kept on roads are among the important directives mentioned in the order. As stipulated by the government, district-level monitoring committees, comprising a host of officials including the Collectors concerned and two representatives of farmers, are meeting regularly. Their suggestions have been useful, observes a senior official. A helpline — 1800 599 3540 — has been set up in respect of DPCs. Mohamed Gazali, a farmer of Tiruvarur, wants the authorities to make the entire operations transparent at the DPCs, from issuing tokens to weighing the paddy only through modern instruments. To find out the true age of rice, the Food Corporation of India (FCI), through the Thanjavur-based National Institute of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management, has developed a process, ‘mixed indicator method,’ under which rice, before being taken to godowns from mills, will be tested. This has been launched in certain northern States, says an FCI official, adding that the method will be introduced in Tamil Nadu this year. A major initiative taken by the present government is the introduction of online registration of farmers, which came into effect on October 1. Farmers are required to provide details such as their Aadhaar numbers, bank account numbers, land, cultivation type, expected yield and quantity of paddy to be procured, besides the sort and variety of the crop. They can also book a slot for procurement, indicating their preference for a DPC. As sections of farmers had expressed their reservations, the government modified its decision and allowed the agriculturists to make a choice between the conventional system and the online registration. “We hope to have all the farmers on board at the time of harvest of paddy raised during the ‘Samba’ season,” says an official, denying the contention that the new system has been given a burial. Mr. Oliver points out that in Thanjavur, 10,500 farmers have registered and their paddy has also been procured. In Pudukottai, the number of such farmers is 2,950. Senior officials of the Revenue Department say that ‘ adangal ’ will shortly be issued online after glitches are removed. In view of the likelihood of this year’s procurement exceeding the previous year’s record of about 45 lakh tonnes, the government has drawn up a macro plan, apart from district-level plans, to handle the stock. Godowns of closed sugar mills will also be used this time, says the official. To ensure adequate hulling capacity, 50 more hulling agents have been enrolled, in addition to the existing 376. D. Thulasingam, president, Federation of Tamil Nadu Rice Mill Owners and Paddy-Rice Dealers Associations, says the government has also allowed millers to process paddy from the TNCSC and private traders simultaneously. Despite all the issues associated with the system, the farmers prefer the TNCSC to private traders because of “prompt payment and better rate and weighment”. In fact, after the outbreak of COVID-19, not many traders are approaching the farmers to the extent they did in the past. This has not bothered the agriculturists much as they still believe that the problems in procurement are not insurmountable. Per quintal MSP rates fixed by the Union Government for ‘Common’ and ‘Grade-A’ varieties rose from Rs.1,080and Rs.1,110in 2011-12 to Rs.1,868and Rs.1,888in 2020-21. In these years, the State Government’s incentive for the two varieties were Rs.50and Rs.70respectively. This year, the MSP has been determined at Rs.1,940for the ‘Common’ variety and Rs.1,960for ‘Grade A’. The State has hiked its incentives to Rs.75and Rs.100respectively  The load men will fall in line, provided committees, comprising competent persons and genuine representatives of farmers, are in place to man every DPC K.M. Ramagoundar Farmer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/separating-the-grain-from-the-chaff/article37263030.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||76 new cases in Erode||Erode district on Saturday reported 76 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,04,235. While 97 persons were discharged, 809 continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 59 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 99,831. While 64 persons were discharged, 595 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 1,684. Namakkal district reported 44 cases taking the tally to 52,202. While 53 persons were discharged, 502 continue to be under treatment. Coimbatore district reported 116 new cases, taking the overall tally to 2,46,660. The Health Department reported three new deaths, taking the district’s toll to touch 2,415. The district had 1,301 active cases and 124 patients were discharged on Saturday. The positivity rate of the district was 1.2% Tiruppur district reported 69 fresh cases, which took the tally to 95,336. The overall toll remained at 978 as no new deaths were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/76-new-cases-in-erode/article37263181.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||July 18 to be observed as Tamil Nadu Day||It may be recalled that the previous AIADMK government had announced that November 1 would be observed as Tamil Nadu Day from 2019. The DMK government’s decision followed representations from many political parties, Tamil scholars and enthusiasts, who pointed out that parts of the Madras Presidency became Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala on November 1, 1956, and hence it might not be appropriate to observe it as Tamil Nadu Day. Mr. Stalin said ‘Border Saviours’, who, throughout their lifetime resorted to the struggle for safeguarding the border of Tamil Nadu when the linguistic States were formed, would be honoured with a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh each on November 1 this year as a special case. Monthly assistance There are a total of 110 ‘Border Saviours’ and they are being granted a monthly financial assistance of Rs. 5,500, along with a medical allowance Rs. 500. After their demise, a financial assistance of Rs. 3,000, besides the medical allowance Rs. 500, is provided to their legal heirs throughout their lifetime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/july-18-to-be-observed-as-tamil-nadu-day/article37263042.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festival rush||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festival-rush/article37263052.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rush||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rush/article37263375.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Exhibition organised||Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International School of Textiles and Management has organised an exhibition-cum-sale for Deepavali till November 2 to promote sale of local made handloom and handicraft products. About 20 stalls have displayed different textile products, including fashion accessories, towels, shirts, and banana fibre products. The expo will be open from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exhibition-organised/article37263075.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Jai Shriram Engineering College: Seventh Graduation Day, Avinashipalayam, 9.15 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article37263072.ece
31 October 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Sindgi segment sees 69.41% voting||Sindgi recorded 69.41% voting in the bypoll held on Saturday. This is less than the last Assembly elections when the segment recorded 71% voting. The bypoll was necessitated after the death of M.C. Manguli, JD(S) MLA in January. Polling was peaceful and smooth in most places. However, polling was disrupted in five booths, as the VVPAT machine was replaced in three places and the ballot machines in two booths. Voting began on a slow note with only 8% recorded in the first two hours. However, it picked up to 25% by 11 a.m., 33% by 1p.m., and 52% by 3 p.m. Voting by persons with disabilities was higher at 79%. Of the 2,898 in the segment, 2,293 voted. There are six candidates in the fray in Sindgi, including three Independents. BJP candidate Ramesh Bhusanur cast his vote along with his family at Devanagoan. Ashok Manguli, son of Mr. M.C. Manguli, who is being fielded by the Congress, voted in Malagan village. Ramesh Bhusnur, BJP nominee voted in Devangaon. Naziya Angadi, JD(S) candidate, and her husband and police officer Shakeel Ahmed, also voted. The Vijayapura police registered a complaint against a voter, Gollalappa Rukumpur, of Hikkanagutti village, for violation of the code of conduct. The polling officer complained that the voter took a photo of the ballot unit on his mobile phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sindgi-segment-sees-6941-voting/article37263206.ece
31 October 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Exhibition||The Deshpande Foundation has organised a mega Udyami Sante, an exhibition-cum-sale of goods produced by small and medium industries in Belagavi. Raghavendra Hawaldar, Inspector, inaugurated the event in Ramnath Mangal Karyala grounds in Tilakwadi on Friday. The event will end on November 2. The theme for the event is `Support Local,’ Entrepreneurs Nagarathna Ramgouda and Amit Kalakundri, Veerayya Hiremath, project manager, Parameshwar Gadad, Shaila Gaonkar, Babu Honule, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exhibition/article37263204.ece
31 October 2021||Belagavi/Hassan,KARNATAKA||Puneeth fans found dead||A young man — Rahul Gadiwaddar, 25 — was found dead in his house in Athani on Saturday. According to the police, he was a big fan of actor Puneeth Rajkumar, who died in Bengaluru on Friday. Rahul had put up a poster of Puneeth in front of his house, garlanded it and decorated it with a flower rangoli on Friday. He was feeling dejected and is believed to have decided to end his life in his house, a police officer said. A case is registered. Meanwhile, Parashuram Hanumant Dyamannanavar, 33, died of shock in his house at Sindholi village near Belagavi. He was watching news on the actor’s death on a TV channel and is said to have collapsed to the floor and died. According to the police, he was a big fan of the late actor. In Chikkamagaluru Another person said to be a fan of the actor was found dead at his residence at Rampura in Chikkamagaluru on Saturday. Sharath, 30, allegedly committed suicide. He is survived by his wife and a baby. He had been depressed since he learnt about Puneeth’s death and spent most of his time watching the news on TV. The incident happened in Chikkamagaluru City Police limits.  (Those in depression and having suicidal tendencies can consult the state’s helpline 104 for counselling.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/puneeth-fans-found-dead/article37263212.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Final farewell: Thousands of fans from across Karnataka travel to Bengaluru||Disbelief and grief were the predominant emotions among the thousands of fans who gathered at Sree Kanteerava Stadium on Saturday to pay their last respects to actor Puneeth Rajkumar. Groups of friends and families, including parents with children in tow, travelled from as far as Kalaburagi, Raichur, Yadgir, Ballari, and other parts of northern Karnataka by trains and buses on Friday itself to make the overnight trip. To meet the demand, additional buses were operated on Friday night. Photos and songs A group of fans was seen hoisting Kannada flag and carrying photos of the actor, while another played popular songs from his films on portable sound system that they had brought with them. Gurulinga, a fan from Kalaburagi, said, “I travelled by Udyan train with my friends. Like us, many people had boarded the train to see Puneeth for the last time.” Chethan, a fan from Raichur, said he was unable to come to terms with the star’s sudden demise. “I first saw the news on social media, and I could not believe it initially. At about 9 p.m. on Friday, we left from Raichur to Bengaluru by bus. After waiting for two hours, we somehow managed to get inside the stadium.” An official of the Kalyana Karnataka Road Transport Corporation said they operated more than 120 buses from various points such as Bidar, Yadgir, and Kalaburagi. “There was high demand for travel to Bengaluru on Friday night.” Some of the fans’ associations reportedly pooled in money to help pay for their transport. At the stadium itself, people waited in queues for hours on end before being allowed to enter. Bhimaraju, who had come all the way from Yadgir, was unable to enter the stadium. “Around hundred fans of Puneet have come from Haveri. We reached the stadium around 8 a.m., but some of us couldn’t get inside because of the crowd. Someone tore my shirt, and I lost my footwear.” When he started suffocating as he was wedged between masses of people, he decided to return home. ‘Rare talent’ Nanditha, a resident of Nelamangala who had come with her family members, said, “I have been a fan of Puneeth since my college days. He is a rare talent. Other than acting he was also a good singer and dancer. I cannot believe that he is no more.” Lakshmi, another fan, said, “Puneet is loved by everyone, that’s why thousands of people have turned up. After waiting for over two hours, I managed to get inside.”  I travelled by Udyan train with my friends. Like us, many people had boarded the train to see Puneeth for the last time. Gurulinga,a fan from Kalaburagi   Around hundred fans of Puneet have come from Haveri. We reached the stadium around 8 a.m., but some of us couldn’t get inside because of the crowd. Someone tore my shirt, and I lost my footwear. Bhimaraju,a fan who had come from Yadgir||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/final-farewell-thousands-of-fans-from-across-karnataka-travel-to-bengaluru/article37263002.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Delimitation committee term extended by six months||The Karnataka Government on Saturday extended the term of the committee constituted to take up the delimitation of wards in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits by six months. The notification stated that the six-month term has been extended retrospectively from July 28, 2021. This means that its term will end on January 28, 2022. The government has stated that following the outbreak of the pandemic, lockdown and surge in cases in the city, the progress of the delimitation exercise had taken a hit. Though the delimitation exercise for the 243 wards picked up pace after the second wave of COVID-19, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta had told The Hindu that the draft for 243 wards was ready, though not yet finalised. It’s been more than a year since the term of the elected body in BBMP ended. With the extended term of the delimitation committee now ending in January 2022, the polls to the BBMP council may be pushed further. Once the draft is finalised, it will have to be sent to the government for approval. The government will then publish a draft notification, calling for objections from the public, following which the final notification will be published. It is based on this that the State Election Commission will have to fix the election. The delimitation committee is headed by BBMP Chief Commissioner, DC of Bengaluru (Urban) district, BDA commissioner, with BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Revenue) being the committee secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delimitation-committee-term-extended-by-six-months/article37262988.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP’s mobile schools to roll out across all zones from next week||Starting next week, ten old buses from the Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) fleet that have been repurposed into mobile schools will start going to different zones in the city to conduct bridge classes for out-of-school children. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has already assigned one bright yellow bus per zone. The two extra buses will be deputed to zones that have a higher number of children not in school, said senior BBMP officials. The civic body took up this initiative following specific directions of the High Court of Karnataka to identify out-of-school children, and conduct bridge courses to bring them back to the mainstream. According to a senior civic official, the BBMP has also re-assigned teachers from its day-care centres for this purpose. As per the current plan, each bus will have four teachers, who will be assisted by a helper (ayah). All the teaching materials and teaching aids have been provided. “The zonal joint commissioners are in the process of identifying locations where the mobile schools can be parked. The location should also be chosen keeping in mind accessibility for the identified children, who are mostly residents of slums and settlements of migrant workers,” the official said. The mobile schools will function under the supervision of zonal joint commissioners, and will cater to children in Class I and above. “Many of the children may have never stepped into a school. It is for such children that we have chosen teachers from day-care centres, who will be able to help them in an age-appropriate manner,” the official said and added that drivers for all the 10 buses had also been appointed. The first bus has already been sent to Rajarajeshwarinagar zone. “The other buses will be sent to the respective zones on Tuesday. Their locations will also be finalised next week,” the official claimed. Survey of children begging or hawking Meanwhile, as per the directions of the High Court, the civic body is also conducting a survey of children found begging or hawking in the city. It has tied up with several non-governmental organisations for the survey, which, according to officials, is likely to be completed by the end of November. The Centre for e-governance had developed a software to capture data from the city-wide survey. “We hoped to complete the survey sooner. While more than 75% has been completed in most zones, there were some hiccups in Yelahanka zone. The same has now been sorted out. We will complete the survey by the month-end,” an official stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmps-mobile-schools-to-roll-out-across-all-zones-from-next-week/article37262992.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||What happened to Puneeth had nothing to do with his lifestyle: Dr. Ramana Rao||Puneeth Rajkumar’s heart beat and blood pressure was normal when he first went to his personal physician B. Ramana Rao around 11.20 a.m. on Friday. Dr. Rao, who referred him to Vikram Hospitals after noticing a “strain” in his ECG, told The Hindu on Saturday that Puneeth only complained of “weakness” when he came there. Recalling his last moments with the actor, Dr. Rao said, “He and Ashwini (Puneeth’s wife) got down from the car and came walking into my clinic, which is just three minutes away from their residence. Appu (Puneeth) said he had a little weakness. His blood pressure was 150/92, which is normal. He was sweating profusely and when I asked, he said it was normal as he had exercised and had come straight from the gym.” He did not have any pain and his heart beat was normal. His lungs were clear. He said he had done his routine workout, boxing, and hadtaken a little extra steam. “I have been seeing Appu from his childhood and he has never had any health issues. As I heard the word ‘weakness’ for the first time from him, I got worried and did an ECG immediately,” the doctor said. “The ECG showed a strain. Sensing danger, I told Ashwini to take him to Vikram Hospitals immediately. We helped him into the car and made him lie down on the back seat with his head on her lap. He was taken there in about six minutes, but unfortunately could not be saved. It was a cardiac arrest, where the heart abruptly stops beating, and not a heart attack, where blood flow to the heart stops,” the doctor explained. Doctors atVikram Hospitals said the actor was non-responsive and was in cardiac asystole, total cessation of electrical activity from the heart. Asked if the excessive workout could have resulted in cardiac arrest, Dr. Rao said, “Appu was an example of fitness, happy disposition with positive thoughts. He worked out daily and knew his limits. He did not have any risk factors, did not smoke or consume alcohol and was not on any medication. I thought age was on his side and expected a favourable result. What happened has got nothing to do with his lifestyle.” ‘Be cautious’ Cautioning against high-intensity exercise, Dr. Rao said: “Routine exercise is good. But excessive strenuous exercise done in a short period will cause severe stress and could lead to a rupture in the arteries and resultant blood clot around it.You can go on building your muscles but it isthe same heart that pumps blood to all of them... But I do not attribute any of these in Appu’s case,” the doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/what-happened-to-puneeth-had-nothing-to-do-with-his-lifestyle-dr-ramana-rao/article37263000.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Working on his father’s book was cathartic for Puneeth Rajkumar’||Puneeth Rajkumar, the multifaceted personality he was, had co-authored a coffee table book, biography of his father, Dr. Rajkumar. Though the project started when the thespian was alive, it evolved into a passionate project after his passing. “It was cathartic for him to be consumed by work for the book after his father’s death. It helped him come to terms with the loss,” said co-author and Puneeth’s friend, Prakruti N. Banavasi. “Puneeth asked me to work on a biography in the late 1990s, but I took it seriously only a few years later. We collected 8,800 photographs and wrote over one lakh words, which was eventually edited down to a book of nearly 300 pages with 1,750 rare photographs some of which had never been published earlier,” he recounted.  The book, ‘Dr. Rajkumar - The Person Behind the Personality’ was released in 2012 by Paravatamma Rajkumar. “While Puneeth bore all costs, every rupee the book earned was donated to government Kannada medium schools,” said Mr. Banavasi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/working-on-his-fathers-book-was-cathartic-for-puneeth-rajkumar/article37263009.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CRS inspects newly-electrified Bengaluru-Tumakuru line||The South Western Railway (SWR) has asked for allocation of MEMU trains from the Railway Board to operate them on the Bengaluru to Tumakuru line. On Friday, Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) Abhai Kumar Rail conducted an inspection of the newly-electrified 56-km line between two points. The statutory inspection and speed trial at 115.4 km was conducted successfully. Chief PRO of SWR Aneesh Hegde said that the electrification of the line is part of the vision of net zero carbon emission by 2030. At present SWR operates 29 pairs of long distance/express trains and five pairs of DEMU trains. Once the MEMU trains are introduced, they will replace DEMU trains on the line. “Electrification of the line is an effort to go green and provide a sustainable mass transit system. Money spent on diesel gets saved and operation of the MEMU trains system gives more operational benefits in terms of occupancy and others.” The electrification of the line from Yeshwanthpur to Tumakuru is estimated to cost around Rs. 105 crore. There are many prominent stations on the line including Chikkabanawara, Soladevenahalli, Golhalli, Dodbele, Dabaspet and Hirehalli among others. The SWR has also taken up electrification of Yelahanka – Devanahalli line, and officials are hopeful of completing the task by November. At present, the shifting of utilities by the KPTCL is a challenge as it involves land issues. After completing the electrification, it will be able to run MEMU trains to KIA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crs-inspects-newly-electrified-bengaluru-tumakuru-line/article37262985.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: State reports 347 new cases, 10 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 347 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,88,041. Bengaluru Urban reported 166 cases and four deaths. With ten deaths, the toll rose to 38,071. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 255 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 29,41,233. The State now has 8,708 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.31%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.88%. As many as 1,08,868 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 88,463 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,07,66,164.  COVID-19 in Karnataka on October 30 Cases: 347 Deaths: 10 Discharges: 255 Tests: 1,08,868 Vaccinations : 2,00,367 Test Positivity Rate: 0.31% Case Fatality Rate: 2.88%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-state-reports-347-new-cases-10-deaths/article37262993.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Telugu, Tamil film personalities pay respects||Several leading personalities from Telugu and Tamil film industries thronged the stadium to pay their last respects to Puneeth Rajkumar. Actors Chiranjeevi, Nanadamuri Balakrishna, NTR Junior, and Venkatesh of the Telugu film industry were among the many key personalities who visited and consoled the family members, but turned emotional themselves. Chiranjeevi and Balakrishna recounted how they shared a personal bond with the Rajkumar family and expressed deep shock and sadness at the sudden death of “Appu”. Actors Prabhudeva, Arjun Sarja, Shrikanth, and film-maker Karthik Subbaraj were among others who paid their last respects to the actor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/telugu-tamil-film-personalities-pay-respects/article37262998.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A journey into the wild||During the pandemic, Puneeth Rajkumar, impressed by the success of the natural history documentary, ‘Wild Karnataka’, collaborated with its co-director Amoghavarsha J.S. to shoot a documentary on marine life off Karnataka coast. He produced the film through his home banner, PRK Productions. It includes extensive footage of Puneeth scuba diving and exploring life underwater in the Arabian Sea. “He wanted to promote the State’s biodiversity, forests, and natural habitat and the film was a dream for him,” said Amoghavarsha. Puneeth was toying with the idea of naming the film ‘Gandhada Gudi’ or ‘Ondu Muttina Kathe’, both titles of popular films of thespian Dr. Rajkumar. “Decades ago, a story was born. A tribute to our people, our land, celebrated our forests and inspired a new generation. It’s time now for the legend to return,” he wrote on social media, introducing the film, days before he passed away on Friday. “We are in no frame of mind to think about the film or its future,” said Mr. Amoghavarsha. The trailer of the documentary was scheduled to be released on November 1 by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, for which Puneeth had sought time on Thursday night to meet him. “He was supposed to meet me today, but I had to come to the hospital to meet him like this,” Mr. Bommai said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-journey-into-the-wild/article37263003.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Appu went like Rajkumar’||Physician B. Ramana Rao recalled that Puneeth’s father, Dr Rajkumar, too had died under similar circumstances. “I had seen him at the last moment. This is history repeating in the same family. Dr. Rajkumar had done his routine exercises by 11.30 a.m. About two hours later, he sat on a sofa and requested for the fan speed to be reduced and collapsed immediately. I was called and reached there in three minutes and tried to resuscitate him.He was rushed to M.S. Ramaiah Memorial Hospital where he was declared dead on April 12, 2006,” the doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appu-went-like-rajkumar/article37263004.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Illegal liquor trade: HC denies bail to man||The High Court of Karnataka declined bail to a person in the sixth case of illegal liquor business while stating that he would again indulge in the same offence if enlarged on bail. Justice H.P. Sandesh passed the order while dismissing a petition filed by 27-year-old Nagaraj, a native of Bidar. The Excise police had registered a case against him for allegedly storing 7,200 litres at his house illegally. It was the sixth case registered against him for violation of the provisions of the Karnataka Excise Act since 2016. Of the total six cases, three cases were registered against him in 2020-21. The petitioner had pleaded with the court to release him on bail contending that he was not convicted in any of the five previous cases. While observing that not having been convicted in any case was not a ground to grant bail, the court said that it is not a fit case to grant bail as the accused would indulge in similar offence again if released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illegal-liquor-trade-hc-denies-bail-to-man/article37263217.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Confusion as some schools cancel physical classes||While the State Government did not officially announce a holiday after the death of actor Puneeth Rajkumar, many schools, particularly those in “sensitive” areas, chose to remain shut on Saturday as a precautionary measure. But parents were not kept in the loop, causing confusion. Shreya S., whose son studies in a school affiliated to the State syllabus in north Bengaluru, said, “We did not receive any message from our son’s school that they would be closed. So my husband went to drop him off on Saturday morning. But when they arrived they were told that the school was closed and students had to log in for online classes. They had to rush back home,” she said. Another parent, Venkatesh M., however, had a different issue. While his son’s class teacher had said that the school would be closed, that was not the case. “By the time we heard that the school was open, it was too late and we decided not to send our son as there were classes for just half a day,” he said. Prayer meeting D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that barring a few schools in “sensitive” areas, most other schools continued to function. He, however, said that many school managements organised a small prayer meeting for the actor. A representative from the Akshaya Patra Foundation said government schools were open and midday meals were served but the principals of the schools had asked for 25% less food than usual. Many colleges and universities postponed examinations as they feared that students would find it difficult to commute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/confusion-as-some-schools-cancel-physical-classes/article37263005.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BEL turnover Rs. 3,622 crore||Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) has achieved a turnover of Rs. 3,622.42 crore, registering a growth of 14.45% during the second quarter of 2021-22 financial year over a turnover of Rs. 3,164.99 crore in the corresponding period a year ago. The profit after tax (PAT) in Q2 stood at Rs. 612.60 crore, with a growth of 54.29% over the PAT of Rs. 397.05 crore recorded in the corresponding period of the previous year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bel-turnover-rs-3622-crore/article37263216.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||D. Rajasekhar is ISEC director||D. Rajasekhar was appointed the Director of Institute for Social and Economic Change (ISEC), Bengaluru, on Friday. A press release stated that Sukhadeo Thorat, Chairperson, Board of Governors, ISEC, who welcomed Prof. Rajasekhar expressed confidence that he would provide the required leadership to the research community at ISEC. “Prof. Rajasekhar has been working as HAG Professor in Economics and head of Centre for Decentralisation and Development in ISEC. He has 32 years of experience of working in the institute, and undertaking interdisciplinary research in economics and development studies,” stated the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/d-rajasekhar-is-isec-director/article37262986.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police transfers||In another round of reshuffling, the State government on Saturday, transferred six IPS officers including Isha Pant who held the post of Deputy Commissioner of Police Command Centre, Bengaluru. She has been posted as Superintendent of Police, Kalaburagi. IPS officer Simi Mariyam George who held the post is now Deputy Director, Karnataka Police Academy, Mysuru. Suman D. Pennekar who was SP Mandya district was transferred with immediate effect to the post of SP Uttara Kannada. IPS officer Shiv Prakash Devaraju who held that post is now SP, Gadag, while Yatish N., formerly SP, Gadag has been posted as SP, Mandya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-transfers/article37262987.ece
31 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Biker dies||A person died after he suffered serious head injuries in an accident on NH 75 on the outskirts of Hassan on Friday. The victim, Ramesh, 51, a resident of Channapatna, near the new KSRTC bus stand, was a teacher at Dodda Genigere village in Hassan taluk. He was on the way to his school on his bike, when another bike hit him from behind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/biker-dies/article37263398.ece
31 October 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Activist talks of Hindu ‘retaliation’||A video clip of a Hindutva activist’s speech threatening a repeat of the Gujarat riots of 2002 has gone viral in Hassan. Mahipal, who has been associated with the Bajrang Dal and Vishwa Hindu Parishad, allegedly delivered the speech at a programme held at Arsikere town on October 27. The VHP and Bajrang Dal had organised a procession and public programme. Mr. Mahipal said that Hindus would not start violence without any provocation, but would retaliate if attacked. “You need not go to history to understand this. You remember what happened in Gujarat in 2002,” he said. He also asked people of a particular community to “stay put at home doing prayers five times a day”. Petition filed The Sunni Muslim Jamat Committee of Arsikere has filed a petition with the Arsikere tahsildar seeking action against those who made provocative speeches at the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activist-talks-of-retaliation/article37262994.ece
31 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Peaceful, hassle-free polling in Hangal||The polling for the byelection to Hangal Legislative Assembly Constituency concluded peacefully on Saturday evening with people actively participating in good numbers. The polling percentage recorded was 83.44. On Saturday morning, the polling began at the scheduled time without any glitches. Under the cloudy weather, the polling began on a slow note with only 8.77% voters exercising their franchise in first two hours of polling. However it picked up pace subsequently. At 11 a.m. 24.31% had cast their votes in the constituency and it rose to 62.72% by 3 p.m. At 5 p.m. the polling percentage stood at 77.9. In the 2018 Assembly election, Hangal had recorded 84.4% polling. At Adur village where polling station 63 had been set up as a model one, seating arrangements were made for the senior citizens and women and a pandal was also erected for shelter. At Akki Alur, ‘Sakhi’ polling station was set up polling station 122 where there were arrangements for children’s play area and a selfie corner. At Polling station 79 (Sakhi) of Hangal town, an all-women team was deployed for the polling duty. Ramps were created and three-wheelers provided for senior citizens and persons with physical disabilities at all the polling stations. COVID-19 protocol was strictly followed at all the polling stations. Of the 263 polling stations in Hangal, webcasting was done from 121 polling stations, which was directly viewed by the district election officials. In all, the Hangal segment has 2,04,481 voters including 1,05,525 male, 98,953 female and three of the third gender. General Observer for the poll Dr Madhavi Khode Chavare visited various polling stations including Sammasagi and oversaw the polling process and adherence to COVID-19 protocol. Police Observer for the poll Mahesh Ghure visited sensitive and vulnerable polling stations including Dommanal to check the law and order situation. Deputy Commissioner of Haveri Sanjay Shettennavar and Chief Executive Officer of Zilla Panchayat Mohammed Roshan Akki Alur, Kalakeri and other polling stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/peaceful-hassle-free-polling-in-hangal/article37263202.ece
31 October 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||SWR to remove reservation from some coaches||South Western Railway (SWR) has decided to de-reserve some second-class seating coaches and have them earmarked as unreserved to permit more unreserved commuter travel in nominated trains. The details of these special trains along with the number of coaches to be run as unreserved with effect from their respective dates are as follows: With effect from November 1: Train 07301/07302 Mysuru-Dharwad-Mysuru Express Special will run with two second-class seating coaches (D4, D5) earmarked as unreserved; Train 06531 KSR Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central Express Special will run with two second-class seating coaches (D3, D4) earmarked as unreserved; Train 06201/06202 Mysuru-KSR Bengaluru-Mysuru Superfast Express Special will run with eight second-class seating coaches (D11 to D18) earmarked as unreserved; Train 06295/06296 Mysuru-Talguppa- Mysuru Express Special will run with eight second-class seating coaches (D11 to D18) earmarked as unreserved; Train 07357/07358 Yeshwantpur-ShivamoggaTown-Yeshwantpur Intercity Special will run with four second-class seating coaches (D9 to D12) earmarked as unreserved; Train 06529/06530 KSR Bengaluru-Talguppa-KSR Bengaluru Intercity Express Special will run with eight second-class seating coaches (D11 to D18) earmarked as unreserved; Train 02725/02726 KSR Bengaluru-Dharwad-KSR Bengaluru Superfast Intercity Express Special will run with seven second-class seating coaches (D11 to D17) earmarked as unreserved; Train 06549/06550 KSR Bengaluru-Belagavi-KSR Bengaluru Superfast Express Special will run with one second-class seating coach (D3) earmarked as unreserved; Train 06581SSS Hubballi-Mysuru Express Special will run with two second-class seating coaches (D3, D4) earmarked as unreserved; Train 06582 Mysuru-SSS Hubballi Express Special will run with two second-class seating coaches (D2, D4) earmarked as unreserved; Train 07307 Mysuru-Bagalkot Express Special will run with two second-class seating coaches (D4, D5) earmarked as unreserved; Train 07308 Bagalkot-Mysuru Express Special will run with two second-class seating coaches (D2, D5) earmarked as unreserved. With effect from November 8: Train 06589 KSR Bengaluru-Miraj Express Special will run with one second-class seating coach (D2) earmarked as unreserved; Train 06227/06228 Mysuru-Talguppa-Mysuru Express Special will run with two second-class seating coaches (D2, D4) earmarked as unreserved; Train 06535 Mysuru-Solapur Express Special will run with two second-class seating coaches (D2, D4) earmarked as unreserved; Train 07373 Yeshwantpur-SSS Hubballi Weekly Express Special is running with two second-class seating coaches (D3, D4) earmarked as unreserved with effect from October 29. Train 07374 SSS Hubballi-Yeshvantpur Weekly Express Special is running with two second-class coaches (D3, D4) as unreserved with effect from October 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-to-remove-reservation-from-some-coaches/article37263208.ece
31 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Part of ashes of Lakhimpur Kheri deceased to be immersed in the Krishna today||Part of the ashes of farmers, who were killed after an SUV in the convoy of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish ran over them last month in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri, will be immersed in the Krishna near Doranahalli in Yadgir district on Sunday, said Congress leader B.R. Patil. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, he said that he had received some part of the ashes of Lovepreet Singh, Gurvinder Singh, Daljeet Singh, and Nachattar Singh sent by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha – the conglomerate of farmers’ organisations leading the agitation in Delhi. “It was a cold-blooded murder by the Government to suppress the farmers’ movement against the anti-farmer laws which were enacted to help corporate companies sacrificing the farmers’ interests. The whole world has seen the brutality. The country would never forget the fight and the sacrifice of the four farmers who had laid down their lives for the cause. The agitation against the anti-farmer laws would continue,” Mr. Patil said. Mr. Patil added that a massive farmers’ conference had been planned for November 26 – the day on which the farmers’ agitation in Delhi completes a year – in Delhi as part of plans for intensifying the agitation. “It would be a massive show of farmers’ strength. Thousands of farmers from the country are expected to arrive in Delhi to participate in the event. Hundreds of farmersand social activists from Kalaburagi will also participate,” Mr. Patil said, appealing to the people who participate in the event to register their names in the office of Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) located near the Kalaburagi Railway Station. Umapathi Patil, district president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Siddaram Pyati, former ZP member, and activists Shoukat Ali Alur and Rajashekhar Yankanchi were present.  It was a cold-blooded murder by the Government to suppress the farmers’ movement against the anti-farmer laws which were enacted to help corporate companies sacrificing the farmers’ interests. The whole world has seen the brutality B.R. Patil,Congress leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/part-of-ashes-of-lakhimpur-kheri-deceased-to-be-immersed-in-the-krishna-today/article37263215.ece
31 October 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||SDPI stages protest||Condemning the alleged attacks on minorities in Tripura, members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) staged a demonstration outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Kalaburagi on Friday. SDPI district president Syeduddin Farooq and district secretary Mohammad Azam said that the silence of the mainstream political parties, which claim to stand for the cause of the downtrodden, marginalised and minority communities, over right-wing fascist violence against Muslims is highly sickening. Mr. Azam accused the political parties of using Muslims as vote-bank, while failing to protect the community. The agitators urged the Centre and the Bangladesh Government to take adequate steps to prevent recurrence of such violent incidents in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sdpi-stages-protest/article37263203.ece
31 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Black spots increasing in city, say Congress members||The Opposition Congress in the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) council said on Saturday that black spots in the city are rising owing to irregular collection of solid waste from doorsteps. They said that dry waste is not being lifted from all doorsteps and hence many are dumping the garbage on the roadside or vacant land. Councillor Praveenchandra Alva said that as per information, 24 vehicles, including 12 compactors and an equal number of mini vehicles which collect waste from the doorsteps, are under repair. Hence the contract agency, Antony Waste Handling Cell Pvt Ltd., is not collecting waste from all houses daily. Another member Naveen R. D’Souza said that sanitary inspectors are not supervising the garbage collection properly. When Whip in council Sudhir Shetty Kannur, from the BJP, started responding to the charges, there was a heated exchange of words between the ruling and the Opposition members who stormed the Well of the House. After Mayor Premananda Shetty convinced them to return to their seats, he told the council that the vehicles under repair had been replaced. If required, ward-level meetings can be called to address the issues related to solid waste management, he said. The Mayor said that the Congress disrupted the proceedings with a pre-conceived agenda. He said that vehicles going for repair and maintenance was a permanent feature since the garbage collection and transportation was handed over to a single contractor. Some vehicles will be under maintenance. The Congress is blowing it out of proportion. The Mayor said that in some areas in the city dry waste in being lifted now in the afternoons not only on Fridays but other days too. CCTV cameras had been installed at about six black spots to prevent dumping of the garbage, the Mayor said. Senior member of the House Lancelot Pinto, from the Congress, alleged that the contractor of the corporation installing the LED street lights instead of fixing the lights of 24 watts on interior roads has installed the lights of 20 watts. Moves are on to install 34 watts lights on the main roads which should have lights of 60 watts capacity, he said. Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar said that he will get it verified. The Mayor announced the constitution of a House committee to inspect the Asian Development Bank funded projects in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/black-spots-increasing-in-city-say-congress-members/article37263382.ece
31 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||We are not into caste politics: Khuba||The Union Government and elected representatives of the BJP are working for the welfare of all people and there is no caste, creed and religious bias in their actions, said Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers Bhagwanth Khuba on Saturday. Speaking at the district-level credit outreach programme at B.C. Road, Mr. Khuba said true to the philosophy of ‘Sab Ka Saath, Sab Ka Vikas’, the Centre was working for development of every person in the country. “We are not like the Congress that does caste politics and keeps Dalits and minorities away from the mainstream. Our welfare schemes are meant for all,” he said. He claimed the Narendra Modigovernment had brought out 146 welfare schemes that had reached over 80 crore people. “We are not thinking whether the beneficiary is a Hindu, a Muslim, or a Sikh,” he said. “More than 16 crore farmers in the country have benefited from measures taken by the Centre to increase agricultural income. These people-friendly measures have helpedin bringing the Centre closer to the people.” Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP for Dakshina Kannada, said banks in Dakshina Kannada have been on top in disbursing loans under various Central schemes. More than two lakh people in the district have opened their own enterprises by securing loan under the Mudra scheme. As many as 1.5 lakh farmers have received Rs. 215 crore under the Kisan Samman Yojana. Nearly 400 street vendors in Mangaluru are beneficiaries of the financial assistance scheme recently announced by the Centre. There are a total of 10 lakh beneficiaries of different Central welfare schemes in Dakshina Kannada, he said. Mr. Kateel called upon bankers to have at least one Tulu and Kannada-speaking person at each branch. Bankers should make efforts to take financial inclusion and other schemes to the people’s doorstep.  We are not like the Congress that does caste politics and keeps Dalits and minorities away from the mainstream. Our welfare schemes are meant for all Bhagwanth Khuba, Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-are-not-into-caste-politics-khuba/article37263388.ece
31 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Integrated coastal fishing village proposed at Sasihitlu, says Hegde||The Coastal Development Authority has proposed to develop an integrated coastal fishing village at Sasihitlu village of Mangaluru taluk, near Mulky, said Chairman Mattar Ratnakar Hegde here on Saturday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Hegde said integrated coastal fishing villages are being developed as part of the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana. Apart from improving facilities at the fish-landing point, these villages will have other facilities, including areas for drying fish, processing, preservation, and selling it. Mr. Hegde said the Dakshina Kannada district administration has earmarked area around the jetty in Sasihitlu for the purpose. An amount of Rs. 7.5 crore has been earmarked for the project. While the State Government will spend Rs. 3 crore, the remaining will be spent by the Centre, he said. Following a meeting with fishermen and other representatives in Udupi recently, Mr. Hegde said Union Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Information and Publicity L. Murugan agreed to develop coastal fishing villages in Malpe of Udupi district and Honnavar of Uttara Kannada district. Of the Rs. 9 crore funds released by the State Government this year, Mr. Hegde said the authority has taken up 194 works of which 78 are spillover works of the earlier years. It includes 92 works related to laying roads, 35 works of constructing wide footbridges, and 11 related to the construction of new fish markets. Solar facility The authority is looking at the feasibility of having a solar powered fish drying facility in Malpe. It is also considering initiating the process for obtaining geo-tag for the paddy variety grown in coastal Karnataka region ,which is available as “Kuchalakki” rice (boiled rice).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/integrated-coastal-fishing-village-proposed-at-sasihitlu-says-hegde/article37263384.ece
31 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 patient dies in DK||Dakshina Kannada reported one COVID-19 death and 21 new cases on Saturday. With 27 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 272. Test positivity rate was put at 0.31%. A fine totalling Rs. 1,07,42,370 has so far been collected in 88,494 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported 14 new cases, of which 11 are from Udupi taluk, one from Kundapur taluk, and two from Karkala taluk. While 13 patients are in home isolation, one is in government health care facility. With seven patients discharged, there are 43 active cases in the district. With 6,446 people vaccinated on Saturday, the total number of people covered in Dakshina Kannada reached 23,78,359. Of these, 15,30,965 have received their first dose and 8,47,394 their second. In Udupi 2,199 people were vaccinated taking the total number to 14,48,348 of which 9,19,058 have received their first dose and 5,29,290 their second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-patient-dies-in-dk/article37263385.ece
31 October 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Selected for Rajyotsava award||Kambala jockey Ravikumar Aladangadi, Yakshagana artist Jayanand Sampaje, and writer Parvati G. Aital are among those who have been selected for the Rajyotsava award of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts this year. The award will be conferred on November 1. 52-year-old Aladangadi has been running in Kambala events for over three decades. Among his several feats, in 2006 he ran 57 rounds on a single day and secured four medals. The Dakshina Kannada district administration will confer awards to 58 persons. It includes chartered accountant S.S. Nayak, athletics coach Dinesh Kunder, saxophone player P.K. Damodar, nagaswara player Shivaram Sherigar, talamaddale player Padmanabha Shettigar, singer Puttur Panduranga Nayak, writer P. Ramakrishna Shastry, family physician Gopalakrishna Bhat Sankabittilu, doctor Shashikanth Tiwari, artist Devikiran Ganeshpura, the Health India Foundation, the White Doves, and Sanatana Natyalaya. Udupi administration will present the award to Ms. Aital and 34 other persons. It includes sportsperson Gangadhar G. Kadekar, Divyang artist Ganesh Panjimaru, doctors Parampalli Chandrashekar Sudhakar and Shashikiran Umakanth, artist Akshata Devadiga, artistes B. Rama Tailor, Vandana Rai, Sujit Kotian, Hariprasad Nandalike and K. Tilakraj, social activist Mohammed Farooq, and the South Canara Photographers’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/selected-for-rajyotsava-award/article37263383.ece
31 October 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||All tourist attractions at Pilikula will remain open on November 1. There is no holiday. People can visit the zoo, lake garden, botanical museum, herbarium, cultural village, science centre and planetarium.    There will be no power supply to Kundapur, Koteshwara, Hangaluru, Japti, Thekkatte, Vakwadi, Koni Industrial Area, Tallur, Korgi, and Hemmadi in Udupi district on November 2 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. It is for maintenance works.    The Kannada Book Authority will sell books published by it at 50% rebate in the offices of Assistant Directors of Department of Kannada and Culture in districts thought out November. It is for Rajyotsava, an official release said.    Moms of Mangalore will organise a pink walk to create awareness on breast cancer in the city on Sunday. The walk will start from Bharat Mall and will end there after covering Kadri Park at 7 a.m., a release said.    Unreserved coaches will be restored on Train 06323/06324 Coimbatore Junction – Mangaluru Central – Coimbatore Junction daily special train services from November 1. Unreserved ticketing system will be activated at all the railway stations where the two trains have stoppages, a Southern Railway release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37263379.ece
31 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Chamarajanagar shuts down for Puneeth||Traders and commercial establishments in Chamarajanagar observed a self-imposed bandh on Saturday as a mark of respect to film actor Puneeth Rajkumar, who passed away in Bengaluru on Friday. Son of the legendary actor Dr. Rajkumar, whose birthplace Gajanur is close to the town, Puneeth used to visit the village, taking time out from his busy shooting schedule, as he had a great liking towards it. He used to spend time at places considered to be his father’s favourites, such as the banyan tree and the ancestral home. Puneeth had become the brand ambassador for Chamarajanagar district earlier this year. Unable to digest that the popular film star and youth icon is no more, the grieving people from Chamarajanagar paid their respects by putting up the late actor’s posters at various junctions here. A large number of the people from the district rushed to Bengaluru to pay homage to him. Many business and commercial establishments downed shutters, and as did hotels and neighbourhood shops. Some roads looked deserted with thin vehicular movement from the morning. Barring shops selling essential goods, other trades downed their shutters as a mark of respect to Puneeth Rajkumar, who was fondly called “Appu” and “Power Star” by his fans. The grieving fans took out a bike rally in the town carrying the late actor’s photographs. The youth of Chamarajanagar put up “shraddanjali” posters at various places. Promoting district Puneeth was featured in a short video on Chamarajanagar and its strengths after the actor agreed to become the brand ambassador for “Cheluva Chamarajanagar”, an initiative by the district administration to promote the district and its tourist sites. When the then Minister in charge of Chamarajanagar district, S. Suresh Kumar, and Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi approached the actor at his residence in Bengaluru early this year, he enthusiastically accepted the proposal. During the launch of the video promoting Chamarajanagar, the actor had spoken virtually and wished all success. He had expressed happiness over being chosen as the brand ambassador for his “ nammooru ”. He had also produced a documentary on the B.R. Hills forests. In his last visit to Gajanur, which was in May this year, Puneeth had arrived to enquire about the health of his aunt Nagamma. He spent time at the house where Dr. Rajkumar was born. Mysuru visits The late actor used to visit Mysuru and climb the steps of the Chamundi Hills during ‘Ashada’ season. A fitness enthusiast, he used to climb up the steps barefoot and visit the temple seeking the blessings of the goddess. There were some eateries in Mysuru liked by the actor where he used to relish the food, particularly non-veg cuisine. Meanwhile, members of Helping Hands, a Jain youth organisation, paid homage to Puneeth at ‘Kabutar Dhaan’ in front of the palace here on Saturday where the pigeons are fed daily by the donors. The grieving members laid out the words “Om Shanthi Puneeth Rajkumar” using foodgrains. Grieving members of Shakthidhama, an organisation for helping women in distress and educating girls from underprivileged families that was founded by the family of Dr. Rajkumar in Mysuru several years ago, also paid homage to Puneeth. The children offered floral tributes to a portrait of the late actor and also sang the famous song “Bombe Heluthaithe Matthe Heluthaithe Neene Rajakumar” from the superhit film Raajakumara . The late actor used to visit the NGO whenever he was in Mysuru and was a big supporter of Shakthidhama since it was founded. He also had plans to expand the centre for education of girl children.  Foodgrain tribute Members of Helping Hands, a Jain youth organisation, paid homage to Puneeth at ‘Kabutar Dhaan’ in front of the palace here on Saturday where the pigeons are fed daily by the donors. The members laid out the words “Om Shanthi Puneeth Rajkumar” using foodgrains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chamarajanagar-shuts-down-for-puneeth/article37263211.ece
31 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MUDA pushing for MetroLite||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) was pushing for a MetroLite to cater to the long-term requirements of the city’s public transportation. Though the project was still in the conceptual stage, the MUDA was in touch with the metro authorities who have suggested that MetroLite was ideal for a city of the size and population of Mysuru. This was stated by MUDA Commissioner D.B.Natesh during a phone-in programme organised by JSS Radio 91.2 FM, on Friday. It is pertinent to recall that the Centre has plans to roll out MetroLite and MetroNeo to provide metro rail systems at lesser cost with same experience, convenience and safety in Tier-2 cities and the MUDA was exploring the possibilities of getting the project approved for Mysuru. Mr. Natesh, who spoke on the long-term projects and infrastructure works for Mysuru and being conceived by the MUDA, said the metro authorities at the Centre have suggested that a feasibility study be prepared and submitted to them and they would send their experts for a thorough evaluation. Water supply The MUDA Commissioner said the drinking water supply to Mysuru would also be shored up with the implementation of the Haleunduwadi project at the backwaters of the KRS. This would take care of the requirements of the city for the next 50 years. The Commissioner also fielded questions from the general public pertaining to lack of basic amenities in the MUDA layouts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muda-pushing-for-metrolite/article37263397.ece
31 October 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tree-felling along ORR opposed||A public hearing conducted by the Forest Department to fell nearly 530 trees to pave way for a service road along the Outer Ring Road (ORR) evoked vehement protests by environmentalists, here on Saturday. The papers containing the purported signatures of people in support of the tree-felling was torn apart as none of those present at the hearing came forward to affirm their views. The service road is proposed along the ORR from the Deve Gowda Circle to Nanjangud Road Junction and the activists flayed the Forest Department for its failure to ensure that the proposed road was laid before the planting and nurturing of the trees. It is the fault of the Forest Department and of the authorities responsible for laying the ORR that they did not factor in the trees while approving the width and the alignment, argued Bhanu Mohan, an activist. Similar views were expressed by others and the Forest Department staff said that they have already transplanted around 80 trees at different places but not all can be shifted. The activists said there were giant trees and hence suggested that the service road should skirt the trees so as to save them. When the authorities claimed that there were more number of people in support of the tree-felling and displayed papers purportedly containing their signatures, the activists from Parisara Balaga questioned the authenticity. Names checked They called out the names of those supposed to have signed in favour of tree-felling. But it transpired that not one of those said to be supportive of it as per the claims of the Forest Department, were present. Suspecting that bogus signatures had been created, the papers were torn. ACF Rangaswamy and others were present.  Nearly 530 trees to pave way for a service road along ORR Authorities claim that there are more number of people in support of tree-felling Parisara Balaga questions the authenticity of the claim||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tree-felling-along-orr-opposed/article37263399.ece
31 October 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Good response to virtual hackathon||‘InnovIndia: 2.0’, the second edition of Yi Mysuru flagship 24-hour virtual hackathon conducted recently with the objective of providing an opportunity for students to build prototypes/App-based solutions, evoked good response with 35 teams from Mysuru, Pune, Madurai and Erode chapters presenting their ideas and prototypes to the jury. The main aim of the event was to tackle some of the challenges related to the current social or business problems. The topics were - Develop an innovative solution in food manufacturing or food distribution; Come up with an innovative solution to promote tourism in your city; Build an innovative solution in the Electric Vehicle (EV) space; Come up with a solution to reduce or manage air pollution in your city; Build a solution that can help small and medium enterprises to scale their business; Develop an innovative solution that can help the elderly or specially-abled citizens; Come up with a solution to promote financial literacy; and Build a solution to train, educate and up-skill blue-collar workforce. Cash prizes The top 3 teams were awarded cash prizes. They will also be given a chance to pitch their idea and showcase their prototypes in front of a venture capitalist to scale up their idea into a business opportunity, a release said here. The winning teams are: First place - GetsetEV (Eco prime) from IIEBM Indus Business School Pune; Second place - Team Synthesizers from VVCE, Mysuru; and Third place - Team Dementia Decliners, ATME College of Engineering, Mysuru. The event was organised entirely on a digital platform without any physical meetings. “It was heartening to see students rise to the occasion and come up with innovative web/mobile app/prototype solutions,” Yi Mysuru said. The event was sponsored by Rangsons LLP, Excelsoft Technologies and Excel Empathy Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-response-to-virtual-hackathon/article37262990.ece
31 October 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Man, daughter killed in accident||A man and his eight-year-old daughter were killed on the spot and two others were severely injured near Javalagera village in Sindhanur taluk of Raichur district on Saturday. The victims were identified as Durgaprasad and Vidya. Mr. Durgaprasad was a priest in Ambha Mutt in Sindhanur taluk. The injured have been identified as Veena, wife of Mr. Durgaprasad, and Maruti, the driver of their car. The condition of the injured, who have been shifted to Ballari, is stated to be critical. The incident occurred when their car collided with a KKRTC bus, the police said. A case was registered in Balaganur police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-daughter-killed-in-accident/article37263207.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Appu, the star who was boy next door||It was only natural that I was a “fan” of film stars, considering I grew up in a household that watched movies and saw those narratives as part of life. The social construct of a “fan” often eludes analysis. I was a fan of Annavru (Dr. Rajkumar) as a child and veered towards Shankar Nag during my youth. Then came a phase when I began to view films intellectually and my emotional connect with them declined. It was in my middle age that I became a fan of Appu (Puneeth Rajkumar). He was a “cute presence” in many of Annavru ’s movies as a child artist and had already left a mark in our hearts. In films such as Chalisuva Modagalu we did not admire him just because he was as Annavru ’s son but because of the charming way in which he played the role of a poor, street smart boy. Similar was his role in Eradu Nakshatragalu . The role he played in Bhagyavantha was not merely melodramatic. His execution of the role made us empathise with children in households such as the one depicted in the film and gave Puneeth a warm place in our hearts. He surprised us by emerging as an independent actor outside the shadow of his father in Bettada Hoovu . When I look back at all his roles from Premada Kanike till Bettada Hoovu , I see a panoramic view of children growing up in ordinary homes in Karnataka. He comes across as a symbol that reflects the reactions of our own children as we show love and impatience by turns amid our daily grind. Annavru ’s fans like me secretly hoped that our own children would grow up street smart like the boy of Bettada Hoovu . The initial roles he played as a grown-up “hero” somehow did not seem in tune with the Appu we knew. But in films that came after 2005 such as Arasu , Milana , Jackie , Prithvi , Paramatma , and Maithri , he came across as that same familiar boy now all grown up. He was much like the young man in our own homes with all the mischief, confusion, and human longings. We cherished his big, 16-teeth-showing smile. In television reality shows, Puneeth engaged in conversations with ordinary people with an open heart, without even an iota of the airs we associate with big stars. He was no longer an artificial persona on the silver screen for most of us. I was forever ready to challenge those who saw it all as nothing but a game of advertising and big money. Why be so harshly judgemental when we too are caught up in the same trap of livelihood, I would say in his defence. Puneeth, whom I had never met, had become someone I would fiercely defend. Though we knew nothing of his social commitment or service, the Appu we saw on our screens had built a deeply emotional connect. The grief we feel today with his passing away is but an extension of it.  (The author is a film   enthusiast and critic.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appu-the-star-who-was-boy-next-door/article37262999.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘No penalty on bulk waste generators from tomorrow’||This will be followed by a fine of Rs. 25 per flat in the second month.  The challan for paying the penalty can be obtained from the health section at the corporation office, he said. Responding to the announcement of the Mayor at the meeting, Leader of the Opposition Congress A. C. Vinayraj said that the bulk waste generators are not confused but rather the officials of the corporation are. He wanted to know whether the corporation has obtained the approval of the Standing Committee on Taxation, Finance and Appeals before proposing to impose the fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-penalty-on-bulk-waste-generators-from-tomorrow/article37263386.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Safety hazard||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/safety-hazard/article37262996.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Communist Party of India (Marxists): Leader of the party Sunil Kumar Bajal inaugurates Mangaluru City North level conference, Vishwaraj Hall, Kulur, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article37263380.ece
31 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Delayed opening for 50 Kuttanad schools||All arrangements are in place for the reopening of schools in the district on November 1, District Collector A. Alexander has said. Of the total 770 schools in the district, classes will begin in 720 institutions on Monday. Guidelines Besides, 121 higher secondary schools and 21 vocational higher secondary schools will welcome students that day. Fifty schools in flood-hit Kuttanad will be opened later. Mr. Alexander said that classes would be conducted adhering to guidelines issued by the State government. Midday meals V.R. Shyla, Deputy Director of Education, Alappuzha said that students would be provided midday meals. Ms. Shyla said that clean drinking water would be made available in schools. Classrooms were being disinfected. The Health Department will conduct awareness campaigns on COVID-19 prevention measures for teachers, students, parents and other employees of schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/delayed-opening-for-50-kuttanad-schools/article37263347.ece
31 October 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha gets a new lighthouse||The Centre is committed to the development of coastal areas, Union Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways Sarbananda Sonowal has said. He was inaugurating the Valiyazheekkal lighthouse in Alappuzha on Saturday. Mr. Sonowal said the coastal areas had enormous tourism potential and his ministry was ready to assist if the State government presented good proposals. Cost of Rs. 8.49 crore The Valiyazheekkal lighthouse, a 41.26-metre-tall reinforced cement concrete tower with elevator and allied buildings, was constructed in 1,830 square metres of land at a cost of Rs. 8.49 crore. It is India’s first pentagon-shaped lighthouse and the second tallest in Kerala. The light equipment, an LED marine lantern with a luminous range of 24 nautical miles, works on solar energy. The Valiyazheekkal lighthouse will benefit the mariners sailing through the region and the local fishermen. It is expected to boost tourism activities in the region. It has a lift to take visitors to the top of the tower. The lighthouse is linked to the National Automatic Identification System (NAIS) for tracking ships. Earlier, the Centre had approved the construction of 75 lighthouses including 11 in Kerala. A.M. Ariff, MP; and Ramesh Chennithala, MLA, attended the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-gets-a-new-lighthouse/article37263349.ece
31 October 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Vilwadri cattle established as genetically divergent||A genetic diversity study by a group of scientists of the Centre for Advanced Studies in Animal Genetics and Breeding (CASAGB) under Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) has established that the native Vilwadri cattle of Thrissur district is genetically divergent from the rest of the cattle population in the State. The two-year study, Genetic diversity analysis among cattle genetic groups of Kerala using microsatellite markers, has been conducted with financial assistance of the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment. Cross-bred cattle “The cattle population, including cross-bred cattle of Kerala, Vechur, Kasaragod, Vadakara, and Vilwadri were studied using 25 microsatellites (genetic markers) chosen from the Food and Agriculture Organization and the International Society for Animal Genetics panel, which were amplified from genomic DNA using multiplex polymerase chain reaction,” says G. Radhika, Associate Professor, Department of Animal Genetics and Breeding, College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Pookode. The final result showed that the native cattle breed of Kerala — Vechur, along with Kasaragod and Vilwadri cattle — separated into distinct populations with more genetic distance from others, says Dr. Radhika, who is also the principal investigator of the project. This finding will definitely promote the efforts for the conservation of these animals, she says. The Vilwadri cattle are found in the Thiruvilwamala area on the Palakkad-Thrissur border. The cattle are humped like other indigenous cattle of the State, but they are bigger with longer horns compared to others. Indigenous breeds are disease-resistant and can withstand high temperatures. Other members of the team include T.V. Aravindakshan, Director, CASAGB, Mannuthy; K. Anilkumar, Professor, and M. Manoj, Assistant Professor, Department of Animal Genetics and Breeding, College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Mannuthy; S. Ajithkumar, Director, Clinics, KVASU, Pookode; and Stephy Thomas, Research Assistant. The team has been supported by the Kasaragod Cattle Farm and the conservation trusts of Vilwadri and Vadakara cattle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vilwadri-cattle-established-as-genetically-divergent/article37263367.ece
31 October 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Land to be acquired for inland waterway: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said land will be acquired for the 600-km inland waterway from Kovalam to Bekal on stretches with no natural path. He was laying the foundation stone for a five-star beach resort being built by the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) at Muzhappilangad here on Saturday. He said land would have to be acquired for waterways at some stretches in Vadakara, Kannur, and Kasaragod. “This is a government that understands the difficulties of land acquisition in densely populated Kerala. But land acquisition is a must for the development of the country. Adequate compensation and rehabilitation will be ensured for those who give up their land,” Mr. Vijayan said. Tourist spots He said there would be tourist spots every 50 km along the waterway. Through these centres, it would be possible to market local dishes and products. Mr. Vijayan said, apart from that, this route could also offer the wonder of a 600-km waterway journey. Thus, the waterway would benefit the country. “No matter who adopts a narrow-minded attitude towards development, the government will go ahead with development projects and it needs the support of the people and the country,” he said. The KTDC was launching such the five-star resort as part of its efforts to provide necessary facilities to tourists, the Chief Minister said. Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas, who presided over the function, said Muzhappilangad, a popular destination in north Malabar, would gain more prominence with the completion of the resort. A convention centre would be set up in the second phase. The resort is being built on 3.96 acres at a cost of Rs. 39 crore. The resort, having 40 rooms, including eight suites, swimming pool, spa, and restaurant facilities, will be completed in the first phase. Acquisition of 2.5 acres adjoining the project area is in progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-to-be-acquired-for-inland-waterway/article37263265.ece
31 October 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Man pours acid on stepson’s face, arrested||The police arrested a 67-year-old man who allegedly poured acid on his stepson’s face, critically injuring him. The incident took place at Manathana on Friday. According to the Peravoor police, Jose Mankuzhi, who attacked Biju Chacko, 50, has been living separately for over a year following a court order on a property dispute. A day before the incident, Jose had reportedly called Biju for a meeting to settle the dispute. However, Biju did not turn up, and in a fit of rage, Jose attacked him. The police also arrested Sreedharan, who was allegedly with the accused. Biju was initially taken to the Peravoor Taluk Hospital with injuries to his eyes, face, and hands and was later shifted to a private hospital in Kozhikode. Jose also stabbed Biju on his arms with a machete and allegedly prevented him from being taken to hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-pours-acid-on-stepsons-face-arrested/article37263272.ece
31 October 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Fishers of Moosodi seek reconstruction of houses||Whenever the meteorological department issues alerts of heavy rain in the wake of a depression in the Arabian sea, fishermen such as M. Abdul Majeed and others on the Moosodi beach at Manjeshwar in Kasaragod have a sleepless night. For the past two years, such alerts have portended a nightmare for them with houses being damaged or totally destroyed in the cyclone and the consequent sea erosion. Paying of rent There has been no significant support from the government, except for a small compensation, which some of them have already used for paying the rent for the houses to which they have been forced to move following the disaster. Riyaz, a fisherman here, who lost his house two years ago, received a compensation of Rs. 95,000. But since then, he has been living in a rented house with his family. “I have finished the money paying the rent for the house, which is Rs. 5,000 per month. Now, we have lost all hope of receiving any help from the government”, he said. Mr. Majeed, another fisherman, is forced to live at his brother’s house after his own dwelling collapsed in front of him during cyclone Tauktae earlier this year. “My house was partly damaged in 2018, but in March this year, the seawater completely destroyed the house in front of us,” he said. Except for empty promises of compensation by the government of paying Rs. 10 lakh for construction of a new house, they had received anything, he lamented. After knocking on every door of government offices, he finally got a relief of Rs. 95,000 recently. But the officials had not still confirmed when the promised Rs. 10 lakh would be paid. More than 10 persons now live in the house belonging Mr. Majeed’s brother. That house too is near the beach and the fear of waves taking away this house too constantly looms in their mind. Till now, the Fisheries department has helped in constructing houses for only two fishermen who were affected prior to 2018. Another fisherman, who approached the court, received the complete compensation of Rs. 10 lakh. Many here lamented that they were not financially sound to approach the court against the inaction of the authorities. Identiying land However, P.V. Satheesan, Deputy Director of Fisheries Department, said they would allot the compensation to fishermen families if they identified a suitable land for constructing the house. Many of them had not identified such land while several others were not fishermen or were working in other places, including abroad, he said. Mr. Satheesan said that the authorities were constructing flats for 140 families at Kozhipadi in Kumbala at a cost of Rs. 23 crore. ‘Bid to uproot fishers’ However, members of the fishermen community said there was an attempt to uproot them from their land. They alleged that flats were constructed to help people who had a vested interest in their land. They demanded that the fishing community be given the land near to the beach where they live now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-of-moosodi-seek-reconstruction-of-houses/article37263266.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Illegal waste water outlets into canals on the rise in Kochi||As many as 124 outlets have been found discharging waste water/sewage into Perandoor and Edappally canals, according to the findings of a sanitation survey. The survey details were submitted to the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal, which had taken suo motu notice of the report titled ‘Faecal contamination high in Perandoor, Edappally canals’ published in The Hindu on January 28. The report had revealed that the total coliform count, indicating faecal contamination, had exceeded the maximum permissible limits by 160 and 96 times respectively in the canals owing to unauthorised sewage dumping. The tribunal had asked the authorities to come up with short- and long-term measures to address the issue. The sanitation survey carried out by the Kochi Corporation found that 111 outlets were directed into the Perandoor canal at various points. Thirteen outlets were identified on a 1-km stretch of the Edappally canal in the first phase of the survey. As many as 24 outlets were closed at various points. Notices were issued for the closure of the remaining outlets and follow-up action is being taken, according to a report of the Environment Department. High water level in the canal due to rain and high tide is affecting the identification of outlets. Surveillance squads have been formed to initiate action against violators and seize vehicles disposing of solid and liquid waste in public areas, with the help of the police. A prosecution cell has been formed to take stringent action against those who deposit/dispose solid or liquid waste in public places and waterbodies. It will take further action on cases/reports submitted by surveillance squads by filing cases in the magistrate court. The Environment Department report recalled that a fine of Rs. 5.4 lakh had been imposed on violators in the last two years for dumping waste in public areas. The Irrigation Department has identified 73 waste dumping hotspots in waterbodies. Waste in such areas was cleared, and a surveillance squad has been deployed to prevent further dumping. Estimates have been prepared for setting up around 75 warning boards and detailing penalty and punishment at the spots at a cost of Rs. 8.25 lakh, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/illegal-waste-water-outlets-into-canals-on-the-rise-in-kochi/article37263299.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Flights from Kochi to touch pre-COVID level||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) has announced a winter schedule for the domestic sector, which will be effective between October 31 and March 26, 2022. Accordingly, CIAL will facilitate 694 weekly domestic operations, which are at par with the pre-pandemic period. The airport will see 50 daily domestic departures, including the resumption of daily services to Goa, Thiruvananthapuram, and Kannur operated by Indigo airlines. The ongoing summer schedule has been handling 456 aircraft movements a week. The flight to Goa will take off from Kochi at 11.10 p.m. An ATR flight operated by Indigo from Kannur will land here at 9.25 a.m. and leave for the State capital at 9.45 a.m. Indigo will operate another ATR flight in the Thiruvananthapuram-Kochi-Kannur sector. It will arrive from Thiruvananthapuram at 6.25 p.m. and leave for Kannur at 6.45 p.m. There will be 14 daily departures to Bengaluru. Delhi and Chennai will be connected with six daily flights each, whereas Hyderabad and Mumbai will be served by seven daily flights each. Connectivity to cities like Hubli, Kolkata, Mysore, and Pune has also been enhanced. International sectors “We are happy about the resumption of domestic services to many cities. It has been a long-time demand of passengers. As per the instructions of the CIAL chairman and the board of directors, CIAL has been trying to improve connectivity in international sectors too. We hope that by the end of this year, air traffic movements in Kochi will be back to normal,” said CIAL managing director S. Suhas in a press release. Indigo Airlines will have the largest number of flights out of Kochi. It will operate 172 weekly services. AirAsia, Air India, and GoAir have also increased the frequency of operations in all sectors, the communication added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-to-see-50-domestic-departures-a-day/article37263292.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Helping women beat pandemic blues||Notwithstanding the disruptions in repayments owing to the pandemic, the Kerala State Women’s Development Corporation (KSWDC) has distributed Rs. 43 crore across five districts during the previous fiscal. Women aged between 18 and 55 years from Ernakulam, Alappuzha, Thrissur, Kottayam, and Idukki benefited from the loans sanctioned by the KSWDC for income-generating projects. “While the disruptions in repayment remain a challenge for a semi-banking institution like us, we have kept on lending as part of pumping funds into society to cushion the blow dealt by the pandemic. Except for Idukki, where huge dues have piled up, we keep on lending under various schemes,” said Rangan M.R., regional manager, KSWDC, Ernakulam. The KSWDC had also offered moratorium on repayment for various periods since the pandemic. A programme called Athijeevanam was held whereby loans were extended by 18 months after a one-time settlement of dues till then. Though over 500 had applied for the scheme only about half availed themselves of its benefit. More takers So far, the corporation has lent over Rs. 20 crore in the region in the ongoing financial year. The number of people taking loans has increased marginally due to the impact of the pandemic. Though the KSWDC offers multiple loans, including individual loans of up to Rs. 30 lakh for five years at an interest rate of 6%, small loans up to Rs. 5 lakh remain the most sought-after ones across the region. Education loans up to Rs. 20 lakh is given for courses within the country and up to Rs. 30 lakh for those abroad at an interest rate of 3% for five years. The repayment of the principal has to start within six months after the course or the first month since getting a job, whichever is earlier. Till then the beneficiaries need to pay just the interest every six months. Microfinance scheme The KSWDC also offers loans under its microfinance scheme in a tie-up with the Kudumbashree for a term of 36 months. Except for loans under the microfinance scheme, all loans of the KSWDC entail collateral securities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/helping-women-beat-pandemic-blues/article37263268.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Municipality relaunches programme to sterilize dogs||The Thrikkakara municipal authorities have relaunched a programme to sterilize and rehabilitate community dogs with support from Daya Animal Care Foundation, a voluntary agency which runs Daya Technical Team for Animal Birth Control. Thrikkakara Municipal Chairperson Ajitha Thankappan said the programme had been launched to sterilize dogs and rehabilitate them to control community dog population. Municipality health standing committee chairman Rashid Ullampilly said the expertise of Daya Foundation was being utilised to rehabilitate community dogs, and that the operation was being supervised by the Kerala High Court, which had issued a directive to ensure humane treatment of animals. The alleged killing of an unspecified number of community dogs in Thrikkakara towards the end of July this year had led to allegations by animal rights activists of cruelty to animals. They had demanded an inquiry into the incidents as well as remedial measures under rules governing welfare of animals. Ambily Purackal of Daya Foundation said the sterilization programme was launched on October 16, and that till October 29, a total of 16 dogs had been sterilized under the supervision of the Daya expert team, which comprised veterinary surgeons and experienced animal handlers. The operations are conducted between 5.30 a.m. and 3.30 p.m. during which the identified dogs are caught and taken to the sterilization centre at Brahmapuram. They are rehabilitated after they recover and are fully healthy after sterilization. An official from the municipality accompanies the Daya team to identify the areas from where the dogs are to be caught for sterilization. The entire process is in keeping with the demand put up by the municipal authorities, Daya sources said.  The alleged killing of an unspecified number of community dogs in Thrikkakara towards the end of July this year had led to allegations by animal rights activists of cruelty to animals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/municipality-relaunches-programme-to-sterilize-dogs/article37263291.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Canal rejuvenation project to completed in three years||The rejuvenation of six major canals in Kochi under the Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System (IURWTS) project of Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) is expected to be over in nearly three years from the date of completion of the land acquisition process, according to officials. The project aims to reclaim the river edge as a public asset, improve its spatial structure and restore the city’s relationship with canals. Its primary objective is to create an efficient and durable infrastructure, which could host new activities, in addition to supporting the current one. Estimated at a cost of Rs. 1,528.27 crore, the project envisages the regeneration of six major canals in urban Kochi and develop them for inland navigation, tourism and recreational purposes. The canals to be developed include Edappally canal (11.23 km), Chilavannoor canal (11.15 km) Thevara-Perandoor canal (9.88 km), Thevara canal (1.41 km), Market canal (0.66 km), and Konthuruthy canal (0.67 km). The total length of the canals covered under the project is around 35 km. The funding of the project has been proposed under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). Treatment plants Nearly four sewage treatment plants of a total capacity of 31 MLD (million litres per day) and sewer lines covering almost 40% of the city figure among the key components of the IURWTS project. The Kerala Water Authority and KMRL authorities have held discussions on setting up the four sewage treatment plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/canal-rejuvenation-project-to-completed-in-three-years/article37263297.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Parenting clinics to be launched on a larger scale||Encouraged by the response to its parenting clinics, the Women and Child Development Department (WCDD) is set to take it to more people through outreach sessions. At present, the clinics are held at Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) offices by school psycho-social counsellors on Saturdays from 9.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. Steps are also being taken to expand the sessions and turn them into day-long affairs. WCDD conducts parenting clinics in association with UNICEF. “The idea is to hold at least one outreach parenting clinic session in every panchayat once in a month. The services of psychiatrists, psychologists, and nutritionists will be made available at these sessions,” said Premjith P., UNICEF Consultant for Child Protection. Branded service Plans are also afoot to develop parenting clinics as a branded service with quality infrastructure and better optics to overcome the perceived reluctance among middle and upper classes from availing of the service. Mostly people from the lower strata of society are now approaching the clinics. The programme was launched in February this year, and the clinics are currently held across 152 ICDS blocks and six corporations, having benefited over 8,000 parents and children. Learning disabilities The concept was introduced in the wake of a disturbing trend in child suicides amid the pandemic. It was assessed that parenting shortcomings were leading to many children taking their lives. Failure of parents in reading telltale signs of psychological and learning disabilities in children early enough was also found to be disastrous. “Parenting clinics aim at engendering responsible and positive parenting through expert guidance. Tending to behavioural issues, addictions, family discords, and issues faced by adolescents and offering solutions are among the primary goals of the clinics,” said Mr. Premjith. Counsellors School psycho-social counsellors were trained for offering the service. Where the issues at hand go beyond their capabilities, they are forwarded to the District Resource Centres of the WCDD and even the district mental health programme, if need be. Initially, the programme was launched as a social media campaign with celebrities before it was converted into full-blown parenting clinics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parenting-clinics-to-be-opened-on-a-larger-scale/article37263296.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Hydrogen-powered buses for metro feeder services||The State Government has approved a proposal of Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) to procure 10 hydrogen fuel cell-based electric buses to operate feeder services for the Kochi metro. The State has sanctioned Rs. 10 crore based on KMRL’s request for Rs. 11.55 crore to procure/introduce as many buses to augment the metro’s feeder service network. A Government Order issued by Principal Secretary (Transport) K.R. Jyotilal on Friday (October 29) said the sanction would be subject to KMRL inviting open bids for buses being wet-leased and for ensuring adequate supply of hydrogen. The total viability funding by the State Government for the project will be limited to Rs. 10 crore this year, it said. Such buses, the first to be introduced in Kerala, are expected to operate from suburban towns and busy commercial locales as stage carriers, halting at major bus stops en route to metro stations. 10 buses initially KMRL managing director Loknath Behera said the metro agency had decided to operate hydrogen-powered buses in keeping with the national policy to promote green fuels in the transportation sector. Details of their introduction and training that ought to be conducted for crew and other stakeholders are being worked out. The number of buses is limited to 10, since they will be operated on an experimental basis. More buses could follow, he added. Refuelling provision “The routes and other parameters will be worked out shortly, after assessing passenger demand. Provision for refuelling too ought to be readied,” Mr. Behera said. The reported failure on the part of KMRL to ready a sound network of feeder buses and autorickshaws, over four years since the metro’s commissioning, and despite trains carrying less than a tenth of the expected passenger patronage of over 4 lakh per day, had invited considerable flak. Green power sources Earlier this year, the Union Government had announced the launch of a Hydrogen Energy Mission to generate hydrogen from green power sources. Back in September 2016, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) had notified hydrogen as a fuel for Bharat Stage-VI vehicles, following which the Ministry specified the safety and type approval requirements for hydrogen fuel cell vehicles.  Government has sanctioned Rs. 10 cr. to augment Kochi metro’s feeder service network||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/metro-to-get-hydrogen-powered-buses-for-feeder-services/article37263301.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Satheesan terms police anti-women||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has accused Kerala Police of fast turning into an anti-women force. Talking to reporters on the sidelines of a function here on Saturday, Mr. Satheeshan told the police to mend their ways, failing which the Opposition would deal with them strongly. “Who gave the police the licence to misbehave with girls and women? Misbehaving with women who are participating in protests has become the norm. There is no question of putting up with this,” he said. The police have not yet arrested the culprits even on a petition filed by a woman leader of the All India Students Federation, the youth outfit of the second-most dominant party in the ruling alliance, after she was assaulted at Mahatma Gandhi University, he said. He demanded that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who also holds the Home Ministry, take stern action against the officers of the Cantonment police station who made anti-women comments about the Youth Congress girls who took out a march to the Assembly. Mr. Satheeshan said the apex court verdict releasing Thaha Fasal, booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), had vindicated the Opposition’s stance all along that there was no ground for invoking the Act against the two youngsters who were arrested on charge of being Maoist supporters. This was no different from what the Yogi Adithyanath government was doing in Uttar Pradesh. Demands apology “The Chief Minister and the Government should publicly apologise to those youngsters and their parents. The Left has dubbed the UAPA as draconian in Parliament and in public spaces only to invoke it to settle petty internal party squabbles. This shows that given the powers, Pinarayi Vijayan will be as autocratic as Modi,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-police-turning-anti-women-satheesan/article37263310.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Prime Minister’s invitation to Pope is historic, says KCBC||The Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC) has described as historic the invitation extended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Pope Francis to visit India. In a statement here on Saturday, KCBC president Cardinal Mar George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church, said the invitation extended to the Pope would increase the prestige of India among the community of nations. Pope Francis has been considered an advocate of great morality and the voice of humanity among world leaders. The visit of the Pope would help strengthen the ties between the Vatican and India as well as create greater friendship between Christians and other religious communities in the country, the cardinal said. The invitation extended to the Pope to visit India was a matter of great joy for all, especially the Christians, the Cardinal said. He also expressed the hope that the Pope would soon visit India, which was the seat of plurality, brotherhood, and peaceful coexistence among different communities. The council extended its greetings to the Prime Minister. BJP State president K. Surendran called on Cardinal Mar Baselious Cleemis, head of the Syro-Malankara Church, to highlight the Prime Minister’s meeting with the Pope. The cardinal welcomed the meeting and said the two leaders could bring humanity together for the common good. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan termed the Modi-Pope Francis summit a watershed in global politics. At a function in Thalassery, Mr. Muraleedharan said the meeting would reinforce peace and friendship and bring the world together for reversing climate change and other ills.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prime-ministers-invitation-to-pope-is-historic-says-kcbc/article37263312.ece
31 October 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Preferential treatment’ for child council raises eyebrows||The Kerala Government’s ‘preferential treatment’ for the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare (KSCCW), which is in the eye of a controversy over the alleged illegal adoption of a baby without the consent of its parents has raised many eyebrows. The KSCCW, a registered society under the Travancore-Cochin Literary Scientific and Charitable Societies Registration Act, has Governor as its patron. The Chief Minister is its president and Minister for Social Justice is its first vice president. Government officials including the Directors of Social Justice, Public Instruction and Health Services are its executive committee members, according to its website. The organisation carrying the words ‘Kerala State’ in its name, according to legal sources, goes against the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950 which bars the use of any name, emblem or official seal of the Central and State Governments without the previous permission of the Central Government. However, a former office-bearer of the society said the State Government had issued an order permitting the society to carry the words Kerala State in its name a few decades ago. ‘No illegality’ The society, said one of its office-bearers who refused to be quoted, is functioning under the name and style since its inception and in accordance with its bylaw. Hence, no illegality, he claimed. The State Government had allotted Rs. 1 crore for the society in the 2021-22 Budget. Two government officials, a Joint Secretary and an Under Secretary, are working with the society on deputation, he said. Shiju Khan, KSCCW general secretary, who felt there is a concerted effort to torpedo the society, declined to comment on the issues. Undue privilege R.K. Asha, lawyer and human rights activist, questioned what she termed undue privilege bestowed by the State Government on the society. “The Government should clarify the preferential treatment for the society, including fund allocation, which defeats the functioning of the Child Welfare Committee, established by law. The names of the organisation, its patron, president, and other executive committee members give the impression that its a government entity,” Ms. Asha said.  The State Government had issued an order permitting the society to carry the words Kerala State in its name a few decades ago||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/preferential-treatment-for-child-council-raises-eyebrows/article37263360.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to straighten ‘reverse curves’ on Pizhala connectivity road||The width of the 2.50-metre-wide concrete connectivity road that passes through paddy fields in Pizhala, one of the Goshree islands, will be increased, District Collector Jafar Malik, who is also the secretary of the Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA) said. It is crucial to get optimal use of Mollampilly-Pizhala bridges that were opened to traffic in June 2020. A total of Rs. 4.80 crore is needed to acquire land to widen the stretch, and the process has begun. Concerns raised by people of the island about road connectivity will be redressed, he said. The Pizhala Karamuttikkal Samara Samiti, an NGO that was in the forefront of the demand for bridge/road connectivity to Pizhala, has sought revision of the alignment of the proposed road. “This is because there are two reverse curves within a 41- metre distance posing danger to the safety of motorists, in the alignment readied by the GIDA. This goes against the State Government’s endeavour to straighten curves,” said Francis Dianish, vice president of the Samiti. It remains a mystery how the alignment, which needs more land acquisition than if it were straight, got technical sanction. Memoranda have been submitted to the Chief Minister and the ministers for Public Works and Local Self-Governments, since the GIDA and the district administration have not heeded to the demand to straighten the curves and to end the road in front of the Pizhala Church, where a bus stand can be readied, he said. Completion of the road is crucial for islanders to benefit from the Moolampilly-Pizhala bridge and its connectivity bridge, which are 704 metres in length.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-straighten-reverse-curves-on-pizhala-connectivity-road/article37263302.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kudumbashree’s Kerala Chicken to go in for value-added products||Kerala Chicken, an enterprise under the Kudumbashree Mission, has come through nearly two years of restrictions due to COVID-19 to achieve sales of around Rs. 50 crore and a daily turnover of around Rs. 25 lakh. Kudumbashree sources said the success of Kerala Chicken had prompted the Mission to consider launching processed meat and value-added products in the immediate future. Value-added products and processed meat are planned to be launched from three districts now depending on space availability for processing plants. Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, and Palakkad are being considered as possible locations, while a final decision will be taken on the basis of space availability, the sources said. There are a total of 84 Kerala Chicken outlets in the State, and 350 families, involved in running feed stores, chicken farms, and meat outlets, have benefited from the initiative. The outlets are now open in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kottayam, Thrissur, Ernakulam and Kozhikode districts. The programme will be expanded to include Palakkad, Kannur, Malappuram, and Alappuzha. The mission also plans to open premium chicken outlets across the State in the next stage of expansion of business. The Kerala Chicken brand was launched in 2017 to make quality broiler chicken available at reasonable price. A network of broiler chicken farms across the State using the Kudumbashree network is one of the objectives of the mission. Breeder units, hatcheries, feed supply units, abattoirs, cold storages, and marketing units under the brand name are being established as part of the initiative. As a step towards promoting broiler chicken business, a firm named Kudumbashree Broiler Farmers Producer Company Limited has been launched. There are around 240 farms operating under the Kerala Chicken brand across the State. The network will be expanded in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashrees-kerala-chicken-to-go-in-for-value-added-products/article37263269.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||DCC to protest against rising fuel prices||The District Congress Committee (DCC) will lay siege to the Edappally-Vytilla Bypass on Monday in protest against the frequent rise in fuel prices. A meeting of the DCC held here on Saturday decided to launch a protest programme against the Central and State government policies. The protest will start at 11 a.m. The left track of the bypass starting from Edappally will be fully blocked with vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dcc-to-protest-against-rising-fuel-prices/article37263303.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Union Minister visits Lakshadweep||On a three-day tour of Lakshadweep islands, L. Murugan, Union Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, visited the seaweed demonstration project site at Kavaratti and interacted with local women self-help groups, research scientists, entrepreneurs, and other stakeholders involved in seaweed cultivation. Livelihood He assured them all assistance for developing the Union Territory as a seaweed hub which, he said, would better their financial situation and create livelihood opportunities. Adviser to the Dweep administrator A. Anbarasu accompanied the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/union-minister-visits-lakshadweep/article37263306.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Food kits given to poor||Students of the National Service Scheme unit of St. Teresa’s College are trying to help the destitute and the homeless by providing them food and other essential items. A project to carry out this, Vazhiyoram, was inaugurated by Deputy Mayor K.A. Ansiya by giving clothes and food packets to around 50 individuals staying under the north overbridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-kits-given-to-poor/article37263307.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Judge: help students in transition to offline mode||Teachers should help students in the transition from ‘machine learning’ to offline classes, with schools reopening on November 1 after a gap of one-and-a-half years, Devan Ramachandran, judge of the Kerala High Court, said here on Saturday. “All parents may not be willing to send children to schools from the start of the academic session. Do not force them to go to school. If everything goes smoothly, schools will be back to normal by December,” he said while inaugurating the first anniversary conclave of Kochi Metro Sahodaya here. Justice Devan Ramachandran said care should be taken as children are not vaccinated. Health issues Teachers need to make them aware of the safety aspects. Several children are facing issues like obesity and eyesight issues following sedentary life at home during the past one-and-a-half years. The task of teachers now is not just ensuring intellectual and cognitive development of students, but physical development as well, he said. Around 70 principals and managers from nearly 55 CBSE schools in the central Kerala region attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/judge-help-students-in-transition-to-offline-mode/article37263311.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Exhibitors seek theatrical release of Marakkar||The Film Exhibitors United Organisation of Kerala (FEUOK) has urged producer-exhibitor Antony Perumbavoor to make some allowances in order to release the Mohanlal-starrer Marakkar:Arabikadalinte Simham in cinema theatres. The theatrical release of the film run into trouble after Antony said last week that discussions were progressing to release it on the OTT (over-the-top) platform. Cultural Affairs Minister Saji Cherian had said that the producer would definitely screen the movie in theatres. Representatives of the Kerala Film Chamber are holding talks with actor Mohanlal and Antony to bring the movie into the cinemas instead of going for a digital release. K. Vijayakumar, president, FEUOK, said on Saturday that the exhibitors were ready to provide an advance of Rs. 10 crore and more for the movie.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exhibitors-seek-theatrical-release-of-marakkar/article37263368.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||50% discount in metro on Nov. 1||Commuters will be able to travel at 50% discounted fares in Kochi metro trains on November 1, Kerala Formation Day. It will benefit all commuters who travel with QR tickets, Kochi-1 card, and trip passes, said a KMRL release. The Kochi metro had recently introduced a flexi fare system, offering 50% discount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/50-discount-in-metro-on-nov-1/article37263290.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Church heads welcome PM’s invitation to Pope||Prime Minister Narendra Modi extending an invitation to Pope Francis is a historic decision, Cardinal Mar George Alenchery, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church, has said. The India visit of the Pope will enhance the country's image. It will also strengthen ties between the Vatican and India, while also helping fortify the bond between church denominations and other religions in the country, he added. The Jacobite Syrian Christian Church termed the Prime Minister meeting the Pope a new ray of hope for humanity that is combating multiple threats. His India visit will go a long way in bringing Indians closer to one another, said Thomas Baselious I, Metropolitan of the church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/church-heads-welcome-pms-invitation-to-pope/article37263341.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held for assaulting woman||The Central police on Saturday arrested three persons on the charge of outraging the modesty of a woman. The arrested are Jiffy Abraham, 37, Justin, 35, and Wise, 33. The incident occurred on Saturday along Chathiyath Road around 1.15 a.m. They are accused of forcibly dragging out a woman and a man from their vehicle and verbally abusing them. Cops assaulted The Palluruthy police arrested a man and a woman on the charge of assaulting cops. The arrested are Muhammad Aslam, 25, of Kakkanad, and Neha, 25, of Vaduthala. The incident occurred at the Kumbalanghi Public Health Centre on Friday. The accused allegedly turned up drunk and created disturbance, following which cops from the nearby police outpost reached the scene. The accused then attacked the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-assaulting-woman/article37263304.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Three more arrested in forgery case||A special investigation squad of the Ernakulam Rural police has arrested three more persons in connection with the forgery of education certificates for sending youngsters abroad on student visas. The arrested are Lijo George, 35, of Kottayam, Abdul Salam, 35, of Palakkad, and Muhammed Niyas, 27, of Vaikom. Lijo, who ran an education consultancy firm at Nagambadam, had allegedly arranged forged Plus Two certificate of the Uttar Pradesh Board for Rs. 30,000. Abdul Salam had arranged forged BBA certificate of Madurai Kamaraj University for a student from Malappuram for Rs. 40,000, the police said. He runs a consultancy firm by the name UK Calling at Perinthalmanna. Muhammed Niyas, who runs a consultancy by the name Fly Abroad in Kochi, had allegedly arranged a forged B.Com certificate of Bangalore University for Rs. 40,000. The police have raided and seized documents of money transactions and certificates from the consultancy firms of the accused. The special squad comprises Inspector P.M. Baiju, Sub Inspectors Aneesh K. Das, Sunny, and Jayaprasad, Assistant Sub Inspector Pramod, senior civil police officers Naveen Das, Rony Augustine, Joseph, Renni, Ajith, and Yashanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-more-arrested-in-forgery-case/article37263305.ece
31 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Slain soldier’s sister will be given a job: Minister||The Government has taken steps to provide employment to the sister of H. Vaisakh, a jawan who was killed in an encounter with militants at the Poonch sector in Jammu and Kashmir on October 12. A resident of Kudavattur in Kollam, the 24-year-old was attached to the 16th Rashtriya Rifles Battalion. Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal, who visited the late soldier’s family on Saturday, said the Government would also clear the family’s debts. “The Cabinet has decided to take over debts of around Rs. 27 lakh,” he said. While official steps for the job will be expedited, university authorities will be instructed to issue her certificate without delay. His sister Shilpa can apply for the job by submitting the provisional certificate after the completion of her course. Many organisations and the panchayat have come forward to help the family and the Minister ensured all assistance of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/slain-soldiers-sister-will-be-given-a-job-minister/article37263351.ece
31 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Good response for caravan tourism policy||With proposals and inquires pouring in, the caravan tourism policy of the State is garnering good response from all corners. While the project is slated to hit the road in January 2022, the massive feedback has prompted the Tourism Department to launch a web portal for prospective groups and individuals. COVID-19 blues With the industry set to beat the COVID-19 blues and tourists looking for quieter destinations in the post-pandemic world, caravanning is expected to be a major attraction. “Since so many people are approaching us with proposals, especially for starting caravan parks, we will be opening a portal. All groups and individuals who want to set up a park or own a caravan can register there,” says Tourism Director V.R. Krishna Teja. While the department will be offering a subsidy for buying caravans, no assistance will be provided for parks that are minimum-investment structures. Sustainable future A template spotlighting sustainable future, the project allows guests to stay close to nature in maximum comfort. The department is projecting a three-fold tourism experience that involves luxury travel, pristine destinations, and a real taste of rural life. “Most global tourists who visit Kerala want to experience the tropical greenery and they are also familiar with the caravan culture. Caravanning is not a mode of transportation, but something that offers a wholesome experience to the visitors,” he adds. After the announcement of Kerala’s first caravan park at Marayoor, the department has received a volley of proposals from similar destinations. Along with major players, a lot of small and medium entrepreneurs are also exploring the possibility of caravan parks near current hotspots. The caravan parks will function as parking pavilions offering a few extra facilities that include good comfort stations along with mini-kitchens and cafeterias. Apart from IT-enabled real-time monitoring of caravans, the fenced parks will be under surveillance to ensure guests’ safety. Along with access to unexplored destinations and the option for plush accommodation, caravanning allows tourists to explore ecologically sensitive areas without harming the terrain. “You will be visiting the place in BS6 vehicles with stricter emission standards, causing nearly zero damage to the environment. And in the future if e-caravan comes, the situation will be more ideal,” he says. To benefit stakeholders Mr.Teja adds that the project will benefit all stakeholders in the sector, from industry giants to small-scale tour operators and guides. “Since the parks are coming up in rural spots, they will generate local employment and villagers will benefit from it,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-response-for-caravan-tourism-policy/article37263316.ece
31 October 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 627 new cases||Kollam reported 627 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,311 recoveries on Saturday. Of these, 621 patients contracted the virus through local contact. Five health workers were infected. The district has 20,437 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 25,28,617. While 1,047 people completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 4,04,142 primary and 21,824 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 10.8 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-reports-627-new-cases/article37263353.ece
31 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Police begin probe into murder bid||The Gandhinagar police have launched a probe into an alleged bid on the life of an autorickshaw driver by his passenger at an isolated site near the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kottayam, on Friday. Victim escapes Officials said the incident occurred around 9.30 p.m. when the accused, identified as 27-year-old Vishnu of Choottassery, allegedly poured acid on Akhil, the autorickshaw diver, and violently attacked him. Vehicle set afire The latter, however, managed to escape and alerted some local people about the incident. By the time a police team reached the spot, the accused had set the vehicle on fire and fled the scene. He, however, landed in police custody during a search operation. Preliminary investigations suggested that the accused had been contracted by a Pala native, identified as Vysakh, to kill the youth. As per reports, Vysakh had entered into an altercation with the autorickshaw driver a few days ago over his relationship with a girl. A probe is on and attempts are on to trace Vysakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-begin-probe-into-murder-attempt/article37263354.ece
31 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Elected president of Vanitha Congress (M)||A State committee meeting of the Kerala Vanitha Congress (M), held in Kottayam on Saturday, elected Pennamma Joseph as the new president of the organisation. A native of Meenachil, she had earlier served as a member of the Kottayam district panchayat, Kottayam District Bank Board Social Welfare Board, and as general secretary of the Teachers Front.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elected-president-of-vanitha-congress-m/article37263355.ece
31 October 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||RT Mission official to address WTM||K. Rupesh Kumar, State coordinator of the Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission under the Tourism Department, will speak in the World Travel Mart (WTM) to be held in London from November 1 to 4. The WTM is the world’s largest travel show in which 121 countries are set to participate, apart from 3,000-odd tour companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rt-mission-official-to-address-wtm/article37263356.ece
31 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Chaliyar paddling fest to boost tourism||The seventh edition of the Chaliyar River Paddle will begin on November 12. The three-day event to be hosted by Jellyfish Watersports in association with the Kerala Tourism between Nilambur and Beypore will uphold the theme ‘Go plastic negative’. The organisers said the 68-km paddling would offer opportunities at various levels for all from beginners to well-established watersport enthusiasts, nature lovers, tourists, children, and professionals. The event will promote the beauty of rivers and authentic Malabar cuisines, besides offering a platform to paddlers to meet like-minded people from various fields, they added. One of the highlights of the event is the participation of a number of local music bands in entertainment programmes. The city’s prominent restaurants will join as partners to offer the best dishes to participants. Considering participants’ safety, COVID-19 preventive vaccination certificate will be mandatory for all. Efforts are also on to promote the paddling fest as the phoenix event to boost domestic tourism. There are other attractive ingredients like local expeditions, camping, and sea paddling using kayaks. Many of the participants had taken part in the previous editions of the international kayaking event at Pulikkayam in Kozhikode. Kaushiq Kudithodika, chief coordinator of the event, said the Chaliyar River Paddle had its focus on saving local rivers from urban pollution and promoting recreational kayaking for all. “With the support of a non-governmental organisation, we will also give collection bags to all participants to collect plastic waste during the event and train them to segregate it for recycling,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chaliyar-paddling-fest-to-boost-tourism/article37263277.ece
31 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Propel India to elite club: Tessy Thomas||Tessy Thomas, scientist and Director General of Aeronautical Systems at the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), has said that “research, innovation, and quality” will be the three pillars on which India will become a knowledge superpower. Delivering the convocation address of the National Institute of Technology, Calicut, (NIT-C), on Saturday, Dr. Thomas said the DRDO’s efforts positioned the nation among the top few countries in the world with multilevel strategic capability. “India with its strong position in terms of advanced technology in the field of science and engineering and in-house research with academic institutions is churning out qualified and trained manpower,” said the ‘Missile Woman of India’, a moniker she earned for being the first woman scientist to head a missile project in India. She said the sustained efforts of scientists and technologists had propelled India to the elite club of nations in space, defence, and nuclear technologies. “New strategies need to be developed to induct, nurture and retain young talents in the engineering stream. We need to have a fresh look at the linkages between our national laboratories and the university system. We must renew our commitments fostering a scientific temper among students so that we are able to deal with the challenges in a scientific way,” said Dr. Thomas. With the current trend of automation and data exchange in manufacturing technologies, which included cyber-physical systems, cloud computing, and cognitive computing, she said ‘Industry 4.0’ is going to revolutionise the industry sector. “Today is the world of digitisation and networking is the prime factor, with Artificial Intelligence and the use of advanced materials for manufacturing,” added Dr. Thomas. Gajjala Yoganand, Chairperson, NIT-C Board of Governors, addressed the fresh graduands and NIT-C Director Prasad Krishna presented the annual report, highlighting the achievements of the institute in the academic year 2020-21. V. Manjunath of the Electrical and Electronics Engineering branch secured the highest CGPA (9.75/10) among all the outgoing BTech students. He was awarded the Bapana Gold Medal and the Prof. Allesu Kanjirathinkal Memorial Award. Among postgraduate students, Sana Shahul Hameed from the MTech Structural Engineering stream of Civil Engineering and S. Bala Murugan from the MTech. Manufacturing Technology stream of Mechanical Engineering bagged the Bapana Gold Medal with CGPA of 9.93 out 10. Toppers of the 10 B. Tech, 25 M. Tech, 3 M. Sc, MCA, and MBA programmes were also awarded gold medals for their outstanding performance in the respective specialisations. Registrar (in-charge) Jeevamma Jacob, Dean (Academic) Saly George and the heads of various departments administered the convocation ceremony in the virtual mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/propel-india-to-elite-club-tessy-thomas/article37263314.ece
31 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||NIT-C gets Rs. 7 cr. for research projects||The National Institute of Technology -Calicut (NIT-C) secured over Rs. 7 crore as external funding for research and development projects for 2020-21. The funds are for projects from various agencies including the Department of Science and Technology under the Ministry of Science and Technology, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Indian Space Research Organisation, Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment, Science and Engineering Research Board, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Directorate of Environment and Climate Change, Indian National Agricultural Research System and Aryaka Networks India Pvt Ltd. Presenting the annual report of the institute on Saturday, NIT-C Director Prasad Krishna said over Rs. 75 lakh was received towards testing and consultancy charges from clients like the Indian Railways, National Thermal Power Corporation Limited, National Highways Authority of India, Kerala State Electricity Board, and the Public Works Department. Nearly 20 patent applications were filed in the academic year 2020-2021, and five patents were granted based on research done at the institute, he added. In the academic year, Dr. Krishna said as many as 145 companies had recruited students through the Centre for Training and Placement of the NIT-C. All placement and internship activities were taken up in the online mode. The graduands of this year obtained 714 placement offers, and the maximum salary offered was Rs. 43.31 lakh per annum. A substantial number of the young graduands from UG, PG and Ph.D programmes have also opted for higher studies and postdoctoral programmes in India and abroad. Among pre-final year students, 186 got internship offers, he informed. Dr. Krishna said the NIT-C had obtained the 25th rank in NIRF-2021 in the engineering stream. In the architecture stream, the institute improved its position to second in India. The academic year 2020-2021 was completely run in online mode. All academic activities starting from admission to convocation too were successfully organised in online mode. Classes were held through Moodle-based Learning Management System Shiksha Kaushal customised for the institute, Dr. Krishna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nit-c-gets-rs-7-cr-for-research-projects/article37263273.ece
31 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||App to access govt. services to be promoted||District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy on Saturday released the official campaign posters of the newly launched Ente Jilla (My District) mobile application as part of efforts to popularise it among citizens. The app aims to help people easily access all government services. According to Revenue officials, Ente Jilla will help people know about various government services, review the functioning of government offices, and contact the departments concerned through phone calls and email. Citizens can also register complaints through the application, they said. The application, developed by the District Informatics Centre (DIC), is available for free download on Google play store. The user can select the district, departments, and offices. The services offered by various offices can be easily viewed with the help of the application. DIC officials said users could directly call the offices concerned using the Make a Call options. The Locate on Map option will help them find offices on Google Map. The Write a Review option will help users review the quality of services, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/app-to-access-govt-services-to-be-promoted/article37263264.ece
31 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police aid post at S.M. Street relocated||Unable to access power, an aid post opened by the Town police nearly two years ago at the entrance of S.M. Street has been relocated to a convenient spot on the street. Technical issues that led to the denial of power supply had reportedly affected the security system installed inside the small cabin with an aim to closely monitor live camera feeds from along the street. According to police sources, the power supply was denied with a claim that the cabin was operational on the premises of a building which was unfit and listed for demolition by the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation. They said the decision to demolish the building and reject the power connection was taken after allotting the space to the surveillance facility. “We have seen policemen struggling to operate the aid post without having power supply or any other basic requirements. Mostly they depended on street lights for functioning,” said a trader from the area. He said the Kozhikode Corporation authorities could have easily addressed the issue. Though the repair of the CCTV control room devices was carried out at the new location to resume full-fledged functioning, replacement would be required in the case of some costly components. The devices meant to increase street safety remained non-operational from 2018 onwards for want of power supply. Though the Tourism Department was expected to meet the operational cost of the facility, it had nothing to spend for management. Information counter “Apart from surveillance measures, the purpose of the aid post was to function as an information counter on the renovated street. Many a time the poor appearance of the aid post itself defeated the purpose,” said a tourist guide. The much hyped tie-up between the Police and Tourism departments actually failed to work out, he added. Meanwhile, some civil police officers who had worked at the spot said the lack of facilities hardly affected their routine duty on the street. Though the control rooms did not function, visuals from the street had been monitored by policemen from other control rooms, helping them net many criminals, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-aid-post-at-sm-street-relocated/article37263274.ece
31 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Private bus operators demand fare revision||With schools reopening on November 1, private bus operators are back with their demand to revise the concession ticket charge for students. The increasing fuel cost and maintenance expenses have been cited as the major reasons to press for a hike, which could also affect the existing minimum fares for other passengers. The bus operators’ association in Kozhikode district says they will be forced to launch an indefinite strike from November 9 if the State Government is not in favour of supporting the fare revision. Diesel price which stood at Rs. 66 a litre in 2020 is now Rs. 103, which alone would uncover the magnitude of the looming business crisis, they claim. According to the Bus Operators Association district president K.T. Vasudevan and general secretary M. Thulasidas, the existing concession ticket rate should be increased to 50% of the revised minimum fare to help the private bus industry survive in the midst of the continuing financial crisis. This should be done besides granting other packages and tax waivers, they demand. The association functionaries also point out that the private bus industry has been facing serious threat since the outbreak of the pandemic for over one-and-a-half years. Many private bus owners have left the industry or secured permission from the Motor Vehicles Department to stop services, they add. Mr. Thulasidas says only around 750 of the 1,260 private buses are actively running services in the district. The heavy repairing cost of damaged vehicles during the lockdown period also forced many to quit the field, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-bus-operators-demand-fare-revision/article37263275.ece
31 October 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kudumbashree to encourage self-employment ventures||To attract young women to self-employment ventures, the Kudumbashree Mission has decided to create auxiliary units in various wards of Mukkom Municipality. Women belonging to the age group of 18 to 40 will be absorbed into the groups, which will open up venues for them to be part of various social activities in their respective villages. According to Kudumbashree officials, the new units will emerge as a support system for the parent organisation and facilitate easy implementation of district- and State-level activities at the grassroots level. The members will be trained with the support of expert resource persons, they said. A primary workshop was organised for municipal councillors and local Kudumbashree unit coordinators at Mukkom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-to-encourage-self-employment-ventures/article37263279.ece
31 October 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||95 booked for violation of COVID protocol||The police on Saturday registered 95 cases against persons who violated the COVID-19 protocol in the district. While the Kozhikode City police registered 51 cases, the Rural police registered 44 cases. The cases were registered as part of the strict enforcement of the health protocol after an increasing infection rate was noticed in some localities. The majority of the cases related to violation of physical distancing norms and usage of masks. Of the 44 cases registered in Rural police station limits, seven were against merchants who kept their shops open even after the permitted working hours. The Health Department on Saturday confirmed 997 new COVID-19 cases in the district. As many as 986 persons were infected through local contact. A total of 8,210 persons are now under treatment, and 35,691 are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/95-booked-for-violation-of-covid-protocol/article37263278.ece
31 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Dr. P.D. Sethi award for Sulaiman||C.T. Sulaiman, senior scientist at the Centre for Medicinal Plants Research (CMPR), Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala, has won the 15th Dr. P.D. Sethi National Award 2020. He won the award for his article on scientific validation of a substitute for Asoka tree published by Springer Nature in 2020. The study was carried out under the guidance of CMPR project director Indira Balachandran. Prabhukumar K.M., C.K. Jyothi, and Jinu Krishnan Unnithan were the other members of the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dr-pd-sethi-award-for-sulaiman/article37263281.ece
31 October 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||CPI(M) revokes bifurcation of local committees||The CPI(M) has revoked the bifurcation of its local committees in the district. The decision to bifurcate the Walayar and Elappully local committees had triggered violent protests during the meeting held in the last few days. The CPI(M) district secretariat decided to revoke the bifurcation following the unruly behaviour of party members during the meeting. A. Prabhakaran, Malampuzha MLA, was learned to have complained to the State leadership about the presence of serious divisiveness in the area committee. Together with Elappully and Walayar local committees, the district secretariat decided not to divide the area committees of Kannadi, Polpulli and Marutharoad. State committee member K.V. Ramakrishnan and district secretariat member E.N. Suresh Babu will inquire into the existing divisiveness in the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-revokes-bifurcation-of-local-committees/article37263423.ece
31 October 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Minister calls for action plan on Sabarimala pilgrimage||Minister for Devaswoms K. Radhakrishnan has directed Government departments to prepare an action plan for timely completion of arrangements for the upcoming Mandalam-Makaravilakku season at Sabarimala. Addressing a meeting to review the preparations for the annual pilgrim season at Pampa here on Saturday, the Minister said about 10 lakh out of the 15.25 lakh slots available for darsan under the virtual queue system had already been booked. He warned against committing any lapses in adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. Tenders have been floated for the construction of seven stop-over facilities for devotees from other States at a cost of Rs. 150 crore. As many as 470 Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses, including 140 pampa- Nilackal chain services, will operate this season. The chain services will be operated by 100 ordinary buses and 40 AC buses. A COVID-19 testing centre will be set up at Nilackal, besides the Sabarimala hospitals at Nilackal, Pampa and the Sannidhanam. Five emergency medical centres too will be set up for the devotees. Discussions will be held with the respective Chief Secretaries and Devaswom Ministers of neighbouring States. The civil defence system will be further enhanced in view of the disaster situation. Restoration of all roads in the pilgrimage circuit will be carried out in a time-bound manner. Holding that the financial crisis experienced by the State should not be an impediment to development activities, Mr. Radhakrishnan said steps would be taken to disburse funds to the local bodies. The Government, according to him, has provided assistance to the tune of Rs. 185 crore to Devaswom boards in recent years. N. Vasu, president, Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), said all arrangements were in place for the season. Tender proceedings for the preparation of Appam and Aravana were completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-calls-for-action-plan-on-sabarimala-pilgrimage/article37263362.ece
31 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Measures to ensure students’ well-being||Teachers and parents should ensure children’s mental health along with physical well-being, Minister for Health Veena George has said in the context of schools in the State reopening on November 1. In a statement here on Saturday, the Minister said the Health Department was ready to address physical or mental problems faced by students returning to school, as well as any experienced by teachers or parents. In case of any difficulties, the nearest health workers, Disha number 104, 1056, 0471 2552056, 2551056, or e-Sanjeevani, could be contacted. Teachers should remind students the basics of COVID-19 safety protocols frequently. This message should also reach their families. The Minister said the reopening guidelines had been prepared by the Education and Health Departments after continuous talks with other departments. COVID-19 could be resisted strongly if schools followed the guidelines strictly. Students could be protected against many other diseases too. Teachers General Education Minister V. Sivankutty said teachers who had not been vaccinated for reasons such as health or religion should refrain from coming to school. Other arrangements such as online classes could be made for them. Orders had been issued for posting guest teachers, and headmasters posted in lower primary schools in 12 districts, Mr. Sivankutty added. As many as 24,300 thermal scanners had been made available in schools. An amount of Rs. 2.85 crore was sanctioned to buy soap, handwash, and bucket. A sum of Rs. 105.5 crore had been given to schools in advance for the midday meal scheme for November and December, and Rs. 45 crore sanctioned as honorarium for school cooks. The Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, had sanctioned Rs. 11 crore as school grant, and Rs. 11 crore more would be sanctioned in November. This money could be used for COVID-related needs. Deputy Directors of Education had been sanctioned Rs. 10 lakh as school maintenance grant too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/measures-to-ensure-students-well-being/article37263321.ece
31 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Smart classrooms for LP kids||Schools across the State are sprucing up to welcome children back to campus after a long gap caused by the COVID-19 outbreak. At Government Model Lower Primary School, Thycaud, here, four classrooms are being converted into smart classrooms, all using teachers’ contributions. The smart classrooms are being set up for students of Class I and II. The school had received Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, funding for upgrade of its pre-primary section to excellence. However, pre-primary students are not returning to school yet. It is students in Classes I to IV who will resume schooling on Monday. But with less than a week left for reopening, the teachers thought why not make an effort to welcome students of Classes I and II to classrooms that look nearly as colourful and attractive as the pre-primary section. The teachers also went the extra mile since those students have not had any experience of primary schooling, and they wanted the children to explore all the possibilities that offline classes provided. Since funding was an issue at short notice, the staff members pitched in. The classrooms, on the first floor of the building, are for two divisions each of Class I and Class II. Furniture in the classrooms has been made more child-friendly. Owing to the COVID-19 protocols, benches that usually seat four students have been split into half to allow seating with adequate distancing. Their height too has been reduced to suit the younger children. They are colourful too, in rainbow colours instead of drab monotones. The walls of the classrooms have been painted to resemble themes from their textbooks. The Class I wall depicts the cover of their Malayalam textbook that is from the first chapter Tarayude Veedu and is immensely relatable to children. There are trees, skies and birds, cows, goats, and hens, coconut palms, huts, wells, and hills. Even other subjects such as Mathematics can be learnt by taking a look at the classroom wall. Work on the other three classrooms is nearing completion. They too have similar thematic walls and colourful furniture. The classrooms also have projectors, digital board, white board, and so on. Contribution The teachers together contributed Rs. 1.3 lakh for work on the classrooms. School authorities say they had 200 students last year, but this year the number has increased to 300. There are plans to launch a challenge to transform the classrooms for students of Classes 3 and 4 too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/smart-classrooms-for-lp-kids/article37263455.ece
31 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Trial run for KSRTC circular services held||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) on Saturday completed the second trial run for the proposed circular bus service in the capital city, aimed at providing seamless travel within the city and its suburbs. With the completion of the second trial run, which was held in intervals of 10 minutes, the KSRTC is planning to organise a trial run on a working day and launch the service by the second week of November. The city circular bus service, which will link government offices, hospitals, shopping centres and other major institutions, is primarily meant to provide commuters with more options rather than being forced to reach Thampanoor or East Fort where the services currently originate from. In the initial phase, the service will be conducted along seven circles, each being designated separate colours – red, blue, brown, yellow, violet, magenta and orange. While buses will be plied both clockwise and anti-clockwise along each circular route, at least five buses will conduct trips in the same direction at a given point of time. In the initial phase, the services will be in seven routes, which will be expanded to 15 routes later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trial-run-for-ksrtc-circular-services-held/article37263462.ece
31 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||First Statewide odonate study yields 181 species||A group of entomologists have documented the odonate fauna in Kerala for the first time. Home to 181 species of dragonflies and damselflies, the State also nurtures 68 species that are endemic to the Western Ghats. The study undertaken by Vinayan P. Nair, K. Abraham Samuel and Kalesh Sadasivan of Travancore Nature History Society and Muhamed Jafer Palot of Zoological Survey of India has been published in the latest edition of Entomon , a peer-reviewed journal issued by the Association for Advancement of Entomology. According to the study, the current checklist of odonates of the Western Ghats stood at 207, of which 80 species are endemics. A total of 181 species belonging to 87 genera under two suborders and 14 families were recorded within the geographical boundaries of Kerala. While the group initially compiled data on 169 species from scattered literature, the authors added eight species based on their personal records and publications. These odonate species include Amphiallagma parvum, Ceriagrion chromothorax, Platylestes platystylus Rambur , Pseudagrion australasiae Selys , Crocothemis erythraea, Protosticta rufostigma Kimmins , Protosticta sholai Subramanian & Babu , and Zygonyx torridus isis Fraser .  Another four species — Paracercion malayanum Selys, 1876 by Bo Nielson from Varkala, Indothemis limbata sita Campion, 1923 and Indolestes pulcherrimus Fraser , 1924 by Muneer PK from Wayanad; and Anax indicus Leiftinck, 1942 by Suhas R.K. from Chinnar— were also included from the personal records of other researchers. A landscape-based approach has been adopted to list the odonata distribution along Agasthyamala, Periyar, Munnar, Nilgiri, Wayanad, and Coorg. One endangered According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species of 2021, the State has one ‘endangered’ species ( Idionyx galeata ), four ‘near threatened’ and ‘vulnerable’ species each. Besides, 130 species in Western Ghats were considered to be of ‘least concern’, while 50 others belonged to the ‘data deficient’ category. None of the species is listed in the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Not rediscovered Dr. Kalesh said studies on odonates of the Western Ghats have been meagre compared to vertebrate groups. While the researchers found recent data on almost all known species, they could not rediscover a handful of species including Idionyx nadganiensis Fraser, 1924 and Idionyx periyashola Fraser, 1939, which are known to have been discovered in Nadukani, Malappuram and Periyashola close to Top Station, near Munnar. However, it was too early to deem them extinct, the researcher said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-statewide-odonate-study-yields-181-species/article37263346.ece
31 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KGMOA to intensify agitation||Doctors in State Health Services, who have been on a silent agitation since the past few months over the denial of allowances and benefits to doctors, are intensifying their agitation. From November 1, Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) has decided to launch a ‘Nilpu Samaram’ or a ‘stand up’ strike in front of the Secretariat, to protest against the Government’s continued neglect of the demands raised by the doctors’ fraternity. All doctors across the State, from primary health centres upwards will be part of the strike. If their grievances are not resolved, Government doctors across the State will go on leave en masse on November 16, KGMOA said. Doctors overworked There is an acute shortage of human resources in the Health Department now, and the doctors are overworked and stressed, especially now that the Government has dismissed nearly 20,000 health workers in various categories under COVID Brigade, who had been hired on a temporary basis at the beginning of the pandemic. The State was still reporting close to 10,000 new cases of COVID-19 daily and doctors were forced to handle non-COVID work as well as public health activities alongside COVID care . Despite several appeals, the Government continued to deny risk allowance to doctors. The grievances raised by KGMOA include slashing of basic pay at the entry cadre, stopping of personal pay and ratio promotion and denial of higher grade. Appeal to Govt. KGMOA said that till now, even when they were on agitation, doctors had taken care not to disrupt patient care services in hospitals. However, they were being forced to intensify their agitation as the Government seemed intent on turning its face away from the issues raised by doctors. It appealed to the Government to settle the issues raised by doctors without delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctors-on-strike-tomorrow/article37263295.ece
31 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rededicate for State’s progress, CM tells people||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has urged citizens to rededicate themselves to the State’s progress on Kerala Piravi Day on November 1. In a message, Mr. Vijayan remembered the struggle to unite the erstwhile princely provinces of Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Malabar. He said the names of E.M.S. Namboodiripad, A.K.G and K. Kelappan were synonymous with the State’s formation and progress. The first Communist government headed by E.M.S. laid the foundation of modern Kerala. It engineered social change through radical legislation, including land reforms. It formulated the roadmap for a progressive and modern State moored to democratic and secular foundations. The EMS government universalised education, and it laid the foundation of a knowledge-based modern and enlightened society. Reform path Subsequent progressive governments that led Kerala strived to keep the State on the path of progress. They expanded the social welfare net, decentralised power, implemented people’s planning, fortified the public health care system, and fast-tracked modernisation. The LDF came to power again in 2021 on the strength of its governance track record. The current LDF disposition would take Kerala to further heights. It has modernised public service via K.A.S. Schools are reopening post-COVID-19 lockdown on November 1. Kerala is learning to live with the pandemic, and it will soon achieve universal vaccination. Climate risk mitigation, semi-high speed railway, creating a knowledge-based economy, attracting global investment, relocating families in disaster-prone zones to safer localities, creating extreme weather resilient roads, bridges and structures, and improving the health infratructure, were on the government’s top agenda.  The first Communist government headed by EMS laid the foundation of modern Kerala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rededicate-for-states-progress-cm-tells-people/article37263424.ece
31 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Web portal for road-cutting applications||The Local Self-Government Department has launched an online platform for quicker processing of road-cutting permission for service providers, including the Kerala Water Authority (KWA), Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), Internet service providers, city gas distribution companies, and telecom operators. The Kerala State IT Mission has developed the online portal Sugama, available on http://rowservices.kerala.gov.in/, for the management of road-cutting permissions. Currently, the assistant engineer concerned in charge of the road to be cut in a specific local body prepares the estimate for restoration work and after approval of the estimate, the assistant executive engineer (AEE) or the executive engineer (EE) concerned informs the applicant to deposit the restoration amount in the local body’s account. After getting confirmation from the applicant that the required amount for restoration has been deposited in the account, cutting permission is being issued by the AEE or the EE. However, this mode of processing has been found to be tardy, with several complaints regarding delay in getting permissions. With the launch of the new portal, the permission for road cutting can be obtained without visiting any office. The road sketch and the cutting map can be submitted online. Verification The road authority (secretary of the respective local body) will verify the application after receipt and assign the application to the engineer concerned for verification and processing, if the application is in order. Otherwise, the application will be returned to the applicant. Once the applicant remits the demand note amount through the portal, the road-cutting permission will be issued by the competent authority through the system. The final signed approval can be downloaded from the website. Updated in the system After the applicant completes the road cutting and temporary restoration, it should be updated in the online system. Timelines have been fixed at every stage to prevent delays in processing applications. The application scrutiny has to be completed within three days, physical verification and demand note approval within 15 days, and issuance of road-cutting permission letter within seven days of payment.  The move will benefit service providers such as KWA, KSEB, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/web-portal-for-road-cutting-applications/article37263323.ece
31 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM to open new research facility at Women’s College||Boosting research capabilities in one of the oldest colleges in the State, an advanced instrumentation centre has been established at the Government College for Women in the city. The Central Advanced Instrumentation Centre, the first-such facility to be operationalised in an arts and science college in the State, will be commissioned by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday. The unit brings together a number of sophisticated instruments that facilitate advanced research in Physics, Chemistry, Botany, Zoology, Biochemistry and Microbiology. Established in the newly-constructed Rs. 12.26-crore academic block in the 125-year-old college, the centre comprises equipment including 400 MHz NMR (Nuclear Magnetic Resonance) spectrometer, Spectrofluorometer, hydro thermal reactor, nano fibre electro spinning unit, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy system, vacuum spray pyrolysis automated equipment, real-time PCR, ultra sound sonicator, Infrared Spectrophotometer, UV – Vis Spectrophotometer, High Performance Liquid, chromatography (HPLC) system, Preparative Flash Column Chromatography Unit and ultra-centrifuging machine. According to college authorities, the facility will be open not just for postgraduate students and researchers in the college, but also to students from other institutions at nominal charges. Neuro-psychology lab Mr. Pinarayi will also inaugurate a Rs. 55-lakh Psychological Resource Centre, a computerised neuro-psychology lab, a renovated open-air auditorium and refurbished campus buildings. Yet another academic block is being constructed at an outlay of Rs. 1.80 crore and the renovation of the main auditorium at the cost of Rs. 1.84 crore will be completed within one month. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu will preside. Transport Minister Antony Raju and Shashi Tharoor, MP, will take part.  The Central Advanced Instrumentation Centre brings together sophisticated instruments for advanced research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-centre-to-boost-science-research-in-womens-college/article37263343.ece
31 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. initiates infra push for SilverLine||Amid uncertainty persisting over external funding, the Kerala Government appears to be moving ahead with the infrastructure needs for the Rs. 63,941-crore SilverLine semi-high-speed rail project. On Saturday, the Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (K-Rail) held talks with the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) for sourcing electricity for operating trains. The Revenue Department issued a modified order for acquiring 1,221 ha in 11 districts. After discussions among V. Ajith Kumar, Managing Director, K-Rail, KSEB Chairman and Managing Director B. Ashok and senior transmission wing officials, the KSEB said a detailed project report on the power requirements for the project would be prepared in three months. KSEB estimates indicate that the power requirement for the project will be quite substantial. Initially, it will require 300 million units (mu) annually, which can go up to 500 mu in 25 years. The KSEB will also need to shift 72 extra high tension (EHT) power lines and 2,000 high tension/low tension power lines from the path of the project. Eight substations will be specially established for the project at Pallipuram, Kundara, Kottayam, Angamaly, Kunnamkulam, Elathur, Chovva, and Kanhangad. The 110-kV line for the project will be situated 15.56 metres above the tracks. The 220-kV line will be at a height of 16.4 metres, and the 400-kV at 18 metres. The KSEB has also appointed two nodal officers for the SilverLine power supply initiative. Feasibility study The KSEB will conduct a feasibility study on whether ‘green’ energy can be supplied in entirety for SilverLine. The KSEB will also study whether green energy produced elsewhere in the country can be sourced for it. At the stations and wherever possible along the tracks, solar panels and wind turbines will be established, according to the KSEB. On another front, the Revenue Department partially modified an August 18 order according sanction for acquiring 1,221 ha in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur, and Kasaragod. The posts of a special deputy collector and 11 special tahsildars (land acquisition) also have been created for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-initiates-infra-push-for-silverline/article37263325.ece
31 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Crackdown on illegal tobacco sale||The City police on Saturday undertook a crackdown of illegal tobacco sale in an operation organised in connection with the reopening of schools. According to City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay, huge caches of banned tobacco products as well as foreign cigarettes that was sold illegally were confiscated during the raids. Led by the Deputy Commissioner of Police Vaibhav Saxena, the operation resulted in the seizure of large stock of banned tobacco products worth tens of thousands of rupees from the Cantonment, Thiruvallam, Kovalam and Medical College police station limits, and illegal foreign-made tobacco items from Cantonment, Museum, Poojappura, Vattiyurkavu, Fort, Karamana, Thiruvallam, Kovalam and Medical College police station jurisdictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crackdown-on-illegal-tobacco-sale/article37263457.ece
31 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bus services for RCC patients||Transport Minister Antony Raju on Saturday flagged off circular services launched by the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation for patients of the Regional Cancer Centre (RCC). The ticket fare is Rs. 10. However, NIMS Medicity and Kanivu, an organisation at the RCC, are bearing the ticket charges of 10,000 passengers each. The first bus service will start from the RCC, and pass through Medical College bus stand, Chalakkuzhi, Pattom LIC, Kesavadasapuram, and return to the RCC via Ulloor and Medical College.A second service will depart from the RCC and go via Vydyuthi Bhavan, Pattom, LIC, Chalakkuzhi and return to the RCC via Chalakkuzhi and Medical College. RCC director Rekha S. Nair presided over the function. Senior officials of the KSRTC and the RCC attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-services-for-rcc-patients/article37263463.ece
31 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Couple file complaint against Saji Cherian||Minister for Culture Minister Saji Cherian has courted controversy for his ‘misogynist’ comments on a couple involved in a legal battle over the adoption of their baby without their consent. His remarks, which were made during a programme at the Kerala University’s Karyavattom campus a day ago, grabbed headlines on Saturday. Mr. Cherian denied having made any disparaging comments about the woman. However, the couple lodged a complaint for defamation against the Minister at the Peroorkada police station on Saturday. The complaint was transferred to the Sreekaryam police in view of the place of occurrence of the alleged crime. Morality He made the alleged statements while inaugurating a women’s theatre workshop organised as part of the Government’s Samam project to foster gender equality. Mr. Cherian allegedly questioned the ‘morality of people who wrecked marriages.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/couple-file-plaint-against-saji-cherian/article37263267.ece
31 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SHRC for subway or foot overbridge at Enchakkal||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to consider the feasibility of constructing a foot overbridge or a subway for pedestrians at Enchakkal Junction. Response The order has been issued by SHRC chairman Antony Dominic to the NHAI project director who has been directed to furnish a response within four weeks. In a complaint, social activist Ragam Rahim pointed out that pedestrians have found it extremely difficult to cross the road at the junction that has been witnessing uncontrollable traffic. Multiple roads including the East Fort-West Fort road, Beemapally- Vallakadavu road, Kovalam-Ambalathara bypass road and Kazhakuttam-Chakka bypass road joined at the junction. Ambulances There have been numerous instances when ambulances transporting patients have been help up in the traffic. The situation is bound to worsen with the commissioning of the Vizhinjam seaport project, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-for-subway-or-foot-overbridge-at-enchakkal/article37263460.ece
31 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||e-Shram cards distributed||Minister for Labour V. Sivankutty distributed e-Shram portal registration cards on Saturday. In future, benefits announced by the Union government for workers in the unorganised sector will go only to those who have e-Shram registration. Hence, they should make used of this opportunity to register, the Minister said. Letters had been sent to the chairpersons fof 16 welfare fund boards under the Labour Department. A letter had also been sent to Minister for Local Self-government M.V.Govindan to issue directions to include Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme workers under the scheme, Mr. Sivankutty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-shram-cards-distributed/article37263342.ece
31 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Development boost for 30 panchayats||Developmental and welfare activities will be stepped up in 30 block panchayats in the State by considering them as aspirational blocks, Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V.Govindan has said. The block panchayats being chosen for the purpose are Parappa and Karadukka in Kasaragod district, Iritty in Kannur, Kalpetta, Panamaram, Sulthan Bathery and Mananthavady in Wayanad, Perambra in Kozhikode, Nilamboor, Areekode, Kalikavu and Vandoor in Malappuram, Thrithala, Kollenkode, Nenmara, Attappady and Chittur in Palakkad, Devikulam, Idukki, Azhutha, Adimaly and Nedumkandam in Idukki, Vaikom in Kottayam, Thaikkattussery, Chambakkulam and Veliyanad in Alappuzha, Konni in Pathanamthitta, Anchal in Kollam and Kilimanoor and Vamanapuram in Thiruvananthapuram. The blocks were chosen based on the percentage of landless families and daily wage workers, number of below poverty line ration cards, number of school dropouts and other indices. Aspirational districts were earlier identified in a similar manner based on the Niti Aayog governing council's directives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/development-boost-for-30-block-panchayats/article37263359.ece
31 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Panel for law against superstition||The Law Reforms Commission has recommended the framing of a laws to prevent superstitious practices including black magic. The commission on Saturday submitted a report with these recommendations to Law Minister P. Rajeeve. It has also recommended laws to prevent moral goondaism and mob attacks based on religion, caste and gender, to protect Good Samaritans who offer help to road accident victims, to ensure the welfare of domestic helps, and a law on the registration and control of residents associations. The report includes recommendations for 12 new Bills, a Bill for withdrawal of outdated laws and four Bills to amend existing laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-for-law-against-superstition/article37263365.ece
31 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||7,427 new cases in State||Kerala reported 7,427 new cases of COVID-19 when 70,709 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s active case pool had 78,624 patients on Saturday, with 7,166 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health Department, only 8.2% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 31,514 with the State adding 358 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Saturday. These include 62 deaths that occurred in the past few days, 257 undeclared deaths of the period before June 2021, and 39 deaths that have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals in the State dropped to 1,123 on Saturday. On Saturday, the number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 597. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram the highest number of new cases at 1,001, followed by Kozhikode 997, Ernakulam 862, Thrissur 829, Kollam 627, Kottayam 562, Pathanamthitta 430, Malappuram 394, Palakkad 382, Kannur 349, Wayanad 310, Alappuzha 285, Idukki 280, and Kasaragod 119 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7427-new-cases-in-state/article37263318.ece
31 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Panel wants children’s fears addressed||Schools should ensure mechanisms to address apprehensions or pressures experienced by students returning to school after a long gap, Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson K.V. Manoj Kumar has said. He was speaking after inaugurating a consultation of district-level officials in connection with protection of children’s right to education ahead of school reopening here on Saturday. Schools should have an environment that encourages students to return without fear. Teachers and parent-teacher associations should work together to address students’ mental and physical problems. The meeting analysed how the children’s right to free and compulsory education was protected against the backdrop of COVID-19. It also discussed student safety, vehicle safety, and formation of school-level committees to ensure good learning and social environment, revival of school health programme. Child rights commission secretary Anitha Damodaran presided over the meeting. Commission members, the Deputy Director of Education, District Medical Officer, District Child Protection Officer, police-excise officials, and Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, district project coordinator attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-wants-childrens-fears-addressed/article37263322.ece
31 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chala fires: talks held with traders||The Fire and Rescue Services on Saturday held talks with traders in the Chala market in its efforts to prevent repeated fire outbreaks there. The meeting was held on the directions of Fire and Rescue Services Director General B. Sandhya. It discussed matters to pay attention to in order to prevent fires, changes to structures, and unscientific parking that could prove to be a hindrance in fire services reaching the location of the fire, and bylanes in the market. Setting up a hydride system that allows the fire services to draw water from the Kerala Water Authority’s main pipe at the time of fire throughout the Chala market was also discussed. An agreement was also reached on conducting further training in fighting fires in each area in association with the traders and setting up of a local team of rescuers called community rescue volunteers in each area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chala-fires-talks-held-with-traders/article37263453.ece
31 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Godman’ held for rape||The Fort police have arrested a self-styled godman who allegedly raped a woman and stole her ornaments. The police identified the accused as Dileep, 37, of MSK Nagar near Manacaud. The victim, who hails from Kazhakuttam, had approached the accused to remove ‘faith-related obstacles’ that had delayed her marriage. After feeding her sedatives that he claimed to be blessed food (‘prasadam’), the accused allegedly raped her and clicked compromising photographs that he would later use to blackmail her. He purportedly managed to obtain 30 sovereigns of gold using the images. He assaulted the victim again when he came to know about her engagement with another man. Arrested on the basis of her complaint, the accused was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/godman-arrested-on-rape-charge/article37263344.ece
31 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,001 new COVID cases in capital||The district recorded 1,001 COVID-19 cases and 747 recoveries as the active caseload continued to rise to reach 11,379 on Saturday. The test positivity rate stood at 10.4%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1001-new-covid-cases-in-capital/article37263461.ece
31 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Lightning strikes fisherman||A 34-year-old fisherman died after being struck by lightning at sea off the Thiruvananthapuram coast late Friday. The deceased was identified as Alexander Peter, who hailed from Anjuthengu and was residing with his brother at Pallithura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lightning-strikes-fisherman/article37263358.ece
31 October 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Ethihasam adjudged best drama||Awards of the Professional Theatre Festival-2019 were declared on Saturday. Ethihasam staged by Souparnika, Thiruvananthapuram, secured the best play award that carries a cash prize of Rs. 50,000 and citation.  Venalavadi by Sankeerthana, Kozhikode, and Pattupadunna Vellayi by Brahma, Valluvanad, shared the award for the second best play. Rajesh Erulam won the best director award for Venalavadi while Asok Sasi ( Ethihasam ) is the second best director. 2 share best actor award Saji Moorad ( Venalavadi ) and Sobi M.T. ( Ethihasam ) shared the best actor (male) award. Sreeja N.K. bagged the best actor (female) award for her performance in the play Makkalude Sraddhakku by Sangakeli, Pirappancode. Biju Jayanandan ( Pattupadunna Vellayi ) is the second best actor (male). Manju Reji ( Amma - Kalidasa Kalakendram, Kollam) and Greeshma Uday ( Ethihasam ) shared the second best actor (female) award. Hemand Kumar ( Venalavadi ) and Francis T. Mavelikara ( Makkalude Sraddhakku and Amma ) shared the award for the best scriptwriter. Asok Sasi ( Ethihasam ) is the second best scriptwriter. Sabu Kalabhavan is the best male singer ( Bolaram – Sangachethana, Kannur). The best female singer is Vaikam Vijayalakshmi ( Kumaranasanum Chandala Bikshukiyum – Kannur Nataka Sangam). Anil M. Arjun won the award for the best music director ( Ethihasam ) and Karivellur Murali is the best lyricist ( Amma ). Artist Sujathan won the award for the best stage setting for various plays while Rajesh Erulam ( Venalavadi ) won the award for the best lighting. Vakkam Mahin is the winner of the award for the best costume ( Ethihasam ). Special jury award Sivakami Thirumana ( Kumaranasanum Chandala Bikshukiyum ) and Nandi Prakash ( Bolaram ) won the special jury award. Vakkam Shakkeer won the award for total contribution. In all, 10 plays selected from 23 entries were staged in the competition held at the Regional Theatre of the Kerala Sangeeta Nataka Akademi from October 25 to October 29. A jury led by Vikraman Nair decided the awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ethihasam-adjudged-best-drama/article37263364.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Theatre is back||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/theatre-is-back/article37263294.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Final touch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/final-touch/article37263309.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lessons in safety||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lessons-in-safety/article37263271.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sweet tidings||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sweet-tidings/article37263283.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The devout queue up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-devout-queue-up/article37263340.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Milma on wheels||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-on-wheels/article37263468.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For better roads and water||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-better-roads-and-water/article37263426.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||COVID warriors||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-warriors/article37263459.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Taking no chances||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taking-no-chances/article37263466.ece
31 October 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four killed in road accident||Four persons died on the spot at Jwalapuram on Saturday night when the car in which they were travelling collided with a cement-laden lorry in Bhattalapalli Mandal of the district on the Kadiri-Anantapur Highway. According to Dharmavaram Rural police, five family members were travelling from Tanakallu to Anantapur to attend a marriage when the car tyre burst near Jwalapuram and resulted in a collision with a lorry. The deceased have been identified as Reddy Basha, Babu, Reshma and Ammaji (all in their 30s), while the fifth passenger Taslima, a five-year-old girl is safe. The bodies of the deceased were taken to Dharmavaram Government Hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-killed-in-road-accident/article37262624.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kannada star Puneeth Rajkumar's last rites on Oct 31||As thousands of grieving fans continue to flock to the Kanteerava stadium here on Saturday to pay tributes to Kannada film star Puneeth Rajkumar who passed away on Friday, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the last rites of the actor will be performed on October 31 and appealed for calm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kannada-star-puneeth-rajkumars-last-rites-on-oct-31/article37262570.ece
31 October 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||AIADMK questions govt. on water release||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Saturday questioned the manner in which water was discharged from the Mullaperiyar dam, much against the stand of farmers of five districts. He also urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to explain the Tamil Nadu Government’s stand to people and farmers. “Farmers question the need for releasing water when the Tamil Nadu Minister for Water Resources and experts have opined that the dam is safe, the level has not reached 142 feet and water has not reached Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts,” he said in a statement. The former Chief Minister also questioned whether water was released in the presence of Kerala Ministers with the concurrence of Tamil Nadu or whether Kerala had released the water arbitrarily. “If so, why were Tamil Nadu officials present there? Were the farmers from these five districts consulted before water was released? These are among the questions that arise.” “The Tamil Nadu government has the responsibility to answer these questions. The Chief Minister should intervene in the issue of the Mullaperiyar dam, a lifeline of Tamil Nadu, to explain the position to people and farmers,” he said. Opposition from farmers Mr. Panneerselvam referred to the opposition from farmers in Dindigul, Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga and Theni to the manner in which water was released and condemned the actions of the Kerala Government. The farmers had claimed that this was the first time Kerala Ministers and Tamil Nadu officials were present for water release, and this turned out to be a huge disappointment to them, he contended. He also recalled his statement in which he urged the government to consult farmers and take steps to protect the rights of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aiadmk-questions-govt-on-mullaperiyar-water-release/article37263039.ece
31 October 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revolt against YSRCP govt.: Naidu||It is time for people to revolt against the YSRCP government as they are being burdened with “illogical taxes,” TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has said. Addressing a public meeting at Samaguttapalle, near Kuppam, on the second day of his tour of the constituency on Saturday, Mr. Naidu said, “People are in a helpless state with soaring prices of essential commodities, and power and RTC charges.” ‘Loot of granite wealth’ “The YSRCP cadres have been looting the rich granite wealth of Kuppam and its surroundings through unlicensed quarries,” Mr. Naidu alleged, and cautioned people that “their lives will be in peril if they do not realise the ground reality under the YSRCP regime.” Earlier, Mr. Naidu convened a meeting with the senior party cadres in Kuppam and discussed the action plan for the ensuing municipality election. Padayatra A large number of cadre participated in the padayatra Mr. Naidu undertook from Lakshmipuram to Varadarajaswamy temple junction in Kuppam. Meanwhile, the TDP activists alleged that the YSRCP activists had removed the welcome banners for the second consecutive day too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revolt-against-ysrcp-govt-naidu/article37263415.ece
31 October 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Address public grievances, village secretariat staff told||District Collector Vivek Yadav has said that the staff working in ward and village secretariats should understand and make every effort to solve public grievances. Mr. Yadav on Saturday inspected the village secretariat at Phirangipuram. “There are just 324 unresolved grievances in the ward and village secretariats which is a good sign. The ward and village secretariats should be one-stop centres for all kinds of grievance redressal,” he said. The Collector inspected the charts of services and schemes of the government. Earlier, Joint Collector Rajakumari also inspected the ward and village secretariats at Sattenapalli and found out grievance redressal status from the staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/address-public-grievances-village-secretariat-staff-told/article37262627.ece
31 October 2021||HUBBALLI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not against voluntary conversions: RSS leader||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) welcomes the proposed anti-conversion law which would prevent “forced religious conversions with ulterior motives” but is not opposed to voluntary conversions, national general secretary (Sarkaryavah) of RSS Dattatreya Hosabale has said. Addressing presspersons on the sidelines of the national executive meeting of RSS at Rashtrotthana Vidya Kendra near Dharwad on Saturday, he clarified that RSS was not opposed to voluntary conversion from one religion to other, but “forced religious conversions by minority communities just to increase their numbers is not acceptable”. Mr. Hosabale claimed that the opposition by the minority communities to the anti-conversion law revealed their “real intention”. He said that already 10 States had passed the anti-conversion law. Himachal Pradesh had passed the law during Congress rule, he said. Mr. Hosabale said the Karnataka Government should be allowed to pass the law and if at all there were any lacunae amendments could be brought it. “It is wrong to oppose the Bill even before it is approved,” he said. On Prime Minister Narendra Modi meeting Pope, Mr. Hosabale said that as meeting foreign dignitaries and heads of other nations enhanced India’s image, there was nothing wrong in the meet. On the National Population Policy, he said it was necessary to ensure that the country’s resources and benefits of development reached all the people. “Natural resources and geographical area should be taken into consideration to decide the size of the population and the population policy cannot discriminate based on religion. India needs a population policy that is applicable to all. RSS has passed a resolution earlier and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat has only reiterated the Sangh’s earlier stance,” Mr. Hosabale said. Speaking on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s remark that moral policing was a “reaction to an action”, Mr. Hosabale said that nobody should take law into their own hands. “However, when someone’s feelings are hurt there is bound to be a reaction. But that does not justify taking law into their own hands,” he said. On Uniform Civil Code in the country, Mr. Hosabale said that the Union Government had already promised promulgating a requisite law and RSS hoped that it would keep its word. On firecrackers On the proposal to ban firecrackers during Deepavali, Mr. Hosabale said while environmental concerns were real, it was intriguing to note that it was only raised during Deepavali. He said that a comprehensive plan should be chalked out in consultation with all stakeholders, including those working in the firecracker manufacturing industries, before arriving at any decision. A comprehensive policy to ban such activities is needed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/not-against-voluntary-conversions-rss-leader/article37262571.ece
31 October 2021||HUZURABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Peaceful voting in 3 Assembly seats||The fiercely contested Huzurabad by-election passed off peacefully on Saturday, recording a high voter turnout of 86.33%, barring a few isolated incidents of skirmishes between the cadre of the ruling TRS and the BJP over allegations of money distribution and presence of outsiders. High voter enthusiasm marked the bypoll as the total polling percentage surpassed the 2018 election turnout of 84.4%. Thanks to the deployment of as many as 20 companies of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) and large contingents of the State police force, the 12-hour-long polling in all the 306 polling stations went off smoothly without any untoward incidents. Mild tension prevailed at Ganmukla village in Veenavanka mandal after a group of BJP activists and TRS cadre engaged themselves in a verbal spat over the alleged presence of non-locals in the village. The police defused tension by dispersing them from the village, sources said. Similar incidents were also reported from a few villages in Huzurabad and Jammikunta mandals where the local cadre of the BJP and the TRS accused each other of resorting to clandestine distribution of money in a last-ditch effort to woo the voters on the polling day. The BJP candidate and the sitting MLA Eatala Rajender cast his vote at a polling booth in Kamalapur. The ruling TRS candidate Gellu Srinivas Yadav exercised his franchise at a polling booth in Veenavanka mandal’s Himmathnagar village. Earlier in the day, Chief Electoral Officer Shashank Goel inspected polling stations one in Huzurabad and Jammikunta towns. He was accompanied by the Collector and the District Election Officer R V Karnan. The result of the byelection will be out on November 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/peaceful-voting-in-4-assembly-seats/article37262581.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KTR, team hardsell Telangana in Paris||Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao, who is in Paris with an official delegation, met top management of French companies that are leaders in various sectors, including pharmaceuticals, aerospace and defence, inviting them to explore investment opportunities in Telangana. On the sidelines of Ambition India Business meet, Mr. Rao held discussion with the senior leadership of pharmaceutical group Servier. He gave an overview of Telangana's robust Life Sciences and Pharma ecosystem and sought to highlight various initiatives of the government such as the Research and Innovation Circle of Hyderabad (RICH) that facilitates industry, academia collaboration. Extending an invite to BioAsia 2022, he urged the firm to explore potential collaboration avenues, the Minister’s office said in a release. In another engagement, Mr. Rao met Safran Aircraft Engines CEO Jean Paul Alary and Senior EVP, International and Public Affairs and former Ambassador of France to India Alexandre Ziegl at the Safran headquarters. The Minister highlighted the potential for setting up a dedicated skill development initiative for aerospace and defence sector in Telangana. Safran Electrical and Power, which is a part of the French multinational, had recently expanded its aircraft engines facility in Hyderabad. During his meeting with Thales Group EVP Mark Darmon and India CEO Ashish Saraf, the Minister discussed Telangana's forays into many emerging technologies and launch of the Medicine from Sky project, in collaboration with WEF, recently. The French firm operates in five verticals — Digital Identity and Security, Defence and Security, Aerospace, Space and Transport. Meetings with Keolis CEO Bernard Tabary and Schneider Electric EVP-International Operations Luc Remont formed part of the hectic schedule of the Minister. World leaders in shared mobility, Keolis has a subsidiary which is the operations and maintenance partner for Hyderabad Metro. Schneider has a manufacturing facility in Hyderabad and its subsidiary AVEVA, which is into software development, has a major presence in Hyderabad, the release said. MoU signed An MoU between Telangana government and Bordeaux Métropole was signed in the presence of the Minister, at the conference hall of the historic Luxembourg Palace in Paris, which houses the French Senate. Telangana and Bordeaux Métropole will work together to develop joint projects in line with the transition to a sustainable city. This partnership ensures continuity with October, 2015 cooperation agreement they signed. The Telangana delegation held discussions with Director Asia and Middle East of French Development Agency (AFD) Philippe Orliange.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ktr-team-hardsell-telangana-in-paris/article37263234.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cotton purchase prices soar||Cotton farmers have a lot to cheer as they are fetching up to Rs. 8,000 so far against a minimum support price of Rs. 6,025 a quintal this year. This trend was likely to continue for the entire procurement season till December-end as per the assessments of the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) and ginning mill owners. They even expected the prices to go up to Rs. 8,500 to Rs. 9,000 a quintal in the coming days. The CCI which enters procurement by setting up centres across the State only when the prices fall below MSP has, therefore, left the market operations to private mills. Otherwise, the cotton juggernaut purchased 80 to 90 per cent of the produce in 2019-20 and 2020-21. According to Marketing Director G. Lakshmi Bai, the trend of high prices for farmers kicked off straight away with the opening of purchase on October 1. However, the arrival at market yards was low because the farmers had expectedly hoarded the produce in expectation of further hike in prices. A clear picture would emerge after Deepavali. Actually, nothing went right for cotton crop right from the beginning of the sowing season due to heavy rains. The area of cultivation as well as yield dropped not only in India but across the world. At the same time, the demand for cotton shot up in international market as garment factories resumed full-scale operations after suffering huge losses on account of COVID last year. The cotton acreage fell in Telangana from 60 lakh acres last year to 46.25 lakh acres this year. The yield was also likely to drop from 48 lakh tonnes last year to 37 lakh tonnes, mainly due to heavy rains of August and September. At the national level, the acreage shrunk from 320 lakh acres to 290 lakh acres. In this background, the Central government enhanced the MSP from Rs. 5,825 per quintal last year to Rs. 6,025 a quintal for long staple cotton which is commonly grown in Telangana. But, the farmers fetched anywhere between Rs. 7,000 and Rs. 8,350 a quintal this year. The modal rate which was the highest quantity sold at a particular rate was Rs. 7,500 to Rs. 7,800 a quintal against Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 5,200 a quintal last year, marketing department sources said. At Gajwel, the rate was a record Rs. 8,425 a quintal on Friday but sources added it was an exception because of black soil there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cotton-purchase-prices-soar/article37263244.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana records 168 more COVID-19 cases||Telangana has recorded 168 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday taking the total to 6,71,342.While 37,882 samples were examined, results of 1,709 were awaited. One more COVID patient has died. The new 168 infections include 62 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 12 each from Karimnagar and Rangareddy. No infection was detected in Vikarabad, Nirmal, Mulugu, Jogulamba Gadwal, and Jayashankar Bhupalpally districts. From March 2, 2020 to October 30, 2021, over 2.75 crore samples were tested and 6,71,342 people were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 4,072 are active cases, 6,63,315 have recovered, and 3,955 have died. In case of COVID vaccination, 2.2 crore people took the first dose of the vaccine, and 93.95 lakhs took the second dose till October 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-records-168-more-covid-19-cases/article37263230.ece
31 October 2021||IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||More water released from Mullaperiyar||The Tamil Nadu Public Works Department has increased the discharge of water from the Mullaperiyar dam into the Periyar river by opening three more spillway shutters on Saturday. The dam in Kerala’s Idukki district is under the control of the Tamil Nadu Government. The total quantity of water released rose to 2,974 cusecs (cubic feet per second) by evening. Inflow rising Water was released from the dam on Friday as the level crossed 138 ft. In the wake of increased inflow, more water was discharged that night when the water level reached 138.85 feet, though the upper rule curve was 138 feet. This was despite the drawal of 2,340 cusecs by Tamil Nadu. The water level reached 138.9 feet at 10 a.m. on Saturday, after release of an additional 274 cusecs of water overnight. Tamil Nadu subsequently let out 831 cusecs of water. However, the water level again rose to 138.95 feet at noon and at 4 p.m., three more spillway shutters (2, 3 and 4) were opened to release 2, 974 cusecs of water. Following this, there was increased inflow into the Periyar by Saturday evening. Announcements via loudspeakers were made in the main areas downstream of the dam, to alert people. Upputhara is the last town on the banks of the Periyar before the water flows into the Idukki reservoir at Ayyappancoil. Kerala Water Resource Minister Roshy Augustine said Tamil Nadu released more water on the request from Kerala. There was no reason for any anxiety among those living in the catchment areas of the Periyar, he said. Even if they [Tamil Nadu] released four times more water than the present amount, it would not be a problem for Kerala, Mr. Augustine added. Orange alert With the water level in the Idukki reservoir at 2,398.28 feet at 6 p.m. on Saturday, the reservoir was put on orange alert. The red alert level is at 2,398.31 feet. The India Meteorological Department has issued an orange alert indicating heavy rain in five districts, including Idukki, till November 1. The other districts are Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-water-released-from-mullaperiyar/article37262573.ece
31 October 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,018 RBKs to procure paddy in E. Godavari||Paddy will be procured through 1,018 Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBK) in East Godavari district in the kharif 2021-22. District Collector Ch. Hari Kiran, Joint Collector Ch. Kirthi and other officials on Saturday reviewed the action plan for paddy procurement. Mr. Hari Kiran directed the officials concerned to map all the rice mills and weigh bridges within the jurisdiction of the RBKs and register the land survey details for the transparent procurement exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1018-rbks-to-procure-paddy-in-e-godavari/article37263443.ece
31 October 2021||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prasada Raju is JNTUK V-C||Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada (JNTUK) Rector G.V.R. Prasada Raju has been appointed Vice-Chancellor of the university. According to a notification issued by the Governor and university Chancellor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, Prof. Prasada Raju will be at the helm for a period of three years. He had joined the university as assistant professor in the Civil Engineering Department in 1989. He had also served as Registrar and Principal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prasada-raju-is-jntuk-v-c/article37263417.ece
31 October 2021||MALAPPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala police promise safe rehabilitation for Maoists||The State police have intensified their efforts to woo Maoists hiding in the jungles of the Western Ghats to surrender, especially in the wake of the setbacks and the attrition being faced by the Kabani, Nadugani, Siruvani and Bhavani units of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist). The surrender of Lijesh, aka Ramu, in Wayanad last week has increased the hopes of the police about more surrenders in future. The way the police dealt with Ramu by offering him safety and rehabilitation under the surrender-cum-rehabilitation scheme of 2018 is also expected to send positive signals to the remaining Maoists. Even as the Government said that the trial of the surrendered Maoists would be in accordance with the crimes they committed, the police indicated that maximum leniency would be given. “We want to dispel the fears and the unfounded concerns that exist within them about the surrender policy. It will be transparent,” said a senior police officer who had been instrumental in drafting the surrender package. Increasing despondency The behaviour of Maoists, especially in recent months, has been viewed as a sign of an increasing despondency among the cadres. Small groups came to two tribal hamlets off Munderi in the Nilambur forest in the last two weeks. Once they stayed in the colony overnight. When the police learned about the first visit two days later, they were clueless about the second visit that took place on Wednesday night at the Iruttukuthy hamlet. Sources close to the police and Maoists indicated that the cadres were struggling for survival. They have reportedly stopped conducting classes for tribespeople. The last time they came to the colony was for provision. The number of Maoist cadres has almost halved in the last 10 years. It was in 2011-12 that the Maoist movement began to emerge once again in Kerala with the Wayanad-Nilambur forests as its base. It was seen as the third phase of the extremist Naxal movement. An attempt to disrupt a train at Nilambur 10 years ago was considered the outfit’s first move, and leaders such as Sasidharan and Roopesh are still facing trial for that. In 2014, Sinoj was killed in a blast and J.M. Krishna in an elephant attack. Roopesh, Shaina, Anoop, Kannan, Murali Kunnampalli and Ismail were held from different places in 2015. In the first encounter in 2016, Kuppu Devarajan and Ajitha were killed in Nilambur. Lata was killed by an elephant in 2018. The killing of Jaleel and Velmurugan took place in the following years. Four Maoists, including senior leader Manivasakam, were killed in Attappady in 2019. At the same time, several urban cadres of the movement, including Rajeev, Rajan Chittilappally, Dinesh, Murali Murali Kannampalli, Danish, Kalidasan, Usman, Alan Shuhaib and Thaha Fazal, were arrested. Morale ebbing With an ebbing morale in the shrinking cadre, Maoists are increasingly being wooed to surrender. The police are trying to send out overtures that their safe rehabilitation would be ensured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-police-promise-safe-rehabilitation-for-maoists/article37262568.ece
31 October 2021||MARTERU (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl student found hanging in residential school||An eighth class student, Geddam Sravanthi (12), died under suspicious circumstances in the Social Welfare Residential School Hostel, in Marteru village of Penumantra mandal in the district. Students, who reportedly noticed the body hanging to the ceiling in a classroom alerted the staff. The Penumantra police registered a case on Friday, and shifted the body to Government Hospital for post-mortem. A native of Podalada village in Iragavaram mandal of West Godavari district, Sravanthi was a semi-orphan, and was studying in the hostel for the last two years. Her father, Suresh, is a labourer and mother died a few years ago, said the Penumantra police. The girl was staying with her grandparents and she brought Rs. 600 while coming from home on October 20. Sravanthi reportely kept Rs. 400 with hostel warden, V. Anitha and Rs. 200 with helper, G. Shalini. In a suicide note left behind, the victim allegedly stated that she committed theft from her aunt’s house and committed a mistake. The amount was kept with the hostel warden and helper and she wanted to go to her mother, the police said. Following a complaint lodged by Sravanthi’s grandfather, Satyanarayana, alleging that the girl was murdered and then the hostel staff projected it as a suicide, a case has been registered under Section 174 of the Cr.P.C. Meanwhile, West Godavari Collector Kartikeya Misra suspended warden Anita, cook Ammaji, and helper Shalini. He directed the Social Welfare and police to conduct an inquiry into the cause of the student’s death. There is always someone to talk to. Those with suicial tendencies and in distress can call 100 for counselling and guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-student-found-hanging-in-residential-school/article37262632.ece
31 October 2021||NUZVID (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas pipeline leakage creates panic||A leak in a private gas pipeline created panic on Mylavaram Road in the town on Saturday. Nobody was injured in the incident. Passersby noticed the gas leakage at a culvert and alerted the police, who, in turn, informed about breakage of the pipeline to the company officials. The pipeline surveillance team of the firm rushed to the spot and plugged the leakage, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gas-pipeline-leakage-creates-panic/article37263490.ece
31 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain continues to lash Prakasam||Light to moderate rain lashed different parts of Prakasam district under the influence of a weather system in the Bay of Bengal on Saturday giving impetus to farm operations. The district experienced an average rainfall of 26.3 mm with Ulavapadu getting a maximum rainfall of 118.6 mm on Saturday, according to a report compiled by the Chief Planning Officer. The wet spell will continue in the coastal region till November 3 as the low pressure area, extending up to 3.1 km above mean sea level, persisted, according to weather officials. Meanwhile, Singarayakonda received (114.2mm), Parchur (71 mm), C.S.Puram (65.8 mm), Tangutur (64.2 mm), Kandukur (56.4mm), Kumarole(50.8 mm), Parchur (48.4 mm) and Ongole (31.4 mm). The current wet spell is useful for the standing kharif crops raised in over 5.24 lakh acres. Paddy has been raised in 75,861 acres, thanks to good storage in the reservoirs fed by Krishna river. Paddy crop coverage The paddy crop coverage went up to 117% when compared to the normal sown area of 75,861 acres, Agriculture Joint Director Srinivasa Rao said. Farmers went for chillies in 97,492 acres(145% crop coverage). The crop coverage target during rabi has been increased by over 10% to 7.09 lakh acres, he added. The overall rainfall deficit has reduced to 7.3% as the district received 360 mm of rainfall during southwest monsoon period as against the normal rainfall of 388.3 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-continues-to-lash-prakasam/article37262631.ece
31 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||25 new COVID-19 cases in Prakasam, Nellore||The new COVID-19 infections dipped to seven in the last 24 hours in Prakasam, where the recovery rate improved to 98.89%. The district registered zero deaths in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Saturday. So far, 1,124 persons have succumbed to the viral disease in the district. The intensity of the COVID-19 second wave in Prakasam is on the decline, but one should not lower one’s guard just as yet, said Government General Hospital Superintendent D. Sreeramulu. “The third wave may not be severe as a majority of the public have been vaccinated. Even if the third wave comes, it may be milder when compared to the second,” Mr. Sreeramulu said in a conversation with The Hindu . The health situation improved also in neighbouring SPSR Nellore district, where 18 persons got infected in the last 24 hours. One more person died of COVID in the district, taking the toll to 1,052, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. Recoveries outnumbered fresh infections by 44 in the two districts as 51 persons in Prakasam and 18 in Nellore were declared recovered. The number of active cases dipped further to a little over 800 in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/25-new-covid-19-cases-in-prakasam-nellore/article37262628.ece
31 October 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP exhorts public to donate blood||Prakasam Superintendent of Police Malika Garg has underscored the need for donating blood by everyone to give a new lease of life to needy patients. The requirement of safe blood has been going up to treat trauma patients in the wake of increase in the number of road mishaps, she said while inaugurating a blood donation camp organised by the police department as part of the Police Martyrs’ Remembrance Week here on Saturday. People should keep donating blood, plasma and platelets during the pandemic, she said. A large number of people, including police officers and students from different colleges, came forward to give blood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-exhorts-public-to-donate-blood/article37262630.ece
31 October 2021||Rajamahendravaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nannaya varsity to go for NAAC accreditation this academic year||The Adikavi Nannaya University (AKNU-Rajamahendravaram) is all set to go for accreditation by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) in the present academic year. The AKNU Executive Council chaired by Special Chief Secretary Satish Chandra on Saturday chalked out an action plan to give a fillip to the infrastructure facilities and laboratories for the NAAC accreditation. The EC meeting was held online. Mr. Satish Chandra has lauded the university’s efforts to get the recognition of the National Council for Technical Education (NCTE) for the engineering courses. “One of the major decisions taken by the Executive Council on Saturday is to go for the NAAC assessment and accreditation in the present academic year. We are preparing for the assessment early next year,” AKNU Vice-Chancellor Mokka Jagannadha Rao told The Hindu . The EC has accepted the proposals for the renovation of all laboratories and equipment and to create additional infrastructure. The beautification drive of the Rajamahendravaram campus will also be done by December. Science college building “The EC members have accepted the proposal of construction of a new science college building on the university campus in Rajamahendravaram. It will be built by spending Rs. 6.2 crore and tenders will be invited soon,” said Prof. Jagannadha Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nannaya-varsity-to-go-for-naac-accreditation-this-academic-year/article37263431.ece
31 October 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Preparations on to open all schools in Kerala tomorrow||Pravesanotsavam will be held in all schools on the reopening day on Monday by adhering to COVID-19 protocols, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. The State-level Pravesanotsavam would be held at Cotton Hill Upper Primary School here, he said. He was addressing mediapersons here on Saturday in connection with the steps taken by the State Government for school reopening. The Minister said all arrangements for resumption of offline classes after months away from campus had been completed, and students and parents need not have any anxiety on this score. In the first phase, primary students and those in classes 10 and 12 will begin school, and in the second phase, those in classes 8 and 9 and 11 will reach campuses on November 15. The slogan put forward by the General Education Department for the reopening is ‘Thirike Schoolilekku.’ Detailed planning, starting with a series of meetings with stakeholders had been done. Meetings with Ministers for Health, Transport, and Local Self-Government had also been conducted to prepare the guidelines, students’ transport protocols, and steps to be taken by local bodies for the reopening. School cleaning School cleaning and disinfection had been taken up with public and stakeholder support. Academic guidelines too were prepared to give teachers an idea of the general approach to learning when students reached school. School parent-teacher associations and management committees also played an active role in drawing up school-level plans. These preparations were also evaluated, the Minister said. The Minister stressed that teaching would not be full-fledged initially.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/preparations-on-to-open-all-schools-in-kerala-tomorrow/article37262576.ece
31 October 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Go for cow-based organic farming, TTD tells ryots||Exhorting farmers to go for natural farming techniques, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy said the organisation would offer support to farmers if their products are made from cow-based organic farming. Speaking on the inaugural session of ‘Go Maha Sammelan’ held at Mahathi Auditorium here on Saturday under the aegis of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, Mr. Subba Reddy said the aim of the two-day seminar is to bring awareness among farmers on the importance of ‘go-addharita’ farming. “We have taken up the campaign for ‘Go Samrakshana’ programme in a big way. The campaign included programmes like ‘Gudiko Go Mata’, ‘Navaneeta Seva’, production of Panchagavya products and MoU with SV Veterinary University for quality cows and organic farming in TTD lands etc,” the TTD chairman said. Speaking at the event, TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy said that the TTD has launched several initiatives and entered into an MoU with AP Rythu Sadhikara Samstha and Environment Farming Department for spreading awareness on advantages of organic farming and promotion of desi breed of cows in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/go-for-cow-based-organic-farming-ttd-tells-ryots/article37262625.ece
31 October 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||SPMVV turns into a hub for innovation||Sri Padmavati Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) has an incubation ecosystem that is not only unique in nature, but also makes it a pioneer in promoting women entrepreneurship. With more than four business incubators, it tops the list of State-run universities in taking higher education to a new plane. Formed with the collaborative effort of the DST’s National S&T Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB), the SPMVV Society for Innovation Incubation Entrepreneurship - Technology Business Incubator (SSIIE – TBI) provides a vibrant ecosystem and hand-holds startups till the stage of product development. “Our technocrats have made impact at the global level,” says its coordinator J. Surya Kumar. Similarly, DSIR’s TePP Outreach-cum-Cluster Innovation Centre (TOCIC), under the Promoting Innovations in Individuals, Startups and MSMEs (PRISM) scheme, has promoted many entrepreneurs, despite a rigorous screening process that pegs the success rate at just 45%. “We stand first among the 13 TOCIC centres in India,” says its coordinator P. Uma Maheswari Devi. The WBIF (Women Biotech Incubation Facility), sanctioned under BioNEST with a grant of Rs. 4.74 crore, is all set to leave a wider footprint as it introduces women to diverse fields. Coordinator V. Kalarani reiterates her goal of promoting self-employment in women. The DST CURIE AI Centre launched in March, 2019 and it became an ‘advanced centre’ by December 2020. “ The SPMVV is the first State-run university to get an Augmented Reality (AR) Lab,” says its coordinator S. Jyothi. The latest addition to the impressive array is the Livelihood Business Incubator (LBI) from the Ministry of MSME. “We train women in making bakery items, distillation process, mushroom cultivation, traditional foods and taking natural colourants from indigenous plants,” says its coordinator B. Jeevana Jyothi. Standing tall behind the enviable achievements is Vice-Chancellor Jamuna Duvvuru. “The incubators functioning on our campus have divergent objectives, but we have made them work with cohesion, thus achieving synergy,” says Prof. Jamuna, adding that the incubators would take us close to the motto of women empowerment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spmvv-turns-into-a-hub-for-innovation/article37263406.ece
31 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Need for organic farming: Venkaiah||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu presented the Dr. I.V. Subba Rao Rythu Nestham Awards to 42 farmers and agricultural scientists, and journalists at a programme jointly organised by the Muppavarapu Foundation and the Rythu Nestham Foundation, at the Swarna Bharat Trust here on Saturday. On the occasion, Mr. Venkaiah Naidu said the farmers had achieved impressive yields in spite of the prevalence of COVID-19, for which the nation would never forget them. He stressed the need to spread awareness about water conservation and rainwater harvesting, which were crucial to meeting the future requirements. A concerted effort should be made to reduce wastage of flood waters into the sea, he said. Mr. Venkaiah Naidu further said agriculture continued to be the backbone of the national economy, and felt that the costs should be brought down to save the farmers from hardship. He called upon the farmers to cut down on the usage of chemical fertilizers to the extent possible and see that agriculture was climate-friendly. Due focus should be laid on organic farming, which had many benefits, he advised. Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu, former Ministers K. Srinivas and V. Sobhanadreeswara Rao, Rythu Nestham founder and Padma Shri awardee Yadlapalli Venkateswara Rao, and Bharatiya Kisan Sangh South India in-charge Kumara Swamy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/need-for-organic-farming-venkaiah/article37263413.ece
31 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State records two COVID-19 deaths in 24 hours||The State reported two more deaths due to COVID-19 and 349 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning, taking the cumulative toll and tally to 14,369 and 20,66,065 respectively.   During the past three days, only four deaths were reported and the overall death rate remains at 0.70%. Each of the last two deaths were reported in Krishna and Nellore districts. The number of active cases came down to 4,649  with 535 patients recovering in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate stands at 20,47,047 and 99.07%. The test positivity rate of the 35,054 samples tested in the past day was 0.99%. Meanwhile, four districts reported infections in single-digit in the past day. Chittoor reported 67 new infections. It was followed by East Godavari (48), West Godavari (45), Guntur (43), Krishna (35), Visakhapatnam (31), Srikakulam (29), Nellore (18), Anantapur (10), Kadapa (7), Prakasam (7), Vizianagaram (7) and Kurnool (2). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,93,749), Chittoor (2,46,871), West Godavari (1,79,037). Guntur (1,78,035), Anantapur (1,57,839), Visakhapatnam (1,57,710), Nellore (1,46,354), Prakasam (1,38,476), Kurnool (1,24,136), Srikakulam (1,23,090), Krishna (1,19,302), Kadapa (1,15,611) and Vizianagaram (82,960).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-records-two-covid-19-deaths-in-24-hours/article37263410.ece
31 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Admit aided school students in govt.-run institutions’||The decision of the government to take over aided educational institutions across the State by giving the managements options has stirred the proverbial hornet’s nest. At some places, students and their parents hit the road after being abruptly told by the management that it would surrender the staff and shut the school and so they should seek admission elsewhere. Citing quality issues, the government, through GO 42 issued on April 6 this year, said despite being extended grant-in-aid, aided educational institutions had not shown much development and therefore had lost relevance. Giving three options to the managements, the GO said they could either voluntarily withdraw from grant-in-aid benefits, or hand over their assets to the government, or run their institutions as private entities. The contractual staff such institutions would be redeployed and appointed in the vacant posts available in government schools and colleges, the GO said. Applications were called from managements of schools and colleges willing to give up their grant-in-aid status. Of the total 137 aided Degree colleges in the State with a 1.4 lakh student strength, 124 of them were willing to surrender their staff, among the 122 aided Junior Colleges that impart education on nearly 50,000 students, 110 of them had sent in their application for merger, and of the 1,960 aided schools, 1,200 had said they would surrender teachers and staff and shut their institutions. “The initiative may have been rolled out with a good intention, but the government move of withdrawing aid to the institutions without making any alternative arrangements for students, who will be most affected by it, is a major drawback,” says K.S. Lakshmana Rao, former MLC from Krishna-Guntur Teachers’ Constituency. Absence of coherence is contributing to the existing confusion. Students and parents feel that they had been left in the lurch in the middle of an academic year with the managements abruptly deciding to close the institutions and asking them to seek admission elsewhere. “My son is in 10th class now. The long gap due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown resulting in closure of schools has already done enough harm to their academic career. Now, this decision will leave them nowhere,” said Malasree Dundoo, a concerned mother. Teachers and staff of the aided institutions do not seem to be affected as they stand to gain by the government decision. “Besides enhancement of their pay scale, they will have other benefits like medical reimbursement,” said Mr. Rao. Leaders of various student organisations have also been protesting against the government decision demanding a roll-back. Mr. Lakshman Rao, who recently met Special Chief Secretary Satish Chandra, had urged the government to take note of the stakeholders’ concerns and give permission for establishment of new schools and colleges to accommodate the teachers and students of the now-closed aided institutions. “The government officials should actively engage in adjusting the students in the government-run schools and colleges,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/admit-aided-school-students-in-govt-run-institutions/article37263419.ece
31 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Office-bearers elected||Central Excise Gazetted Executive Officers’ Association covering Krishna, East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore districts elected K. Yugandhar as its president at its general body meeting held in Guntur. Mr. Yugandhar replaces M. Nagaraju, who has been transferred to Mumbai as Assistant Commissioner. M. Srinivas, G.V.V.S.V.L. Narasimha Rao were elected as joint secretaries and P.V.V. Satyanarayana as honorary advisor. Association office - bearers G. Tilak, G. Sitaramaiah Chowdary, N. Srinivas, T.V.G.K. Murthy, Prameela and Eswara Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/office-bearers-elected/article37263492.ece
31 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Library spruced up for Vice-President’s visit||The Ram Mohan Dharma Pustaka Bhandagaram, popular as Ram Mohan Library, is all spruced up to welcome the Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, here on Sunday. The Vice-President is scheduled to visit the more than century-old library near Bandar Locks on Mahatma Gandhi Road and go around the two-storied building. “He will unveil a Bharat Matha statue and pay tributes to her,” said Ch. Koteswara Rao, president of the library. Built in 1911, the library is a piece of history, equipped with works of the authors of the 18th and 19th centuries. It has a large collection of books related to Independence, history, science, politics and other genres in Telugu, English and Sanskrit, in addition to a few Hindi classics. The place has historic importance as it was visited by the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi, former President V.V. Giri and many prominent freedom fighters and has survived a prolonged neglect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/library-spruced-up-for-vice-presidents-visit/article37263495.ece
31 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students told to keep their interest alive in academics||“Keep that fire alive in you and never let your interest levels take a dip,” Krishna District Collector J. Nivas told students of VIT-AP, who have landed plum jobs in the campus recruitment drive. Addressing the students at a function organised by the management of the university to felicitate the achievers, Mr. Nivas said loyalty is crucial in whatever career path they choose in future. Students Akhil Pasumarthy, Venkata Prasanna Naga Satya Preethi, Lekhana Devasena Ginjupalli, T. Harshavardhana and Jessy Preetham Motamarri were felicitated on the occasion. Out of the total 917 job offers received by the students in the placements this year, including 193 super dream offers and 219 dream offers, 535 students have already been placed. The highest domestic package offered to the students this year had increased by 166.45 % to Rs. 33.29 Lakhs Per Annum, compared to last year’s Rs. 20 lakh LPA. The average salary of the batch had also gone up to Rs. 6.77 LPA from Rs. 6.28 LPA. He said more than 121 recruiting companies had participated in the campus drive 2020-21, including Intel, Xilinx, Robert Bosch, ALSTOM, IT companies like Microsoft, Walmart, Adobe, Amazon, JP Morgan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-told-to-keep-their-interest-alive-in-academics/article37262634.ece
31 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exhibition by women entrepreneurs inaugurated||Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi inaugurated the two-day Nirmala Mahila Bazaar, an exhibition of crafts, apparel and other products by women entrepreneurs at Icon Public School in Seetharamapuram of the city on Saturday. Govt. initiatives Speaking on the occasion Ms. Bhagya Lakshmi asked budding women entrepreneurs to make use of such platforms to showcase their products. She said that the State government had taken up several initiatives to support women entrepreneurs. The exhibition was organised by Rotary Midtown Vijayawada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exhibition-by-women-entrepreneurs-inaugurated/article37263491.ece
31 October 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SHRC camp on Nov. 1, 2||The Andhra Pradesh State Human Rights Commission, Kurnool, will conduct a camp in the city’s civil courts complex on November 1 and 2. According to a release by Commission’s section officer B. Taraka Narasimha Kumar, Commission chairman Justice Mandhata Seetharama Murti, judicial member D. Subrahmanyam, non-judicial member G. Srinivasa Rao will take up hearing of cases and also receive fresh complaints from the petitioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shrc-camp-on-nov-1-2/article37263411.ece
31 October 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Haribabu calls on Harichandan||Mizoram Governor K. Haribabu called on Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan at Raj Bhavan on Saturday. Mr. Harichandan presented Mr. Haribabu the traditional Mizoram garments and an idol of Lord Venkateswara Swamy. Both Governors discussed the developments in their States, and hoped that the COVID-19 pandemic would soon come to an end in the country. Mr. Haribabu invited Mr. Harichandan to Mizoram. Earlier, Special Chief Secretary to Governor R.P. Sisodia welcomed Mr. Haribabu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/haribabu-calls-on-harichandan/article37263408.ece
31 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central govt. snatching away livelihood sources: Medha||Social activist and Narmada Bachao Andolan leader Medha Patkar has lashed out at the Union government for “spreading the false news that privatisation and partnership with private corporates will bring the new normal of progress and development of the country.” Ms. Medha Patkar was in the city on Saturday to extend her solidarity with the workers of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), who had been on a relay hunger strike for the last 260 days against the decision of the BJP-led NDA Government on strategic sale of the steel plant. Unemployment Addressing the workers, Ms. Medha Patkar said, “We all know the truth that the ‘sale of India’ will snatch away the sources of livelihood, including land, water, forests, and also employment, apart from reservation for SC/ST communities. The huge unemployment in the country is not caused by the pandemic but by privatisation, liberalisation and globalisation policies of the Narendra Modi government.” She said all the trade unions were opposing the Centre’s policies as 29 Central laws and four labour codes did not allow unionisation. The farmers who parted with their lands for the establishment of the steel plant had every right to question the “mala fide intentions” of the government, she said. Commending the VSP workers on their relentless struggle, Ms. Medha Patkar said it was an inspiration for many other struggles in the country. She called for greater unity among all sections to exert pressure on the Centre to change its “adamant attitude.” IFTU national president Aparna said the Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) were safeguarding the economy of the nation. She said the people of the country were facing financial problems due to the “lopsided policies” of the government. IFTU State president Prasad and vice-president M. Venkateswarulu, and Sompeta Paryavarana Parirakshana Porata Samithi representative Raju opposed the decision on privatisation of the VSP. Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee leader J. Ayodhya Ram was among others who spoke. In the evening, a rally was taken out, which culminated in a public meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-snatching-jobs-says-medha/article37262578.ece
31 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Development works to be taken up at Simhachalam, Annavaram||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao said that Union Tourism Minister G. Kishan Reddy has been invited to lay foundation stone for initiating development works at Simhachalam and Annavaram temples as part of the PRASAD (Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation Drive) scheme. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that COVID-19 has delayed the start of works at Simhachalam and they would pick up pace soon. He was speaking to the media at Simhachalam here on Saturday. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that he had attended the South India Tourism Ministers Conference held in Bengaluru where he briefed about the status of various tourism projects in Andhra Pradesh to Mr. Kishan Reddy. He said that he also spoke about the pending projects in the State and urged the Union Minister to speed them up. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the State government’s tourism policy is being appreciated by all. “The government has been giving top priority to tourism sector and we are aimed at attracting tourists and investments. To facilitate them, seven star hotels are being constructed at various places,” he added. Responding to a query, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that APTDC hotels are not just renovated in Rushikonda, but also at other places in the State. The State government has given its nod to renovate existing APTDC resorts across the State with a budget of Rs. 198 crore. Funds of the State government and the Centre as well as Public Private Partnership (PPP) will be utilised. Initially, works are going on with a budget of Rs. 78 crore, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/development-works-to-be-taken-up-at-simhachalam-annavaram/article37263441.ece
31 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja crop in 80 acres destroyed||The district police have destroyed ganja plantations in about 80 acres spread across several villages in G. Madugula mandal in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. The drive was organised with the support of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), the ITDA and the Revenue and Forest Departments. SP B. Krishna Rao, SEB Deputy Commissioner S.V.V.N. Babji Rao and a few other officials took part. Drone survey Mr. Krishna Rao said that under the leadership of DGP D. Gautam Sawang, the district police had launched a ‘Parivartana’ programme. In association with the Revenue, the ITDA and other Departments, the police had conducted a survey to identify the land being cultivated for ganja. “We have used satellite images, GPS and drones to locate the ganja plantations,” Mr. Krishna Rao said. “This apart, the police have been organising awareness campaigns to educate the villagers about the consequences of ganja cultivation,” he said. “Ganja smuggling has been a major issue in the Visakhapatnam Agency areas, especially in the Andhra-Odisha Border region. Stringent measures are being taken to contain it. The police and the SEB personnel have been in the forefront in the fight against smuggling of drugs, and it is reflected in the record number of cases being registered and seizures made in the last few years.” The SP appealed to the tribal people to voluntarily destroy the ganja crops and shift to alternative crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-crops-on-80-acres-in-vizag-destroyed/article37262579.ece
31 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanitation to be priority for new GVMC Commissioner||G. Lakshmisha took charge as the new Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner here on Saturday. Addressing the media after assuming the office, Mr. Lakshmisha thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for giving him the opportunity to serve the GVMC. A 2013-batch IAS officer, he said that for the first time, he will be working in the urban development wing.  ‘Different posting’ “Compared to my previous posts, this is a different posting and will be a different experience. I would strive hard for development of the city in all aspects by coordinating with all the departments of the GVMC. I also seek cooperation from citizens, public representatives, officials, GVMC staff, NGOs and others,” he said. When questioned about his priorities, Mr. Lakshmisha said that sanitation will be the first priority for any municipal corporation. He had earlier worked as Joint Collector, East Godavari district, and Project Officer, ITDA, Parvathipuram. Last week, the State government had transferred him as the GVMC Commissioner, while the earlier Commissioner G. Srijana was posted as Director, Industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sanitation-to-be-priority-for-new-gvmc-commissioner/article37263433.ece
31 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revoke G.O. on aided schools, TDP urges State government||Activists of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) staged a protest over the State government’s move to take over aided schools near Gandhi Statue at the GVMC building here on Saturday. They held pictures of various aided schools in the Visakhapatnam district and demanded that the government withdraw its decision. Speaking on the occasion, former MLA and TDP Parliamentary constituency president Palla Srinivasa Rao said that the State government should immediately withdraw G.O. no. 42. He said that there are about 107 aided schools in the district. The government’s decision has left thousands of parents and students in the lurch, he said. TDP MLA (East Constituency) Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revoke-go-on-aided-schools-tdp-urges-state-government/article37263435.ece
31 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Construction of resort against law, says former bureaucrat||The construction of a resort on Rushikonda Hill is against the mandate in the earlier Master Plan of VMRDA (formerly VUDA), said former bureaucrat E.A.S Sarma. In a letter to the Secretary of the Municipal Administration and Urban development (MA&UD), he pointed out that as per the G.O. no. 3454 of the MA&UD, dated June 30, 2006, the natural features, especially the hilly terrain, need to be conserved. Quoting from the G.O., Mr. Sarma pointed out that the G.O. specified that, “The environmentally sensitive zones in the region are the natural features such as hills, forest and water bodies. These need to be conserved and kept in original glory. These have been identified for conservation in their natural form.” According to him, there are apex court directions that reiterate the obligation of the State to treat the natural features as held by it in the public trust and not disturb the same in any manner. Any damage caused to such natural features amounts to an outright breach of the public trust, he said. The construction activity taken up over the Rushikonda hilly terrain violates this requirement. No land-use changes can be permitted in the VMRDA area without public consultation and, in the specific case of hills and water bodies, no land-use change is permissible at all in the first instance, Mr. Sarma said. He demanded that all construction activity has to be stopped and action initiated against those responsible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/construction-of-resort-against-law-says-former-bureaucrat/article37263496.ece
31 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector inaugurates market yard at Araku||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna inaugurated a market yard consisting of 60 shops, which was constructed at a cost of Rs. 60 lakh at Araku Valley here on Saturday. He was accompanied by Araku Chetti Phalguna and Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Gopala Krishna. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Mallikarjuna said that it is everyone’s responsibility to keep Araku, the major tourist attraction in the district, clean. He said that the administration will take steps to ensure there are no encroachments on the main road. He said that surgeries will be performed in Araku Area Hospital from November 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-inaugurates-market-yard-at-araku/article37263436.ece
31 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Surgeries at Paderu hospital from tomorrow’||Project Officer (PO) of Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) R. Gopalakrishna said that all steps were taken to start performing surgeries in the Paderu Area Hospital from November 1. He visited the hospital and checked the civil works which were done at the operation theatre. He said that to procure hospital equipment and for other works they had sanctioned about Rs. 20 lakh. Now, there is no dearth of any equipment required for surgeries, he added. He spoke with patients at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/surgeries-at-paderu-hospital-from-tomorrow/article37263429.ece
31 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Airline operators announce winter schedules||Air India, AirAsia, SpiceJet and IndiGo have announced their winter schedules with effect from October 31. Flight No. AI 1485 from Delhi will land in Visakhapatnam at 7.40 a.m. and leave for Port Blair at 8.15 a.m. on Mondays, Thursdays and Saturdays. In the return direction, AI 1486 from Port Blair will arrive in Visakhpantam at 12 noon and leave for Delhi at 12.30 p.m. on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays. Similarly, AI 651 from Mumbai to Mumbai via Raipur and Visakhapatnam will arrive in Visakhapatam at 1.35 p.m. and leave at 2.15 p.m. on all the seven days of the week. AI 451/452 Delhi/Vizag/Delhi will arrive in Vizag at 4.35 p.m. and take off at 5.15 p.m. on all days. IndiGo is operating 18 inbound and 18 outbound flights to various destinations. AirAsia and SpiceJet are operating daily flights to various destinations. The schedules can be checked on the website of the airline concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/airline-operators-announce-winter-schedules/article37263421.ece
31 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan’s meeting: traffic restrictions imposed today||The city police have imposed several traffic diversions keeping in view the public meet to be addressed by Jana Sena Party president K. Pawan Kalyan here on Sunday afternoon. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana said that lorries and heavy vehicles heading towards Vizianagaram and Srikakulam from NH-16, Anakapalle, should divert and use Sabbavaram- Pendurthi-Anandapuram route. Similarly, heavy vehicles coming from Tagarapuvalasa and intend to go to Anakapalle, should use Anandapuram-Pendurthi-Sabbavaram route to reach Anakapalle. He said that vehicles coming from Anakapalle route and intend to go to Visakhapatnam, should use Sabbavaram-Pendurthi-NAD route to reach the city. He said that the traffic police have allotted dedicated parking spaces for those who are going to attend the public meeting. The police appealed to people to park only in those places to avoid traffic chaos. The restrictions will come into force from 12 p.m. till the end of the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawans-meeting-traffic-restrictions-imposed-today/article37263437.ece
31 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students will face problems, says HRF||The Human Rights Forum (HRF) on Saturday demanded that the State government immediately recall the G.O. nos. 55 and 65, pertaining to the decision on aided educational institutions. The HRF said that there are many educational institutions established by social reformers, missionaries and trusts that have been providing quality education at low cost across generations. The government’s recent decision has resulted in the future of these institutions and of the students being stuck in a limbo, the HRF members K. Sudha and A. Chandrasekhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-will-face-problems-says-hrf/article37263438.ece
31 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIMV students receive gold medals, merit certificates||The Indian Institute of Management Visakhapatnam (IIMV) distributed gold medals and certificates to toppers of the last two batches of PGP, PGPEx and PGCEP. Merit certificates for the students in the current batches under the Directors Merit List category were also given out, here at the campus on Saturday. The Vani Row Memorial Gold Medal for Securing First Rank among Girls was also given out during this ceremony to Mansi Gupta (PGP 2018-20) and Divya Gupta (PGP 2019-21). Since the fourth and fifth annual convocation was hosted virtually in July this year, this event was conducted to award the medals and certificates to the winners and toppers in person. This ceremony was a low-key affair and only the 17 meritorious students were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iimv-students-receive-gold-medals-merit-certificates/article37263439.ece
31 October 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vice-President to visit Visakhapatnam on November 3||Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy said that officials should coordinate and make Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu’s scheduled visit a success. Addressing a review meeting, he said that the Vice-President would stay in Visakhapatnam on November 3,4 and 5 and take part in various programmes. Mr. Venkaiah Naidu would leave the city on November 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vice-president-to-visit-visakhapatnam-on-november-3/article37263430.ece
31 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers can now get diesel at their doorstep||Farmers can cheer up hereafter with the availability of diesel at their doorstep, thanks to launching of a 6,000-litre mobile diesel dispenser called Bowser truck. Nellimarla MLA Badukonda Appala Naidu inaugurated the Bowser at an outlet at Aainada junction of Vizianagaram on Saturday. President of Vizianagaram District Petroleum Dealers’ Association Goluguri Nagrireddy said diesel would be sold at same price and there would not be any extra charge for serving in remote areas. He said farmers would be intimated about time and date about the availability of Bowser in their respective villages Lok Satta Party State president Bhisetti Babji said that over 100 villages of Denkada, Pusapati Rega, Bhogapuram and Vizianagaram mandals would get benefited with the mobile diesel dispenser facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-can-now-get-diesel-at-their-doorstep/article37262574.ece
31 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) opposes nuclear plant at Kovvada||Communist Party of India (Marxist) Srikakulam district secretary D. Govinda Rao on Saturday urged the Union and State governments to scrap the atomic power plant proposed at Kovvada of Srikakulam district as it would pose threat to lives of the people living in the vicinity. Mr. Rao said the State government was not concentrating on agriculture and agro-based industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-opposes-nuclear-plant-at-kovvada/article37263444.ece
31 October 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Handloom expo opens||Mayor V. Vijayalakshmi on Saturday said artisans were the biggest victims of COVID-19 with the drop in sales of their products. She said society’s support for them was the need of the hour. Along with Deputy Mayor Israpu Revathi Devi, she inaugurated Sri Kalabharathi Handlooms-Handicrafts Mela in Lion’s Club located near Vizinagaram fort. Speaking on the occasion, she said proper patronisation would ensure livelihood for artisans and make them to pass their art to next generations. Kalabharathi Exhibition president R. Prasada Rao said the exhibition would continue up to November 25 and could be extended after observing the customers’ response. A Kolkata-based artisan Biswajit Saha hoped for a brisk business with the heavy demand for Bengal ,handlooms including Dhaka Jamdani, Vishnupuri pattu and others. Faizan Ansari who came from Meerut of Uttar Pradesh said they were able to sell quality shirts at Rs. 200 to Rs. 300, with the subsidy provided by the UP government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/handloom-expo-opens/article37263446.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||That weekend feel||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/that-weekend-feel/article37262583.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC to deploy 1,350 more Swachh Auto Tippers||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is going to press more Swachh Auto Tipper (SAT) vehicles into service for effective garbage clearance in the city. A total of 1,350 SAT vehicles are ready for distribution to the eligible poor as part of the ‘Driver-cum-Owner’ scheme, a statement from GHMC informed on Saturday. Over 6,500 metric tonnes of waste are being collected from across the city on a daily basis, and the existing SAT vehicles are proving insufficient for the collection. Upto 2017, the number of SAT vehicles in city stood at 2,500, while the quantity of waste being collected grew from 3,500 tonnes in 2016 to 4,500 tonnes per day in 2017, and to 6,500 tonnes in 2020. To handle the additional pressure, 650 more SAT vehicles each with 3.3 cubic metres capacity were distributed a second time, under the ‘Driver-cum-Owner’ scheme last year. Each of these vehicles could collect 1.5 metric tonnes of garbage from door to door. The latest batch of vehicles too, will boast the features of the vehicles bought last year, and collect garbage from 450 households each, the statement from GHMC informed. The vehicles will have separate chambers for collection of dry and wet use. As part of the Driver-cum-Owner scheme, the beneficiary will be required to pay 10% cost of the vehicle, while loan will be organised for the remaining 90%, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1350-more-sats-to-be-deployed/article37263252.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Huzurabad poll creates a record of sorts||This Huzurabad by-poll will be remembered for long for many reasons. If the unusual protest on roads by some voters against alleged distribution of Rs. 6,000 per vote raised eyebrows, seizure of Rs. 3.81 crore by police in this single Assembly constituency comprising five mandals within 31 days is startling. Though by-elections were held earlier in Telangana since its formation in 2014, this is the first by-poll necessitated by resignation of a sitting MLA of the ruling party. The by-poll became even more curious since TRS MLA Eatala Rajender, who was a close associate of the party supremo and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, challenged the latter’s leadership, having been dropped from the Council of Ministers. With Mr. Rajender joining BJP which had been striving to get a stronghold in Telangana and come to power, the battle attracted wide attention. Congress leader and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy’s elevation as Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president rekindled hopes in its cadre to regain past glory. Undeterred by their official nominee in 2018 Assembly polls switching loyalty to TRS, they hoped to rejuvenate the party in Huzurabad, their stronghold for the past several years. BJP found an opportunity to further strengthen its ground in Telangana by winning this by-poll. Earlier, it won Dubbak by-poll but lost Nagarjunasgar after that. There was a gap of more than three months between Mr. Rajender’s resignation and issuance of by-election notification. Without wasting a minute, he started touring nook and corner of the constituency which he knew as the palm of his hand. Once the notification was issued nearly a month ago, the real by-poll battle started. There was no dearth of allegations and criticism of opponents by main political parties and their candidates. Interestingly, neither KCR nor his son K. Taraka Rama Rao who is a member of his Cabinet took part in the campaign. However, KCR’s nephew and Cabinet colleague T. Harish Rao assisted by some other Ministers, MLAs and MLCs took over the responsibility of securing his party nominee Gellu Srinivas Yadav’s victory. With a record of over 86% poll percentage reported, the polling ended by 7 p.m. sending party leaders to analyse how many votes they were likely to get. Speculation started about the likely winner with different analysts and groups predicting results backed by their own versions. The fate of the candidates is sealed in EVMs. All have to wait till Tuesday when the counting begins in SRR government degree college in Karimnagar city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/huzurabad-poll-creates-a-record-of-sorts/article37263240.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Mining set to play big role in nation’s growth’||The mining sector would play a significant role in the development of the country by giving the necessary impetus to the economic growth, Regional Controller of the Indian Bureau of Mines (IBM) Shailendra Kumar has said. Speaking at a national seminar on the “role of critical minerals in the national development” organised by the Mining Engineers Association of India (MEAI) here on Friday, he said: “Minerals are essential for modern living and the demand for minerals found in the earth is set to increase exponentially with its demand in the manufacturing sector going up by the day”. Critical miners were being extensively used in the manufacture of smartphones, flat-screen, defence, automobile, medical imaging, television and other electronic products, the IBM executive said, adding that China was topping the world in the exploration of minerals and its export and making huge strides in the manufacturing sector. He exuded the confidence that the country would emerge leader in the world in the exploration of 12 critical miners used in the manufacturing sector. Stating that there was good demand for rare earth minerals such as Beryllium, Germanium, Rhenium, Tantalum and others in the manufacturing sector across the world, he stressed the need for exploration and excavation of rare earth minerals in the country and it would help realise “Make in India” possible. There should be more explorations to attain self-sufficiency in the mining sector, particularly in exploration of critical minerals, Mr. Kumar said adding that solar power panels used in green energy generation were also manufactured by using some rare minerals available on the earth. He stressed the need for identification of critical minerals in fly-ash, the by-product of thermal power stations. He felt the need for more research on the optimum utilisation of fly ash to reduce pollution. President of MEAI K. Madhusudhan said the country had achieved self-sufficiency in the mining of coal to meet the energy requirements and stressed the need for more research to explore minerals without causing harm to the nature. Director (operations) of Singareni Collieries S. Chandrasekhar, former presidents of MEAI Sushil Kumar and Sanjay Patnaik, MEAI secretary general M. Narasaiah, Hari Sarvaotham and Yamuna Singh spoke at the meeting attended by mining engineers, students and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mining-set-to-play-big-role-in-nations-growth/article37263450.ece
31 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Over 20 kg ganja seized, one supplier arrested||A 32-year-old ganja supplier was arrested by the Mangalhat police here on Friday. Police seized 20.5 kg cannabis from H. Akash Singh of Jhinsi Chowrai, Lower Dhoolpet, and he was remanded to judicial custody. A Toyota Innova, which was used to deliver cannabis, was also seized. According to the police, the ganja was concealed in two PP bags that were hidden on the rear side of the vehicle. Akash procured ganja for Rs. 2,000 per kg and was selling it to customers for Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 5,000 per kg. 6 cases against peddlers The Cyberabad police have stepped up the drive against ganja smuggling in their jurisdiction and raids are being conducted. Bulk buyers, local retailers and drug transporters are on their radar and on Friday alone, they booked six cases and arrested seven persons after recovering two kilograms of ganja and 100 ml hash oil from their possession. Forty-nine e-petty cases were also registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/20-kg-ganja-seized-one-arrested/article37263249.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP to win with a huge majority: Bandi Sanjay||The BJP has said that it will win the Huzurabad Assembly byelection with a huge majority. Party State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar in a statement complimented the party workers, officials and polling staff for ensuring high voter turnout. The voters plumped for BJP though the TRS not only tried to win them over with money but resorted to false campaign. The people voted for the BJP in an unbiased manner though the Telangana Rashtra Samithi spent huge amount of money and exposed them to allurements. The TRS resorted to indiscriminate abuse of power. The BJP workers were not unnerved by the strong arm tactics of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). The people of Huzurabad honoured the BJP in the struggle between the arrogance of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and their self respect. The BJP workers created awareness among voters about the wrong doings of TRS. They should continue the good work with the same spirit to pave way for the party to assume power in the State, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-to-win-with-a-huge-majority-bandi-sanjay/article37263245.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||I’ve been a combined State votary all along: Jagga Reddy||Working president of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee and Sangareddy legislator T. Jayaprakash (Jagga) Reddy has alleged that the ruling parties of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have started a new drama in the name of combined State. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, he said the comments of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at the recent plenary of the party had created confusion in politics. He stated that Mr. Rao had said that he (TRS) had received many calls/letters from people in AP to launch party there as they wanted schemes being implemented in Telangana. Stating that a political debate was on in the two States now and Y.S. Sharmila was trying to create some space here (Telangana) for her party and one need not wonder if the heirs of of Y.S. Jagan and N. Lokesh come here claiming themselves as the sons of the soil. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao had started the movement for statehood, and Congress and other parties had supported it in inevitable conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ive-been-a-combined-state-votary-all-along/article37263241.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Pay incentive to ryots for taking up alternative crops’||Former Minister and senior leader of Congress Mohd. Ali Shabbir has asked the State Government to refrain from using coercive means to stop farmers from cultivating paddy and instead pay incentive to them for turning to other crops. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao must convince the Centre to direct Food Corporation of India (FCI) to withdraw its reported order of not procuring paddy from this Yasangi (rabi) season and lead an all-party delegation to Delhi to pressure the Centre,” he suggested. Instead of using intimidating tactics against farmers, the State Government should explore means to procure paddy, Mr. Shabbir Ali said here on Saturday. He pointed out that the farmers earned more income by cultivating paddy compared to other crops and explained that one would make an income of Rs. 58,200 per acre if an average yield of 30 quintals was realised and sold at the support price of Rs. 1,940. Even after meeting the input cost of Rs. 27,000 per acre, the paddy farmers would make a profit of about Rs. 31,200, he explained. The profit margins might increase or decrease depending upon the quality and quantity of the yield and also the market conditions. However, farmers would not make similar earnings in case they go for other crops, he stated. “The State Government should announce a package to ensure that the earnings of farmers do not get affected irrespective of what alternative crops they are forced to take up in present circumstances. The Chief Minister can’t push the farmers into an economic crisis by asking them to shun paddy cultivation,” he felt. He said a majority of farmers would not favour alternative crops like cotton or sesame as they were more labour-intensive. Cotton could not be raised during rabi season. The government should come up with practical solutions instead of enforcing a regulated cropping system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pay-incentive-to-ryots-for-taking-up-alternative-crops/article37263242.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ministers discuss permanent solution to podu issues||Forest Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy and Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod on Saturday held meetings with leaders of various parties at Nirmal and Mulugu respectively, to discuss a permanent solution to issues arising out of podu cultivation and consequent damage to forest land. At the meeting in Nirmal, forest officials initially explained the extent of forest in the district and problems of podu cultivation. Mr. Reddy reminded them that the government had already issued Record of Rights (ROR) to tribals who cultivated forest land. Therefore, a fresh assessment of how many more people and how many more acres of forest land could be assigned the rights should be made. It was only after the assessment that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao would take a decision on grant of ROR. He asked officials to receive claims for ROR from applicants from November 8 to December 8. The meeting was attended by Nirmal Collector Musharraf Farooq Ali, MLAs Vithal Reddy and Rekha Sham Naik and other officials. Ms. Rathod said at Mulugu that about 2.04 claims for 6.90 lakh acres of forest land were received after the enactment in 2006 of new Forest Rights Act recognising the rights of forest dwelling tribal communities and other traditional forest dwellers to forest resources. As many as 92,000 claims for an extent of 3.27 lakh acres of forest land were found ineligible in Mulugu. About 15,500 claims for 53,565 acres were pending. Ms. Rathod said it was found that forest land in Telangana measured 68 lakh acres after the formation of the State in 2014. But, about six lakh acres was already cultivated prior to 2006. The intention of the government was to see that injustice was not done to people who were already in possession of forest land. And at the same time not an inch more of forest land was given to such people. Mulugu Collector Krishna Aditya, Mahabubabad MP B. Kavitha and MLA Seetakka were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/talk-over-solution-for-podu-issues/article37263250.ece
31 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New app on personal and digital safety||A new app with a human interface promises to create peer-driven personal and digital safety community. Called Life of Girl, it’s an idea born at T-Hub and incubated at Nasscom. “We onboard organisations and then the community come into play providing digital, physical and psychological safety to the user. We create a private social network where people can communicate and engage better,” said Sikander Khan one of the persons behind the app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-app-on-personal-and-digital-safety/article37263229.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||One more evening in the name of Charminar||GHMC and Quli Qutub Shah Urban Development Authority (QQSUDA) have come together to organise another weekend entertainer in the name of ‘Ek Shaam Charminar Ke Naam’ at Charminar on Sunday. In the same lines as the ‘Sunday-Funday’ on the Tank Bund, the event, when organised the first time two weeks ago, drew tremendous response from the public who attended the event in large numbers. A plethora of activities will be organised as part of the event, including band recital, games for children, performances by clowns, jugglers, caricaturists, and others. The Telangana State Police band will be back with its instrumental music, followed by a Sufi ghazal performance to set the mood for the evening, a press statement informed. The performances will be planned in such a manner as not to create disturbance during the Azaan, Namaz and Puja hours, the statement said. Old city delicacies will be presented in the food stalls, and handicrafts and artificial jewellery will on display at the venue. Tattoo artists and face painters, and magicians will be added attraction for the children. Saplings will be distributed free of cost to the visitors. Mobile toilets will be set up at various locations for the convenience of the public. Necessary parking arrangements have been made for all the visitors at seven locations, including GHMC office at Sardar Mahal Road, pension office, Moti Galli, QQ Stadium, MJ Bridge, SYJ Complex, Charminar Bus Terminal and Ayurvedic, Unani hospital premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-more-evening-in-the-name-of-charminar/article37263236.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Women’s panel to hold meets in districts||Telangana State Women’s Commission has decided to hold review meetings to resolve legal issues pertaining to women in every district. At a meeting held here on Saturday by chairman V. Sunitha Laxma Reddy, it was decided to take the cooperation of the State Legal Services Authority for timely resolution of cases registered in the Women’s Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/womens-panel-to-hold-meets-in-districts/article37263247.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||150 mobile jab centres to give second dose||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar called upon people to take the second dose of vaccination against COVID-19. He visited a mobile vaccination centre set up at Sunrise Home Colony in Rajendra Nagar on Saturday along with Medical & Health Secretary S.A.M. Rizvi and GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar. Mr. Rizvi said that 150 mobile vaccination centres will be coming to various localities to give the second dose. Mr. Lokesh Kumar said that each mobile vaccination vehicle will cover two or three colonies in the city in a day, which ensures coverage of about 450 colonies each day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/150-mobile-jab-centres-to-give-second-dose/article37263253.ece
31 October 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC Hospital to be opened tomorrow||Workers of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) are likely to have better healthcare with a new Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and an Emergency Room at the TSRTC Hospital in Tarnaka scheduled to be inaugurated on November 1. The facilities are scheduled to be inaugurated by TSRTC Chairman Bajireddy Goverdhan and Managing Director V.C. Sajjanar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rtc-hospital-to-be-opened-tomorrow/article37263254.ece
31 October 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sajjanar condoles Puneeth’s demise||The TSRTC condoled the demise of Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar. MD V.C. Sajjanar expressed his indebtedness to the celebrated actor’s constant support for public transport. He said that Mr. Rajkumar supported Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation in their campaign to encourage people to use public transport. Mr. Sajjanar described the actor’s untimely demise as a big loss to India’s film fraternity, mainly the Kannada film industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sajjanar-condoles-puneeths-demise/article37263255.ece
31 October 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Tension at Siddipet||Tension prevailed for sometime at Siddipet Collectorate on Saturday when Congress workers tried to force their entry into the Collectorate. The party gave a call for protest against the comments made by Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy on selling of paddy seed and that even the orders from Supreme Court would not be cared. Several Congress workers were arrested by police. Security was tightened around Collectorate in view of the protest held by BJP on Friday. On Saturday, people with identity cards were allowed inside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tension-at-siddipet/article37263246.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Empowerment mission||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/empowerment-mission/article37263452.ece
31 October 2021||Aurangabad,||Will contest all Maharashtra polls: Owaisi||The All India Majlis-e-Itthehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) will contest all elections in Maharashtra from here on and the option of entering into alliances is also open, party president Asaduddin Owaisi said here on Saturday. On a two-day tour of Aurangabad, Owaisi also criticised the Narendra Modi government on what he claimed was the inept handling of the China and Kashmir issues. “China is on your ground but the government refuses (to acknowledge it). If nobody is holding onto your land, then why have these rounds of talks (between the two nations). The BJP should take a team of MP’s to Ladakh and show the ground reality then. But the BJP and RSS are quiet on this issue,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/will-contest-all-maharashtra-polls-owaisi/article37263337.ece
31 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Two held for posing as IAS officer, engineer in Odisha||The Economic Offences Wing of Odisha police arrested two persons for allegedly impersonating an IAS officer as well as an engineer to cheat a businessman of Rs. 1.17 crores. The accused, Suryamani Tripathy and Amit Kumar, allegedly defrauded Rikab Chand Munot — a proprietor of Rashtriya Stainless Steel — and his son Akshaya on the pretext of facilitating big government contracts. The crime came close on the heels of the recent arrest of two fraudsters who cheated a Puri-based businessman of Rs. 50 lakh by assuring to facilitate the sale of an ITDC (India Tourism Development Corporation)-owned hotel for Rs. 15 crores. They had posed as ITDC officials. “During 2017, Mr. Munot through one of his friends came in contact with Rajesh Gahlot, who introduced himself as an officer of RAW having many IAS officers in Odisha as his friends. He subsequently introduced accused Suryamani, an IAS Officer, posted as Additional Secretary to Odisha’s Public Works Department,” EOW said. In subsequent meetings, they had assured to help Mr. Munot and his son in getting high value government contracts under “Pradhan Mantree Yojana” in Odisha. In order to generate confidence in victims, the fraudsters asked them to deposit Rs. 25 lakh with the government treasury for registering their firms. They prepared fake court agreements and work orders to deceive both father-son duos. In fact, the accused handed over two work orders to the complainant, purportedly issued by assistant engineer of the office of the engineer in chief. They were given forged contract for laying rising main and distribution pipelines for pipe water supply schemes. The values of the contracts were Rs. 32.52 crore and Rs. 47.52 crore. The EOW said when no work was assigned, Mr. Munot sought information under RTI about the accused when the crime came to the fore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-held-for-posing-as-ias-officer-engineer-in-odisha/article37263336.ece
31 October 2021||Chandigarh,||Decision to leave Cong. is final, says Amarinder||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday dismissed reports of back-end talks with the Congress, saying the time for rapprochement is over and his decision to leave the party is final. Mr. Singh reiterated that he will soon launch his political party and said he wanted to build “a strong collective force in the interest of Punjab”. “Reports of backend talks with @INCIndia are incorrect. The time for rapprochement is over. The decision to part ways with the party was taken after much thought and is final. I’m grateful to [Congress president] Sonia Gandhi ji for her support but will not stay in Congress now [sic],” tweeted Singh’s media advisor quoting the former Chief Minister. He was reacting to some media reports which suggested that some Congress leaders are engaged in back-end talks to persuade him to remain in the party. Launch party “I will soon launch my own party and will hold talks for seat sharing with @BJP4India [BJP], breakaway Akali factions and others for the Punjab [Assembly] elections in 2022, once farmers’ issue is resolved. I want to build a strong collective force in the interest of Punjab and its farmers,” Mr. Singh said. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi border points against three Central farm laws, which were enacted in September last year, and are demanding these be repealed. The former Chief Minister on Wednesday had said he would launch his new political party as and when the Election Commission clears the name and the symbol He had also slammed the Congress while claiming that many people from the party are in touch with him. Punjab goes to polls early next year. Mr. Singh had resigned as the Punjab CM last month amid a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu.  I want to build a strong collective force in the interest of Punjab and its farmers Amarinder Singh Former Punjab Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/decision-to-leave-cong-is-final-says-amarinder/article37263126.ece
31 October 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab to terminate ‘faulty’ PPA||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday approved a proposal of power utility Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for terminating the power purchase agreement with private sector electricity generator GVK due to high cost. High power cost The PSPCL has issued a termination notice to the company, according to an official statement. The development assumes significance as several State Congress leaders, including Navjot Singh Sidhu, have been pressing for scrapping the ‘faulty’ PPAs signed during the previous SAD-BJP regime. “A default notice has been served by the PSPCL to GVK on Saturday for cancellation of the PPA due to high cost and falling lowest in the merit order, procurement of energy from GVK that had been restricted only within the range of 25% to 30% during most of the times of a year resulting in higher tariff of about Rs. 7.52 per unit for the last year,” the statement said. Mr. Channi said this step has been taken to safeguard the interests of the consumers by way of “reducing the burden of costly power”. A spokesperson of the CMO said the basic premise of entering into the PPA with GVK was to provide cheaper power. The GVK power project was set up at Goindwal Sahib with a capacity of 2x270 MW. GVK has been generating energy by arranging coal from Coal India limited. As per the PPA, the company was required to arrange a captive coal mine but it failed to do so, he added. The spokesperson said the capacity charges are being decided by the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) based on capital cost of around Rs. 3,058 crore, which is equivalent to about Rs. 1.61 per unit of fixed cost. He said GVK went against this decision and moved the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity for claiming higher fixed cost of Rs. 2.50 per unit, which is pending adjudication. As per the claims made by GVK, variable cost is Rs. 4.50 per unit and fixed cost of Rs. 2.50 per unit, he said. “Thus, the total claim of GVK under tariff comes out around Rs. 7 per unit which increases further due to the surrender of its costly power. Therefore, the intention of GVK is clear that it requires to charge higher tariff which is not the basic premise on which PPA was entered into with PSPCL,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjab-to-terminate-faulty-ppa/article37263124.ece
31 October 2021||Chandigarh,||‘Do Channi, Sidhu endorse Tytler appointment?’||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Saturday asked Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Congress’s State unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu to clarify if they have endorsed naming Jagdish Tytler as a permanent invitee to the Delhi Congress’s new executive committee. In a statement issued here, Mr. Chugh said, “Mr. Tytler has been named as one of the key Congress leaders in Delhi, but he , Kamal Nath and Sajjan Kumar continue to be the blue-eyed boys of the party in spite of the fact that their role in the riots against Sikhs has always been highlighted by many witnesses.” “Mr. Sidhu had confessed that he barely escaped the anti-Sikh riots and now he feels proud of being a leader of the Congress?” he asked. He said Sikh leaders, including Mr. Channi and Mr. Sidhu, owe an explanation to the people of Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/do-channi-sidhu-endorse-tytler-appointment/article37263121.ece
31 October 2021||Dhanbad (Jharkhand),||Now, lawyer found dead in Jharkhand||An assistant public prosecutor of Dhanbad court was found dead at her apartment in Manoram Nagar on Saturday, police said. The body was recovered from the flat after her neighbours informed the police in the afternoon, they said. Senior Superintendent of Police Sanjiv Kumar said she stayed alone in her apartment, and added that an investigation is underway. She was taken to Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College Hospital in Saraidhela, where the doctors declared her dead, the SSP said. In July, a 49-year-old Additional District and Sessions Judge in Dhanbad was allegedly knocked down by an autorickshaw. The CBI filed its chargesheet on October 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/now-lawyer-found-dead-in-jharkhand/article37263122.ece
31 October 2021||GUWAHATI,||Shillong Sikhs to challenge colony takeover by Govt.||The Mazhabi or Dalit Sikhs of a prime locality in Shillong may take the State Government to court for taking possession of their colony despite separate orders from the Meghalaya High Court and the National Commission for Minorities to maintain the status quo. The Harijan Panchayat Committee said they would not give up without a fight against a Government that is “bent upon taking the land gifted to us” by the Syiem, or the king-like chieftain, 200 years ago. “The Government has disregarded the court and the commission. We are discussing with our lawyers,” Gurjit Singh, the committee’s secretary, told The Hindu . The case on the Government’s move to evict the residents of Harijan Colony, also called Punjabi Lane, for a developmental project has been in the court for four years since a communal flare-up in May-June 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/shillong-sikhs-to-challenge-colony-takeover-by-govt/article37263120.ece
31 October 2021||Jabalpur,||Power sector employees threaten to boycott work||The Madhya Pradesh United Forum for Power Employees and Engineers (MPUFPEE) on Saturday gave a call to employees of the State-owned power companies to boycott work from November 1 to press for their various demands. Employees and engineers of the State-owned power companies will go on karya bahishkar andolan (work boycott agitation) to press for their five-point demand from November 1, MPUFPEE coordinator engineer V.K.S. Parihar said. The demand includes payment of 50% of the arrears of dearness allowance and deferred increment amount in the salary for October, Mr. Parihar said. The forum has already put forth its demand in a series of meetings with the State Energy Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/power-sector-employees-threaten-to-boycott-work/article37263130.ece
31 October 2021||JAIPUR,||Centre of Excellence to come up in Rajasthan forestry training institute||The climate change expertise will be developed for the first time among the forest officials in Rajasthan with the establishment of a Centre of Excellence at the Forestry and Wildlife Training Institute in Jaipur. Approval given The State Government has given approval to the new centre under the Societies Registration Act. Titled as the Centre for Conservation of Natural Resources, Environment Protection and Climate Change, the new institution will help in policy formation for a better conservation of wildlife reserves and natural resources, while involving the climate change experts of international repute in the measures for environment protection. Principal Forest and Environment Secretary Sreya Guha said here earlier this week that the Centre of Excellence would offer training programmes to the students, researchers, academicians and environmental activists in addition to the forest officials. “The institute will establish itself as a world class training centre with the new facility,” Ms. Guha said. An appropriate framework would be established in the institute for long-term management to meet the requirements of the changing times and circumstances, Ms. Guha said. The training programmes will be organised in collaboration with reputed institutions in the country engaged in the research on the impacts of climate change. Established in 1986 under the National Social Forestry Project, the Forestry and Wildlife Training Institute has been advising the State government on policy formation for managing the fast diminishing forest resources, while ensuring livelihood security of the people living in and around the forested areas. Two subsidiary campuses of the institute function from Jodhpur and Alwar, providing training to the Forest Department’s front-line staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/centre-of-excellence-to-come-up-in-rajasthan-forestry-training-institute/article37263118.ece
31 October 2021||Kolkata,||‘Tripura using COVID mandate to stop TMC from entering State’||The TMC on Saturday accused the Biplab Deb government in Tripura of making every effort to stop the party from expanding its base in the North Eastern State, dubbing the recent move to make COVID-19 tests mandatory for certain travellers a tactic to stonewall its campaigns. Rules to enter Tripura Taking note of the fresh spike in COVID cases in some parts of the country, the Biplab Deb government has revised guidelines, making COVID tests mandatory for people wanting to enter Tripura from any State that has more than one district with over 5% positivity rate. It has, in particular, asked travellers from States such as Bengal, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Sikkim to furnish COVID-negative report not older than 48 hours at Tripura’s entry point. Senior TMC leader Partha Chatterjee claimed that the BJP government is scared of the party’s national general secretary, Abhishek Banerjee, and using its machinery to stop his rally on Sunday. “The BJP is scared of Abhishek. They are using COVID as a shield to stop him from addressing the people of Tripura. This shows they know well that the people of Tripura are no longer with the BJP,” the West Bengal Minister said. The TMC is trying to gain a foothold in the northeastern state ahead of the 2023 Assembly elections there. Kunal Ghosh, the TMC’s West Bengal unit spokesperson, alleged that many party workers have come under attack in Tripura over the past two months. “If @BJP4Tripura and @BjpBiplab put half the effort into governance that they do into keeping @AITC4Tripura out of the State, maybe Tripura’s people would have had access to basic amenities by now... RT-PCR test or not, come 2023, BJP will definitely be out of the state,” Ghosh tweeted. Responding to the taunts, BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh claimed that the TMC was trying to “import the politics of violence” in Tripura from Bengal “People of Tripura do not want the TMC. It is the TMC that is continuously meddling into the affairs of Tripura and trying to import the politics of violence from Bengal. The party is trying to destabilise the situation in Tripura,” the BJP leader maintained. ‘Not an important leader’ Making light of TMC’s assertions, BJP Bengal president Sukanta Majumder further said that the BJP does not need any COVID-19 protocol to stop someone like Abhishek Banerjee, who is “not an important leader” anywhere outside the State. “Given the current pandemic situation, RT-PCR test and COVID-negative report is a standard followed by the administrations all over the country, and the TMC is just politicising the matter,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tripura-using-covid-mandate-to-stop-tmc-from-entering-state/article37263119.ece
31 October 2021||Kolkata,||In Bengal’s tribal villages, art fights COVID-19||Earlier this month when the cities of West Bengal were busy celebrating Durga Puja, children in five tribal villages of the State were painting the walls of their homes to create awareness against COVID-19, which continues to be a major threat in both urban and rural areas. The campaign, which began on October 1, is being organised by the community radio of Jadavpur University with support from UNICEF and is being executed by the Kolkata-based Chalchitra Academy, a collective of artists. “The pandemic was not only pushing many rural communities into isolation but was also threatening many forms of folk art. People were on the verge of abandoning those arts and taking up professions that brought more income. So we decided to use these very people and their art forms to spread awareness about COVID-19 and to promote vaccination,” Imankalyan Lahiri, who teaches international relations at the university and is the convenor of the community radio, told The Hindu . Art with awareness The villages where this campaign is going on include Lalbazar, Uraanshol, Gangadharpur, Sebaiton and Khwarasuli — all of them located in Jhargram district, bordering Jharkhand. “We are using chhau dance, paik dance and patachitra (showing artworks to the accompaniment of songs) to caution the people against COVID and encourage them to get vaccinated,” said artist Mrinal Mandal, a founding member of Chalchitra Academy and who is executing the campaign. Mr. Mandal, 43, graduated from Kolkata’s Government Arts College and has been living in Jhargram since 2018, captivated by its beauty, and teaching art to the residents of Lalbazar village. The transformation of the village — the walls of its houses were soon adorned with art — soon earned it the sobriquet of Khwaabgaon, or Dream Village. The title was given by writer-critic Sibaji Bandopadhyay. “To me, now all the five villages are Khwaabgaon [a logo for the concept has been designed by renowned artist Jogen Chowdhury]. The people here are a mix of Lodha, Santhal and Kurmi tribes — very shy people, very nice people. In normal times I teach art to them so that they can use art as a source of living. But now I am also drawing out indigenous artists and getting them to help us with the campaign. This way we are getting to kill many birds with one stone — promoting their art, getting them some income, and creating awareness. Only last week we honoured shellac artist Brindaban Chanda [from East Medinipur] and patachitra artist Dhukusham Chitrakar (from West Medinipur) — both senior and talented artists who need financial help,” Mr. Mandal said. The campaign in these villages — which includes cultural events and painting competitions for children — will spill over to next year and to newer areas such as Dinajpur and the Sunderbans. “In fact, we will resume the campaign with renewed vigour post-Diwali because during this time the villagers celebrate the festival of Bandhna, when the walls of houses are scrubbed clean for a fresh coat,” Mr. Mandal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/in-bengals-tribal-villages-art-fights-covid-19/article37263128.ece
31 October 2021||Mumbai,||Second NBW issued against Param Bir Singh in extortion case||A Magistrate court in Mumbai on Saturday issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in an alleged extortion case registered in Goregaon. First NBW On October 26, a Magistrate court in Thane had issued the first NBW against Mr. Singh in another alleged extortion case against him concerning Vinay Singh, a businessman and gangster Riyaz Bhatti. The Crime Branch had issued two summons to Mr. Singh to join the investigation. One of the summons was sent to his official residence in Mumbai and the other at a Chandigarh address. It is after he failed to respond to the summons, the Mumbai Police moved court for issuing an NBW against him. Along with Mr. Singh, dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Waze currently lodged at Taloja Central Jail is also an accused in the Goregaon extortion case. The case is about Bimal Agarwal, a builder-hotelier complaining against Mr. Singh and alleged extortion. On October 20, the Maharashtra government had told the Bombay High Court that Mr. Singh is not traceable and that it cannot give a statement that no coercive action will be taken against him. This statement was made when the court was hearing a plea filed by Mr Singh seeking to quash one FIR filed against him registered at two places. The plea mentioned, “The FIR refers to an event of 2015 and is belatedly registered after having failed to pressurize him to withdraw his complaint against former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/second-nbw-issued-against-param-bir-singh-in-extortion-case/article37263131.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||Proper place required for street vendors, say market associations||A day after the Delhi High Court pulled up the city Government over its “poor implementation” of The Street Vendors Act, 2014, members of market associations across the Capital said their “concerns were taken into account”, while street vendors expressed their discontent over the development. The High Court, while a batch of petitions on the Street Vendors Act on Friday, had questioned the irregularities in the representation of market associations — Connaught Place, Sarojini Nagar, Khan Market, Janpath and Gole Market — in Town Vending Committees (TVC). “We have made multiple efforts regarding the representation in TVCs but the Delhi Government has done nothing for the representation of bigger markets. If there is a committee of 30 people, there are only two representatives from market associations. There is no balance in representation and this is a problem that exists in Sarojini Nagar and Janpath as well,” said Atul Bhargava, president, New Delhi Traders Association, who had filed the petition for removal of “illegal” street vendors in Connaught Place. He added that while they were “not against the livelihood” of street vendors, a “proper place” was required for them to conduct their business. The TVCs — headed by Municipal Commissioners — comprise members representing street vendors, market associations, traders associations and residents welfare associations. According to the Street Vendors Act, the TVCs look into the matters of street vendors. Pramod Sharma, a member of a market association in Sarojini Nagar, said the “definition” of a street vendor under the 2014 Act “remained unclear”. “A street vendor’s economic criteria must be defined, otherwise any individual can occupy space as they like. It has been seven years since the Act came into force but there has been no improvement.” ‘Define illegal vendors’ The street vendors, meanwhile, objected to the use of the term “illegal vendors”. Arbind Singh, president of the National Association of Street Vendors in India, said while elected representatives of street vendors have a “40% presence in TVCs”, the decision to implement their “suggestions lie with the civic bodies”. “It seems that the city is suddenly at war with the street vendors who are fearful about their livelihoods. Who are ‘illegal vendors’ is a question that the municipal authorities and the police should ask,” said Mr. Singh. He referred to Section 3.3 of the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014, which states, “No street vendor shall be evicted or, as the case may be, relocated till the survey specified under sub-section (1) has been completed and the certificate of vending is issued to all street vendors.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/proper-place-required-for-street-vendors-say-market-associations/article37263106.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||Politics over Chhath Puja heats up||A day after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued specific orders prohibiting the observance of Chhath Puja on the banks of the Yamuna, politics over the festival resurrected. While the BJP accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of being anti-Purvanchal and demanded that he convene an emergency meeting to discuss the issue, the Aam Aadmi Party sought Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal’s intervention to resolve the issue. The celebration of Chhath Puja, the DDMA ordered, would be allowed only at designated sites located outside containment zones, subject to certain restrictions. No site for the observance of the puja, according to the DDMA, could be designated on the banks of the Yamuna. “Respected Arvind Kejriwal, you are a member of the DDMA. Why did you not say anything in response to this issue during the DDMA meeting?” asked north-east Delhi BJP Manoj Tiwari, who also wrote to the Chief Minister regarding the prohibition on the observance of Chhath Puja. ‘Why no proposal?’ “Why did your government not table a proposal to allow Chhath Puja on the riverbank? You remained quiet because you have been anti-Chhath since the beginning. No one from the BJP is a member of the DDMA. If you indeed move a proposal to allow Chhath on the riverbank, make it public,” he added. Mr. Tiwari demanded an emergency meeting to discuss the issue with all the seven BJP MPs from Delhi to reach a solution. AAP MLA Sanjeev Jha, meanwhile, wrote to Mr. Baijal seeking an appointment with him. He said that unlike other pujas, Chhath Puja idols are not immersed in the Yamuna and won’t cause pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/politics-over-chhath-puja-heats-up/article37263111.ece
31 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Noida airport will be ‘quick and easy’ to use||The second airport for the National Capital Region, Noida International or Jewar airport, will seek to distinguish itself from Delhi’s congested Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport through “quick, simple and easy” operations that reduce turnaround time for aircraft, says its CEO Christoph Schnellmann. Switzerland’s Zurich Airport International won the bid in 2019 to build and operate the Noida International Airport. It aims to award the engineering, procurement and construction contract for the airport in the first quarter of 2022, when the construction work can begin in full swing. The airport is expected to start operations from October 2024 with one runway, one terminal building and a capacity to handle 1.2 crore passengers per annum. The airport will be developed in four phases, taking it to a capacity of 7 crore passengers per annum by 2040. ‘Lower fuel burn’ “We have taken great pains to design an airport that is quick, simple and easy to use for airlines as well as other stakeholders such as cargo and freight forwarders. The design will allow higher rotations that permit their aircraft to spend more time in the air, or that allow lower fuel burn, resulting in lower fuel costs,” Mr. Schnellmann told The Hindu . The design of the airport will also ensure “mixed rotations” so that an international flight can depart to another domestic destination without having to reposition itself. The passenger terminal, too, will be designed in a manner to ensure easy transfers for domestic and international passengers. The airport will also “stand out” through the use of technology to offer a unique experience to its passengers. The Noida International Airport has been planned with the intent to reduce congestion at the IGI, which is expected to see 11 crore passengers per annum by 2024, the structural capacity of the airport beyond which it can’t be expanded. “We expect to serve all major metropolitan areas in India from Noida International Airport and certainly a large number of secondary and regional destinations in U.P.,” said the CEO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/noida-airport-will-be-quick-and-easy-to-use/article37263116.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||‘COVID left over 100 children orphaned’||Over a hundred children in the Capital were orphaned while an estimated 2,500 to 3,000 lost a parent to COVID-19, from the time it assumed pandemic proportions till a little after the conclusion of its devastating second wave, according to Delhi Government statistics. The Department of Women and Child Development (WCD) identified over 250 orphaned children and over 6,000 children left with a single parent between March 2020 and August 16 this year. Around 40% of them, in both categories, are understood to have been impacted by COVID-19. In need of care, protection Dr. Rashmi Singh, special secretary-cum-director, WCD and Social Welfare, said inquiries regarding all children identified as having been orphaned had been completed and over 230 of them were declared in need of care and protection. In single-parent cases, of the over 5,500 cases, over 5,000 were declared in need of care and protection. “The mandate of the department is to identify and ensure that children found to be vulnerable for whichever reason must receive care and protection. The need to enhance the identification and a focused response towards such children was heightened due to the pandemic,” Ms. Singh said. “In addition to stepping up our efforts to identify them through existing means such as local intelligence, during the second wave, we went to the extent of making public appeals through garbage collection vehicles operated by various civic bodies, asking for help in finding children in need of assistance on helpline number 1098,” she added. The WCD has begun child-centric convergence-cum-facilitation camps where stakeholders are brought on a common platform to facilitate completion of procedural requirements for access to schemes and services. These range from opening of bank accounts of minors and declaring of guardians to Aadhaar enrolment among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-left-over-100-children-orphaned/article37263103.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||DU releases fourth list||Delhi University on Saturday released its fourth cut-off list, with unreserved category seats already filled in some much sought-after colleges like the Hindu College and the Shri Ram College of Commerce in the previous lists. Since the first cut-off list was declared on October 1, a total of 63,504 students have secured admissions. At Hansraj College, BA (Hons.) economics, BA (Hons) history and BCom (Hons) courses are still open for admission, while most of the other courses are closed for the unreserved category. Hindu College had closed admissions to BA (Hons) philosophy after the first cut-off list but it was opened under the special list with a cut-off of 97.75%. The minimum marks required for admission has come down by 0.25%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-releases-fourth-list/article37263101.ece
31 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||On the run, Maoist leader finally in Delhi Police net||Commander of People’s Liberation Front of India, a Maoist group, was arrested from south Delhi’s Dhaula Kuan, the police said on Saturday. DCP (Crime Branch) Rajesh Deo said the accused has been identified as Anurag Ram alias Anurag Sadlohar alias Dhalbir. The police received a tip-off that he was hiding in Delhi. He was evading arrest after escaping from the lock-up of district court in Chhattisgarh. Ram was an active member of a PLFI Maoist group and was wanted in several cases. He was hiding near the border region of Punjab and Haryana for the last seven years, Mr. Deo said. Ram disclosed that in 2012, he came in contact with PLFI members and got arms after which he started extorting money, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/on-the-run-maoist-leader-finally-in-delhi-police-net/article37263334.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||Woman arrested for ‘role’ in AIIMS purchase scam||A 59-year-old woman has been arrested for her alleged involvement in the store item purchase scam at AIIMS, the police said on Saturday. The accused, identified as Sneh Rani Gupta, a resident of Pitampura, misappropriated Rs. 13.8 crore for purchasing linen items using forged supply orders, the police said. No actual supply of items took place, and the payment was released to the supplier firm in the name of M/s Sneh Enterprises. This firm was a supplier and in business with AIIMS since many years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-arrested-for-role-in-aiims-purchase-scam/article37263102.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||AQI likely to be ‘moderate’||Delhi’s air quality continued to be in the “poor” category for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday, as per official data. The effect of stubble burning has come down and the AQI is expected to improve to ‘moderate’ level on Sunday due to change in wind direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aqi-likely-to-be-moderate/article37263110.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||SDMC allocates Rs. 41 lakh for facilities at ghats||In view of the upcoming Chhath Puja celebrations, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation on Saturday approved Rs. 41.6 lakh for providing facilities at ghats in all 104 wards under its jurisdiction. The civic body has allocated Rs. 40,000 for “two ghats in each ward” in order to provide the “required facilities”. Standing Committee chairman B.K. Oberoi said that celebrations will be held “keeping COVID-19 norms in mind” .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sdmc-allocates-rs-41-lakh-for-facilities-at-ghats/article37263113.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||Hawkers can't impinge upon others’ rights: HC||The Delhi High Court on Saturday said street vendors do have a fundamental right “but when they use a public way, they impinge on someone else’s right to walk”. The court, while hearing petitions on the Street Vendors Act, 2014, said hawkers should get proper places to sit and proper kiosks in every market. “They should have a proper licence. Then you don’t have to pay ‘hafta’ to the police,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hawkers-cant-impinge-upon-others-rights-hc/article37263105.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||Hospitals to use COVID beds for dengue patients||The Delhi Government has allowed hospitals to use 33.33% of total beds reserved for COVID-19 treatment for admitting patients suffering from vector-borne diseases, as per an official order. The order came in the wake of surge in cases of dengue in the Capital. Delhi has reported over 1,000 cases of dengue this year so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hospitals-to-use-covid-beds-for-dengue-patients/article37263112.ece
31 October 2021||Panaji,||Manifesto commitments a guarantee, says Rahul||Kickstarting the Congress’s poll campaign in Goa, where Assembly elections are due early next year, Rahul Gandhi on Saturday asserted that the assurances that his party will give in its election manifesto in the state will not just be a commitment, but a “guarantee” as not keeping the word will dent his credibility. Addressing members of the fishermen community at Velsao beach in South Goa following his arrival in the state for his day-long visit, he said his party will prepare the poll manifesto in an open and transparent manner after holding talks with different stakeholders in the state, and its focus will be environmental protection. He also alleged that while the BJP indulges in hatred and divides people, the Congress spreads love and affection as it believes in uniting people and taking them forward. “I am not here to waste your time or my time. Just as your time is important, my time is important...The commitment that we will make to you in the manifesto is not just a commitment, but a guarantee,” he said. “My credibility is important to me. Unlike many other leaders, when I say something here, I will make sure it happens. If I come here I say to you that we will not allow coal hub and I don’t do it, next time I come here I will have no credibility,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/manifesto-commitments-a-guarantee-says-rahul/article37263133.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Gourmet burgers with a touch of gold||There was a time when a satisfying meal meant a greasy burger eaten with a large dollop of pumpkin sauce at a small college canteen. The buns and the vegetable patty were fried, but the onion rings and tomato slices that embraced the patty were fresh and gave a crunch to the burger. Those were simple days, when gourmet burger was an oxymoron. Cut to today, and I am overwhelmed by the kind of burgers that chefs are offering us. A few days ago, I tried out the burgers of Louis Burger, a new cloud kitchen run by Zorawar Kalra, an entrepreneur who truly knows his food. He runs a multi-restaurant outfit called Massive Restaurants. After launching Louis Burger in Mumbai, the Delhi chapter was opened earlier this month. Patty, the real McCoy I had a sampling – and found them delicious. The buns were soft and milk-washed; the fries were thick, crisp and peri-peri flavoured, if you like them spicy (and plain, if you don’t). But the real McCoy was the patty – prepared with ingredients varying from lamb and double buff to grilled chicken and various kinds of mushrooms. There is a lot to choose from: the Smash Lamb Cheese Burger is a juicy lamb patty with Emmental cheese; the Classic Chicken Burger is flavoured with honey mustard and the Grilled AF (air-fried) Chicken Burger has truffle mayo with cheddar. The prices range from Rs. 215 to Rs. 888, and the food is delivered through Swiggy and Zomato. The vegetable burgers are worth trying out. The Farm House Burger has various kinds of veggies with mozzarella, pickled onion and a hot sauce. The Vegan Gratitude Burger consists of beets, refried beans, sweet potato, jalapeno, confit tomato and vegan mayo. The jalapeno gave a nice kick to the burger, while the beets gave it a sweet touch. The fried chicken wings (Rs. 195) are superb. The chicken pieces are deliciously plump, and the coating is crunchy and hot, with a paprika rub. The burger that troubled me somewhat was the Louis Grand Royale (Rs. 888). As a burger it was delicious, for it had a flavourful buff patty (you can ask for lamb) with truffle, cheddar and shimeji. What didn’t work for me was the thin gold warq sheet on top of the bun. Who wants gold on their burger? Its vegetarian version is the Truffletake Burger – consisting of shiitake and shimeji mushrooms, truffle, English cheddar, parmesan, gold warq and truffle oil. Again, the mushrooms were delectable but the gold completely unnecessary. If you ignore the warq, the fare is delicious. I was so inspired by Louis Burger that the next evening I organised an in-house burger meal for us. I put a slice of Amul cheese, some moist ham and a crisp lettuce leaf between two small buns, and made a happy meal out of a hastily prepared burger. The only thing missing, alas, was the pumpkin sauce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gourmet-burgers-with-a-touch-of-gold/article37263109.ece
31 October 2021||Khartoum,||2 killed as Sudanese march against coup||The Sudanese security forces on Saturday killed three protesters during mass anti-coup rallies, medics said, despite warnings from global powers who had urged the military to exercise restraint. “Two demonstrators were killed in the city of Omdurman by the putschist military council,” the independent Central Committee of Sudan’s Doctors said in a tweet, adding that one was shot in the head and the other in the stomach. It later said security forces had shot dead a third protester, also in Omdurman, Khartoum’s sister city. Forces “have fired live rounds at protesters in Omdurman” and areas in the capital, the medics said. More than 100 people have been wounded in the violence or have suffered breathing difficulties due to tear gas, the committee added. The latest killings bring the death toll since the outbreak of anti-coup protests on Monday to 12. Sudan’s Interior Ministry slammed reports of killings on Saturday as “inaccurate” and denied forces had used live rounds. “Groups of protesters... attacked the police, as well as vital sites, which prompted the police to fire tear gas,” the Ministry said in a statement. Saturday’s demonstrations came almost a week after the military on Monday detained Sudan’s civilian leadership, dissolved the government and declared a state of emergency, leading to a chorus of international condemnation — and warnings against using force. “No, no to military rule”, and “We are free revolutionaries and we will continue the road” of democratic transition, protesters carrying Sudanese flags chanted in Khartoum. Despite bloodshed throughout the week, organisers on Saturday aimed to stage a “million-strong” march against the military’s power grab, similar to mass protests that led to the toppling of autocrat Omar al-Bashir in 2019. Demonstrations took place throughout Khartoum State as well as in the eastern regions of Gedaref and Kassala, and the Red Sea city of Port Sudan, witnesses and AFP correspondents said. Protests also broke out in the central State North Kordofan, and White Nile State in the south, according to witnesses. “We want civilian rule... It has to be civilian 100%,” said Hashim al-Tayib, a protester in southern Khartoum. Sudan had been led since August 2019 by a civilian-military ruling council which was supposed to last three years and lead to full civilian rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/2-killed-as-sudanese-march-against-coup/article37262505.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Trump wants call logs, aide’s notes blocked||Former President Donald Trump is trying to block documents, including call logs, drafts of remarks and speeches and handwritten notes from his chief of staff relating to the January 6 Capitol insurrection from being released to the committee investigating the riot, the National Archives revealed in a court filing early on Saturday. Mr. Trump has sued to prevent the National Archives from transmitting those documents, and thousands more, to the House committee investigating the attack. President Joe Biden declined to assert executive privilege on most of Mr. Trump’s records after determining that doing so is “not in the best interests of the United States”. The Saturday filing, which came as part of the National Archives and Record Administration’s opposition to Mr. Trump’s lawsuit, details the effort the agency has undertaken to identify records from the Trump White House in response to a broad, 13-page request from the House committee for documents pertaining to the insurrection and Mr. Trump’s efforts to undermine the legitimacy of the 2020 presidential election. The document offers the first look at the sort of records that could soon be turned over to the committee for its investigation. Billy Laster, the director of the National Archives’ White House Liaison Division, wrote that among the documents Mr. Trump has sought to block are 30 pages of “daily presidential diaries, schedules, appointment information showing visitors to the White House, activity logs, call logs, and switchboard shift-change checklists showing calls to the President and Vice President, all specifically for or encompassing January 6, 2021”; 13 pages of drafts of speeches, remarks, and correspondence concerning the events of January 6, 2021; and “three handwritten notes concerning the events of January 6 from (former White House Chief of Staff Mark) Meadows’ files”. Mr. Trump also tried to exert executive privilege over pages from former White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany’s binders of talking points and statements “principally relating to allegations of voter fraud, election security, and other topics concerning the 2020 election”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-wants-call-logs-aides-notes-blocked/article37262510.ece
31 October 2021||Islamabad,||Taliban-appointed diplomats take charge of missions in Pak.||Pakistan has quietly allowed the Taliban-appointed “diplomats” to take charge of the Afghan Embassy and consulates in the country, a media report said on Saturday. Although Pakistan does not recognise the Taliban as the legitimate government in Kabul, it still issued visas to the appointed “diplomats”. Sardar Muhammad Shokaib has started working as the first secretary in the Afghan Embassy in Islamabad, while Hafiz Mohibullah, Mullah Ghulam Rasool and Mullah Muhammad Abbas have been assigned to the Peshawar, Quetta and Karachi consulates of Afghanistan, the Dawn newspaper reported. Shokaib would effectively be the Afghan charge d’affaires in Islamabad.  No details about Shokaib were shared but according to a report by Voice of America, he is an ethnic Pashtun from Zabul province who served in the Information and Cultural Department in southern Kandahar and was associated with a Taliban magazine. He reportedly once worked as the Taliban spokesman under the name of Qari Yousaf Ahmadi and was arrested in Pakistan and later lived in Peshawar for several years. Pakistan’s Foreign Office spokesman Asim Iftikhar tried to play down the new appointments by saying that it was an “administrative matter”. “With regard to appointment of new staff in the Afghan Embassy, this is an administrative matter and is meant to enable the embassy to perform its functions, primarily the consular functions as you are aware there are millions of Afghan refugees in Pakistan and there are visa issues as well,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-appointed-diplomats-take-charge-of-missions-in-pak/article37262511.ece
31 October 2021||Kuwait City,||Kuwait expels Lebanon envoy in row over the war in Yemen||The United Arab Emirates said on Saturday it was withdrawing its diplomats from Lebanon, following a similar move by Saudi Arabia over a Lebanese Minister’s criticism of the Riyadh-led military intervention in Yemen. The diplomatic row, which has also seen Riyadh suspend imports from Lebanon and both Kuwait and Bahrain expel Lebanese envoys, is another blow to a country already in the grip of crippling political and economic crises. Lebanon had been counting on financial assistance from the Gulf to rescue its economy. “The UAE announced the withdrawal of its diplomats from Lebanon in solidarity with the sisterly Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in light of the unacceptable approach of some Lebanese officials towards Saudi Arabia,” the Foreign Ministry said in a statement. It “also decided to prevent its citizens from travelling to Lebanon”, it added. It came a day after the Saudi and Bahraini moves and hours after Kuwait asked Lebanon’s envoy to “leave in 48 hours” and recalled its Ambassador from Beirut. The dispute was sparked by the broadcast this week of an interview in which Lebanon’s Information Minister George Kordahi criticised the Saudi-led military intervention in Yemen. In his remarks — recorded in August but aired on Monday — Kordahi called the seven-year war in the impoverished Arabian Peninsula country “futile” and said it was “time for it to end”. Mr. Kordahi said Yemen’s Houthi rebels were “defending themselves... against an external aggression”, adding that “homes, villages, funerals and weddings were being bombed” by the Saudi-led coalition. The Houthis are backed by Saudi Arabia’s regional rival Iran, which also wields significant influence in Lebanon, due to its strong backing of the powerful Shiite movement Hezbollah. Mr. Kordahi’s comments saw Saudi Arabia announce on Friday that it was recalling its Ambassador and it gave Beirut’s envoy 48 hours to leave Riyadh. The Minister’s words have sparked calls for him to resign or be sacked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kuwait-expels-lebanon-envoy-in-row-over-the-war-in-yemen/article37262500.ece
31 October 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka bans strikes over opposition to power deal||Sri Lanka’s President on Saturday effectively banned trade union action against a controversial energy deal with a U.S. firm in an attempt to scupper dissent within his coalition government. The Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) last month agreed to sell a 40% stake in its thermal power plant outside Colombo to New Fortress Energy, a move trade unions say hands the U.S. firm a monopoly over LNG sales to the country. “We will have a mass protest rally on Wednesday bringing all our members out from power stations,” CEB trade union leader Ranjan Jayalal said. “If the government fails to remedy the situation by then, there will be a general strike.” Strikes by electricity unions usually lead to blackouts in Sri Lanka. Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s “essential services” order prohibits collective action across numerous public service sectors, including energy, banking, and food distribution, and is aimed at curtailing possible work-stoppages backed by his disgruntled junior coalition partners. Saturday’s decree could send those who violate the order to prison for up to five years. The deal, which according to the central bank will generate $250 million for Sri Lanka’s cash-strapped state, has been slammed by Mr. Rajapaksa’s coalition partners for having taken place behind closed doors and intensified fissures within the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-bans-strikes-over-opposition-to-power-deal/article37262502.ece
31 October 2021||kabul,||Taliban shoot two dead over wedding music||Taliban fighters shot dead two wedding guests who were listening to music, local officials and a witness said on Saturday, forcing Afghanistan’s new government to insist such attacks are not authorised. A relative of the victims said Taliban fighters ope- ned fire while music was being played at a wedding in Sorkhrud, in Nangarhar province, killing two and wounding two more. Music was banned the last time the Taliban ruled Afghanistan and, while the new government has not yet issued such a decree, its leadership sees it as a breach of Islamic law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-shoot-two-dead-over-wedding-music/article37262503.ece
31 October 2021||Paris,||Macron says U.K. credibility is at stake||French President Emmanuel Macron says France’s dispute with Britain over fishing rights is a test of the U.K.’s credibility in a post-Brexit world. France is angry over restrictions on permits to fish in British waters, and says they run counter to the agreement Britain signed when it left the European Union. France has threatened to block British boats and tighten checks on U.K. vessels starting Tuesday. The U.K. says some French boats need to supply more paperwork. Ahead of a meeting with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson this weekend, Mr. Macron defended France’s position in an interview with the Financial Times and argued that the fishing dispute could hurt Britain's reputation worldwide. “Make no mistake, it is not just for the Europeans but all of their partners. Because when you spend years negotiating a treaty and then a few months later you do the opposite of what was decided on the aspects that suit you the least, it is not a big sign of your credibility,” Mr. Macron was quoted as saying. Mr. Macron said he was sure that Britain has “good will” to solve the dispute. “We need to respect each other and respect the word that has been given,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/macron-says-uk-credibility-is-at-stake/article37262507.ece
31 October 2021||Beirut,||Israel fired missiles at capital: Syria||Syrian state media said the country’s air defences responded on Saturday to missiles fired from Israel toward suburbs of the capital Damascus. State TV gave no further details about the missile attack. Israeli attacks on Syria have mostly happened during nighttime. Saturday’s strikes came days after Syria accused Israel of carrying out an attack in the country’s south, without offering details. Israel has launched hundreds of strikes against Iran-linked military targets in Syria over the years but rarely acknowledges or discusses such operations. Israel has acknowledged it is targeting bases of Iran-allied militias, such as the powerful Lebanese militant Hezbollah group. It is going after arms shipments believed to be bound for the group. Hezbollah is fighting on the side of Syrian President Bashar Assad’s forces in the civil war.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-fired-missiles-at-capital-syria/article37262508.ece
31 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India’s $5 tn goal set back by 3-5 years’||India’s goal of becoming a $5 trillion economy by 2024-25 is likely to be set back by about 3-4 years in an ‘optimistic or business-as-usual’ scenario, and may have to wait till 2029-30 in a worst-case outcome, as per an EY India estimate. India is poised to overtake China in terms of the annual pace of economic expansion and become the global growth leader for the next five years, starting from 2021-22, as per the latest projections of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). EY India’s macro-fiscal unit, tax and economic policy group used the IMF projections to arrive at their estimates. The IMF has projected a 9.5% GDP growth for India this fiscal, followed by an 8.5% growth next year and the consulting major’s economy team led by chief policy advisor D.K. Srivastava reckoned this indicated a real GDP growth of 6% in the medium term. “This is still lower than the previous peak of trend growth rate of close to 7% during the four years from 2007-08 to 2010-11,” EY India said in a report. “In fact, if we include the forecasted growth of 9.5% for this year and 8.5% for 2022-23, the trend growth rate is uplifted to only 4.9% by 2022-23,” it noted, adding that this suggested the need for initiatives to lift the trend growth rate to 7% or above in the medium term. “As a point of reference, we consider the likely year by which the Indian economy would reach or just cross the $5 trillion mark in three alternative scenarios. In our benchmark solution, we utilise the IMF projections for real and nominal GDP growth up to 2026-27. The exchange rate projections are also taken from the IMF,” the firm’s economists noted. “In the pessimistic scenario, the real GDP growth is reduced by 1 percentage point starting 2022-23 as compared to the benchmark solution. Other parameters namely implicit price deflator-based inflation and exchange rate depreciation are kept at the same levels as in the benchmark solution. In this case, the crossover point shifts one year forward to 2029-30,” EY said. “In the optimistic scenario, real GDP growth is increased by 1 percentage point beginning 2022-23 as compared to the benchmark solution. In this case, India reaches the $5 trillion mark by 2027-28,” the EY team concluded in a chapter on ‘India and the global economy in context of the evolving contours of post-COVID recovery’ in its October report. ‘Raise public spending’ Calling for a ramp up in public sector investment to help crowd in private investments, EY emphasised the need to reverse the declining trend in the overall investment rate from a peak of 39.8% of GDP in 2010-11 to an estimated 29.3% in 2020-21. “These trends indicate that more policy initiatives are needed to lift the trend growth rate to 7% or above,” it underlined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indias-5-tn-goal-set-back-by-3-5-years/article37262955.ece
31 October 2021||KALPETTA,||‘Local growers yet to savour rising global coffee prices’||With only a few weeks remaining for the coffee harvest to begin, a disparity in the prices of Robusta coffee in the international market and India has become a major cause for concern among growers in South India. Though the price of coffee in India is usually based on international markets, especially the London market, a proportionate increase in the price of the produce overseas is yet to get reflected in the local market, according to trade sources. While the price of Robusta coffee rose by about $70 a ton in the international market, the Indian market was yet to reflect the increase. According to Coffee Board data, the price of the produce (AB grade) in the international market was Rs. 165 a kg on October 29 but the growers here were getting only Rs. 140 a kg. The trade sources contended that the likely reason for the disparity was ‘price cartelisation’ by some international buyers. Also, the number of buyers had been relatively low in India as the harvesting season here would begin only by the end of December, they added. According to the board’s final estimates, the total coffee production in India during 2020-2021 stood at 3. 69 lakh tons, including 2.35 lakh tons of Robusta. Of this, a little more than 1.64 lakh tons were exported. Recently, the Centre extended RoDTEP (Refund of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products) scheme to the coffee sector to boost exports. But the growers were not enthused, the sources added. Alleging that some international players were likely trying to enhance profits by not increasing the prices, the trade sources sought the Union Commerce Ministry’s intervention to stop such exploitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/local-growers-yet-to-savour-rising-global-coffee-prices/article37262962.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,||IT demand quickening in key markets: LTTS||Demand acceleration is evident for pure-play engineering services, especially in areas such as electric, autonomous, connected vehicles (EACVs), digital manufacturing and digital products across key markets including the U.S, Europe and India, said Amit Chadha, CEO and MD, L&T Technology Services (LTTS). “Based on my interactions with global CEOs and R&D heads of many conglomerates, demand appears to be bouncing back in many of our key markets. Overall, we see demand acceleration for pure-play engineering services, in areas like EACVs, digital manufacturing and digital products,” Mr. Chadha, CEO & MD, LTTS told The Hindu . “From customers, we are getting positive signals on CY22 budgets, as CTOs and heads of engineering invest in growth and transformation,” he added. Auto companies were going through rapid transformation, and LTTS was partnering with major players around the globe in the areas of electrification and connected vehicles, he said. The company’s Electric Vehicles (EV) lab, backed by domain expertise was generating ‘a lot of’ customer interest and had helped the company win large deals in the second quarter, according to him. Six areas identified To build scale in deep technology, the firm has identified six investment areas — EACVs, 5G, medical tech, digital manufacturing, AI- and ML-driven smart products and sustainability, he said. “Through investments in these areas, we will be able to create a sustainable growth engine. The EACV segment is seeing strong demand and we won an over $25 million EACV deal in Q2,” he elaborated. The market outlook had gradually improved over the last two quarters and a growing momentum was visible across industries such as automotive, healthcare and industrial products in terms of traction and large-deal wins, he pointed out. LTTS said 5G was a ‘big growth opportunity’. The firm recently opened a dedicated 5G lab in Bengaluru to deliver development, testing and integration services, using advanced automation capabilities and patented tools in the telecom space. The firm plans hire about 2,000 engineering graduates in FY22 for centres in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Vadodara and Mumbai, and the bulk of these freshers would be recruited in the current quarter. Hiring would be based on the project pipeline and demands in specific verticals such as very-large scale integration (VLSI), embedded systems and automotive, Mr. Chadha added. In the quarter ended September, LTTS’s net profit rose 39% to Rs. 230 crore from a year earlier. Revenue grew 22% to Rs. 1,607.7 crore. The medical segment saw ‘strong bounce-back’ with almost 10% sequential growth, crossing $100 million in annualised revenue. Its largest segment, transportation, registered a 6% sequential growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/it-demand-quickening-in-key-markets-ltts/article37262957.ece
31 October 2021||MUMBAI,||Green power transmission units’ auctions gain speed||Power transmission project related auctions in India are gaining momentum to support the country’s capacity addition in renewables. According to data from the Ministry of Power, Central Electricity Authority (CEA) and a Crisil report, transmission projects worth almost Rs. 10,000 crore are under various stages of the auction process in the inter-State transmission bidding. Of this, 80% are a part of Green Energy Corridors (GEC). These are dedicated Inter-State Transmission System (ISTS) projects sanctioned by the Ministry of Power to evacuate large-scale renewable energy from zones that are rich in such energy in the country. Project bids estimated at Rs. 8,540 crore (80% of the total estimate of Rs. 10,598 crore) are apportioned for these critical GEC projects which are specially designed towards meeting India’s renewable energy goal of 450 GW by 2030. Of the total Rs. 8,540 crore, a GEC bid worth Rs. 686 crore for renewable energy evacuation from Koppal (Karnataka) has already been awarded while bids worth Rs. 2,800 crore will be lined up within the next month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/green-power-transmission-units-auctions-gain-speed/article37262960.ece
31 October 2021||MUMBAI,||IL&FS’s phase I InvIT gets NCLT nod||Scam-tainted Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services Ltd. (IL&FS) said it has received an approval from the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to introduce phase one of Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT). With this approval, six road projects would be transferred to the newly-formed Roadstar Infra Investment Trust under its InvIT Phase I, IL&FS said in a filing with the exchanges. “These six road projects’ special purpose vehicles (SPVs) will be transferred to the InvIT at an aggregate valuation of Rs. 9,214 crore determined by an independent valuer appointed in accordance with SEBI InvIT Regulations,” IL&FS added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ilfss-phase-i-invit-gets-nclt-nod/article37262958.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||Indian Bank reports frauds worth Rs. 266 cr.||Indian Bank on Saturday said it had reported over Rs. 266 crore worth of fraud to the Reserve Bank, relating to three NPA accounts. These non-performing accounts have been declared as fraud and reported to RBI as per regulatory requirement, the lender said in a regulatory filing. It has declared MP Border Checkpost Development Co. Ltd. as fraud with an outstanding of Rs. 166.89 crore; Pune Sholapur Road Development (Rs. 72.76 crore) and SONAC (Rs. 27.08 crore). Indian Bank said it had held provisions worth Rs. 12.58 crore against SONAC. While in the case of other two accounts, the provisions held are equivalent to the entire exposure, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-bank-reports-frauds-worth-rs-266-cr/article37262963.ece
31 October 2021||TUNIS,||Sathiyan & Harmeet win crown||As a pair, G. Sathiyan and Harmeet Desai of India won their first international title by bagging the men’s doubles title of the World Table Tennis Contender Tunis here on Saturday, with a 11-9, 4-11, 11-9, 11-6 victory over France’s Emmanuel Lebesson and Alexander Cassin in the final. After losing the first game, the French pair fought back taking a 5-1 and 9-3 lead to pocket the second game. The third game was close with leads changing hands between the two pairs. However, it was the Sathiyan-Harmeet duo that won it at 11-9. Running up a 4-1 lead in the fourth, the Indians never looked back after taking a 6-5 lead. “I have reached the final playing with Sharath anna, [Soumyajit] Ghosh and Sanil [Shetty], but I have never won a men’s doubles crown. I am extremely happy. The key factor for our win was the speed,” Sathiyan told The Hindu . Harmeet, who had won a doubles title with Soumyajit Ghosh in the 2015 Commonwealth Championships, was equally ecstatic. “Winning with Sathiyan is really special. Since Sathiyan had earlier seen [Emmanuel] Lebesson in the mixed doubles semifinals, we devised certain strategies and it worked well for us,” he said. “We are also trying different [men’s doubles] combinations to prepare for the 2022 Commonwealth Games.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sathiyan-harmeet-win-crown/article37262972.ece
31 October 2021||DUBAI,||India faces another pace test, from New Zealand this time||A week after failing the Shaheen Afridi test, India’s batters will expect yet another stern examination by Trent Boult & Co. in a must-win Super 12 match of the ICC T20 World Cup against New Zealand at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium on Sunday. While Afridi is still raw and quick, his senior left-arm pacer, Boult, is not only more experienced but perhaps knows the strengths and weaknesses of India’s batters a tad better than the Pakistan bowlers. IPL takeaway Having been a regular in the Indian Premier League, Boult and his colleagues in the pace department — veteran Tim Southee and Adam Milne — are used to bowling at all of India’s batters. The last time these two teams faced each other in a World Cup — the 2019 semifinal — the Kiwi pacers rolled over India’s top-order, with Boult accounting for captain Virat Kohli. Having just faced a similar top-order disaster versus Pakistan in its tournament-opener, India will be hoping to avert another collapse. While the attention will be on whether India brings in Ishan Kishan and Shardul Thakur in place of Hardik Pandya and Bhuvneshwar Kumar, the onus will be on India’s top three to set the platform for the middle-order to show its hitting prowess. With Rohit Sharma and K.L. Rahul succumbing to the fiery Afridi, captain Kohli was forced to grind his way to a fifty. On Sunday, all three of them will have to come out all guns blazing. If they can get off to a flier, the likes of Suryakumar Yadav, Rishabh Pant and Hardik/Ishan can take the game away from the Black Caps. Rookie Varun Chakravarthy couldn’t really deliver the goods under pressure against Pakistan. But with the Kiwis, barring Kane Williamson, not having faced him earlier, India will be banking on Varun’s mystery spin to fetch wickets. Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Shami can then look to attack rather than contain. India will be looking forward to all the wheels of its chariot moving in sync to enable it to open its account.  I thought the way Shaheen bowled the other night, for a left-armer watching on, I thought it was amazing. But there are quality batters in that India line-upBoult||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-faces-another-pace-test-from-new-zealand-this-time/article37262585.ece
31 October 2021||DUBAI,||Kohli backs Shami, calls trolls ‘spineless’||Virat Kohli came out strongly in support of pacer Mohammed Shami, who was mercilessly trolled over his religion, after India’s loss to Pakistan in the ICC T20 World Cup. “Attacking someone over their religion is the most pathetic thing that a human being can do. Everyone has the right to voice their opinion and what they feel about certain situations. But I have never ever thought of discriminating [against] anyone over their religion,” Kohli said. “That [religion] is a very sacred and a personal thing to every human being and that should be left there,” he added. Kohli said it wasn’t worth paying heed to Shami’s trolls as they do not recognise his contribution. “They have no understanding of the fact that someone like Mohammed Shami has won India a number of matches. In Test cricket you see him run in to bowl, and if people can overlook that and his passion for the country, honestly, I don’t even want to waste a minute giving attention to those people, and neither does Shami or anyone else in the team." Kohli stated that such toxicity will not affect team morale. “We stand by him fully. Our brotherhood and friendship within the team cannot be shaken. I can absolutely guarantee, as the captain, that we have built a culture where these things will not infiltrate into the [team] environment even 0.0001%. “There's a good reason why we [the team] are playing on the field and not a bunch of spineless people on social media who have no courage to speak to any individual in person. They hide and go after people through social media. “And that has become a source of entertainment in today’s world, which is so unfortunate and sad because this is literally the lowest level one can operate at.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-backs-shami-calls-troll-spineless/article37262590.ece
31 October 2021||MUMBAI,||MCA honours Gavaskar with hospitality box||The Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) honoured Sunil Gavaskar and Dilip Vengsarkar at a gala function at their home ground, the iconic Wankhede Stadium on Friday. The MCA presented a hospitality box to the 72-year-old Gavaskar, a former India captain and veteran of 125 Tests. The association also inaugurated the Dilip Vengsarkar Stand in honour of the former chairman of selectors and a veteran of 116 Tests. Both Gavaskar and Vengsarkar were present on the occasion. Also in attendance were Sachin Tendulkar, former India opener G.R. Viswanath, former ICC, BCCI and MCA chief Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and host of senior MCA office-bearers, including president Vijay Patil and secretary Sanjay Naik and Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar. The association also kicked off the Madhav Mantri centenary year celebrations. Addressing the gathering, Vishwanath heaped praise on both Gavaskar and Vengsarkar and recollected several anecdotes. Memories Tendulkar, too, shared his memories of Madhav Mantri, Gavaskar and Vengsarkar. “When we speak about discipline, the first name that comes to my mind is Madhav Mantri Sir, who was like a father-figure to me. During the England tour of 1991, I got my first Test hundred and Sir (Madhav Mantri) was very happy. It was August 14. We also kept alive the series,” Tendulkar said and added how Madhav Mantri accompanied him to his “first” press conference. Tendulkar said he met Gavaskar for the first time during the 1987 World Cup, where he was as ball boy. “When I was named in the Ranji Trophy probables for the first time, Gavaskar’s name was there in the list and I was looking forward to play alongside him, but that dream remained unfulfilled.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mca-honours-gavaskar-with-hospitality-box/article37263391.ece
31 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sarin joint second||Nihal Sarin continued his impressive run in the $425,000 FIDE Grand Swiss, beating Australia’s Temur Kuybovkarov with black pieces in the third round in Riga, Latvia, on Friday. Nihal’s second victory put him joint second with 2.5 points behind leader Alireza Firouzja (3) of France. D. Gukesh, R. Praggnanandhaa and Arjun Erigaisi, too, maintained their unbeaten run by drawing against higher-rated rivals. P. Harikrishna scored his first victory but B. Adhiban suffered a second straight loss. Surya Shekhar Ganguly and S. P. Sethuraman also lost. In the women’s section, D. Harika defeated former World champion Antoaneta Stefanova (Bulgaria) for her second victory to be among the nine leaders at 2.5 points.  The results (third round, involving Indians): Open: K. Sasikiran (2) drew with Parham Maghsoodhloo (Iri, 2); D. Gukesh (2) drew with Vladislav Artemiev (Rus, 2); R. Praggnanandhaa (2) drew with David Howell (Eng, 2); Temur Kuybokarov (Aus, 1.5) lost to Nihal Sarin (2.5); David Navara (Cze, 2) bt S. P. Sethuraman (1); Arjun Erigaisi (1.5) drew with Rauf Mamedov (Aze, 1.5); Surya Shekhar Ganguly (1) lost to Dariusz Swiercz (USA, 2); P. Harikrishna (1.5) bt Ivan Fernandez Morovic (Chi, 1); Raunak Sadhwani (1) drew with Jordeen van Foreest (Ned, 1); B. Adhiban (0.5) lost to Volodymyr Onyshchuk (Ukr, 1.5).   Women: D. Harika (2.5) bt Antoaneta Stefanova (Bul, 1.5); Padmini Rout (2) bt R. Vaishali (1); Vantika Agarwal (2) bt Divya Deshmukh (0.5).   Gukesh, Praggnanandhaa and Erigaisi maintain their unbeaten run by drawing against higher-rated rivals Harikrishna scores first victory but Adhiban suffers a second straight loss||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nihal-sarin-lies-joint-second/article37262965.ece
31 October 2021||Special Correspondent,||Niki Poonacha and Zeel Desai reign supreme||Niki Poonacha wielded the magic wand yet again to script an improbable victory that crowned him a champion for the third time at the DLTA Complex here. “I have a 15-match winning streak. Hope it continues,” said the 26-year-old Niki after saving three matchpoints on way to a 3-6, 7-6(6), 6-4 victory over Digvijay Pratap Singh, in three hours and 38 minutes, in the Fenesta National tennis championship on Saturday. After winning the Fenesta National title in 2019, Niki had won the ITF men’s title in April this year, against the odds, at the DLTA. Tall and blessed with a big game, that is nicely tuned at the Rohan Bopanna Academy in Bengaluru, Niki did struggle to find his rhythm for the most part against an inspired Digvijay who did everything except hit the winning shot.  After losing the first set, Niki did take a 5-2 lead in the second, but found Digvijay catching up and sprinting ahead with his vibrant game. At 6-3 in the tie-break, it looked curtains for Niki’s challenge, but Digvijay was unable to close out. Niki lobbed to save the second of the match points, while Digvijay erred in missing the other two. In the decider, it was Digvijay who led 3-1 before Niki found a semblance of his game to turn the tide in his favour. After hitting robust groundstrokes to move ahead, Niki served out the match brilliantly at love, firing two aces in the process, to affix his stamp of class. In the women’s final, top seed Zeel Desai recovered her rhythm after being down 1-3 in the opening set and did not drop another game in beating qualifier Sharmada Balu 6-3, 6-0. “The National title is very important to me. I had won all the under-14, 16 and 18 national titles and this was the one missing,” said Zeel who had lost to Mahak Jain in the final in her earlier best performance. For coach Jignesh Rawal, who trains Zeel at the Altevol Academy in Ahmedabad, it was mission accomplished. For Sharmada, it was a memorable effort as she had won the doubles title with Sravya Shivani and had made a strong attempt at the singles crown.  The results (finals): Men: Niki Poonacha bt Digvijay Pratap Singh 3-6, 7-6(6), 6-4.   Women: Zeel Desai bt Sharmada Balu 6-3, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/niki-poonacha-and-zeel-desai-reign-supreme/article37262970.ece
31 October 2021||Dubai,||Bowlers, Buttler flatten Australia||Jos Buttler produced a brutal exhibition of power-hitting during his unbeaten 32-ball 71 as England thumped Australia by eight wickets in a Group 1 Super 12 encounter of the ICC T20 World Cup on Saturday. Buttler and Jason Roy began the 126-run chase with trademark panache and aggression. They didn't let the Australian quicks settle into any kind of rhythm. Buttler was severe on Mitchell Starc, mauling him for two consecutive sixes as England plundered 66 in the PowerPlay. Adam Zampa trapped Roy lbw at the start of the seventh over but that didn't deter Buttler, who continued his onslaught to reach his 50 off just 25 balls with a monstrous six. England lost Dawid Malan along the way but Buttler and Jonny Bairstow's six-hitting spree took the Three Lions home with 50 balls to spare. Earlier, fielding first, Morgan rang the right bowling changes. Aaron Finch's struggle against leg-spin this year — he has got out seven times for an average of less than nine — meant England opened with Adil Rashid. After three dots, Finch hit a four. Chris Woakes shared the new ball and soon had David Warner caught behind. In the next over, Woakes took an acrobatic catch at mid-on to dismiss Steve Smith after the right-hander had mistimed a pull off Chris Jordan. Woakes embellished his spell in his second over, getting Glenn Maxwell out lbw. Maxwell reviewed but in vain. On a pitch with some grass on it, Morgan used one over of spin inside the first six while Woakes bowled three (3-0-7-2). With Australia 21 for three after the PowerPlay, Rashid replaced Jordan and took a wicket off his first ball, trapping Marcus Stoinis in front with a googly. Finch infused some life into the innings with two back-to-back boundaries off left-arm pacer Tymal Mills. He was supported by Ashton Agar, who struck two successive sixes off Woakes as 20 came off the over. Mills ended Agar's stay and Finch fell to Jordan for 44 soon after. Cummins hit his first two balls for sixes before being castled by Jordan. Starc hit a four and six as Australia scored 13 off the 20th. The total proved inadequate once Buttler freed his arms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bowlers-buttler-flatten-australia/article37262587.ece
31 October 2021||Sydney,||Australian greats Davidson and Mallett pass away||Australian cricket was in mourning on Saturday after the passing away of former greats Alan Davidson and Ashley Mallett within 24 hours of each other. Test spinner Mallett died aged 76 following a long battle with cancer, while legendary all-rounder Alan Davidson passed away at 92. Davidson, a destructive left-arm fast bowler and hard-hitting lower-middle-order batter, was hailed as “one of cricket’s finest players and most influential and beloved figures”. Davidson made his Test debut on the 1953 Ashes tour against England and went on to play 44 Tests, taking 186 wickets at 20.53 with best figures of seven for 93, while scoring 1,328 runs. Mallett was remembered as a humble man who also played a significant role in Australian cricket. Nicknamed ‘Rowdy’ in an ironic nod to his quietly spoken nature, he played 38 Tests from his debut against England in 1968, taking 132 wickets at an average of 29.84. He still holds the best figures for a finger spinner in Australia with eight for 59 against Pakistan at Adelaide in 1972.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australian-greats-davidson-and-mallett-pass-away/article37262593.ece
31 October 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||KOA projects to uplift quality of sports in State||The Kerala Olympic Association (KOA) on Saturday announced a slew of projects aimed at improving the quality of sports and games in the State and with the focus on helping athletes from Kerala win medals in the long run at the international arena. Early next year The KOA high-power committee chairman, Justice M.R. Hariharan Nair, president, V. Sunil Kumar and secretary, S. Rajiv told a press conference here that the schemes would be implemented early next year with the help of sponsors, individuals and donations from corporate houses, under the corporate social responsibility scheme.  Of the six projects announced, the key proposal unveiled is the Smart scheme through which the KOA is hopeful of adopting six athletes each in five disciplines and provide them with training and other facilities through the next decade. The athletes to be selected would be in the age group of 10 to 17 years and the disciplines identified are archery, athletics, boxing, swimming and shooting. The selected athletes will be based at one centre and the KOA would also take the initiative that their education would remain unhindered. Besides, board and lodging, specialised training, kits and equipments, the KOA would also provide a decent sum for the athletes monthly to meet their out of pocked expenses. Foreign coaches will be deployed wherever necessary. The other schemes drawn out include measures to popularise disciplines like billiards, bowling, triathlon, and squash, strengthening the functioning of the district sports associations and district teams in the various disciplines and another which provide financial support to needy retired sportspersons. Also on the anvil is another project, sports for all, aimed at broadbasing sport and its various disciplines at the district and State level. Honouring athletes The KOA will honour all athletes who won medals for the country at the Tokyo Olympics, held earlier this year, at a function to be held here either in the last week of November or early December. Boxing legend M.C> Mary Kom will be presented the KOA’s Life Time Achievement Award 2020 at the event in which the Chief Minister is expected to participate. State Olympics Further, the KOA will be holding the State Olympic Games, having competitions in 26 disciplines, here in February 2022. The Games are to be held through 10 days and prior to this, district games will be held over seven days to identify athletes for the State event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/koa-projects-to-uplift-quality-of-sports-in-state/article37263286.ece
31 October 2021||SHARJAH,||Miller and Rabada keep cool, take South Africa home||David Miller and Kagiso Rabada propelled South Africa to a thrilling victory, edging out Sri Lanka by four wickets despite a hat-trick by Wanindu Hasaranga, at the ICC T20 World Cup on Saturday. With South Africa needing 15 off the final over, Miller smashed two sixes and Rabada struck the winning boundary as South Africa reached the target of 143 with a ball to spare. Miller finished with 23 off 13 balls while Rabada made 13 off seven to carry their team home after Hasaranga took the third hat-trick in the tournament’s history. Hasaranga’s three for 20 was not enough for Sri Lanka which was restricted to 142.Tabraiz Shamsi returned figures of three for 17 from his four overs and fast bowler Dwaine Pretorius also took three wickets after South Africa elected to field first. De Kock takes the knee De Kock returned to the South Africa starting lineup after missing the previous match to take up the wicketkeeping duties. He knelt down in support of the anti-racism gesture along with the other players.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/miller-and-rabada-keep-cool-take-south-africa-home/article37262596.ece
31 October 2021||Newcastle,||Chelsea coasts on James’ double||Chelsea moved three points clear at the top of the Premier League after Manchester City lost 0-2 at home to Crystal Palace and Liverpool was held to a 2-2 draw by Brighton & Hove Albion on Saturday. Chelsea coasted to a 3-0 win at struggling Newcastle United with Reece James scoring twice before a Jorginho penalty wrapped up the victory. It now has 25 points from 10 games. Later in the night, Ronaldo scored once and set up Cavani for Manchester United’s second as it put behind its horror show against Liverpool from last week for a 3-0 win over Tottenham.  The results: Premier League: Leicester 0 lost to Arsenal 2 (Gabriel 5, Smith Rowe 18); Burnley 3 (Wood 4, Lowton 32, Cornet 36) bt Brentford 1 (Ghoddos 79); Liverpool 2 (Henderson 4, Mane 24) drew with Brighton 2 (Mwepu 41, Trossard 65); Manchester City 0 lost to Crystal Palace 2 (Zaha 6, Gallagher 88); Newcastle 0 lost to Chelsea 3 (James 65, 77, Jorginho 81-pen); Watford 0 lost to Southampton 1 (Adams 20); Tottenham 0 lost to Mancheser United 3 (Ronaldo 39, Cavani 64, Rashford 86).   La Liga: Elche 1 (Pere Milla 86) lost to Real Madrid 2 (Vinicius Junior 22, 73); Sevilla 2 (Carlos 40, Ocampos 60) bt Osasuna 0.   Bundesliga: Borussia Dortmund 2 (Hazard 40, Tigges 63) bt FC Cologne 0; Bayer Leverkusen 0 lost to VfL Wolfsburg 2 (Nmecha 48, Arnold 51); Union Berlin 2 (Giesselmann 43, Ryerson 65) lost to Bayern Munich 5 (Lewandowski 15-pen, 23, Sane 35, Coman 60, Muller 79); Freiburg 3 (Asta 20-og, Hoefler 39, Grifo 78-pen) bt Greuther Furth 1 (Leweling 74); Arminia Bielefeld 1 (Laursen 42) lost to Mainz 2 (Lee 25, Burkardt 68).   Serie A: Atalanta 2 (Zapata 45+1, De Roon 90+4) drew with Lazio 2 (Pedro 18, Immobile 74); Verona 2 (Simeone 11, 14) bt Juventus 1 (McKennie 80).   Friday: Bundesliga: Hoffenheim 2 (Kramaric 19, Rudy 36) bt Hertha Berlin 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chelsea-coasts-on-james-double/article37262599.ece
31 October 2021||Pune:,||Parisian claims Eve Champion Trophy||Trainer P. Shroff’s Parisian, ridden by P.S. Chouhan, claimed the Eve Champion Trophy, the main event of Saturday’s (Oct. 30) races. The winner is owned by Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Jay V. Shirke, Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co Pvt. Ltd, & Mr. Keki D. Mehta & Mr. Dara K. Mehta rep. Darashaw Bloodstock Pvt Ltd. Trainer Pesi Shroff and Jockey P.S. Chouhan both won four races each today.  1. TO THE MANOR BORN PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: EXCELERATOR (Sandesh) 1, Sovereign Master (T.S. Jodha) 2, Sufiyah (Chouhan) 3 and Istanbul (P. Vinod) 4. 2-1/2, 3/4 and 2-1/2. 59.00s. Rs. 25 (w), 11, 44 and 10 (p). SHP: 110, FP: 171, Q: 457, Tanala: 201 and 197. Favourite: Sufiyah. Owner: Mr. Prashant Nagar rep. SKJ Racing and Breeding Pvt Ltd. Trainer: A.M. Jadhav.  2. AN ACQUIRED TASTE PLATE (1,000m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86: AEGON (Kaviraj) 1, Golden Guest (Sandesh) 2, Excellent Gold (Dashrath) 3 and Pokerface (Neeraj) 4. Hd, 4-1/2 and Hd. 57.92s. Rs. 17 (w), 15 and 10 (p). SHP: 33, FP: 40, Q: 13, Tanala: 109 and 129. Favourite: Aegon. Owners: Mrs. Bakhtawar B. Chenoy & Mr. Bezan Chenoy. Trainer: Bezan Chenoy.  3. CABRIOLET PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: SUNRISE (Chouhan) 1, Orchids (Dashrath) 2, Sinner (Yash Narredu) 3 and Sunlord (Neeraj) 4. 8-1/2, 1/2 and 2. 1m 26. 76s. Rs. 13 (w) 10, 14 and 21 (p). SHP: 30, FP: 64, Q: 39, Tanala: 132 and 43. Favourite: Sunrise. Owner: Mr. Pallon S. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: P. Shroff.  4. TO THE MANOR BORN PLATE (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: SPRING GROVE (P. Dhebe) 1, Enlightened (T.S. Jodha) 2, Wild Fire (Aniket) 3 and Ciplad (Zervan) 4. 2, Lnk and 1-1/2. 58.38s. Rs. 235 (w), 32, 21 and 129 (p). SHP: 61, FP: 2,080, Q: 521, Tanala: 4,862. Favourite: Marvellous. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Jay V. Shirke & Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: M.K. Jadhav.  5. AMJAD KHAN TROPHY (2,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: THEON (Chouhan) 1, Flaming Lamborgini (Neeraj) 2, Kokomo (Sandesh) 3 and Souza (Kaviraj) 4. 1-3/4, 5-1/2 and 10-1/2. 2m 4.66s. Rs. 28 (w), 14 and 10 (p). SHP: 19, FP: 114, Q: 57, Tanala: 69 and 30. Favourite: Kokomo. Owners: Miss Ameeta Mehra & Mrs. Liane Luthria. Trainer: P. Shroff.  6. CONTINUAL TROPHY (1,600m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: FAIRMONT (Yash Narredu) 1, Northern Lights (Kirtish) 2, Kamaria (Bhawani) 3 and Brazos (P. Dhebe) 4. 3/4, 1 and 4-3/4. 1m 40.35s. Rs. 667 (w), 153, 13 and 18 (p). SHP: 86, FP: 4,678, Q: 353. Note: In this race Naxos (V. Bunde up) stood flat footed in the stalls and did not participate. Favourite: Northern Lights. Owner: Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J.M. Livestock Pvt Ltd. Trainer: Nosher Cama.  7. EVE CHAMPION TROPHY (Gr. 3) (2,000m) (Terms), 4-y-o & over: PARISIAN (Chouhan) 1, Truly Epic (C.S. Jodha) 2, Grand Accord (Bhawani) 3 and Magistero (Rupesh) 4. 8-1/4, 1 and 2-1/4. 2m 8.18s. Rs. 13 (w), 10 and 42 (p). SHP: 57, FP: 58, Q: 269, Tanala: 268 and 102. Favourite: Parisian. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Jay V. Shirke, Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Keki D. Mehta & Mr. Dara K. Mehta rep. Darashaw Bloodstock Pvt Ltd. Trainer: P. Shroff.  8. CABRIOLET PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: MEDORA (Chouhan) 1, Juiced (Sandesh) 2, Jubilant Journey (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Chieftain (T.S. Jodha) 4. 4-3/4, 1-3/4 and 1/2. 1m 27.35s. Rs. 14 (w), 13, 11 and 17 (p). SHP: 33, FP: 25, Q:22, Tanala: 110 and 58. Favourite: Medora. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke & Mr. Jay V. Shirke. Trainer: P. Shroff.  9. COLOMBIANA PLATE (1,400m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: PRIDE’S ANGEL (Sandesh) 1, Sandman (V. Bunde) 2, Blazing Bay (Bhawani) 3 and Beemer (Yash Narredu) 4. 5-3/4, 1-1/2 and 1/2. 1m 26.69s. Rs. 21 (w), 11, 29 and 27 (p). SHP: 32, FP: 226, Q: 102, Tanala: 2,021 and 866. Favourite: Pride’s Angel. Owners: Mr. Sudendu Shah, Mrs. Preeti C. Shah, M/s. K.M. Shah & Tanmay V. Mathurawala. Trainer: Imtiaz A. Sait. Jackpot: (i) 100%: Rs. 3,764 (C/O). (ii) 70%: 3,419 (6 tkts.), 30%: 549 (16 tkts.). Treble: (i) 1,611 (1 tkt), (ii) 417 (7 tkts.), (iii) 101 (54 tkts.). Super Jackpot: 100% : 5,654 (C/O).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/parisian-claims-eve-champion-trophy/article37263392.ece
31 October 2021||KOCHI:,||Natl. women’s football in Kerala||The National senior women’s football championship will be held in three northern districts of Kerala from November 25 to Dec. 9. “It will be organised by the Government of Kerala. The State Government had written to the national federation that it is keen to host the National championship and it has given Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasargod as the preferred venues,” P. Anilkumar, secretary, Kerala Football Association, told The Hindu from Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday. “The federation (AIFF) has confirmed these venues and has intimated us about it. It will involve some 28 teams which will have to be put in a bio-bubble.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/natl-womens-football-in-kerala/article37263285.ece
31 October 2021||Chennai,||Anupama’s title spree continues||Anupama defeated Mariam 3-0 (43-42, 50-27, 66-24) in the final of the women’s snooker event of the Tamil Nadu billiards and snooker championship on Saturday.  It was her fourth title in the current State championship including junior billiards, junior snooker and women’s billiards. Jonah Antony of TNBSA defeated Prakash of TVIS 156-117 in the final of the under-18 sub-junior billiards event.   Integral Coach Factory (ICF) and Southern Railway bagged the men’s and women’s titles in the Tamil Nadu State basketball championships, Chennai Zone, here on Saturday. It was informed that the Tamil Nadu State Championships proper will be held from November 8 to 14 at the Nehru Indoor Stadium here.  The results (finals):   Men: ICF 83 (Praveen 21, Anto 21, Vijay 11) bt IOB 53 (Hareesh Korath 14, Michael Raj 10).   Women: S. Rly 82 (Darshini 29, Soniya Joy 22, Nishanthi 13, Renjini Peter 10) bt Sangam BC 69 (Shobana 17, Neeta 13, Lakshmi 10) .      The TNCA will conduct trials for selecting the City under-16 teams on November 11, 12 and 13 at MAC B Grounds. Boys born on or after September 1, 2005 and before September 1, 2007 can register online at www.tnca.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anupamas-title-spree-continues/article37263010.ece
31 October 2021||Belgrade,||Sumit, Nishant advance||Sumit (75kg) sailed into the pre-quarterfinals of the AIBA men’s World championships here on Saturday notching up a 5-0 victory over Tajikistan’s Abdumalik Boltaev. Sumit, however, copped a warning in the second round for hitting Boltaev on the back of the head repeatedly despite being cautioned by the referee. But the docking of one point had no impact on his control over the proceedings. Later, Sachin (80kg), who got a first-round bye, lost 1-4 to American Robby Gonzales. The Indian seemed up for an intense showdown in the opening round but ran out of steam. In a late night bout on Friday, Nishant Dev (71kg) rallied to defeat Mauritian Merven Clair 4-1 to also secure a pre-quarterfinal berth. The gold winners at the showpiece will walk away with a prize money of $100,000. The silver medallists are to be given $50,000, and both bronze-medallists will be awarded $25,000 each. The total prize purse is $2.6 million.  The results: 75kg: Sumit bt Abdumalik Boltaev (Tjk) 5-0; 80kg: Robby Gonzales (USA) bt Sachin 4-1; 71kg: Nishant Dev bt Merven Clair (Mus) 4-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sumit-nishant-in-pre-quarterfinals/article37262964.ece
31 October 2021||Paris,||Sindhu loses in semifinals||India’s double Olympic medallist P.V. Sindhu squandered a one-game advantage to lose 21-18, 16-21, 12-21 to Japan’s Sayaka Takahashi in the semifinals of the French Open badminton tournament here on Saturday. It was the 26-year-old World No. 7’s fourth defeat in eight meetings to World No. 15 Takahashi. Sindhu, the reigning world champion, had lost in the quarterfinals at the Denmark Open last week in Odense.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-loses-in-semifinals/article37262588.ece
31 October 2021||KOLLAM:,||Arshad vs Marshad in billiards final||V.M. Mohammed Arshad, the top seed from Ernakulam, defeated Thiruvananthapuram’s Sourav Duleep in straight frames on Saturday and entered the final of the Kerala State senior billiards championship at Club Yolo. He will meet Kozhikode’s A.T. Marshad in the final. Marshad upset Ernakulam’s second-seeded Athul Kishore 3-2 in the other semifinal.  The results:   Billiards: Semifinals (150-up, best of 5 frames): V.M. Mohammed Arshad (Ekm) bt Sourav Duleep (Tvm) 3-0 (151-146, 152-35, 151-47); A.T. Marshad (Koz) bt Athul Kishore (Ekm) 3-2 (107-150, 151-137, 151-127, 137-150, 150-127).   Snooker: Pre-quarterfinals (best of 5 frames): V.M. Mohammed Arshad (Ekm) bt Smijith (Ekm) 3-0 (73-38, 76-48, 69-68); M.K. Shemil (Knr) bt Shaloof Hassan (Koz) 3-1 (83-9, 69-33, 33-78, 56-38); Marshad (Koz) bt Ashik Kafoor (Tvm) 3-0 (71-44, 62-31, 68-42) .    The State junior artistic and rhythmic gymnastics championships will be held at the Jimmy George indoor stadium on November 6. The Kerala team for junior Nationals will be chosen from this meet. The participants for the State meet should produce either the vaccination certificate or RT-PCR negative test report at the time of registration. The participants should also submit a valid identity card, birth certificate and photographs during registration. All district association should submit the list of participants before November 4. For details contact 94477 13505 & 93887 80078.   Thiruvananthapuram boys defeated Kasaragod 8-1 to enter the semifinals of the State sub-junior softball championships at the Higher Secondary school ground, Mattannur on Saturday. Thrissur girls crushed Ernakulam 7-0 to also enter the semifinals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arshad-vs-marshad-in-billiards-final/article37263287.ece
31 October 2021||Bengaluru,||BDFA Super Division to resume tomorrow||The BDFA Super Division football league, which was suspended due to the death of actor Puneeth Rajkumar, will resume on Monday. The postponed matches scheduled for the weekend will be held at a later date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bdfa-super-division-to-resume-tomorrow/article37262974.ece
31 October 2021||Kolkata,||SAI meets RSPB in final||Host Sports Authority of India (SAI) beat Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) 2-1 in the semifinals and set up a title clash with Railway Sports Promotion Board (RSPB) in the National women’s inter-department hockey championship here on Saturday. RSPB beat Sashatra Seema Bal (SSB) 3-0 in the other semifinal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sai-meets-rspb-in-final/article37263326.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Remember, Hanks was here||After two Academy Awards, seven Emmys and a host of other international accolades, the most recent being the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award, it is tempting to wonder what more could challenge Tom Hanks. The answer to that can be seen in his latest film, Finch , for Apple TV+, where he plays the only actor (well, almost) in the entire project. Tom plays the titular character, a robotics engineer who is one of the few survivors of a cataclysmic solar event that has left the world a wasteland. Sounds a bit like Hanks’ own Cast Away , the classical survival drama that released 21 years ago? “Well, yes, and no. Part of it is because the countenance is much the same, and there you could probably take an aspect of the story element. The difference — something Miguel Sapochnik [director] and I talked about — is thatFinchbegins with the desire to create the next version of what life is going to be,” explains Hanks over a video call. “Whereas in Cast Away , it was about the discovery of what was needed in order to live a full life... and that was company, and getting off that island! So that desire, and the emotional, philosophical superstructure ofFinchis very different from Chuck, because there is no attempted rescue.” Last man standing Hanks admits that the complexity of Finch is what attracted him. “He is in an immediately precarious position right from the get-go, and there is all sorts of questions for the audience. Who is this guy? Where is he at this point? His daily struggle is the one between life and death. When I was first reading it, I thought okay, there is a familiar science-fiction trope, but it is going to be different.” The film’s director, Miguel Sapochnik, is renowned for his work on shows like Game of Thrones (for which he won an Emmy), House and is also one of the showrunners for the upcoming House of the Dragon . His attention to detail was “fascinating and ridiculous fun,” adds Hanks. “Miguel and I had to figure it out, and honestly, it was a blast. If you have ever seen a one-man show on Broadway, you know what I am talking about. The camera moves around a lot, and does an awful lot of the storytelling for you; that is Miguel’s role. But I still had to discern what Finch’s behaviour and procedure was like. Miguel was very specific, and he had a great sense of the fidelity of these moments.” “Every movie comes along, and the challenges are unique every time. There is a type of communication that goes on in a screenplay that is always verbal. But Finch is almost like a silent film, so it was a tantalising prospect. The task was, how do we communicate everything that needs to be said, when it is just me on film?” Did he feel like he had anything in common with Finch at all? “I don’t have any of the smarts in common with Finch! ( laughs ) I have the grey hair and tired bones, but that is about it. The man himself is much more linear than I am; he is a guy who is able to weigh what his needs are, methodically slowly live up to them, acquire everything they want with thoroughness, and so on, without the aid of good luck or serendipity,” says Hanks. “I have far too much ADHD in order to operate like that. This is one of the reasons I was so selfishly attracted to the role; the great thing about being an actor is, I get to play somebody cooler, much more intelligent and more a student of the big picture than I am,” he smiles. Next up, the 65-year-old has two hotly-anticipated projects: Disney’s live-action animated film Pinocchio , as well as Baz Luhrmann’s Elvis biopic. After being the only actor on set in Finch , he does admit he is looking forward to acting with an ensemble cast. “I would like my next character to be part of an ongoing ensemble, in which there is 18 people in the room at the same time, that we all get to talk and listen to one another. The discipline and pleasure of interacting with other people in a big movie, is a lot easier since you are playing characters; their emotions and story beats. It is an easier way to stay sane too!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/remember-hanks-was-here/article37263329.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Atop Mount Kilimanjaro||“My eyes welled up when I reached the summit. It took me three hours to hike the last 50 metres,” says actor Nivetha Thomas, who scaled Mount Kilimanjaro a few days ago. At 5,895 metres above sea level, Mt. Kilimanjaro in Tanzania, East Africa, is the highest single free-standing mountain in the world. Nivetha was accompanied by Telangana mountaineer Poorna Malavath, her coach Shekhar Babu Bachinepally and 15 crew members. Speaking from her father’s home in Dubai, where she landed after the summit, the 25-year-old actor says the seeds for the expedition were sown in September 2019, when she presented a TED talk. At the event, Nivetha listened in rapt attention as Poorna spoke about mountaineering. In 2014, at the age of 13, Poorna became the youngest Indian and the youngest female in the world to scale Mt. Everest. “I felt an unknown interest in mountaineering surging within me. Poorna and I stayed in touch and I met her coach, Shekhar. I began reading up about mountaineering,” says Nivetha. Over the last year, Nivetha upped her fitness regime for Saakhini Daakhini , the Telugu remake of the Korean film Midnight Runners . She trained in judo, jujutsu, running, kickboxing and endurance training, all of which helped her cope with the varying terrain and altitude-related issues during the mountaineering expedition. Call of the mountains Attempting to scale Mt. Everest, says Nivetha, would have involved disciplined training for two years, which was tough given her filming schedules. However, when Poorna informed her about an expedition to Kilimanjaro, Nivetha was keen to join her. “Shekhar felt I was fit enough to take up the expedition. I was on the sets of a Telugu film five days prior to the trip. I barely told six people who are close to me about my plans. Minutes before I lost Internet connectivity in Tanzania, I put out a story on Instagram that I will be off the radar for 10 days.” Nivetha was aware that, however much she studied about mountains, there would be surprises. She says, “I had never gone on hikes, forget climbing mountains. But I was determined to do this. I followed instructions strictly. If they said pack two thermals, it had to be two thermals, nothing less.” She reached Tanzania on October 10 and met the three trainers who would accompany the team. She was briefed about the following day. “They took it one day at a time and never overloaded us with information. I focussed on one step at a time and concentrated on my breathing during the eight-day hike — six days of ascent and two days of descent,” she says. Mental preparation played a key role during the journey. There was no room for negativity or anxiety. “Shekhar told me that each mountain requires a different preparation and that the mountain has to choose you and allow you to scale it.” Slow and steady Over the next eight days, Nivetha would learn a lot of new words: ‘pole, pole,’ (slowly in Kiswahili, an East African language). Taking it slow makes it easier for the body to acclimatise to the altitude and diminishing oxygen levels, she says. The other thumb rule was to stay hydrated to ward off altitude sickness. “Severe headaches, nausea, diarrhoea and insomnia are common symptoms. Luckily, I did not experience those,” she says. The terrain changed every day: rainforests on day one, moor land on day two, dry moor land giving way to rocks on day three, rocky terrain on day four, a desert on day five and the glacial summit on day six. “The weather changed by the hour, from sunny to foggy, rains to chill,” adds Nivetha. On the first two days, the team hiked for seven hours. Later, it would increase to 12 and the summit day involved 18 hours of walking. Wanting to see the sunrise, sunset and the stars from the mountain was one of the reasons for her expedition. “At the end of the day, you feel like running to a pile of snow and playing with it, but your body would want you to rest. You have to pay heed, eat well and rest if you want to wake up the next morning and walk for hours,” the actor says. ‘Keep moving’ The journey to the summit began late evening and turned out to be arduous: “The guideline was to keep moving, even if very slowly, but never stop. At minus 12 to 15 degrees, you risk cramps and frostbites. The guides were extremely patient. As my oxygen saturation was good, they allowed me to go ahead.” The descent was quicker and she found herself in a cheerful mood, sometimes taking over the reins of guiding the team down the slopes: “You have to watch where you put your feet because you can come down pretty quickly.” She has already decided her next expedition, though she doesn’t spill the beans. She terms the expedition a life-changing experience, where nothing else mattered apart from being close to Nature. “No amount of money or fame can match that experience of scaling a mountain,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/atop-mount-kilimanjaro/article37263330.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Rajini’s rural avatar||The first trailer for Rajinikanth’s upcoming action-drama Annaatthe was recently released. Directed by Siva, the film will hit the screens on Deepavali day. The trailer introduces Rajinikanth in the role of Kaalaiyan, a village president who is devoted to his village folk and family, especially his sister, played by Keerthy Suresh. When their peaceful existence comes under threat from the villain (Jagapathi Babu), all hell breaks loose, as Kalaiyan seeks revenge. Rajinikanth was recently conferred the Dadasaheb Phalke Award at the 67th National Awards ceremony. The actor dedicated the award to his family, friend and fans.  Annaatthhe , produced by Sun Pictures, is touted to be a family entertainer on the lines of the star’s earlier films like Muthu, Arunachalam and Padayappa.  It has an ensemble cast comprising actors like Nayanthara, Khushbu, Meena, Prakash Raj and Soori.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rajinis-rural-avatar/article37263328.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Badshah in love mode||“I want to shock my fans with a new sound and song,” says Badshah, a day after the release of his new single ‘Jugnu’ with Nikita Gandhi and featuring Akanksha Sharma. He probably has. Packed with VFX effects, the musician’s latest, which has him singing about love and dancing without his trademark jacket and cap, has garnered more than 10 million views within two days of its release. “The sound is different,” affirms Badshah, who earlier sung ‘Tareefaan’ from Veere Di Wedding . The love song is part of a bigger ‘gameplan’, in a bid to do something that fans do not expect. “The love song is not a shock for me because I don’t want to be predictable anymore,” he says. He gives a big shout out to the Red Chillies team for the VFX effects. While some portions of the track were shot in Ladakh, special effects were used while shooting in a studio in Mumbai. “The team did the work in 20 days. I would consider it the ‘Baahubali’ of music videos.” It has only been a month since he launched ‘Bad BoyXBad Girl’ song with Nikita. Earlier, he would wait for at least eight months before he released a new song. Is there a constant urge to release music now? “After the pandemic, yes,” responds Badshah, stating that this phase has made him more focussed. “We are living in unpredictable times. I don’t want to hold on to my music,” he adds. This hunger to explore is one of the many lessons that he learnt from the pandemic. He explains, “One cannot afford to waste time now. Whether it is wanting to spend time with family or learning a new skill... we have to just do it. Some people want to relax now after the pandemic phase, but I have a dream to achieve.” He will also be seen on television as a judge along with Shilpa Shetty for India’s Got Talent Season 9. While the shooting has not yet begun, he is eager to catch up with the young talent on the show. Describing his journey as ‘crazy’, he says, “I tell the youth to not get inspired by my music, lifestyle or what I drive or drink. I want them to see how I gave up on my personal life to be what I am today.” For now, he’s content with the kind of reception ‘Jugnu’ is receiving. The video also ends with a ‘to be continued’ line. Keeping fans guessing? “It is a part of a bigger story, and I will let audiences connect the dots,” says Badshah, who is hoping to dominate the global music charts in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/badshah-in-love-mode/article37263331.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Suriya, Bala team up||Actor Suriya and director Bala have collaborated on two memorable films in the early 2000s: Nandha and Pithamagan . The two are coming back together for a project now. Suriya announced it on Thursday by tweeting, “He is a person who had more belief in me that I did. He made me experience new worlds. 20 years later, with the blessings of my father [Sivakumar], I am embarking on yet another beautiful journey with Bala with the same enthusiasm.” Bala, well known for his offbeat style of cinema, gave Suriya a big break and an image makeover in the ‘90with his films. Since then, the filmmaker has gone on to work with many other stars, including Suriya’s wife Jyotika ( Paradesi ). His last outing was Dhruv Vikram’s debut offering Varmaa . Suriya, meanwhile, is looking forward to the release of Jai Bhim on Amazon Prime Video. He also has the Pandiraj-directed Etharkum Thuninthavan and the Vetrimaaran-directed Vaadivasal lined up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/suriya-bala-team-up/article37263327.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Find your neighbours at these hunger spots in Chennai||“Neighbour” is standardly employed in a narrow sense, depicting what breathes immediately next-door. In practice, neighbourliness does not always manifest that way. It may skip a string of houses and find the one at the tail-end of the street; and in rare cases, encompass the whole street. It may ignore the stack of floors in the block and gravitate towards an “alien” block; and in rare cases, touch the whole community. Neighbourliness of the rare and exemplary variety usually plays out during festivals, showing up in how home-made treats are shared even with acquaintances. Arun Kumar, director of the Chennai chapter of No Food Waste (NFW) challenges residents, this festival season, to further extend this neighbourliness to reach out to the “invisible neighbours” found in “hunger spots”, probably near their localities. The festive spread usually outstrips the mouths they are made for and unless given away on time, the surplus food can become wasted food. It helps to know the hunger spots in one’s locality. “On October 27, a resident of Choolai called to inform us that from a function at home, there was excess food that could feed a minimum of ten people. Instead of picking it up, we directed him to a hunger spot near his home. He messaged us that he gave away the food and it was happily accepted,” says Arun Kumar. “Givers are as diffident about approaching those in need to give away food as the needy are in asking for it. However, when residents reach out to those in hunger, more people are served and less food is wasted. It supplements the work being done by NGOs in this area. If residents go to the trouble of reaching the small quantities of excess food they may be left with, to the hungry, it would enable the NGOs to focus on bigger interventions.” Every neighbourhood may have hunger spots in its vicinity, and it takes just wee bit of curiosity and a soupcon of care to unearth them. However, from a pan-Chennai perspective, certain easily accessible and well-hooved spaces are known to be gnawed by with hunger pangs, day in and day out. “At the Koyambedu market, many daily-wagers work and sleep at the same place, getting by on whatever food they get. It is not unusual for them to go without food some days. At the Marina beach, the homeless would spend the night, and many of them would have gone to sleep on an empty stomach. There are pockets in the Madhavaram area that serve as ‘home’ for daily wagers engaged in logistics industry. After work, they may head to some of these places in the locality, park themselves temporarily.” Arun lists a few bridges among the hunger spots. “The Kodambakkam bridge is a shelter for many people, particularly those who have come to the city looking for opportunities in the film industry. Under the bridge at Dr Radhakrishnan Salai near the New Woodlands hotel; under the Padi flyover, Kathipara flyover and the bridge near T Nagar Pothys.” Based on data of where food requirements have come up, NFW Chennai has drawn up hunger-spot charts for Chennai, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur districts, which fall within its sphere of operations. Spaces around railway stations and busy bus stands and markets figure prominently in these lists. From a consolidated list, hunger spots are regularly found near Taramani MRTS station, Keelkatalai bus stand, Perungudi MRTS station, Velachery flyover, Ekaduthangal Metro station, Alandur Metro station, Central Railway station, Koyambedu bus stand, Egmore railway station, Besant Nagar bus stand, Nehru park Metro station, T Nagar bus stand, Tambaram bus stand, Avadi bus stand, Avadi market, Pattabiram market, Thinanur bus stand, Thinanur railway station and Poonamallee bus stand. Listing of certain addresses may be counter-intuituve, as these are spaces one may not readily associate with hunger pands. Panditha Medu is marked on the chart NFW Chennai has prepared for Chengalpattu district. It is a somnolent village on the southern extremities of OMR and one would assume that it is as self-sufficient as villages can be. “During the pandemic many people have become jobless requiring us to head into such places. Apart from pavement dwellers, there are many who lack a steady income. Even in the pre-pandemic times, we have visited such places on OMR as there was a need and we would have sufficient quantities of food to meet it. In the pre-Covid period, there was a time when we would regularly collect anywhere between 200 and 300 excess food portions from Taramani-based Freshworks almost every day. Similarly, from Apollo Cancer Hospital in Taramani, food in excess of what had been served to their employees would be collected. These food parcels would have to be distributed to needy people in that belt, and we keep looking for any hunger spots that we would have missed. That is how we come upon such areas where some people may not be gainfully employed and struggle on account of that. Before the pandemic, we would collect even Swiggy's online cancel orders at their hubs in Anna Nagar, T Nagar, OMR, Chromepet and Vandalur. The delivery boys would hand over the cancellation orders at these hubs, from where our volunteers would collect lunch and dinner. The collected food would be given to people in need in nearby areas.” Arun underlines that every month, we undertake a hunger-spot search together with volunteers. “We try to learn about their earnings, and see if they are making ends meet.” He observes that a group of gypsies have pitched tent in Thalambur and Navallur, and they are frequently in need — but for the exercise to scour the landscape for hunger spots, little would have been known about these groups, let alone their plight. Operating in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Thiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts, Chennai NFW has to pass on periodic reports about food collection and distribution in these sections, to the officials concerned in the Food Safety Department and this factor, Arun points out, has made the organisation a pertinacious keepers of records. “There is a pattern to the reports presented to the food safety Department, with details of collection and distribution. Where we collect the food; what food is collected; its period of validity; where it is being distributed; and the donor's signature. We keep all of this data. From such data on food distributions, pictures of hunger spots emerge organically.  If you want to reach any excess food preparations this festival season directly to the people in “hunger spots” near your locality, you may call NFW Chennai’s helpline at 9962790877/ 7550290877 or 8056142349.   Based on data of where food requirements have come up, No Food Waste — Chennai chapter has drawn up hunger-spot charts for Chennai, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur districts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/find-your-neighbours-at-these-hunger-spots-in-chennai/article37262786.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||On a new stage||The last few weeks has been hectic for the crew working on the sets of Brahmanda Nayagan - a divine journey with Tirupati Balaji. Camping at a mountain near Chengalpattu, the team has braved tough weather conditions to complete some of the major scenes of this film slated to be released on YouTube in mid-December. This is Mahalakshmi Ladies Drama Group’s second production for cyberspace. Their first, Endaro Mahanubhavulu , was released in February this year and won rave reviews. “We had 3.3 lakh viewers watch the film on our YouTube channel, which was a big boost for us,” says actor and founder Gnanam Balasubramanian, well-known as Bombay Gnanam. For all those uninitiated, this is one of the oldest drama groups in the city with an all-women ensemble. Started in 1989, the group carved a niche for itself on account of its unique methodology. Its shows are not ticketed and is open to all. It does not have a fixed number of actors and any woman, irrespective of age and skill, who wants to try out her acting skills can be part of its productions that are largely focused on social subjects. From 2014, the theatre group broadened its focus to cover spiritual drama. “In pre-COVID days, we would do at least 35 rehearsals before staging a play in any of the sabhas. As our artistes are a floating crowd, a majority being homemakers, it needed such practice and I am glad we were able to bring many women on stage. Some showed their talent through screenplay and direction,” says Gnanam. Homemaker Kamala Easwaran, who has been associated with the theatre group for the last 18 years, says the platform gave wings to the dreams of many women. “I had no experience when I joined the group but learning from an all-women group helped shed inhibitions,” says Kamala, who is in her 70s. As part of the group’s shows she has travelled to Kolkata and Singapore. The pandemic has marked a tough period for the theatre group that has been forced to adapt to new challenges. “Our YouTube channel, launched in 2019, became a platform to connect with theatre lovers across geographies and we started becoming more tech-savvy,” says Bombay Gnanam, who has acted in films and serials. The group made a big shift by including male artistes in its production. “Unlike performing on stage, where there is a gap of 15 to 20 feet from the audience, we noticed that for certain male roles the camera is easily able to identify that it a female who is playing the character. As it did not suit the digital platform, we now have male artistes also playing various roles,” says Gnanam. In Tirupati Balaji, which is about the life story of Lord Balaji, there are 86 characters and a majority are men. The group is also looking for new avenues to raise funds. “At sabhas, we had a collection box for people to donate anything they wished to. Other operational expense like paying for a hall and for visits abroad were taken care of through sponsorship,” says Gnanam. She says that though their artistes are volunteers not expecting any money they have other operational expenses to meet. When do they plan to come back to the stage? “Till April 2022, we are clear we will continue this way after which we will need to take a call,” she says. That is an important decision as prior to the pandemic, their shows at sabhas drew a house full of audience. “We don’t want to take a chance in these times.”  Our YouTube channel, launched in 2019, became a platform to connect with theatre lovers across geographies and we started becoming more tech-savvy Bombay Gnanam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-a-new-stage/article37262799.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The fabric of kindness||The glow of pride and the look of condescension have never done much for charity. When the giver displays either or both of these, the receiver is devalued and dwarfed. When this happens, something intrinsic to charity is violated. It is the unspoken commitment to upholding human dignity, which places the giver and the receiver rightly on an even platform. Through the processes that underpin their cloth distribution programmes, non-profits Thuli and Rajasthan Cosmo Club Foundation (RCCF) in their own ways ensure the receiver is hardly made to feel like one. Thuli’s two stores — more specifically, their location — illustrate it. Both the Adyar and Vadapalani stores are situated in malls, thereby lifting up the profile of the receiver as they head into these stores to collect their once-in-six-months quota of free gently-used clothes. Through its Smile stores in Nungambakkam and Avadi, both established during the pandemic, RCCF sells sparingly used clothes at a flat rate of Rs. 20 apiece. It is small token amount, but what it does for human dignity is out of proportion to its printed value. “The profile of the people buying from these Smile stores is of lower-middle income groups, who can neither ask for donations nor afford expensive, well-made clothes. By allowing them to pay a small amount for it, human dignity is preserved,” says Suresh Gundecha, managing trustee, RCCF. The notional pricing system followed by Thuli gives the beneficiary a sense of shopping for these clothes and having earned them. The system kicks in after the gently-used clothes are sorted out its sorting centre in Adyar, laundered and and set to the stores for display. “Through notional pricing, points are assigned to every cloth. To anybody who comes in with their family we offer around 1500 points worth of voucher. Every family can pick up clothes worth those points for free — clothes, toys and stationery. During the festival season we make sure that everybody dropping into the store gets one pair of new dresses in addition to what they pick up for free. We have not been very successful this year though.” Now, that takes us to how the festival season always offers an opportunity for increased generosity and greater service. The beneficiaries may aspire for clothes that are straight out of the showrooms, never used before. Sparingly used, neatly laundered and ironed clothes may be good for the entire year, but probably not for the festival season. Are not brand-new clothes traditionally a component of festivals? “What we generally do for the festive season starting from Vinayaka Chaturthi to Pongal is that we try to get people to donate new clothes also. Pre-Covid, we would generate posters that we would share on social media and when people go shopping they would also pick up a couple of clothes for Thuli. The IT companies would keep boxes so that people would donate new clothes,” shares Ajith Kumar, one of the three founders of Thuli. Shivaji Prabhakar and Jey Bala are the founders. Actor Vijay Sethupathi is Thuli’s honorary trustee. “Earlier, we had tie-ups with many IT companies and they are not back to work yet. We are not asking anyone anything,” says Ajith, leaving unsaid the fact that the pandemic has been on almost everyone. The IT crowd is missed, particularly during the festive season, when IT companies would donate toys, packing and labelling them neatly provide age-specific usage information. Earlier, before the pandemic, through contact persons and committees at gated communities, Thuli would organise collection drives there. It would work like a well-oiled machine, with the sorting done neatly by the residents themselves. During the pandemic, Ajith says he is hesitant about approaching them, as the Covid-19 protocols would make it a challenge for them to reach out the way the used to before. RCCF is going ahead with its usual plan of parking clothes-collection boxes at gated communities. “There are nearly 400 communities on out list, as all members of our main and affiliate club, and we send out appeals to them through our toll-free number,” says Suresh. “These communities are largely in the northern parts of Chennai, and we have plans to spread out to the OMR region next year. At present, on OMR, we collect clothes from gated communities and individuals on specific requests that come through our toll-free number. We send someone to pick up the collected clothes.” Ajith also hints at an expansion plan for Thuli, which he noted has been hampered by the pandemic. He notes that Thuli is self-funded being supported by three founders and accepts donations only in kind. While Thuli’s service through its stores is three years old, RCCF’s Smile-stores initiative is a little over a year old, with its Smile Store in Nungambakkam having celebrated its first anniversary in September this year. Suresh observes, “RCCF’s cloth distribution has been continuing since 1994, when we would give away old clothes to labourers visiting the construction sites and also reach clothes to those hit by natural calamities. Now, we follow a two assortment system. The gently-used clothes go to the Smile Stores, and the more used ones are given away to the underprivileged.” Thuli can be contacted at 6380306662 and 07550283108; and Rajasthan Cosmo Club Foundation at 9962299622.  Earlier, we had tie-ups with many IT companies and they are not back to work yet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-fabric-of-kindness/article37262790.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Creating saviours||A freak accident at Perambur railway station a few years ago involving a senior citizen disturbed college student Rohith Kumar who was an eye witness. “I removed my shoulder bag and allowed the victim to rest his head on it but I did not know how to help the person. The RPF constable who was around asked me to leave, and I was left with the guilt of not being able to help out,” says Rohith. The incident later encouraged the MCA student to get trained in first-aid delivery from ALERT (Amenity Lifeline Emergency Response Team), a volunteer-driven organisation working in the area of emergency response and care. Today, Rohith is one of ALERT’s active volunteers. In the last two years, he has helped over a dozen accident victims by being a first responder. Last year, near Thirumangalam junction, a middle-aged person injured his backbone after falling off his two-wheeler. “As it was in the middle of COVID-19, ambulances were not available that easily, so I borrowed a bedspread from a few migrant workers living on the side of the road to lift and put the victim in an autorickshaw,” says Rohith. One may not always be carrying a first-aid kit to offer emergency response but never walk away from such situations is one golden lesson Rohith has learnt. “Handkerchief can be used for cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR); and an identity card or a shirt can be used to offer temporary relief to a person who cannot move his hand by dangling it down his neck,” says 25-year-old Rohith, an ALERT Being awardee. ALERT, which celebrated its 15th anniversary recently, is encouraging more laypersons like Rohith Kumar to become a first responder and join its “Golden Army.” Kala Balasundaram, founder, ALERT, says they have trained more than 1.5 lakh people with first aid and emergency response management in the last 15 years. Now they want to go a step ahead by encouraging these trained volunteers to sign up to be a trainer or take up any other focused activity to create awareness. Community responders “Golden Army is a focused group that will create a community of responsible and responsive good Samaritans with knowledge of first-aid and respond during emergencies. We have re-defined, re-purposed and revamped the volunteering process with this initiative. Here volunteers will become the warriors during the critical golden hour,” she says. The goal is to draw Generation Z into this area of volunteering . “We are working towards signing MoU with colleges where students are trained in basis first-aid and from there it is about continuous engagement,” says Kala, who quit her corporate job to work full-time for the non-profit organisation. Over the years, the non-profit has reached out to people from all walks of life including autorickshaws drivers, fishermen and school students through its targetted programmes. Some of the volunteers who have had personal losses have joined them too. Its school curriculum, for instance, is led by Nalini Raveendran, a mother who lost her son in a tragic accident outside Raj Bhavan. Passers-by had not come forward to offer help for 45 minutes. “She put together a 12-15 hour curriculum that is offered for students and teachers ,” says Kala. “Saviour Saturdays” is another programme where first-aid training is offered every Saturday at 3 p.m. virtually. Rural reach During the pandemic, ALERT Bharat was launched where the aim is to empower those not owning a smart phone with knowledge of first-aid. Here the training is offered over the phone in the form of drama and music. “We have launched this pilot programme with the farming community in Dindigul,” she says. Kala says ALERT is also shifting its focus to other districts like Coimbatore, Madurai and Dindigul. “We already have a pan-India reach but our plan is to set up base in these places,” says Kala. Ahead of Deepavali, it is running Be ALERT campaign at government schools to educate youngsters about various degrees of burns and what can be done about them. Unsung heroes The organisation is opening nominations for its annual Alert Being Awards that honours the contribution of Good Samaritans who have saved lives. The nominations open on November 8. For details, visithttps://alert.ngo/aba/  Golden Army is a focus group that will create a community of responsible and responsive Good Samaritans with knowledge of first-aid and basic emergency care||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creating-saviours/article37262803.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||MNS comes up with internship on nature||Each locality is stamped with a biodiversity pincode that can remain uncelebrated; worse, unnoticed; worse still, noticed but wilfully ignored. This pincode is usually lost on residents, as the art of seeing while looking is a scarce commodity anywhere, and scarcer in urbania with its trillion distractions. An internship programme for life sciences students of city colleges being offered by Madras Naturalists’ Society (MNS) hammers away at the hardened crust of incuriosity and unconcern towards neighbours flying and crawling and standing around us. The larger objective of Urban Wilderness Walks (UWW), as the internship is called, is to unobtrusively plants naturalists in Chennai neighbourhoods and create a culture that fuels interest in citizen science. A “naturalist” is a distant figure, light years removed for most people’s everyday reality. What if the naturalist arrives disarmingly as the boy or the girl next door? A UWW highlight is that it primes the internees for a life-long role: Being a lead on nature walks, and mentoring others to be one. While training the first batch towards this end, interesting scenarios came up. One of them interns took students of a government school in Lakshmipuram, Kolathur to watch insects and count medicinal plants in the neighbourhood. As this intern would reveal later, there was a social component to this walk. S Yamini decided on having a walk tailor-made for these students so that they could interact with people outside their peer group and brush up on communication skills. MNS offers this free internship to colleges; and as early adopters, Stella Maris and Women’s Christian College together account for the 27 students that constitute the first batch. At the time of this article going to print, on October 30, these students received their certificates in a valedictory ceremony whose agenda was unscripted and left to nature to handle the job extempore. The ceremony included a nature walk at the Adyar Estuary. What are the skills these students are taking away into their communities? M Yuvan, MNS member, author of A Naturalist’s Journal , and more importantly, a teacher of ecology, handled the four-month-long internship programme. “Each person has to conduct two walks — a general urban wilderness walk and the other is a specific walk based on their interests. Under specific, themed walks, some would do a wetland walk, another an insects walk, a bird walk or an nature journaling session. For each of these walks, I have contact sessions where they experience and learn how to teach and then apply their own context and creativity for the public in their locality,” notes Yuvan. While the general walk could be carried out in their neck of the woods — some inviting the residents of their apartment to it — the specific walks required them to stir from their moorings. The idea is to make them adept at appreciating the ecology their immediate surroundings as well as that of biodiversity-rich spaces. “A methodic curriculum was drawn up with assignments every two weeks for them to be able to study their surroundings and do small projects in their place so that they collect stories and document the wild life, and learn how to use citizen science platforms. Other than that, we have field sessions, where we go and understand the ecology of a place and learn how to communicate and teach different aspects of that,” explains Yuvan. How to invite people to a nature walk was also part of the learning. “They are taught how to create posters and where to promote their walk” says Yuvan. One of the interns who is also an eBirder, Claudia Pinheiro from Avadi invited her old batchmates from school, among others, to a walk around Thandurai lake.  On the other salient features of UWW, Yuvan says: “The interns are taught how to choose a trail. A street may be lined with shops and another may have a stand of ten trees and that would make a good enough trail. Then you have to do a field study of your trail. One of the things that they did was draw up a tree map. Knowledge of vegetation is the foundation for any kind of ecological knowledge. How to identify trees was a session, and in fact, some of them are making a guide for the public. After that, they have to find five people who have lived more than 10 to 20 years in the locality and collect stories of change, especially of trees and waterbodies and how that place has changed from an ecological perspective.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mns-comes-up-with-internship-on-nature/article37262766.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The Northern shoveler in the house||On the morning of October 29, the Perumbakkam wetland was playing host to a small number of Northern shovelers. Small, only in relative terms. Along with three other long-distance migratory ducks —namely, the Northern pintail, garganey and Eurasian teal — the Northern shoveler racks up the numbers that lend the wetland the air of a grand winter hangout. The most striking aspect of this flock — around 20 found on the northern side of the wetland which hugs the Perumbakkam Main Road; and probably an equal numenr of them were found in the inner reaches — that none of the males had brought their striking breeding plumage to the wintering grounds. When the migratory season unspools, and the northern shoveler numbers swell, males carrying over a part of their breeding uniform to these wintering grounds, can be expected. Though these colourful males would be hugely outnumbered by the males in eclipse and wintering plumage, the former would not be lost in the crowd. The white-green-blue-chestnut pattern highlighted with an incredibly attention-grabbing green speculum just cannot elude notice, and the drawn eyes stay locked on the bird a tad longer than on most other wintering ducks in these parts. Ornithologist V Santharam puts forth one possible explanation for the uniformly drab males in the first batch: That these birds (Northern shovelers) are just coming in, with those of them that are not breeding leading the way, as they do not have much to do in their breeding grounds. “The other birds may be coming soon and in that population you may see some males in breeding plumage. Probably, some male birds in breeding plumage are already to be found, may be in Pallikarani; and it will not take them much time to cross over from there to Perumbakkam wetland.” Probably, as these words are being typed out, the influx is happening. “Garganey is usually one of the earliest to arrive — I have seen them land up in Chennai as early as August and the others arrive a little later — anytime from mid to late October, which is around the time the monsoon sets in coinciding with their arrival. If they come in earlier and the tanks are short of food,it does not make any sense.” The ornithologist continues: “Normally, our waterbodies get filled up only in late October after the monsoon has set in — this year is of course an exception — and we start going out looking for ducks in November, and we say that is when they have arrived. They would have arrived much before that in small numbers.” With a good south west monsoon, there may be water in other places and they may not want to travel all the way south. As water recedes, there could be more ducks in teh wetland as they will not have nay other place to go to.  (’Migrant Watch' is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-northern-shoveler-in-the-house/article37262801.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Property fair ends today||Casagrand presents The Hindu PropertyPlus Virtual property fair, launched on October 22, 2021. The most trusted virtual property fair brings to you over 15 prestigious builders in Chennai. Sign up to find your dream home. The Virtual Property Fair will be open till October 31, 2021. Buyers will have an exciting array of options – from budget homes and functional apartment to lavish villas and luxury bungalows – all on a single platform. To register and view the special offers, visit https://bit.ly/THVP21 or scan the QR Code Our partners: Title Sponsor — Casagrand; and the other partners are: Lancor; Hiranandani Communities; SPR City; KG Builders; Sumanth & CO; VGN Homes; Navin’s; Voora; Fomra; Baashyaam; Marutham Group; Deccan; The Nest; Nova.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/property-fair-ends-today/article37262781.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Database of beneficiaries||Both Thuli and Rasjathan Cosmo Club Foundation (RCCF) follow similar, but nowhere near identical systems to ensure beneficiaries do not take more than they should. It is achieved by maintained a database of users who are recognised via official identification systems. “We have a system where we offer them a beneficiary card that functions like a credit card. Any underprivileged family that comes in is tied to a barcode using their Aadhar card and ration card. They get to shop only twice in a year. After every six months, we call them to shop. Every six months, we make sure that the cloth requirement for the family is covered,” says Ajith Kumar, one of the three founders of Thuli. How many families are on the list? “So far, almost 37,000 people have visited our stores. Right now, on our “list-to-call-people, apart from the registered people, we have 500 to 600 people as new registrations. However, we are not calling many people — only 10 to 15 people a day as we have to follow the protocols and we do not want to endanger the safety of our stores people. We are taking things slow,” notes Ajith. On the process being followed by RCCF at its Smile stores, its managing trustee Suresh Gundecha notes: “We have the beneficiary’s Aadhar card number and mobile number fed i nto the computer and the software would block any beneficiary who is trying to purchase before a month has elapsed since the last purchase.” Suresh points that “we have collected three lakh peices of clothes, and through Smile stores, we channeled 1.5 lakh pieces. The rest were distributed to various institutions free of cost.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/database-of-beneficiaries/article37262787.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||An impressive nature walk by Stella Maris students at Semmozhi Poonga||Imparting knowledge to a mixed group of participants, some twice your age and some others almost half your age, can put even seasoned teachers in a quandry. Add to that the peculiar situation of the instructor being a student of the subject themselves, the emerging picture does not instill confidence. Despite these factors being arrayed against them, Keertanaa K and Nikkitha Terasa held their own. Recently, these third-year zoology students led a mixed group on a nature walk through the butterfly garden at Semmozhi Poonga on Dr Radhakrishnan Salai in Teynampet, as part of Urban Wilderness Walks, an internship programme offered by Madras Naturalists Society (MNS). The exercise skirted around providing descriptions of flora. It pivoted around teaching the participants how to record their impressions of what they had seen, heard, felt and experienced. The duo had chosen nature journaling for their project, and a rangoon creeper and Hong Kong orchid tree would be the main objects of study for the participants. Their choise was dictated by the fact that this tree and plant offered colourful flowers and invite a lot of impressions. “The Hong Kong orchid tree has bright rose colour flowers, and the rangoon creeper clusters of pink flowers. These two plants in general host a lot of insects like bees, wasps and moths and sometimes, we can see birds like mynahs on them, and these birds would eat the seeds, especially of the Rangoon creeper.” Participants were handed out activity sheets that they had prepared to “engage and guide them through the topic.” Remarks Keertanaa: “The activity sheet had a few pointers on how to do nature journaling by explaining what encompasses the subject.” More importantly, it would draw the participants into a discussion of how the objects of nature impacted them. “It had some questions. For example, it presented the participants with a few pictures of flowers. There is a flower called lobster claw flower, bright red-orangish flower. We had a picture of that flower and we wanted the participants to tell us what it reminded them of. Besides, we asked them to look around the place and identify something that captured their attention in aspects of shape, colour, sound and interaction.” This exercise was essentially attacking the usually unidimensional aspect of nature walks. “Usually, when people go on a nature walk, they usually only look at things. Only the eyes are involved. We wanted them to also listen, smell, touch and feel the texture. Indulging the senses was one of our core points,” explains Keertanaa, adding that nature journalising can be abstract, scientifically-focussed or casual and meant for relaxation. Besides the activity sheets, the participants also journaled in their own notebooks. Going through their impressions, Keertanaa observes: “Some people start off with the big picture and then go into the small details. Some others might start off with a single detail and zoom out and focus on the larger part.” The two had chosen Semmozhi Poonga for the nature journaling walk as it is close to their college, and also almost marks a mid-way point between their respective homes, Keertanaa’s in Adyar and Nikkitha’s in Vadapalani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-impressive-nature-walk-by-stella-maris-students-at-semmozhi-poonga/article37262763.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Gandhi Nagar residents spot flaws in road work||Two to three months after the office of Zone 13 of Greater Chennai Corporation relaid First Main Road and Second Main Road in Gandhi Nagar, Adyar, residents point out flaws in the road work. “On First Main Road, the road and the stormwater drain are not on the same level. The road is below the drain, and this will hinder flow of rainwater into the stormwater drain,” says C Ramakrishnan, president, Federation of Adyar Residents’ Association. The construction debris from the road work ought to have been removed. Instead they were found dumped near the inlets of the stormwater drain, again obstructing the flow of water into the drain. Yet another shoddy work on First Main Road is that at a spot near a clothes shop, the road is tarred in such a way that it obstructs the inlet of the stormwater drain. On Second Main Road, the area around the lids of stormwater drains manholes is cemented which will prevent water from getting absorbed. Further, the manholes and the roads are not at an even level. “While on Second Main Road, the manhole has gone below the road level on First Main Road, the manhole is protruding above the road,” adds Ramakrishnan. “FEDERA had given representations in this regard to the office of Zone 13 and the Greater Chennai Corporation to corrects these flaws before the onset of the north-east monsoon, but to no avail,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gandhi-nagar-residents-spot-flaws-in-road-work/article37262785.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Raw sewage is being let out of Nanmangalam treatment plant ’||On and off, raw sewage is being let out on to the roads from the sewage treatment plant at Kakkan Street in Arul Murugan Nandavanam Nagar in Nangmangalam. We learnt from reliable sources that whenever there is a breakdown, sewage is being let out from the plant. Hence, it is evident that the treatment plant is wanting in maintenance. In spite of repeated complaints to the Pallavaram Municipality, redemptive action has not been taken. Sewage stagnates in low-lying areas and on roads that are ridden with potholes. The situation gets worse during rainy season. T. Thinagaran is the president of Arul Murugan Nandavanam Nagar Development & Welfare Association in Nanmangalam Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/raw-sewage-is-being-let-out-of-nanmangalam-treatment-plant/article37262778.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||18 bags and boxes of kindness and counting||A community aged around two as on date is akin to a corporate house with half its members onboarded during the pandemic. There could not have been enough “water-cooler conversations” to shape a helpful “team culture”. Residents of Trellis South, a gated community on Arcot Road in Vadapalani, has torn this assumption apart driving a coach and horses through it, and one may add, transporting “bags of clothes” to the needy in the process. For a community that has spent much of its life behind closed doors, sheltering in place and following COVID-19 SOPs, its members have been hugely impressive as they go about promoting a cause with the synchronicity of rhythmic group-gymnasts. When one resident of this two-year-old community suggested that they spice up Deepavali with some good, old-fashioned charity — cloth collection — the community rallied around the thought. As on Friday morning, the community had amassed 18 bags with the contents reading as: New or almost new clothes; old clothes; and three, kid’s toys and stationery items. The initiative which got under way on October 24 would run its course at 12 noon on October 31, when the collected clothes would be on the way to three organisations known for distribution and repurposing of old clothes for the underprivileged through thrift stores or for free — Thuli, Little Drops and Banyan. Ravi Swaminathan, “onboarded” into the gated community only in January 2021, initiated this idea among his neighbours, even carefully flipping through the track records of organisations engaged in cloth distribution before settling on the three. With the Trellis South Flat Owners’ Association throwing its weight behind the initiative, Ravi wasted no time in attending to the nuts and bolts of it, which included mobilising volunteers. There are 15 volunteers who shoulder responsibilities of the drive. Ravi points out that the entire community is driving the initiative. Here is an illustration. Separate boxes were assigned for the three categories. Two days into the drive, the generosity overflowed and the box for old clothes could not contain it. “That box had to be replaced with a barrel, which the association president provided,” recalls Ravi, adding that in the days that followed, the continuing generosity necessitated the use of huge bags. On Friday, the collection weighed at 18 capacious bags. At the time of this article going to print, an assembly of volunteers attended to the work of sorting out the clothes, weeding out those that would not do much for the dignity of the receiver. “A similar exercise was carried out on Wednesday (October 27).” Next week, after the three organisations have received their respective consignments, the volunteers are slated for a visit to each of them. Ravi reveals that this exercise is planned for the benefit of the residents who donated these clothes — to give them a picture of how their gesture is making a difference. Asked whether the Trellis South drive would accept clothes donated by people outside the community, Ravi says: “We are keeping it internal as mobilising resources is a challenge. Relatives of Trellis South residents who live elsewhere are also donating clothes, and the volunteer-resources are just sufficient to meet the overall workload.” To reiterate a point, for a young community many of whose members have not met their neighbours in any meaningful in-person gatherings, the team-work is remarkable. Interestingly, Ravi is a management professional who has occupied leadership positions for two decades and is currently managing director for the India operations of a Japanese multi-national company. One may assume that he is bringing to the drive principles governing effective remote functioning and human-resource mobilisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/18-bags-and-boxes-of-kindness-and-counting/article37262795.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Not the right time to demolish the bridge in Sunnambu Kolathur’||The bridge on Ambedkar Salai in Sunnambu Kolathur in Kovilambakkam was demolished during the last week of September to construct a new one. The bridge was constructed over the water canal carrying surplus water from Keelkattalai lake. However, we learnt from reliable sources that the State Highways has plans to commence the work only in January. We wonder why the bridge should be demolished three months ahead. Ambedkar Salai connects Pallavaram Thoraipakkam 200 Ft Radial Road and Madipakkam bus-stand. Hence, this bridge witnesses good traffic. With the bridge gone, the public is put to a lot of inconvenience. We are currently accessing the radial road via Bagyalakshmi Nagar or via Engineers Avenue. Both these alternative routes are circuitous that entail travelling an additional two kilometres. These routes do not have proper roads and stormwater drains. Therefore, following the recent spells of rain, the alternative routes are inundated. Accessing the radial road can be an ordeal. Hence, we request the Chengalpattu Collector to do the needful by providing a temporary arrangement. J. Sankar, coordinator, Federation of Sunnambu Kolathur Residents Welfare Associations in Kovilambakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/not-the-right-time-to-demolish-the-bridge-in-sunnambu-kolathur/article37262772.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We want name-boards in our colony’||Visitors to Sreedharan Street at Madipakkam are having difficulty locating their streets as there are no name boards. We request the department to look into this at the earliest. G. Vijay is a resident of Madipakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/we-want-name-boards-in-our-colony/article37262768.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||New designs for Deepavali||In view of the festive season, Cotton House has come up with new collections. According to a press release, they include Indo-western paavadai , lehanga blended with south Indian designs, long frock for children Also available are kurtis, variety of saris like handwoven Banaras, tussar silk with temple border, matka andKanchipuram silk. For men, jeans, pants, shorts, and dhothies are available. The staff at the shop are vaccinated, adds the press release. Each customer will be give free sanitiser and mask, for free, while entering the shop. Every one hour, the shop will be sterilised, says the press release. Cotton House has no branches. The shop is at No: 68, LB Road, Thiruvanmiyur. For details, call 044 - 2445 4442 / 4201 0609.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-designs-for-deepavali/article37262770.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Thiruvanmiyur playground in a sorry state’||The Greater Chennai Corporation’s playground at Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in Valmiki Nagar in Thiruvanmiyur is not being maintained properly. The playground is not even. Stones could be found protruding. Next, the vegetation at the playground is not cleared at regular intervals. On October 2, underprivileged children from Rajiv Gandhi Nagar cleaned the ground and removed the bushes. Hence, we request that the Greater Chennai Corporation take adequate care of the playground. Jayanthi Premchander is a resident of Valmiki Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/thiruvanmiyur-playground-in-a-sorry-state/article37262774.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||New collection at clothes store||Shoba Textiles offers a range of collections. It includes wedding saris, silk saris, and designer saris. Also, branded shirts for men and a wide new collection for children are available. Shoba Textiles has outlets in T.Nagar, Thiruvanmiyur, and Mogappair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-collection-at-clothes-store/article37262769.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Find your neighbours at these hunger spots in Chennai||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/find-your-neighbours-at-these-hunger-spots-in-chennai/article37262783.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||martyrs remembered||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/martyrs-remembered/article37262776.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Find your neighbours at these hunger spots in Chennai||“Neighbour” is standardly employed in a narrow sense, depicting what breathes immediately next-door. In practice, neighbourliness does not always manifest that way. It may skip a string of houses and find the one at the tail-end of the street; and in rare cases, encompass the whole street. It may ignore the stack of floors in the block and gravitate towards an “alien” block; and in rare cases, touch the whole community. Neighbourliness of the rare and exemplary variety usually plays out during festivals, showing up in how home-made treats are shared even with acquaintances. Arun Kumar, director of the Chennai chapter of No Food Waste (NFW) challenges residents, this festival season, to further extend this neighbourliness to reach out to the “invisible neighbours” found in “hunger spots”, probably near their localities. The festive spread usually outstrips the mouths they are made for and unless given away on time, the surplus food can become wasted food. It helps to know the hunger spots in one’s locality. “On October 27, a resident of Choolai called to inform us that from a function at home, there was excess food that could feed a minimum of ten people. Instead of picking it up, we directed him to a hunger spot near his home. He messaged us that he gave away the food and it was happily accepted,” says Arun Kumar. “Givers are as diffident about approaching those in need to give away food as the needy are in asking for it. However, when residents reach out to those in hunger, more people are served and less food is wasted. It supplements the work being done by NGOs in this area. If residents go to the trouble of reaching the small quantities of excess food they may be left with, to the hungry, it would enable the NGOs to focus on bigger interventions.” Every neighbourhood may have hunger spots in its vicinity, and it takes just wee bit of curiosity and a soupcon of care to unearth them. However, from a pan-Chennai perspective, certain easily accessible and well-hooved spaces are known to be gnawed by with hunger pangs, day in and day out. “At the Koyambedu market, many daily-wagers work and sleep at the same place, getting by on whatever food they get. It is not unusual for them to go without food some days. At the Marina beach, the homeless would spend the night, and many of them would have gone to sleep on an empty stomach. There are pockets in the Madhavaram area that serve as ‘home’ for daily wagers engaged in logistics industry. After work, they may head to some of these places in the locality, park themselves temporarily.” Arun lists a few bridges among the hunger spots. “The Kodambakkam bridge is a shelter for many people, particularly those who have come to the city looking for opportunities in the film industry. Under the bridge at Dr Radhakrishnan Salai near the New Woodlands hotel; under the Padi flyover, Kathipara flyover and the bridge near T Nagar Pothys.” Based on data of where food requirements have come up, NFW Chennai has drawn up hunger-spot charts for Chennai, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur districts, which fall within its sphere of operations. Spaces around railway stations and busy bus stands and markets figure prominently in these lists. From a consolidated list, hunger spots are regularly found near Taramani MRTS station, Keelkatalai bus stand, Perungudi MRTS station, Velachery flyover, Ekaduthangal Metro station, Alandur Metro station, Central Railway station, Koyambedu bus stand, Egmore railway station, Besant Nagar bus stand, Nehru park Metro station, T Nagar bus stand, Tambaram bus stand, Avadi bus stand, Avadi market, Pattabiram market, Thinanur bus stand, Thinanur railway station and Poonamallee bus stand. Listing of certain addresses may be counter-intuituve, as these are spaces one may not readily associate with hunger pands. Panditha Medu is marked on the chart NFW Chennai has prepared for Chengalpattu district. It is a somnolent village on the southern extremities of OMR and one would assume that it is as self-sufficient as villages can be. “During the pandemic many people have become jobless requiring us to head into such places. Apart from pavement dwellers, there are many who lack a steady income. Even in the pre-pandemic times, we have visited such places on OMR as there was a need and we would have sufficient quantities of food to meet it. In the pre-Covid period, there was a time when we would regularly collect anywhere between 200 and 300 excess food portions from Taramani-based Freshworks almost every day. Similarly, from Apollo Cancer Hospital in Taramani, food in excess of what had been served to their employees would be collected. These food parcels would have to be distributed to needy people in that belt, and we keep looking for any hunger spots that we would have missed. That is how we come upon such areas where some people may not be gainfully employed and struggle on account of that. Before the pandemic, we would collect even Swiggy's online cancel orders at their hubs in Anna Nagar, T Nagar, OMR, Chromepet and Vandalur. The delivery boys would hand over the cancellation orders at these hubs, from where our volunteers would collect lunch and dinner. The collected food would be given to people in need in nearby areas.” Arun underlines that every month, we undertake a hunger-spot search together with volunteers. “We try to learn about their earnings, and see if they are making ends meet.” He observes that a group of gypsies have pitched tent in Thalambur and Navallur, and they are frequently in need — but for the exercise to scour the landscape for hunger spots, little would have been known about these groups, let alone their plight. Operating in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Thiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts, Chennai NFW has to pass on periodic reports about food collection and distribution in these sections, to the officials concerned in the Food Safety Department and this factor, Arun points out, has made the organisation a pertinacious keepers of records. “There is a pattern to the reports presented to the food safety Department, with details of collection and distribution. Where we collect the food; what food is collected; its period of validity; where it is being distributed; and the donor's signature. We keep all of this data. From such data on food distributions, pictures of hunger spots emerge organically.  If you want to reach any excess food preparations this festival season directly to the people in “hunger spots” near your locality, you may call NFW Chennai’s helpline at 9962790877/ 7550290877 or 8056142349.   Based on data of where food requirements have come up, No Food Waste — Chennai chapter has drawn up hunger-spot charts for Chennai, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur districts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/find-your-neighbours-at-these-hunger-spots-in-chennai/article37262809.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||On a new stage||The last few weeks has been hectic for the crew working on the sets of Brahmanda Nayagan - a divine journey with Tirupati Balaji. Camping at a mountain near Chengalpattu, the team has braved tough weather conditions to complete some of the major scenes of this film slated to be released on YouTube in mid-December. This is Mahalakshmi Ladies Drama Group’s second production for cyberspace. Their first, Endaro Mahanubhavulu , was released in February this year and won rave reviews. “We had 3.3 lakh viewers watch the film on our YouTube channel, which was a big boost for us,” says actor and founder Gnanam Balasubramanian, well-known as Bombay Gnanam. For all those uninitiated, this is one of the oldest drama groups in the city with an all-women ensemble. Started in 1989, the group carved a niche for itself on account of its unique methodology. Its shows are not ticketed and is open to all. It does not have a fixed number of actors and any woman, irrespective of age and skill, who wants to try out her acting skills can be part of its productions that are largely focused on social subjects. From 2014, the theatre group broadened its focus to cover spiritual drama. “In pre-COVID days, we would do at least 35 rehearsals before staging a play in any of the sabhas. As our artistes are a floating crowd, a majority being homemakers, it needed such practice and I am glad we were able to bring many women on stage. Some showed their talent through screenplay and direction,” says Gnanam. Homemaker Kamala Easwaran, who has been associated with the theatre group for the last 18 years, says the platform gave wings to the dreams of many women. “I had no experience when I joined the group but learning from an all-women group helped shed inhibitions,” says Kamala, who is in her 70s. As part of the group’s shows she has travelled to Kolkata and Singapore. The pandemic has marked a tough period for the theatre group that has been forced to adapt to new challenges. “Our YouTube channel, launched in 2019, became a platform to connect with theatre lovers across geographies and we started becoming more tech-savvy,” says Bombay Gnanam, who has acted in films and serials. The group made a big shift by including male artistes in its production. “Unlike performing on stage, where there is a gap of 15 to 20 feet from the audience, we noticed that for certain male roles the camera is easily able to identify that it a female who is playing the character. As it did not suit the digital platform, we now have male artistes also playing various roles,” says Gnanam. In Tirupati Balaji, which is about the life story of Lord Balaji, there are 86 characters and a majority are men. The group is also looking for new avenues to raise funds. “At sabhas, we had a collection box for people to donate anything they wished to. Other operational expense like paying for a hall and for visits abroad were taken care of through sponsorship,” says Gnanam. She says that though their artistes are volunteers not expecting any money they have other operational expenses to meet. When do they plan to come back to the stage? “Till April 2022, we are clear we will continue this way after which we will need to take a call,” she says. That is an important decision as prior to the pandemic, their shows at sabhas drew a house full of audience. “We don’t want to take a chance in these times.”  Our YouTube channel, launched in 2019, became a platform to connect with theatre lovers across geographies and we started becoming more tech-savvy Bombay Gnanam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-a-new-stage/article37262819.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Creating saviours||A freak accident at Perambur railway station a few years ago involving a senior citizen disturbed college student Rohith Kumar who was an eye witness. “I removed my shoulder bag and allowed the victim to rest his head on it but I did not know how to help the person. The RPF constable who was around asked me to leave, and I was left with the guilt of not being able to help out,” says Rohith. The incident later encouraged the MCA student to get trained in first-aid delivery from ALERT (Amenity Lifeline Emergency Response Team), a volunteer-driven organisation working in the area of emergency response and care. Today, Rohith is one of ALERT’s active volunteers. In the last two years, he has helped over a dozen accident victims by being a first responder. Last year, near Thirumangalam junction, a middle-aged person injured his backbone after falling off his two-wheeler. “As it was in the middle of COVID-19, ambulances were not available that easily, so I borrowed a bedspread from a few migrant workers living on the side of the road to lift and put the victim in an autorickshaw,” says Rohith. One may not always be carrying a first-aid kit to offer emergency response but never walk away from such situations is one golden lesson Rohith has learnt. “Handkerchief can be used for cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR); and an identity card or a shirt can be used to offer temporary relief to a person who cannot move his hand by dangling it down his neck,” says 25-year-old Rohith, an ALERT Being awardee. ALERT, which celebrated its 15th anniversary recently, is encouraging more laypersons like Rohith Kumar to become a first responder and join its “Golden Army.” Kala Balasundaram, founder, ALERT, says they have trained more than 1.5 lakh people with first aid and emergency response management in the last 15 years. Now they want to go a step ahead by encouraging these trained volunteers to sign up to be a trainer or take up any other focused activity to create awareness. Community responders “Golden Army is a focused group that will create a community of responsible and responsive good Samaritans with knowledge of first-aid and respond during emergencies. We have re-defined, re-purposed and revamped the volunteering process with this initiative. Here volunteers will become the warriors during the critical golden hour,” she says. The goal is to draw Generation Z into this area of volunteering . “We are working towards signing MoU with colleges where students are trained in basis first-aid and from there it is about continuous engagement,” says Kala, who quit her corporate job to work full-time for the non-profit organisation. Over the years, the non-profit has reached out to people from all walks of life including autorickshaws drivers, fishermen and school students through its targetted programmes. Some of the volunteers who have had personal losses have joined them too. Its school curriculum, for instance, is led by Nalini Raveendran, a mother who lost her son in a tragic accident outside Raj Bhavan. Passers-by had not come forward to offer help for 45 minutes. “She put together a 12-15 hour curriculum that is offered for students and teachers ,” says Kala. “Saviour Saturdays” is another programme where first-aid training is offered every Saturday at 3 p.m. virtually. Rural reach During the pandemic, ALERT Bharat was launched where the aim is to empower those not owning a smart phone with knowledge of first-aid. Here the training is offered over the phone in the form of drama and music. “We have launched this pilot programme with the farming community in Dindigul,” she says. Kala says ALERT is also shifting its focus to other districts like Coimbatore, Madurai and Dindigul. “We already have a pan-India reach but our plan is to set up base in these places,” says Kala. Ahead of Deepavali, it is running Be ALERT campaign at government schools to educate youngsters about various degrees of burns and what can be done about them.  Unsung heroes The organisation is opening nominations for its annual Alert Being Awards that honours the contribution of Good Samaritans who have saved lives. The nominations open on November 8. For details, visithttps://alert.ngo/aba/  Golden Army is a focus group that will create a community of responsible and responsive Good Samaritans with knowledge of first-aid and basic emergency care||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creating-saviours/article37262823.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||MNS comes up with internship on nature||Each locality is stamped with a biodiversity pincode that can remain uncelebrated; worse, unnoticed; worse still, noticed but wilfully ignored. This pincode is usually lost on residents, as the art of seeing while looking is a scarce commodity anywhere, and scarcer in urbania with its trillion distractions. An internship programme for life sciences students of city colleges being offered by Madras Naturalists’ Society (MNS) hammers away at the hardened crust of incuriosity and unconcern towards neighbours flying and crawling and standing around us. The larger objective of Urban Wilderness Walks (UWW), as the internship is called, is to unobtrusively plants naturalists in Chennai neighbourhoods and create a culture that fuels interest in citizen science. A “naturalist” is a distant figure, light years removed for most people’s everyday reality. What if the naturalist arrives disarmingly as the boy or the girl next door? A UWW highlight is that it primes the internees for a life-long role: Being a lead on nature walks, and mentoring others to be one. While training the first batch towards this end, interesting scenarios came up. One of them interns took students of a government school in Lakshmipuram, Kolathur to watch insects and count medicinal plants in the neighbourhood. As this intern would reveal later, there was a social component to this walk. S Yamini decided on having a walk tailor-made for these students so that they could interact with people outside their peer group and brush up on communication skills. MNS offers this free internship to colleges; and as early adopters, Stella Maris and Women’s Christian College together account for the 27 students that constitute the first batch. At the time of this article going to print, on October 30, these students received their certificates in a valedictory ceremony whose agenda was unscripted and left to nature to handle the job extempore. The ceremony included a nature walk at the Adyar Estuary. What are the skills these students are taking away into their communities? M Yuvan, MNS member, author of A Naturalist’s Journal , and more importantly, a teacher of ecology, handled the four-month-long internship programme. “Each person has to conduct two walks — a general urban wilderness walk and the other is a specific walk based on their interests. Under specific, themed walks, some would do a wetland walk, another an insects walk, a bird walk or an nature journaling session. For each of these walks, I have contact sessions where they experience and learn how to teach and then apply their own context and creativity for the public in their locality,” notes Yuvan. While the general walk could be carried out in their neck of the woods — some inviting the residents of their apartment to it — the specific walks required them to stir from their moorings. The idea is to make them adept at appreciating the ecology their immediate surroundings as well as that of biodiversity-rich spaces. “A methodic curriculum was drawn up with assignments every two weeks for them to be able to study their surroundings and do small projects in their place so that they collect stories and document the wild life, and learn how to use citizen science platforms. Other than that, we have field sessions, where we go and understand the ecology of a place and learn how to communicate and teach different aspects of that,” explains Yuvan. How to invite people to a nature walk was also part of the learning. “They are taught how to create posters and where to promote their walk” says Yuvan. One of the interns who is also an eBirder, Claudia Pinheiro from Avadi invited her old batchmates from school, among others, to a walk around Thandurai lake.  On the other salient features of UWW, Yuvan says: “The interns are taught how to choose a trail. A street may be lined with shops and another may have a stand of ten trees and that would make a good enough trail. Then you have to do a field study of your trail. One of the things that they did was draw up a tree map. Knowledge of vegetation is the foundation for any kind of ecological knowledge. How to identify trees was a session, and in fact, some of them are making a guide for the public. After that, they have to find five people who have lived more than 10 to 20 years in the locality and collect stories of change, especially of trees and waterbodies and how that place has changed from an ecological perspective.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mns-comes-up-with-internship-on-nature/article37262818.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||New IAS academy at Anna Nagar to help underprivileged||Anna Nagar has added one more civil service academy to its list. Know Knowledge Network, launched on October 23, is led by a group of academicians and will focus on uplifting students who are physically-challenged and economically poor by offering them coaching free of cost. Paul Chellakumar, chairman of Campus Abroad and one of trustees of KKN, says this is a non-profit initiative dedicated to mentoring meritorious physically-challenged youth, motivate economically weaker groups and prepare them for civil service examination. “However, the coaching would only cover the prelims,” he says. The institute would be guiding the successful students who clear prelims to academies where it will help them get scholarships. The institute would also be offering deserving able-bodied students coaching at a nominal fee. Other trustees include Julia Vasanthi M, assistant area director/joint secretary, Special Olympics Bharat - Tamil Nadu and Dr Daisy Dharmaraj, professor of Community Medicine at Dr. M. G. R. Medical University. Former I.A.S officers P. M. Belliappa, I. V. Manivannan and Kannegi Packianathan are among those on the board of advisors, and Walter I. Davaram is the chief patron, said a release. Johny Tom Varghese, State Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities; K. Jayanth Murali I.P.S., ADGP, Idol Wing, Tamil Nadu and Walter I. Davaram, former DGP of Tamil Nadu were the special guests who took part in the launch event. Lauding the initiative, Johny Tom Varghese urged KKN to explore providing food and shelter to the civil service aspirants. He also said that the exam requires not only intelligence but also application for solving tricky questions. Those keen on recommending deserving candidates or offering sponsorship may contact the secretary on 98400 93608. For details, visit www.knowknowledgenetwork.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-ias-academy-at-anna-nagar-to-help-underprivileged/article37262822.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||IAS aspirants take to Twitter, solve problem||Civil service aspirants who regularly park themselves at the Anna Nagar East library took to twitter to try to get a niggling problem about drinking water facility at the space addressed. The result: the issue gets solved thanks to two IAS officers. Those preparing for the civil service examination at this public facility have been unhappy that the bubble top water cans are not enough for the number of people visiting the library. Many a time, students have even purchased water bottles from outside. One of the visitor’s sent a post on Twitter marking M Muruganantham, an IAS of the 2020 batch, who happened to be a regular visitor to the library during his preparation days. The post was signed as “Aspirants of Anna Nagar East Library”. In a Twitter thread, Muruganantham, who is currently assistant collector at Gadchiroli, requested Sharanya Ari, regional deputy commissioner (central), Greater Chennai Corporation to take up the issue. The tweet reads: “Small things are not always small. Got a tweet about water scarcity in Anna Nagar East Library, which was my shelter during my preparation.” Recently, the water issue was addressed with an “unknown sponsor” coming forward to gift users of the library a drinking water facility. Muruganantham tweets thanking Sharanya Ari, “the unknown sponsor”, engineer Ashok Kumar, district library officer and the librarian. According to the library authorities, Suhail AHM sponsored the 50-litre RO water plant for the library probably after word spread about the tweet. R Rajesh, an aspirant, says: “The library draws many students as it has many amenities including WiFi, restroom, parking and a good collection of books. Having safe and continuous supply of drinking water was important and as Muruganantham sir addressed students in the library some time ago we thought of bringing it to his notice.” Anna Nagar is a major hub as many UPSC and TNPSC coaching institutes are located in the neighbourhood. Many students find the library premises non-interfering and easy on their pocket too. “More than 100 students prepare for their classes from this space and of late it is so busy that we do not have many senior citizens walking in. We use four to five cans of water a day but sometimes that is not enough for the student community flocking to the place. Not getting water was a concern as many of the students even have lunch on the premises,” says a library staff. Opened in 1983, the library became an important destination for civil service aspirants in the last seven-eight years with many coaching centres around. A new building is coming up behind the facility, says a staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ias-aspirants-take-to-twitter-solve-problem/article37262806.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Property fair ends today||Casagrand presents The Hindu PropertyPlus Virtual property fair, launched on October 22, 2021. The most trusted virtual property fair brings to you over 15 prestigious builders in Chennai. Sign up to find your dream home. The Virtual Property Fair will be open till October 31, 2021. Buyers will have an exciting array of options – from budget homes and functional apartment to lavish villas and luxury bungalows – all on a single platform. To register and view the special offers, visit https://bit.ly/THVP21 or scan the QR Code Our partners: Title Sponsor — Casagrand; and the other partners are: Lancor; Hiranandani Communities; SPR City; KG Builders; Sumanth & CO; VGN Homes; Navin’s; Voora; Fomra; Baashyaam; Marutham Group; Deccan; The Nest; Nova.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/property-fair-ends-today/article37262812.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Damaged road safety guard punctures tyres’||I request the State Highways Department to remove the base of the road safety cones in Korattur subway. Nearly 10 cones were serving as a median at the bend of the subway. However, all of them got damaged one after the other as vehicles kept hitting them. The damaged cones were removed but not their bases. The protruding screws of the bases keep puncturing the tyres of vehicles. Also, steps should be taken to have a median at the bend of the subway. In its absence, accidents can occur. I request the State Highways to do the needful at the earliest. S. Sekharan is a resident of Korattur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/damaged-road-safety-guard-punctures-tyres/article37262821.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Browntree opens Anna Nagar outlet||Browntree outlets have brought out a range of gift boxes and hampers ranging from Rs. 150 to Rs. 7500 for the festive season. With dry fruits, chocolates and cookies, these boxes promise to be an ideal and a healthy choice to gift, said a release. Browntree offers 100% vegetarian confectioneries from its in-house bakery, added the release. The store has 20 outlets in the city, with its Shanthi Colony, Anna Nagar store being the latest to open. Shop online at www.browntree.in. Or, call its customer care number at 9500065106||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/browntree-opens-anna-nagar-outlet/article37262813.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||New collection at clothes store||Shoba Textiles offers a range of collections. It includes wedding saris, silk saris, and designer saris. Also, branded shirts for men and a wide new collection for children are available. Shoba Textiles has outlets in T.Nagar, Thiruvanmiyur, and Mogappair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-collection-at-clothes-store/article37262817.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Find your neighbours at these hunger spots||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/find-your-neighbours-at-these-hunger-spots/article37262804.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||New IAS academy at Anna Nagar||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-ias-academy-at-anna-nagar/article37262808.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The fabric of kindness||The glow of pride and the look of condescension have never done much for charity. When the giver displays either or both of these, the receiver is devalued and dwarfed. When this happens, something intrinsic to charity is violated. It is the unspoken commitment to upholding human dignity, which places the giver and the receiver rightly on an even platform. Through the processes that underpin their cloth distribution programmes, non-profits Thuli and Rajasthan Cosmo Club Foundation (RCCF) in their own ways ensure the receiver is hardly made to feel like one. Thuli’s two stores — more specifically, their location — illustrate it. Both the Adyar and Vadapalani stores are situated in malls, thereby lifting up the profile of the receiver as they head into these stores to collect their once-in-six-months quota of free gently-used clothes. Through its Smile stores in Nungambakkam and Avadi, both established during the pandemic, RCCF sells sparingly used clothes at a flat rate of Rs. 20 apiece. It is small token amount, but what it does for human dignity is out of proportion to its printed value. “The profile of the people buying from these Smile stores is of lower-middle income groups, who can neither ask for donations nor afford expensive, well-made clothes. By allowing them to pay a small amount for it, human dignity is preserved,” says Suresh Gundecha, managing trustee, RCCF. The notional pricing system followed by Thuli gives the beneficiary a sense of shopping for these clothes and having earned them. The system kicks in after the gently-used clothes are sorted out its sorting centre in Adyar, laundered and and set to the stores for display. “Through notional pricing, points are assigned to every cloth. To anybody who comes in with their family we offer around 1500 points worth of voucher. Every family can pick up clothes worth those points for free — clothes, toys and stationery. During the festival season we make sure that everybody dropping into the store gets one pair of new dresses in addition to what they pick up for free. We have not been very successful this year though.” Now, that takes us to how the festival season always offers an opportunity for increased generosity and greater service. The beneficiaries may aspire for clothes that are straight out of the showrooms, never used before. Sparingly used, neatly laundered and ironed clothes may be good for the entire year, but probably not for the festival season. Are not brand-new clothes traditionally a component of festivals? “What we generally do for the festive season starting from Vinayaka Chaturthi to Pongal is that we try to get people to donate new clothes also. Pre-Covid, we would generate posters that we would share on social media and when people go shopping they would also pick up a couple of clothes for Thuli. The IT companies would keep boxes so that people would donate new clothes,” shares Ajith Kumar, one of the three founders of Thuli. Shivaji Prabhakar and Jey Bala are the founders. Actor Vijay Sethupathi is Thuli’s honorary trustee. Earlier, before the pandemic, through contact persons and committees at gated communities, Thuli would organise collection drives there. It would work like a well-oiled machine, with the sorting done neatly by the residents themselves. During the pandemic, Ajith says he is hesitant about approaching them, as the Covid-19 protocols would make it a challenge for them to reach out the way the used to before. RCCF is going ahead with its usual plan of parking clothes-collection boxes at gated communities. “There are nearly 400 communities on out list, as all members of our main and affiliate club, and we send out appeals to them through our toll-free number,” says Suresh. “These communities are largely in the northern parts of Chennai, and we have plans to spread out to the OMR region next year. At present, on OMR, we collect clothes from gated communities and individuals on specific requests that come through our toll-free number. We send someone to pick up the collected clothes.” Ajith also hints at an expansion plan for Thuli, which he noted has been hampered by the pandemic. He notes that Thuli is self-funded being supported by three founders and accepts donations only in kind. While Thuli’s service through its stores is three years old, RCCF’s Smile-stores initiative is a little over a year old, with its Smile Store in Nungambakkam having celebrated its first anniversary in September this year.  Thuli can be contacted at 6380306662 and 07550283108; and Rajasthan Cosmo Club Foundation at 9962299622.  Earlier, we had tie-ups with many IT companies and they are not back to work yet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-fabric-of-kindness/article37262816.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Find your neighbours at these hunger spots in Chennai||“Neighbour” is standardly employed in a narrow sense, depicting what breathes immediately next-door. In practice, neighbourliness does not always manifest that way. It may skip a string of houses and find the one at the tail-end of the street; and in rare cases, encompass the whole street. It may ignore the stack of floors in the block and gravitate towards an “alien” block; and in rare cases, touch the whole community. Neighbourliness of the rare and exemplary variety usually plays out during festivals, showing up in how home-made treats are shared even with acquaintances. Arun Kumar, director of the Chennai chapter of No Food Waste (NFW) challenges residents, this festival season, to further extend this neighbourliness to reach out to the “invisible neighbours” found in “hunger spots”, probably near their localities. The festive spread usually outstrips the mouths they are made for and unless given away on time, the surplus food can become wasted food. It helps to know the hunger spots in one’s locality. “On October 27, a resident of Choolai called to inform us that from a function at home, there was excess food that could feed a minimum of ten people. Instead of picking it up, we directed him to a hunger spot near his home. He messaged us that he gave away the food and it was happily accepted,” says Arun Kumar. “Givers are as diffident about approaching those in need to give away food as the needy are in asking for it. However, when residents reach out to those in hunger, more people are served and less food is wasted. It supplements the work being done by NGOs in this area. If residents go to the trouble of reaching the small quantities of excess food they may be left with, to the hungry, it would enable the NGOs to focus on bigger interventions.” Every neighbourhood may have hunger spots in its vicinity, and it takes just wee bit of curiosity and a soupcon of care to unearth them. However, from a pan-Chennai perspective, certain easily accessible and well-hooved spaces are known to be gnawed by with hunger pangs, day in and day out. “At the Koyambedu market, many daily-wagers work and sleep at the same place, getting by on whatever food they get. It is not unusual for them to go without food some days. At the Marina beach, the homeless would spend the night, and many of them would have gone to sleep on an empty stomach. There are pockets in the Madhavaram area that serve as ‘home’ for daily wagers engaged in logistics industry. After work, they may head to some of these places in the locality, park themselves temporarily.” Arun lists a few bridges among the hunger spots. “The Kodambakkam bridge is a shelter for many people, particularly those who have come to the city looking for opportunities in the film industry. Under the bridge at Dr Radhakrishnan Salai near the New Woodlands hotel; under the Padi flyover, Kathipara flyover and the bridge near T Nagar Pothys.” Based on data of where food requirements have come up, NFW Chennai has drawn up hunger-spot charts for Chennai, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur districts, which fall within its sphere of operations. Spaces around railway stations and busy bus stands and markets figure prominently in these lists. From a consolidated list, hunger spots are regularly found near Taramani MRTS station, Keelkatalai bus stand, Perungudi MRTS station, Velachery flyover, Ekaduthangal Metro station, Alandur Metro station, Central Railway station, Koyambedu bus stand, Egmore railway station, Besant Nagar bus stand, Nehru park Metro station, T Nagar bus stand, Tambaram bus stand, Avadi bus stand, Avadi market, Pattabiram market, Thinanur bus stand, Thinanur railway station and Poonamallee bus stand. Listing of certain addresses may be counter-intuituve, as these are spaces one may not readily associate with hunger pands. Panditha Medu is marked on the chart NFW Chennai has prepared for Chengalpattu district. It is a somnolent village on the southern extremities of OMR and one would assume that it is as self-sufficient as villages can be. “During the pandemic many people have become jobless requiring us to head into such places. Apart from pavement dwellers, there are many who lack a steady income. Even in the pre-pandemic times, we have visited such places on OMR as there was a need and we would have sufficient quantities of food to meet it. In the pre-Covid period, there was a time when we would regularly collect anywhere between 200 and 300 excess food portions from Taramani-based Freshworks almost every day. Similarly, from Apollo Cancer Hospital in Taramani, food in excess of what had been served to their employees would be collected. These food parcels would have to be distributed to needy people in that belt, and we keep looking for any hunger spots that we would have missed. That is how we come upon such areas where some people may not be gainfully employed and struggle on account of that. Before the pandemic, we would collect even Swiggy's online cancel orders at their hubs in Anna Nagar, T Nagar, OMR, Chromepet and Vandalur. The delivery boys would hand over the cancellation orders at these hubs, from where our volunteers would collect lunch and dinner. The collected food would be given to people in need in nearby areas.” Arun underlines that every month, we undertake a hunger-spot search together with volunteers. “We try to learn about their earnings, and see if they are making ends meet.” He observes that a group of gypsies have pitched tent in Thalambur and Navallur, and they are frequently in need — but for the exercise to scour the landscape for hunger spots, little would have been known about these groups, let alone their plight. Operating in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Thiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts, Chennai NFW has to pass on periodic reports about food collection and distribution in these sections, to the officials concerned in the Food Safety Department and this factor, Arun points out, has made the organisation a pertinacious keepers of records. “There is a pattern to the reports presented to the food safety Department, with details of collection and distribution. Where we collect the food; what food is collected; its period of validity; where it is being distributed; and the donor's signature. We keep all of this data. From such data on food distributions, pictures of hunger spots emerge organically.  If you want to reach any excess food preparations this festival season directly to the people in “hunger spots” near your locality, you may call NFW Chennai’s helpline at 9962790877/ 7550290877 or 8056142349.   Based on data of where food requirements have come up, No Food Waste — Chennai chapter has drawn up hunger-spot charts for Chennai, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur districts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/find-your-neighbours-at-these-hunger-spots-in-chennai/article37262844.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||On a new stage||The last few weeks has been hectic for the crew working on the sets of Brahmanda Nayagan - a divine journey with Tirupati Balaji. Camping at a mountain near Chengalpattu, the team has braved tough weather conditions to complete some of the major scenes of this film slated to be released on YouTube in mid-December. This is Mahalakshmi Ladies Drama Group’s second production for cyberspace. Their first, Endaro Mahanubhavulu , was released in February this year and won rave reviews. “We had 3.3 lakh viewers watch the film on our YouTube channel, which was a big boost for us,” says actor and founder Gnanam Balasubramanian, well-known as Bombay Gnanam. For all those uninitiated, this is one of the oldest drama groups in the city with an all-women ensemble. Started in 1989, the group carved a niche for itself on account of its unique methodology. Its shows are not ticketed and is open to all. It does not have a fixed number of actors and any woman, irrespective of age and skill, who wants to try out her acting skills can be part of its productions that are largely focused on social subjects. From 2014, the theatre group broadened its focus to cover spiritual drama. “In pre-COVID days, we would do at least 35 rehearsals before staging a play in any of the sabhas. As our artistes are a floating crowd, a majority being homemakers, it needed such practice and I am glad we were able to bring many women on stage. Some showed their talent through screenplay and direction,” says Gnanam. Homemaker Kamala Easwaran, who has been associated with the theatre group for the last 18 years, says the platform gave wings to the dreams of many women. “I had no experience when I joined the group but learning from an all-women group helped shed inhibitions,” says Kamala, who is in her 70s. As part of the group’s shows she has travelled to Kolkata and Singapore. The pandemic has marked a tough period for the theatre group that has been forced to adapt to new challenges. “Our YouTube channel, launched in 2019, became a platform to connect with theatre lovers across geographies and we started becoming more tech-savvy,” says Bombay Gnanam, who has acted in films and serials. The group made a big shift by including male artistes in its production. “Unlike performing on stage, where there is a gap of 15 to 20 feet from the audience, we noticed that for certain male roles the camera is easily able to identify that it a female who is playing the character. As it did not suit the digital platform, we now have male artistes also playing various roles,” says Gnanam. In Tirupati Balaji, which is about the life story of Lord Balaji, there are 86 characters and a majority are men. The group is also looking for new avenues to raise funds. “At sabhas, we had a collection box for people to donate anything they wished to. Other operational expense like paying for a hall and for visits abroad were taken care of through sponsorship,” says Gnanam. She says that though their artistes are volunteers not expecting any money they have other operational expenses to meet. When do they plan to come back to the stage? “Till April 2022, we are clear we will continue this way after which we will need to take a call,” she says. That is an important decision as prior to the pandemic, their shows at sabhas drew a house full of audience. “We don’t want to take a chance in these times.”  Our YouTube channel, launched in 2019, became a platform to connect with theatre lovers across geographies and we started becoming more tech-savvy Bombay Gnanam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-a-new-stage/article37262849.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Creating saviours||A freak accident at Perambur railway station a few years ago involving a senior citizen disturbed college student Rohith Kumar who was an eye witness. “I removed my shoulder bag and allowed the victim to rest his head on it but I did not know how to help the person. The RPF constable who was around asked me to leave, and I was left with the guilt of not being able to help out,” says Rohith. The incident later encouraged the MCA student to get trained in first-aid delivery from ALERT (Amenity Lifeline Emergency Response Team), a volunteer-driven organisation working in the area of emergency response and care. Today, Rohith is one of ALERT’s active volunteers. In the last two years, he has helped over a dozen accident victims by being a first responder. Last year, near Thirumangalam junction, a middle-aged person injured his backbone after falling off his two-wheeler. “As it was in the middle of COVID-19, ambulances were not available that easily, so I borrowed a bedspread from a few migrant workers living on the side of the road to lift and put the victim in an autorickshaw,” says Rohith. One may not always be carrying a first-aid kit to offer emergency response but never walk away from such situations is one golden lesson Rohith has learnt. “Handkerchief can be used for cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR); and an identity card or a shirt can be used to offer temporary relief to a person who cannot move his hand by dangling it down his neck,” says 25-year-old Rohith, an ALERT Being awardee. ALERT, which celebrated its 15th anniversary recently, is encouraging more laypersons like Rohith Kumar to become a first responder and join its “Golden Army.” Kala Balasundaram, founder, ALERT, says they have trained more than 1.5 lakh people with first aid and emergency response management in the last 15 years. Now they want to go a step ahead by encouraging these trained volunteers to sign up to be a trainer or take up any other focused activity to create awareness. Community responders “Golden Army is a focused group that will create a community of responsible and responsive good Samaritans with knowledge of first-aid and respond during emergencies. We have re-defined, re-purposed and revamped the volunteering process with this initiative. Here volunteers will become the warriors during the critical golden hour,” she says. The goal is to draw Generation Z into this area of volunteering . “We are working towards signing MoU with colleges where students are trained in basis first-aid and from there it is about continuous engagement,” says Kala, who quit her corporate job to work full-time for the non-profit organisation. Over the years, the non-profit has reached out to people from all walks of life including autorickshaws drivers, fishermen and school students through its targetted programmes. Some of the volunteers who have had personal losses have joined them too. Its school curriculum, for instance, is led by Nalini Raveendran, a mother who lost her son in a tragic accident outside Raj Bhavan. Passers-by had not come forward to offer help for 45 minutes. “She put together a 12-15 hour curriculum that is offered for students and teachers ,” says Kala. “Saviour Saturdays” is another programme where first-aid training is offered every Saturday at 3 p.m. virtually. Rural reach During the pandemic, ALERT Bharat was launched where the aim is to empower those not owning a smart phone with knowledge of first-aid. Here the training is offered over the phone in the form of drama and music. “We have launched this pilot programme with the farming community in Dindigul,” she says. Kala says ALERT is also shifting its focus to other districts like Coimbatore, Madurai and Dindigul. “We already have a pan-India reach but our plan is to set up base in these places,” says Kala. Ahead of Deepavali, it is running Be ALERT campaign at government schools to educate youngsters about various degrees of burns and what can be done about them. Unsung heroes The organisation is opening nominations for its annual Alert Being Awards that honours the contribution of Good Samaritans who have saved lives. The nominations open on November 8. For details, visithttps://alert.ngo/aba/  Golden Army is a focus group that will create a community of responsible and responsive Good Samaritans with knowledge of first-aid and basic emergency care||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creating-saviours/article37262851.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The fabric of kindness||The glow of pride and the look of condescension have never done much for charity. When the giver displays either or both of these, the receiver is devalued and dwarfed. When this happens, something intrinsic to charity is violated. It is the unspoken commitment to upholding human dignity, which places the giver and the receiver rightly on an even platform. Through the processes that underpin their cloth distribution programmes, non-profits Thuli and Rajasthan Cosmo Club Foundation (RCCF) in their own ways ensure the receiver is hardly made to feel like one. Thuli’s two stores — more specifically, their location — illustrate it. Both the Adyar and Vadapalani stores are situated in malls, thereby lifting up the profile of the receiver as they head into these stores to collect their once-in-six-months quota of free gently-used clothes. Through its Smile stores in Nungambakkam and Avadi, both established during the pandemic, RCCF sells sparingly used clothes at a flat rate of Rs. 20 apiece. It is small token amount, but what it does for human dignity is out of proportion to its printed value. “The profile of the people buying from these Smile stores is of lower-middle income groups, who can neither ask for donations nor afford expensive, well-made clothes. By allowing them to pay a small amount for it, human dignity is preserved,” says Suresh Gundecha, managing trustee, RCCF. The notional pricing system followed by Thuli gives the beneficiary a sense of shopping for these clothes and having earned them. The system kicks in after the gently-used clothes are sorted out its sorting centre in Adyar, laundered and and set to the stores for display. “Through notional pricing, points are assigned to every cloth. To anybody who comes in with their family we offer around 1500 points worth of voucher. Every family can pick up clothes worth those points for free — clothes, toys and stationery. During the festival season we make sure that everybody dropping into the store gets one pair of new dresses in addition to what they pick up for free. We have not been very successful this year though.” Now, that takes us to how the festival season always offers an opportunity for increased generosity and greater service. The beneficiaries may aspire for clothes that are straight out of the showrooms, never used before. Sparingly used, neatly laundered and ironed clothes may be good for the entire year, but probably not for the festival season. Are not brand-new clothes traditionally a component of festivals? “What we generally do for the festive season starting from Vinayaka Chaturthi to Pongal is that we try to get people to donate new clothes also. Pre-Covid, we would generate posters that we would share on social media and when people go shopping they would also pick up a couple of clothes for Thuli. The IT companies would keep boxes so that people would donate new clothes,” shares Ajith Kumar, one of the three founders of Thuli. Shivaji Prabhakar and Jey Bala are the founders. Actor Vijay Sethupathi is Thuli’s honorary trustee. “Earlier, we had tie-ups with many IT companies and they are not back to work yet. We are not asking anyone anything,” says Ajith, leaving unsaid the fact that the pandemic has been on almost everyone. The IT crowd is missed, particularly during the festive season, when IT companies would donate toys, packing and labelling them neatly provide age-specific usage information. Earlier, before the pandemic, through contact persons and committees at gated communities, Thuli would organise collection drives there. It would work like a well-oiled machine, with the sorting done neatly by the residents themselves. During the pandemic, Ajith says he is hesitant about approaching them, as the Covid-19 protocols would make it a challenge for them to reach out the way the used to before. RCCF is going ahead with its usual plan of parking clothes-collection boxes at gated communities. “There are nearly 400 communities on out list, as all members of our main and affiliate club, and we send out appeals to them through our toll-free number,” says Suresh. “These communities are largely in the northern parts of Chennai, and we have plans to spread out to the OMR region next year. At present, on OMR, we collect clothes from gated communities and individuals on specific requests that come through our toll-free number. We send someone to pick up the collected clothes.” Ajith also hints at an expansion plan for Thuli, which he noted has been hampered by the pandemic. He notes that Thuli is self-funded being supported by three founders and accepts donations only in kind. While Thuli’s service through its stores is three years old, RCCF’s Smile-stores initiative is a little over a year old, with its Smile Store in Nungambakkam having celebrated its first anniversary in September this year. Suresh observes, “RCCF’s cloth distribution has been continuing since 1994, when we would give away old clothes to labourers visiting the construction sites and also reach clothes to those hit by natural calamities. Now, we follow a two assortment system. The gently-used clothes go to the Smile Stores, and the more used ones are given away to the underprivileged.” Thuli can be contacted at 6380306662 and 07550283108; and Rajasthan Cosmo Club Foundation at 9962299622.  Earlier, we had tie-ups with many IT companies and they are not back to work yet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-fabric-of-kindness/article37262847.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||MNS comes up with internship on nature||Each locality is stamped with a biodiversity pincode that can remain uncelebrated; worse, unnoticed; worse still, noticed but wilfully ignored. This pincode is usually lost on residents, as the art of seeing while looking is a scarce commodity anywhere, and scarcer in urbania with its trillion distractions. An internship programme for life sciences students of city colleges being offered by Madras Naturalists’ Society (MNS) hammers away at the hardened crust of incuriosity and unconcern towards neighbours flying and crawling and standing around us. The larger objective of Urban Wilderness Walks (UWW), as the internship is called, is to unobtrusively plants naturalists in Chennai neighbourhoods and create a culture that fuels interest in citizen science. A “naturalist” is a distant figure, light years removed for most people’s everyday reality. What if the naturalist arrives disarmingly as the boy or the girl next door? A UWW highlight is that it primes the internees for a life-long role: Being a lead on nature walks, and mentoring others to be one. While training the first batch towards this end, interesting scenarios came up. One of them interns took students of a government school in Lakshmipuram, Kolathur to watch insects and count medicinal plants in the neighbourhood. As this intern would reveal later, there was a social component to this walk. S Yamini decided on having a walk tailor-made for these students so that they could interact with people outside their peer group and brush up on communication skills. MNS offers this free internship to colleges; and as early adopters, Stella Maris and Women’s Christian College together account for the 27 students that constitute the first batch. At the time of this article going to print, on October 30, these students received their certificates in a valedictory ceremony whose agenda was unscripted and left to nature to handle the job extempore. The ceremony included a nature walk at the Adyar Estuary. What are the skills these students are taking away into their communities? M Yuvan, MNS member, author of A Naturalist’s Journal , and more importantly, a teacher of ecology, handled the four-month-long internship programme. “Each person has to conduct two walks — a general urban wilderness walk and the other is a specific walk based on their interests. Under specific, themed walks, some would do a wetland walk, another an insects walk, a bird walk or an nature journaling session. For each of these walks, I have contact sessions where they experience and learn how to teach and then apply their own context and creativity for the public in their locality,” notes Yuvan. While the general walk could be carried out in their neck of the woods — some inviting the residents of their apartment to it — the specific walks required them to stir from their moorings. The idea is to make them adept at appreciating the ecology their immediate surroundings as well as that of biodiversity-rich spaces. “A methodic curriculum was drawn up with assignments every two weeks for them to be able to study their surroundings and do small projects in their place so that they collect stories and document the wild life, and learn how to use citizen science platforms. Other than that, we have field sessions, where we go and understand the ecology of a place and learn how to communicate and teach different aspects of that,” explains Yuvan. How to invite people to a nature walk was also part of the learning. “They are taught how to create posters and where to promote their walk” says Yuvan. One of the interns who is also an eBirder, Claudia Pinheiro from Avadi invited her old batchmates from school, among others, to a walk around Thandurai lake.  On the other salient features of UWW, Yuvan says: “The interns are taught how to choose a trail. A street may be lined with shops and another may have a stand of ten trees and that would make a good enough trail. Then you have to do a field study of your trail. One of the things that they did was draw up a tree map. Knowledge of vegetation is the foundation for any kind of ecological knowledge. How to identify trees was a session, and in fact, some of them are making a guide for the public. After that, they have to find five people who have lived more than 10 to 20 years in the locality and collect stories of change, especially of trees and waterbodies and how that place has changed from an ecological perspective.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mns-comes-up-with-internship-on-nature/article37262848.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||An impressive nature walk by Stella Maris students at Semmozhi Poonga||Imparting knowledge to a mixed group of participants, some twice your age and some others almost half your age, can put even seasoned teachers in a quandry. Add to that the peculiar situation of the instructor being a student of the subject themselves, the emerging picture does not instill confidence. Despite these factors being arrayed against them, Keertanaa K and Nikkitha Terasa held their own. Recently, these third-year zoology students led a mixed group on a nature walk through the butterfly garden at Semmozhi Poonga on Dr Radhakrishnan Salai in Teynampet, as part of Urban Wilderness Walks, an internship programme offered by Madras Naturalists Society (MNS). The exercise skirted around providing descriptions of flora. It pivoted around teaching the participants how to record their impressions of what they had seen, heard, felt and experienced. The duo had chosen nature journaling for their project, and a rangoon creeper and Hong Kong orchid tree would be the main objects of study for the participants. Their choise was dictated by the fact that this tree and plant offered colourful flowers and invite a lot of impressions. “The Hong Kong orchid tree has bright rose colour flowers, and the rangoon creeper clusters of pink flowers. These two plants in general host a lot of insects like bees, wasps and moths and sometimes, we can see birds like mynahs on them, and these birds would eat the seeds, especially of the Rangoon creeper.” Participants were handed out activity sheets that they had prepared to “engage and guide them through the topic.” Remarks Keertanaa: “The activity sheet had a few pointers on how to do nature journaling by explaining what encompasses the subject.” More importantly, it would draw the participants into a discussion of how the objects of nature impacted them. “It had some questions. For example, it presented the participants with a few pictures of flowers. There is a flower called lobster claw flower, bright red-orangish flower. We had a picture of that flower and we wanted the participants to tell us what it reminded them of. Besides, we asked them to look around the place and identify something that captured their attention in aspects of shape, colour, sound and interaction.”This exercise was essentially attacking the usually unidimensional aspect of nature walks. “Usually, when people go on a nature walk, they usually only look at things. Only the eyes are involved. We wanted them to also listen, smell, touch and feel the texture. Indulging the senses was one of our core points,” explains Keertanaa, adding that nature journalising can be abstract, scientifically-focussed or casual and meant for relaxation. Besides the activity sheets, the participants also journaled in their own notebooks. Going through their impressions, Keertanaa observes: “Some people start off with the big picture and then go into the small details. Some others might start off with a single detail and zoom out and focus on the larger part.” The two had chosen Semmozhi Poonga for the nature journaling walk as it is close to their college, and also almost marks a mid-way point between their respective homes, Keertanaa’s in Adyar and Nikkitha’s in Vadapalani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-impressive-nature-walk-by-stella-maris-students-at-semmozhi-poonga/article37262839.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The Northern shoveler in the house||On the morning of October 29, the Perumbakkam wetland was playing host to a small number of Northern shovelers. Small, only in relative terms. Along with three other long-distance migratory ducks —namely, the Northern pintail, garganey and Eurasian teal — the Northern shoveler racks up the numbers that lend the wetland the air of a grand winter hangout. The most striking aspect of this flock — around 20 found on the northern side of the wetland which hugs the Perumbakkam Main Road; and probably an equal numenr of them were found in the inner reaches — that none of the males had brought their striking breeding plumage to the wintering grounds. When the migratory season unspools, and the northern shoveler numbers swell, males carrying over a part of their breeding uniform to these wintering grounds, can be expected. Though these colourful males would be hugely outnumbered by the males in eclipse and wintering plumage, the former would not be lost in the crowd. The white-green-blue-chestnut pattern highlighted with an incredibly attention-grabbing green speculum just cannot elude notice, and the drawn eyes stay locked on the bird a tad longer than on most other wintering ducks in these parts. Ornithologist V Santharam puts forth one possible explanation for the uniformly drab males in the first batch: That these birds (Northern shovelers) are just coming in, with those of them that are not breeding leading the way, as they do not have much to do in their breeding grounds. “The other birds may be coming soon and in that population you may see some males in breeding plumage. Probably, some male birds in breeding plumage are already to be found, may be in Pallikarani; and it will not take them much time to cross over from there to Perumbakkam wetland.” Probably, as these words are being typed out, the influx is happening. “Garganey is usually one of the earliest to arrive — I have seen them land up in Chennai as early as August and the others arrive a little later — anytime from mid to late October, which is around the time the monsoon sets in coinciding with their arrival. If they come in earlier and the tanks are short of food,it does not make any sense.” The ornithologist continues: “Normally, our waterbodies get filled up only in late October after the monsoon has set in — this year is of course an exception — and we start going out looking for ducks in November, and we say that is when they have arrived. They would have arrived much before that in small numbers.” With a good south west monsoon, there may be water in other places and they may not want to travel all the way south. As water recedes, there could be more ducks in teh wetland as they will not have nay other place to go to.  (’Migrant Watch' is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-northern-shoveler-in-the-house/article37262850.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Property fair ends today||Casagrand presents The Hindu PropertyPlus Virtual property fair, launched on October 22, 2021. The most trusted virtual property fair brings to you over 15 prestigious builders in Chennai. Sign up to find your dream home. The Virtual Property Fair will be open till October 31, 2021. Buyers will have an exciting array of options – from budget homes and functional apartment to lavish villas and luxury bungalows – all on a single platform. To register and view the special offers, visit https://bit.ly/THVP21 or scan the QR Code Our partners: Title Sponsor — Casagrand; and the other partners are: Lancor; Hiranandani Communities; SPR City; KG Builders; Sumanth & CO; VGN Homes; Navin’s; Voora; Fomra; Baashyaam; Marutham Group; Deccan; The Nest; Nova.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/property-fair-ends-today/article37262835.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||IAS aspirants take to Twitter, solve problem||Civil service aspirants who regularly park themselves at the Anna Nagar East library took to twitter to try to get a niggling problem about drinking water facility at the space addressed. The result: the issue gets solved thanks to two IAS officers. Those preparing for the civil service examination at this public facility have been unhappy that the bubble top water cans are not enough for the number of people visiting the library. Many a time, students have even purchased water bottles from outside. One of the visitor’s sent a post on Twitter marking M Muruganantham, an IAS of the 2020 batch, who happened to be a regular visitor to the library during his preparation days. The post was signed as “Aspirants of Anna Nagar East Library”. In a Twitter thread, Muruganantham, who is currently assistant collector at Gadchiroli, requested Sharanya Ari, regional deputy commissioner (central), Greater Chennai Corporation to take up the issue. The tweet reads: “Small things are not always small. Got a tweet about water scarcity in Anna Nagar East Library, which was my shelter during my preparation.” Recently, the water issue was addressed with an “unknown sponsor” coming forward to gift users of the library a drinking water facility. Muruganantham tweets thanking Sharanya Ari, “the unknown sponsor”, engineer Ashok Kumar, district library officer and the librarian. According to the library authorities, Suhail AHM sponsored the 50-litre RO water plant for the library probably after word spread about the tweet. R Rajesh, an aspirant, says: “The library draws many students as it has many amenities including WiFi, restroom, parking and a good collection of books. Having safe and continious supply of drinking water was important and as Muruganantham sir addressed students in the library some time ago we thought of bringing it to his notice.” Anna Nagar is a major hub as many UPSC and TNPSC coaching institutes are located in the neighbourhood. Many students find the library premises non-interfering and easy on their pocket too. “More than 100 students prepare for their classes from this space and of late it is so busy that we do not have many senior citizens walking in. We use four to five cans of water a day but sometimes that is not enough for the student community flocking to the place. Not getting water was a concern as many of the students even have lunch on the premises,” says a library staff. Opened in 1983, the library became an important destination for civil service aspirants in the last seven-eight years with many coaching centres around. A new building is coming up behind the facility, says a staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ias-aspirants-take-to-twitter-solve-problem/article37262836.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Database of beneficiaries||Both Thuli and Rasjathan Cosmo Club Foundation (RCCF) follow similar, but nowhere near identical systems to ensure beneficiaries do not take more than they should. It is achieved by maintained a database of users who are recognised via official identification systems. “We have a system where we offer them a beneficiary card that functions like a credit card. Any underprivileged family that comes in is tied to a barcode using their Aadhar card and ration card. They get to shop only twice in a year. After every six months, we call them to shop. Every six months, we make sure that the cloth requirement for the family is covered,” says Ajith Kumar, one of the three founders of Thuli. How many families are on the list? “So far, almost 37,000 people have visited our stores. Right now, on our “list-to-call-people, apart from the registered people, we have 500 to 600 people as new registrations. However, we are not calling many people — only 10 to 15 people a day as we have to follow the protocols and we do not want to endanger the safety of our stores people. We are taking things slow,” notes Ajith. On the process being followed by RCCF at its Smile stores, its managing trustee Suresh Gundecha notes: “We have the beneficiary’s Aadhar card number and mobile number fed i nto the computer and the software would block any beneficiary who is trying to purchase before a month has elapsed since the last purchase.” Suresh points that “we have collected three lakh peices of clothes, and through Smile stores, we channeled 1.5 lakh pieces. The rest were distributed to various institutions free of cost.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/database-of-beneficiaries/article37262846.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||18 bags and boxes of kindness and counting||A community aged around two as on date is akin to a corporate house with half its members onboarded during the pandemic. There could not have been enough “water-cooler conversations” to shape a helpful “team culture”. Residents of Trellis South, a gated community on Arcot Road in Vadapalani, has torn this assumption apart driving coach and horses through it, and one may add, transporting “bags of clothes” to the needy in the process. For a community that has spent much of its life behind closed doors, sheltering in place and following COVID-19 SOPs, its members have been hugely impressive as they go about promoting a cause with the synchonicity of rhythmic group-gymansts. When one resident of this two-year-old community suggested that they spice up Deepavali with some good, old-fashioned charity — cloth collection — the community rallied around the thought. As on Friday morning, the community had amassed 18 bags with the contents reading as: New or almost new clothes; old clothes; and three, kid’s toys and stationery items. The initiative which got under way on October 24 would run its course at 12 noon on October 31, when the collected clothes would be on the way to three organisations known for distribution and repurposing of old clothes for the underprivileged through thrift stores or for free — Thuli, Little Drops and Banyan. Ravi Swaminathan, “onboarded” into the gated community only in January 2021, initatied this idea among his neighbours, even carefully flipping through the track records of organisations engaged in cloth distribution before settling on the three. With the Trellis South Flat Owners’ Association throwing its weight behind the initiative, Ravi wasted no time in attending to the nuts and bolts of it, which included mobilising volunteers. There are 15 volunteers who shoulder responsibilities of the drive. Ravi points out that the entire community is driving the initiative. Here is an illustration. Separate boxes were assigned for the three categories. Two days into the drive, the generosity overflowed and the box for old clothes could not contain it. “That box had to be replaced with a barrel, which the association president provided,” recalls Ravi, adding that in the days that followed, the continuing generosity necessitated the use of huge bags. On Friday, the collection weighed at 18 capacious bags. At the time of this article going to print, an assemby of volunteers attended to the work of sorting out the clothes, weeding out those that would not do much for the dignity of the receiver. “A smiliar exercise was carried out on Wednesday (October 27).” Next week, after the three organisations have received their respective consignments, the volunteers are slated for a visit to each of them. Ravi reveals that this exercise is planned for the benefit of the residents who donated these clothes — to give them a picture of how their gesture is making a difference. Asked whether the Trellis South drive would accept clothes donated by people outside the community, Ravi says: “We are keeping it internal as mobilising resources is a challenge. Relatives of Trellis South residents who live elsewhere are also donating clothes, and the volunteer-resources are just sufficient to meet the overall workload.” To reiterate a point, for a young community many of whose members have not met their neighbours in any meaningful in-person gatherings, the team-work is remarkable. Interestingly, Ravi is a management professional who occupied leadership positions for two deacades and is currently managing director for the India operations of a Japanese multi-national company. One may assume that he bringing to the drive principles governing effective remote working.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/18-bags-and-boxes-of-kindness-and-counting/article37262824.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Cemeteries make a precautionary move||A few cemeteries in Chennai will keep their gates closed on November 2, observed as All Souls Day by Christians and a day when many pay homage to the dead. As a precautionary measure against the spread of COVID-19, Greater Chennai Corporation has been asking churches to discourage people from visiting the graves of the dead. Father Y Bosco, administrator of St Mary’s Cemetery at Mandaveli, says as per instructions from GCC officials they plan to keep the gates locked and put up a ‘no entry’ board. It would however open in case any burial has to be performed on November 2. “Families can pay a visit to the cemetery any other day,” says Fr. Bosco, adding that the customary mass performed by priests at the cemetery will not take place. To inform people about this order, Father Bosco says most churches will be making the announcement at its Sunday service. Last year, GCC issued a release requesting people to avoid visiting the cemeteries on November 2. The Madras Cemeteries Board Trust had kept the gates of Kilpauk and Kasimedu cemeteries, which are under its control, shut. This year, Kilpauk cemetery is yet to take a call on whether it will keep its gates open or shut, but it has decided that there will be no celebration whatsoever. It is also discouraging people from coming to the place on November 2. “Usually we have the building decorated with lights but this time there is going to be no mass and blessing of graves,” says S Bosco Alangar Raj, secretary of the Madras Cemeteries Board Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cemeteries-make-a-precautionary-move/article37262829.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Guess-the-price event at NAC store in Mylapore||As part of the Deepavali celebrations, NAC Jewellers is inviting shoppers to participate in a “guess-the-price” event. A shopper, who comes close to guessing the price of a diamond necklace set stands to receive the set for free, says a press release. Apart from shopping incentives, there is an offer on gold exchange this season. Those who purchases Rs. 15,000 and above on gold, silver, diamond and platinum jewellery would be eligible for free gold coins. The offer is valid till November 7. Shoppers who exchange their old gold at the store stand to receive Rs. 500 extra for every sovereign, subject to terms and conditions. The company has also launched a new purchase plan with benefits like joining gifts for customers, zero wastage and the opportunity to avail flexible instalments, added the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/guess-the-price-event-at-nac-store-in-mylapore/article37262843.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Festival treats||R.Y.A. Metro Trust and Chennai Food Bank will be celebrating Deepavali with children and elders from various orphanages and old age homes. On October 31, volunteers will distribute sweets and a gift hamper to residents of AVVAI Home and Orphanage; I S P D Orthopaedic Centre; Adhi Parasakthi Kuzhandhaigal Kalvi Arakattalai; Thakkar Bapa Vidyalaya; Ramakrishna Mission; and Anandam Old Age Home. In a press release, the organisers have thanked the support of donors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/festival-treats/article37262830.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Deepavali celebrations for children from 20 orphanages today||A festival can bring a heartache when there is no family to celebrate it with. Two-hundred-and-twenty-five children from orphanages will be spared that pain this Deepavali, thanks to the 24th edition of Ananda Deepavali. Being organised by Udhavum Ullangal since 1998, Ananda Deepavali ensures the beneficiaries largely have what they would have had for Deepavali, with a family of their own — “custom-fit dresses, sumptuous meals, sweets and entertainment”. According to Udhavum Ullangal, a Nandanam-based public charitable trust, the one-day festivity will take place this year at Krishnaswamy Kalyanamandapam on South Boag Road on October 31, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/deepavali-celebrations-for-children-from-20-orphanages-today/article37262833.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Festive offer at shop||Estilo, a clothes store, is offering a special discount in view of Deepavali. The collections includes formal and casual wears. The store caters to children, women and men, says a press release. The shop also offers online shopping. It’s website is www. estilofashions.com. The store has outlets in Anna Nagar, Washermenpet and Nelson Manickam Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/festive-offer-at-shop/article37262827.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Find your neighbours at these hunger spots in Chennai||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/find-your-neighbours-at-these-hunger-spots-in-chennai/article37262837.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Creating saviours||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creating-saviours/article37262840.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||On a new stage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-a-new-stage/article37262841.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Masks and a message||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/masks-and-a-message/article37262826.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Observing vigilance awareness week||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/observing-vigilance-awareness-week/article37262832.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Find your neighbours at these hunger spots in Chennai||“Neighbour” is standardly employed in a narrow sense, depicting what breathes immediately next-door. In practice, neighbourliness does not always manifest that way. It may skip a string of houses and find the one at the tail-end of the street; and in rare cases, encompass the whole street. It may ignore the stack of floors in the block and gravitate towards an “alien” block; and in rare cases, touch the whole community. Neighbourliness of the rare and exemplary variety usually plays out during festivals, showing up in how home-made treats are shared even with acquaintances. Arun Kumar, director of the Chennai chapter of No Food Waste (NFW) challenges residents, this festival season, to further extend this neighbourliness to reach out to the “invisible neighbours” found in “hunger spots”, probably near their localities. The festive spread usually outstrips the mouths they are made for and unless given away on time, the surplus food can become wasted food. It helps to know the hunger spots in one’s locality. “On October 27, a resident of Choolai called to inform us that from a function at home, there was excess food that could feed a minimum of ten people. Instead of picking it up, we directed him to a hunger spot near his home. He messaged us that he gave away the food and it was happily accepted,” says Arun Kumar. “Givers are as diffident about approaching those in need to give away food as the needy are in asking for it. However, when residents reach out to those in hunger, more people are served and less food is wasted. It supplements the work being done by NGOs in this area. If residents go to the trouble of reaching the small quantities of excess food they may be left with, to the hungry, it would enable the NGOs to focus on bigger interventions.” Every neighbourhood may have hunger spots in its vicinity, and it takes just wee bit of curiosity and a soupcon of care to unearth them. However, from a pan-Chennai perspective, certain easily accessible and well-hooved spaces are known to be gnawed by with hunger pangs, day in and day out. “At the Koyambedu market, many daily-wagers work and sleep at the same place, getting by on whatever food they get. It is not unusual for them to go without food some days. At the Marina beach, the homeless would spend the night, and many of them would have gone to sleep on an empty stomach. There are pockets in the Madhavaram area that serve as ‘home’ for daily wagers engaged in logistics industry. After work, they may head to some of these places in the locality, park themselves temporarily.” Arun lists a few bridges among the hunger spots. “The Kodambakkam bridge is a shelter for many people, particularly those who have come to the city looking for opportunities in the film industry. Under the bridge at Dr Radhakrishnan Salai near the New Woodlands hotel; under the Padi flyover, Kathipara flyover and the bridge near T Nagar Pothys.” Based on data of where food requirements have come up, NFW Chennai has drawn up hunger-spot charts for Chennai, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur districts, which fall within its sphere of operations. Spaces around railway stations and busy bus stands and markets figure prominently in these lists. From a consolidated list, hunger spots are regularly found near Taramani MRTS station, Keelkatalai bus stand, Perungudi MRTS station, Velachery flyover, Ekaduthangal Metro station, Alandur Metro station, Central Railway station, Koyambedu bus stand, Egmore railway station, Besant Nagar bus stand, Nehru park Metro station, T Nagar bus stand, Tambaram bus stand, Avadi bus stand, Avadi market, Pattabiram market, Thinanur bus stand, Thinanur railway station and Poonamallee bus stand. Listing of certain addresses may be counter-intuituve, as these are spaces one may not readily associate with hunger pands. Panditha Medu is marked on the chart NFW Chennai has prepared for Chengalpattu district. It is a somnolent village on the southern extremities of OMR and one would assume that it is as self-sufficient as villages can be. “During the pandemic many people have become jobless requiring us to head into such places. Apart from pavement dwellers, there are many who lack a steady income. Even in the pre-pandemic times, we have visited such places on OMR as there was a need and we would have sufficient quantities of food to meet it. In the pre-Covid period, there was a time when we would regularly collect anywhere between 200 and 300 excess food portions from Taramani-based Freshworks almost every day. Similarly, from Apollo Cancer Hospital in Taramani, food in excess of what had been served to their employees would be collected. These food parcels would have to be distributed to needy people in that belt, and we keep looking for any hunger spots that we would have missed. That is how we come upon such areas where some people may not be gainfully employed and struggle on account of that. Before the pandemic, we would collect even Swiggy's online cancel orders at their hubs in Anna Nagar, T Nagar, OMR, Chromepet and Vandalur. The delivery boys would hand over the cancellation orders at these hubs, from where our volunteers would collect lunch and dinner. The collected food would be given to people in need in nearby areas.” Arun underlines that every month, we undertake a hunger-spot search together with volunteers. “We try to learn about their earnings, and see if they are making ends meet.” He observes that a group of gypsies have pitched tent in Thalambur and Navallur, and they are frequently in need — but for the exercise to scour the landscape for hunger spots, little would have been known about these groups, let alone their plight. Operating in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Thiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts, Chennai NFW has to pass on periodic reports about food collection and distribution in these sections, to the officials concerned in the Food Safety Department and this factor, Arun points out, has made the organisation a pertinacious keepers of records. “There is a pattern to the reports presented to the food safety Department, with details of collection and distribution. Where we collect the food; what food is collected; its period of validity; where it is being distributed; and the donor's signature. We keep all of this data. From such data on food distributions, pictures of hunger spots emerge organically.  If you want to reach any excess food preparations this festival season directly to the people in “hunger spots” near your locality, you may call NFW Chennai’s helpline at 9962790877/ 7550290877 or 8056142349.   Based on data of where food requirements have come up, No Food Waste — Chennai chapter has drawn up hunger-spot charts for Chennai, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur districts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/find-your-neighbours-at-these-hunger-spots-in-chennai/article37262891.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||MNS launches internship||Each locality is stamped with a biodiversity pincode that can remain uncelebrated; worse, unnoticed; worse still, noticed but wilfully ignored. This pincode is usually lost on residents, as the art of seeing while looking is a scarce commodity anywhere, and scarcer in urbania with its trillion distractions. An internship programme for life sciences students of city colleges being offered by Madras Naturalists’ Society (MNS) hammers away at the hardened crust of incuriosity and unconcern towards neighbours flying and crawling and standing around us. The larger objective of Urban Wilderness Walks (UWW), as the internship is called, is to unobtrusively plants naturalists in Chennai neighbourhoods and create a culture that fuels interest in citizen science. A “naturalist” is a distant figure, light years removed for most people’s everyday reality. What if the naturalist arrives disarmingly as the boy or the girl next door? A UWW highlight is that it primes the internees for a life-long role: Being a lead on nature walks, and mentoring others to be one. While training the first batch towards this end, interesting scenarios came up. One of them interns took students of a government school in Lakshmipuram, Kolathur to watch insects and count medicinal plants in the neighbourhood. As this intern would reveal later, there was a social component to this walk. S Yamini decided on having a walk tailor-made for these students so that they could interact with people outside their peer group and brush up on communication skills. MNS offers this free internship to colleges; and as early adopters, Stella Maris and Women’s Christian College together account for the 27 students that constitute the first batch. At the time of this article going to print, on October 30, these students received their certificates in a valedictory ceremony whose agenda was unscripted and left to nature to handle the job extempore. The ceremony included a nature walk at the Adyar Estuary. What are the skills these students are taking away into their communities? M Yuvan, MNS member, author of A Naturalist’s Journal , and more importantly, a teacher of ecology, handled the four-month-long internship programme. “Each person has to conduct two walks — a general urban wilderness walk and the other is a specific walk based on their interests. Under specific, themed walks, some would do a wetland walk, another an insects walk, a bird walk or an nature journaling session. For each of these walks, I have contact sessions where they experience and learn how to teach and then apply their own context and creativity for the public in their locality,” notes Yuvan. While the general walk could be carried out in their neck of the woods — some inviting the residents of their apartment to it — the specific walks required them to stir from their moorings. The idea is to make them adept at appreciating the ecology their immediate surroundings as well as that of biodiversity-rich spaces. “A methodic curriculum was drawn up with assignments every two weeks for them to be able to study their surroundings and do small projects in their place so that they collect stories and document the wild life, and learn how to use citizen science platforms. Other than that, we have field sessions, where we go and understand the ecology of a place and learn how to communicate and teach different aspects of that,” explains Yuvan. How to invite people to a nature walk was also part of the learning. “They are taught how to create posters and where to promote their walk” says Yuvan. One of the interns who is also an eBirder, Claudia Pinheiro from Avadi invited her old batchmates from school, among others, to a walk around Thandurai lake.  On the other salient features of UWW, Yuvan says: “The interns are taught how to choose a trail. A street may be lined with shops and another may have a stand of ten trees and that would make a good enough trail. Then you have to do a field study of your trail. One of the things that they did was draw up a tree map. Knowledge of vegetation is the foundation for any kind of ecological knowledge. How to identify trees was a session, and in fact, some of them are making a guide for the public. After that, they have to find five people who have lived more than 10 to 20 years in the locality and collect stories of change, especially of trees and waterbodies and how that place has changed from an ecological perspective.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mns-launches-internship/article37262879.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Property fair ends today||Casagrand presents The Hindu PropertyPlus Virtual property fair, launched on October 22, 2021. The most trusted virtual property fair brings to you over 15 prestigious builders in Chennai. Sign up to find your dream home. The Virtual Property Fair will be open till October 31, 2021. Buyers will have an exciting array of options – from budget homes and functional apartment to lavish villas and luxury bungalows – all on a single platform. To register and view the special offers, visit https://bit.ly/THVP21 or scan the QR Code Our partners: Title Sponsor — Casagrand; and the other partners are: Lancor; Hiranandani Communities; SPR City; KG Builders; Sumanth & CO; VGN Homes; Navin’s; Voora; Fomra; Baashyaam; Marutham Group; Deccan; The Nest; Nova.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/property-fair-ends-today/article37262888.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||18 bags and boxes of kindness and counting||A community aged around two as on date is akin to a corporate house with half its members onboarded during the pandemic. There could not have been enough “water-cooler conversations” to shape a helpful “team culture”. Residents of Trellis South, a gated community on Arcot Road in Vadapalani, has torn this assumption apart driving coach and horses through it, and one may add, transporting “bags and boxes of clothes” to the needy in the process. For a community that has spent much of its life behind closed doors, sheltering in place and following COVID-19 SOPs, its members have been hugely impressive as they go about promoting a cause with the synchronicity of rhythmic group-gymnasts. When one resident of this two-year-old community suggested that they spice up Deepavali with some good, old-fashioned charity — cloth collection — the community rallied around the thought.  Continued on Page 2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/18-bags-and-boxes-of-kindness-and-counting/article37262876.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||An impressive nature walk by students at Semmozhi Poonga||Imparting knowledge to a mixed group of participants, some twice your age and some others almost half your age, can put even seasoned teachers in a quandry. Add to that the peculiar situation of the instructor being a student of the subject themselves, the emerging picture does not instill confidence. Despite these factors being arrayed against them, Keertanaa K and Nikkitha Terasa held their own. Recently, these third-year zoology students led a mixed group on a nature walk through the butterfly garden at Semmozhi Poonga on Dr Radhakrishnan Salai in Teynampet, as part of Urban Wilderness Walks, an internship programme offered by Madras Naturalists Society (MNS). The exercise skirted around providing descriptions of flora. It pivoted around teaching the participants how to record their impressions of what they had seen, heard, felt and experienced. The duo had chosen nature journaling for their project, and a rangoon creeper and Hong Kong orchid tree would be the main objects of study for the participants. Their choise was dictated by the fact that this tree and plant offered colourful flowers and invite a lot of impressions. “The Hong Kong orchid tree has bright rose colour flowers, and the rangoon creeper clusters of pink flowers. These two plants in general host a lot of insects like bees, wasps and moths and sometimes, we can see birds like mynahs on them, and these birds would eat the seeds, especially of the Rangoon creeper.” Participants were handed out activity sheets that they had prepared to “engage and guide them through the topic.” Remarks Keertanaa: “The activity sheet had a few pointers on how to do nature journaling by explaining what encompasses the subject.” More importantly, it would draw the participants into a discussion of how the objects of nature impacted them. “It had some questions. For example, it presented the participants with a few pictures of flowers. There is a flower called lobster claw flower, bright red-orangish flower. We had a picture of that flower and we wanted the participants to tell us what it reminded them of. Besides, we asked them to look around the place and identify something that captured their attention in aspects of shape, colour, sound and interaction.”This exercise was essentially attacking the usually unidimensional aspect of nature walks. “Usually, when people go on a nature walk, they usually only look at things. Only the eyes are involved. We wanted them to also listen, smell, touch and feel the texture. Indulging the senses was one of our core points,” explains Keertanaa, adding that nature journalising can be abstract, scientifically-focussed or casual and meant for relaxation. Besides the activity sheets, the participants also journaled in their own notebooks. Going through their impressions, Keertanaa observes: “Some people start off with the big picture and then go into the small details. Some others might start off with a single detail and zoom out and focus on the larger part.” The two had chosen Semmozhi Poonga for the nature journaling walk as it is close to their college, and also almost marks a mid-way point between their respective homes, Keertanaa’s in Adyar and Nikkitha’s in Vadapalani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-impressive-nature-walk-by-students-at-semmozhi-poonga/article37262878.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||18 bags of kindness and counting||Continued from Page 1  As on Friday morning, the community had amassed 18 bags with the contents reading as: New or almost new clothes; old clothes; and three, kid’s toys and stationery items. The initiative which got under way on October 24 would run its course at 12 noon on October 31, when the collected clothes would be on the way to three organisations known for distribution and repurposing of old clothes for the underprivileged through thrift stores or for free — Thuli, Little Drops and Banyan. Ravi Swaminathan, “onboarded” into the gated community only in January 2021, initatied this idea among his neighbours, even carefully flipping through the track records of organisations engaged in cloth distribution before settling on the three. With the Trellis South Flat Owners’ Association throwing its weight behind the initiative, Ravi wasted no time in attending to the nuts and bolts of it, which included mobilising volunteers. There are 15 volunteers who shoulder responsibilities of the drive. Ravi points out that the entire community is driving the initiative. Here is an illustration. Separate boxes were assigned for the three categories. Two days into the drive, the generosity overflowed and the box for old clothes could not contain it. “That box had to be replaced with a barrel, which the association president provided,” recalls Ravi, adding that in the days that followed, the continuing generosity necessitated the use of huge bags. On Friday, the collection weighed at 18 capacious bags and boxes. At the time of this article going to print, an assembly of volunteers attended to the work of sorting out the clothes, weeding out those that would not do much for the dignity of the receiver. “A similar exercise was carried out on Wednesday (October 27).” Next week, after the three organisations have received their respective consignments, the volunteers are slated for a visit to each of them. Ravi reveals that this exercise is planned for the benefit of the residents who donated these clothes — to give them a picture of how their gesture is making a difference. Asked whether the Trellis South drive would accept clothes donated by people outside the community, Ravi says: “We are keeping it internal as mobilising resources is a challenge. Relatives of Trellis South residents who live elsewhere are also donating clothes, and the volunteer-resources are just sufficient to meet the overall workload.” To reiterate a point, for a young community many of whose members have not met their neighbours in any meaningful in-person gatherings, the team-work is remarkable. Interestingly, Ravi is a management professional who has occupied leadership positions for two decades and is currently the managing director for the India operations of a Japanese multi-national company. One may assume that he is bringing to the drive principles governing effective remote functioning and human-resource mobilisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/18-bags-of-kindness-and-counting/article37262881.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Trees await pruning’||The overarching branches of trees along Kamaraj Salai in Ashok Nagar obstruct the light from street lamps. Hence, the road is plunged in darkness and road users find it unsafe. Therefore, it is requested that the Greater Chennai Corporation prunes those trees. A. Jainulabdeen is a resident of Ashok Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/trees-await-pruning/article37262883.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Cemeteries make a precautionary move||A few cemeteries in Chennai will keep their gates closed on November 2, observed as All Souls Day by Christians and a day when many pay homage to the dead. As a precautionary measure against the spread of COVID-19, Greater Chennai Corporation has been asking churches to discourage people from visiting the graves of the dead. Father Y Bosco, administrator of St Mary’s Cemetery at Mandaveli, says as per instructions from GCC officials they plan to keep the gates locked and put up a ‘no entry’ board. It would however open in case any burial has to be performed on November 2. “Families can pay a visit to the cemetery any other day,” says Fr. Bosco, adding that the customary mass performed by priests at the cemetery will not take place. To inform people about this order, Father Bosco says most churches will be making the announcement at its Sunday service. Last year, GCC issued a release requesting people to avoid visiting the cemeteries on November 2. The Madras Cemeteries Board Trust had kept the gates of Kilpauk and Kasimedu cemeteries, which are under its control, shut. This year, Kilpauk cemetery is yet to take a call on whether it will keep its gates open or shut, but it has decided that there will be no celebration whatsoever. It is also discouraging people from coming to the place on November 2. “Usually we have the building decorated with lights but this time there is going to be no mass and blessing of graves,” says S Bosco Alangar Raj, secretary of the Madras Cemeteries Board Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cemeteries-make-a-precautionary-move/article37262890.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||New supermarket at K.K.Nagar||Green Bean Super Market, a shop meant for vegetables and fruits, has opened its third outlet in No.894, Munusamy Salai, K.K. Nagar (opposite YES Bank and near Pondicherry Guest House). Also, kitchenware and other household items are available at the shop. According to a press release, an inaugural offer of 5 % discount is offered for purchase of Rs. .3,000 and above. The shop also provides home delivery service. For details, call 87788 61832.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-supermarket-at-kknagar/article37262895.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Creating saviours||A freak accident at Perambur railway station a few years ago involving a senior citizen disturbed college student Rohith Kumar who was an eye witness. “I removed my shoulder bag and allowed the victim to rest his head on it but I did not know how to help the person. The RPF constable who was around asked me to leave, and I was left with the guilt of not being able to help out,” says Rohith. The incident later encouraged the MCA student to get trained in first-aid delivery from ALERT (Amenity Lifeline Emergency Response Team), a volunteer-driven organisation working in the area of emergency response and care. Today, Rohith is one of ALERT’s active volunteers. In the last two years, he has helped over a dozen accident victims by being a first responder. Last year, near Thirumangalam junction, a middle-aged person injured his backbone after falling off his two-wheeler. “As it was in the middle of COVID-19, ambulances were not available that easily, so I borrowed a bedspread from a few migrant workers living on the side of the road to lift and put the victim in an autorickshaw,” says Rohith. One may not always be carrying a first-aid kit to offer emergency response but never walk away from such situations is one golden lesson Rohith has learnt. “Handkerchief can be used for cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR); and an identity card or a shirt can be used to offer temporary relief to a person who cannot move his hand by dangling it down his neck,” says 25-year-old Rohith, an ALERT Being awardee. ALERT, which celebrated its 15th anniversary recently, is encouraging more laypersons like Rohith Kumar to become a first responder and join its “Golden Army.” Kala Balasundaram, founder, ALERT, says they have trained more than 1.5 lakh people with first aid and emergency response management in the last 15 years. Now they want to go a step ahead by encouraging these trained volunteers to sign up to be a trainer or take up any other focused activity to create awareness. Community responders “Golden Army is a focused group that will create a community of responsible and responsive good Samaritans with knowledge of first-aid and respond during emergencies. We have re-defined, re-purposed and revamped the volunteering process with this initiative. Here volunteers will become the warriors during the critical golden hour,” she says. The goal is to draw Generation Z into this area of volunteering . “We are working towards signing MoU with colleges where students are trained in basis first-aid and from there it is about continuous engagement,” says Kala, who quit her corporate job to work full-time for the non-profit organisation. Over the years, the non-profit has reached out to people from all walks of life including autorickshaws drivers, fishermen and school students through its targetted programmes. Some of the volunteers who have had personal losses have joined them too. Its school curriculum, for instance, is led by Nalini Raveendran, a mother who lost her son in a tragic accident outside Raj Bhavan. Passers-by had not come forward to offer help for 45 minutes. “She put together a 12-15 hour curriculum that is offered for students and teachers ,” says Kala. “Saviour Saturdays” is another programme where first-aid training is offered every Saturday at 3 p.m. virtually. Rural reach During the pandemic, ALERT Bharat was launched where the aim is to empower those not owning a smart phone with knowledge of first-aid. Here the training is offered over the phone in the form of drama and music. “We have launched this pilot programme with the farming community in Dindigul,” she says. Kala says ALERT is also shifting its focus to other districts like Coimbatore, Madurai and Dindigul. “We already have a pan-India reach but our plan is to set up base in these places,” says Kala. Ahead of Deepavali, it is running Be ALERT campaign at government schools to educate youngsters about various degrees of burns and what can be done about them.  qUnsung heroes The organisation is opening nominations for its annual Alert Being Awards that honours the contribution of Good Samaritans who have saved lives. The nominations open on November 8. For details, visithttps://alert.ngo/aba/  Golden Army is a focus group that will create a community of responsible and responsive Good Samaritans with knowledge of first-aid and basic emergency care||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creating-saviours/article37262896.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Dumping site, a nightmare for Iyappanthangal residents||Home is no longer sweet home for residents of Elumalai Salai in Iyappanthangal. They are living close to mounds of garbage. For the past few years, garbage dumping has been steadily increasing. “Earlier, garbage was dumped near a lake in Koluthavachery. Following the Chennai floods in 2015, dumping of municipal waste near the waterbody stopped. Since then the garbage is being dumped on Elumalai Salai,” says resident A Vijayalakshmi. There are a few gated communities, apartments and houses on Elumalai Salai; but residents are forced to live amidst filth and stench. “We need to keep our doors and windows shut all the time. In the summer of 2020, I was down with COVID -19. I isolated myself in a room. But I could not open the windows. Because the garbage was set on fire and dense smoke was invading the entire neighbourhood. This was the experience of many COVID 19 patients who had home-quarantined,” she adds. While garbage is set on fire during summer, residents have to bear with the stench when it rains. Residents also believe that the leachate from the dumping site must be polluting the groundwater in the locality. “Municipal waste of the entire Iyyappanthangal Village Panchayat is being dumped here. We have been taking up this issue with the Panchayat officials and elected representatives for the past five years, but to no avail. Earlier, the authorities concerned said that dumping on Elumalai Salai was just a temporary arrangement. But day by day, the problem is only increasing. We doubt they keep their promise. Our nightmare is that this could become a permanent dumpyard if allowed to continue,” says P. Senthil Kumar, Confederation of Ayyappanthangal Residents Welfare Associations. The neighbourhood is infested with mosquitoes, snakes, and rodents because of the garbage and has the potential for outbreak of diseases. “Of late, we see a small portion of garbage is being removed and shifted to Kundrathur. However, with the recent spells of rain, the removal of garbage is causing unbearable stench,” adds Senthil. Residents’ concern is that they could also spot medical waste. The COVID-19 pandemic has made things worse as large numbers of face masks are also found, say residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/dumping-site-a-nightmare-for-iyappanthangal-residents/article37262898.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Deepavali celebrations for children from 20 orphanages today||A festival can bring a heartache when there is no family to celebrate it with. Two-hundred-and-twenty-five children from orphanages will be spared that pain this Deepavali, thanks to the 24th edition of Ananda Deepavali. Being organised by Udhavum Ullangal since 1998, Ananda Deepavali ensures the beneficiaries largely have what they would have had for Deepavali, with a family of their own — “custom-fit dresses, sumptuous meals, sweets and entertainment”. According to Udhavum Ullangal, a Nandanam-based public charitable trust, the one-day festivity will take place this year at Krishnaswamy Kalyanamandapam on South Boag Road on October 31, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/deepavali-celebrations-for-children-from-20-orphanages-today/article37262884.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Vadapalani hospital celebrates golden jubilee||Vijaya Group of Hospitals, Vadapalani, has kick-started its golden jubilee celebrations. According to a press release, B. Bharathi Reddy, managing trustee launched the 50th anniversary logo in the presence of other trustees — B. Vasundhara, B.L. Aradhana Reddy, B. Nagi Reddy, and CAO B. Viswanatha Reddi. Also present were medical veterans Dr. G. Arjundas, Dr. C. Chinnasamy, and Prof. Raghuram. Vijaya Hospital was founded in 1972 with 50 beds and today it has grown into a 630 healthcare centre, says the release. The hospital offers 24/7 emergency care service. Vijaya Medical & Educational Trust encompasses Vijaya Hospital, Vijaya Health Centre, Vijaya Heart Foundation and Vijaya Eye Foundation. Vijaya Group of Hospitals is planning to start a state-of-the-art organ transplantation centre, IVF facility centre, paediatric cardiac surgical centre, adds the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/vadapalani-hospital-celebrates-golden-jubilee/article37262893.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Festive offer at clothes’ shop||Estilo, a clothes store, is offering a special discount in view of Deepavali. The collections includes formal and casual wears. The store caters to children, women and men, says a press release. The shop also offers online shopping. It’s website is www.estilofashio ns.com The store has outlets in Anna Nagar, Washermenpet and Nelson Manickam Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/festive-offer-at-clothes-shop/article37262885.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Find your neighbours at these hunger spots||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/find-your-neighbours-at-these-hunger-spots/article37262874.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Find your neighbours at these hunger spots in Chennai||“Neighbour” is standardly employed in a narrow sense, depicting what breathes immediately next-door. In practice, neighbourliness does not always manifest that way. It may skip a string of houses and find the one at the tail-end of the street; and in rare cases, encompass the whole street. It may ignore the stack of floors in the block and gravitate towards an “alien” block; and in rare cases, touch the whole community. Neighbourliness of the rare and exemplary variety usually plays out during festivals, showing up in how home-made treats are shared even with acquaintances. Arun Kumar, director of the Chennai chapter of No Food Waste (NFW) challenges residents, this festival season, to further extend this neighbourliness to reach out to the “invisible neighbours” found in “hunger spots”, probably near their localities. The festive spread usually outstrips the mouths they are made for and unless given away on time, the surplus food can become wasted food. It helps to know the hunger spots in one’s locality. “On October 27, a resident of Choolai called to inform us that from a function at home, there was excess food that could feed a minimum of ten people. Instead of picking it up, we directed him to a hunger spot near his home. He messaged us that he gave away the food and it was happily accepted,” says Arun Kumar. “Givers are as diffident about approaching those in need to give away food as the needy are in asking for it. However, when residents reach out to those in hunger, more people are served and less food is wasted. It supplements the work being done by NGOs in this area. If residents go to the trouble of reaching the small quantities of excess food they may be left with, to the hungry, it would enable the NGOs to focus on bigger interventions.” Every neighbourhood may have hunger spots in its vicinity, and it takes just wee bit of curiosity and a soupcon of care to unearth them. However, from a pan-Chennai perspective, certain easily accessible and well-hooved spaces are known to be gnawed by with hunger pangs, day in and day out. “At the Koyambedu market, many daily-wagers work and sleep at the same place, getting by on whatever food they get. It is not unusual for them to go without food some days. At the Marina beach, the homeless would spend the night, and many of them would have gone to sleep on an empty stomach. There are pockets in the Madhavaram area that serve as ‘home’ for daily wagers engaged in logistics industry. After work, they may head to some of these places in the locality, park themselves temporarily.” Arun lists a few bridges among the hunger spots. “The Kodambakkam bridge is a shelter for many people, particularly those who have come to the city looking for opportunities in the film industry. Under the bridge at Dr Radhakrishnan Salai near the New Woodlands hotel; under the Padi flyover, Kathipara flyover and the bridge near T Nagar Pothys.” Based on data of where food requirements have come up, NFW Chennai has drawn up hunger-spot charts for Chennai, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur districts, which fall within its sphere of operations. Spaces around railway stations and busy bus stands and markets figure prominently in these lists. From a consolidated list, hunger spots are regularly found near Taramani MRTS station, Keelkatalai bus stand, Perungudi MRTS station, Velachery flyover, Ekaduthangal Metro station, Alandur Metro station, Central Railway station, Koyambedu bus stand, Egmore railway station, Besant Nagar bus stand, Nehru park Metro station, T Nagar bus stand, Tambaram bus stand, Avadi bus stand, Avadi market, Pattabiram market, Thinanur bus stand, Thinanur railway station and Poonamallee bus stand. Listing of certain addresses may be counter-intuituve, as these are spaces one may not readily associate with hunger pands. Panditha Medu is marked on the chart NFW Chennai has prepared for Chengalpattu district. It is a somnolent village on the southern extremities of OMR and one would assume that it is as self-sufficient as villages can be. “During the pandemic many people have become jobless requiring us to head into such places. Apart from pavement dwellers, there are many who lack a steady income. Even in the pre-pandemic times, we have visited such places on OMR as there was a need and we would have sufficient quantities of food to meet it. In the pre-Covid period, there was a time when we would regularly collect anywhere between 200 and 300 excess food portions from Taramani-based Freshworks almost every day. Similarly, from Apollo Cancer Hospital in Taramani, food in excess of what had been served to their employees would be collected. These food parcels would have to be distributed to needy people in that belt, and we keep looking for any hunger spots that we would have missed. That is how we come upon such areas where some people may not be gainfully employed and struggle on account of that. Before the pandemic, we would collect even Swiggy's online cancel orders at their hubs in Anna Nagar, T Nagar, OMR, Chromepet and Vandalur. The delivery boys would hand over the cancellation orders at these hubs, from where our volunteers would collect lunch and dinner. The collected food would be given to people in need in nearby areas.” Arun underlines that every month, we undertake a hunger-spot search together with volunteers. “We try to learn about their earnings, and see if they are making ends meet.” He observes that a group of gypsies have pitched tent in Thalambur and Navallur, and they are frequently in need — but for the exercise to scour the landscape for hunger spots, little would have been known about these groups, let alone their plight. Operating in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Thiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts, Chennai NFW has to pass on periodic reports about food collection and distribution in these sections, to the officials concerned in the Food Safety Department and this factor, Arun points out, has made the organisation a pertinacious keepers of records. “There is a pattern to the reports presented to the food safety Department, with details of collection and distribution. Where we collect the food; what food is collected; its period of validity; where it is being distributed; and the donor's signature. We keep all of this data. From such data on food distributions, pictures of hunger spots emerge organically.  If you want to reach any excess food preparations this festival season directly to the people in “hunger spots” near your locality, you may call NFW Chennai’s helpline at 9962790877/ 7550290877 or 8056142349.   Based on data of where food requirements have come up, No Food Waste — Chennai chapter has drawn up hunger-spot charts for Chennai, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur districts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/find-your-neighbours-at-these-hunger-spots-in-chennai/article37262860.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||On a new stage||The last few weeks has been hectic for the crew working on the sets of Brahmanda Nayagan - a divine journey with Tirupati Balaji. Camping at a mountain near Chengalpattu, the team has braved tough weather conditions to complete some of the major scenes of this film slated to be released on YouTube in mid-December. This is Mahalakshmi Ladies Drama Group’s second production for cyberspace. Their first, Endaro Mahanubhavulu , was released in February this year and won rave reviews. “We had 3.3 lakh viewers watch the film on our YouTube channel, which was a big boost for us,” says actor and founder Gnanam Balasubramanian, well-known as Bombay Gnanam. For all those uninitiated, this is one of the oldest drama groups in the city with an all-women ensemble. Started in 1989, the group carved a niche for itself on account of its unique methodology. Its shows are not ticketed and is open to all. It does not have a fixed number of actors and any woman, irrespective of age and skill, who wants to try out her acting skills can be part of its productions that are largely focused on social subjects. From 2014, the theatre group broadened its focus to cover spiritual drama. “In pre-COVID days, we would do at least 35 rehearsals before staging a play in any of the sabhas. As our artistes are a floating crowd, a majority being homemakers, it needed such practice and I am glad we were able to bring many women on stage. Some showed their talent through screenplay and direction,” says Gnanam. Homemaker Kamala Easwaran, who has been associated with the theatre group for the last 18 years, says the platform gave wings to the dreams of many women. “I had no experience when I joined the group but learning from an all-women group helped shed inhibitions,” says Kamala, who is in her 70s. As part of the group’s shows she has travelled to Kolkata and Singapore. The pandemic has marked a tough period for the theatre group that has been forced to adapt to new challenges. “Our YouTube channel, launched in 2019, became a platform to connect with theatre lovers across geographies and we started becoming more tech-savvy,” says Bombay Gnanam, who has acted in films and serials. The group made a big shift by including male artistes in its production. “Unlike performing on stage, where there is a gap of 15 to 20 feet from the audience, we noticed that for certain male roles the camera is easily able to identify that it a female who is playing the character. As it did not suit the digital platform, we now have male artistes also playing various roles,” says Gnanam. In Tirupati Balaji, which is about the life story of Lord Balaji, there are 86 characters and a majority are men. The group is also looking for new avenues to raise funds. “At sabhas, we had a collection box for people to donate anything they wished to. Other operational expense like paying for a hall and for visits abroad were taken care of through sponsorship,” says Gnanam. She says that though their artistes are volunteers not expecting any money they have other operational expenses to meet. When do they plan to come back to the stage? “Till April 2022, we are clear we will continue this way after which we will need to take a call,” she says. That is an important decision as prior to the pandemic, their shows at sabhas drew a house full of audience. “We don’t want to take a chance in these times.”  Our YouTube channel, launched in 2019, became a platform to connect with theatre lovers across geographies and we started becoming more tech-savvy Bombay Gnanam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-a-new-stage/article37262864.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The fabric of kindness||The glow of pride and the look of condescension have never done much for charity. When the giver displays either or both of these, the receiver is devalued and dwarfed. When this happens, something intrinsic to charity is violated. It is the unspoken commitment to upholding human dignity, which places the giver and the receiver rightly on an even platform. Through the processes that underpin their cloth distribution programmes, non-profits Thuli and Rajasthan Cosmo Club Foundation (RCCF) in their own ways ensure the receiver is hardly made to feel like one. Thuli’s two stores — more specifically, their location — illustrate it. Both the Adyar and Vadapalani stores are situated in malls, thereby lifting up the profile of the receiver as they head into these stores to collect their once-in-six-months quota of free gently-used clothes. Through its Smile stores in Nungambakkam and Avadi, both established during the pandemic, RCCF sells sparingly used clothes at a flat rate of Rs. 20 apiece. It is small token amount, but what it does for human dignity is out of proportion to its printed value. “The profile of the people buying from these Smile stores is of lower-middle income groups, who can neither ask for donations nor afford expensive, well-made clothes. By allowing them to pay a small amount for it, human dignity is preserved,” says Suresh Gundecha, managing trustee, RCCF. The notional pricing system followed by Thuli gives the beneficiary a sense of shopping for these clothes and having earned them. The system kicks in after the gently-used clothes are sorted out its sorting centre in Adyar, laundered and and set to the stores for display. “Through notional pricing, points are assigned to every cloth. To anybody who comes in with their family we offer around 1500 points worth of voucher. Every family can pick up clothes worth those points for free — clothes, toys and stationery. During the festival season we make sure that everybody dropping into the store gets one pair of new dresses in addition to what they pick up for free. We have not been very successful this year though.” Now, that takes us to how the festival season always offers an opportunity for increased generosity and greater service. The beneficiaries may aspire for clothes that are straight out of the showrooms, never used before. Sparingly used, neatly laundered and ironed clothes may be good for the entire year, but probably not for the festival season. Are not brand-new clothes traditionally a component of festivals? “What we generally do for the festive season starting from Vinayaka Chaturthi to Pongal is that we try to get people to donate new clothes also. Pre-Covid, we would generate posters that we would share on social media and when people go shopping they would also pick up a couple of clothes for Thuli. The IT companies would keep boxes so that people would donate new clothes,” shares Ajith Kumar, one of the three founders of Thuli. Shivaji Prabhakar and Jey Bala are the founders. Actor Vijay Sethupathi is Thuli’s honorary trustee. “Earlier, we had tie-ups with many IT companies and they are not back to work yet. We are not asking anyone anything,” says Ajith, leaving unsaid the fact that the pandemic has been on almost everyone. The IT crowd is missed, particularly during the festive season, when IT companies would donate toys, packing and labelling them neatly provide age-specific usage information. Earlier, before the pandemic, through contact persons and committees at gated communities, Thuli would organise collection drives there. It would work like a well-oiled machine, with the sorting done neatly by the residents themselves. During the pandemic, Ajith says he is hesitant about approaching them, as the Covid-19 protocols would make it a challenge for them to reach out the way the used to before. RCCF is going ahead with its usual plan of parking clothes-collection boxes at gated communities. “There are nearly 400 communities on out list, as all members of our main and affiliate club, and we send out appeals to them through our toll-free number,” says Suresh. “These communities are largely in the northern parts of Chennai, and we have plans to spread out to the OMR region next year. At present, on OMR, we collect clothes from gated communities and individuals on specific requests that come through our toll-free number. We send someone to pick up the collected clothes.” Ajith also hints at an expansion plan for Thuli, which he noted has been hampered by the pandemic. He notes that Thuli is self-funded being supported by three founders and accepts donations only in kind. While Thuli’s service through its stores is three years old, RCCF’s Smile-stores initiative is a little over a year old, with its Smile Store in Nungambakkam having celebrated its first anniversary in September this year. Suresh observes, “RCCF’s cloth distribution has been continuing since 1994, when we would give away old clothes to labourers visiting the construction sites and also reach clothes to those hit by natural calamities. Now, we follow a two assortment system. The gently-used clothes go to the Smile Stores, and the more used ones are given away to the underprivileged.” Thuli can be contacted at 6380306662 and 07550283108; and Rajasthan Cosmo Club Foundation at 9962299622.  Earlier, we had tie-ups with many IT companies and they are not back to work yet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-fabric-of-kindness/article37262862.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||MNS comes up with internship on nature||Each locality is stamped with a biodiversity pincode that can remain uncelebrated; worse, unnoticed; worse still, noticed but wilfully ignored. This pincode is usually lost on residents, as the art of seeing while looking is a scarce commodity anywhere, and scarcer in urbania with its trillion distractions. An internship programme for life sciences students of city colleges being offered by Madras Naturalists’ Society (MNS) hammers away at the hardened crust of incuriosity and unconcern towards neighbours flying and crawling and standing around us. The larger objective of Urban Wilderness Walks (UWW), as the internship is called, is to unobtrusively plants naturalists in Chennai neighbourhoods and create a culture that fuels interest in citizen science. A “naturalist” is a distant figure, light years removed for most people’s everyday reality. What if the naturalist arrives disarmingly as the boy or the girl next door? A UWW highlight is that it primes the internees for a life-long role: Being a lead on nature walks, and mentoring others to be one. While training the first batch towards this end, interesting scenarios came up. One of them interns took students of a government school in Lakshmipuram, Kolathur to watch insects and count medicinal plants in the neighbourhood. As this intern would reveal later, there was a social component to this walk. S Yamini decided on having a walk tailor-made for these students so that they could interact with people outside their peer group and brush up on communication skills. MNS offers this free internship to colleges; and as early adopters, Stella Maris and Women’s Christian College together account for the 27 students that constitute the first batch. At the time of this article going to print, on October 30, these students received their certificates in a valedictory ceremony whose agenda was unscripted and left to nature to handle the job extempore. The ceremony included a nature walk at the Adyar Estuary. What are the skills these students are taking away into their communities? M Yuvan, MNS member, author of A Naturalist’s Journal , and more importantly, a teacher of ecology, handled the four-month-long internship programme. “Each person has to conduct two walks — a general urban wilderness walk and the other is a specific walk based on their interests. Under specific, themed walks, some would do a wetland walk, another an insects walk, a bird walk or an nature journaling session. For each of these walks, I have contact sessions where they experience and learn how to teach and then apply their own context and creativity for the public in their locality,” notes Yuvan. While the general walk could be carried out in their neck of the woods — some inviting the residents of their apartment to it — the specific walks required them to stir from their moorings. The idea is to make them adept at appreciating the ecology their immediate surroundings as well as that of biodiversity-rich spaces. “A methodic curriculum was drawn up with assignments every two weeks for them to be able to study their surroundings and do small projects in their place so that they collect stories and document the wild life, and learn how to use citizen science platforms. Other than that, we have field sessions, where we go and understand the ecology of a place and learn how to communicate and teach different aspects of that,” explains Yuvan. How to invite people to a nature walk was also part of the learning. “They are taught how to create posters and where to promote their walk” says Yuvan. One of the interns who is also an eBirder, Claudia Pinheiro from Avadi invited her old batchmates from school, among others, to a walk around Thandurai lake.  On the other salient features of UWW, Yuvan says: “The interns are taught how to choose a trail. A street may be lined with shops and another may have a stand of ten trees and that would make a good enough trail. Then you have to do a field study of your trail. One of the things that they did was draw up a tree map. Knowledge of vegetation is the foundation for any kind of ecological knowledge. How to identify trees was a session, and in fact, some of them are making a guide for the public. After that, they have to find five people who have lived more than 10 to 20 years in the locality and collect stories of change, especially of trees and waterbodies and how that place has changed from an ecological perspective.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mns-comes-up-with-internship-on-nature/article37262863.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Battered roads up against the monsoon||With the Northeast monsoon having arrived, Chitlapakkam residents are in panic mode as some roads in the neighbourhood have not been relaid. Three streets in Anna Nagar, West Chitlapakkam, Thirumurugan Salai, Ramanar Street and Maruthupandiyar Street were dug up in March 2020 to construct a drain network, which was completed in six months. But the roads have not been relaid, say residents. Negotiating these stretches is proving to be a nightmarish experience. The “cut and cover” drain network was undertaken by the Water Resources Department, a wing of Public Works Department, to drain excess rainwater from Chitlapakkam Eri lake to Sembakkam lake through a man-made regulator via Thirumurugan Salai, Ramanar Street and Maruthupandiyar Street. At the intersection of Maruthupandiyar Street and Babu Street, the drain network is connected to another network, which drains excess rainwater from Selaiyur lake to Sembakkam lake. P. Viswanathan, convener, Chitlapakkam Residents’ Welfare Associations’ Co-ordination Committee, says, “The width of the stretches has reduced from 30 to 10 feet. The debris left on both sides of the road makes it difficult for residents to walk and park their vehicles.” R. Srinivasan, a senior citizen and a resident of Thirumurugan Salai, has constructed a small slope outside the gate of his home and spread grey concrete M-sand to take his vehicle. At the intersection of Thirumurugan Salai and Ramanar Street, the culvert of the stormwater drain network got damaged while constructing the drain network. As a result, water flow is hindered, points Viswanathan. “Motorists must be careful while negotiating the intersection of Maruthupandiyar Street and Babu Street. Further, heavy vehicles should be prohibited from taking left and right turns at the intersection till the road laying works are completed,” says Viswanathan, adding that he has taken up the issue with Water Resources Department and Chitlapakkam Selection Grade Town Panchayat several times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/battered-roads-up-against-the-monsoon/article37262855.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Database of beneficiaries||Both Thuli and Rasjathan Cosmo Club Foundation (RCCF) follow similar, but nowhere near identical systems to ensure beneficiaries do not take more than they should. It is achieved by maintained a database of users who are recognised via official identification systems. “We have a system where we offer them a beneficiary card that functions like a credit card. Any underprivileged family that comes in is tied to a barcode using their Aadhar card and ration card. They get to shop only twice in a year. After every six months, we call them to shop. Every six months, we make sure that the cloth requirement for the family is covered,” says Ajith Kumar, one of the three founders of Thuli. How many families are on the list? “So far, almost 37,000 people have visited our stores. Right now, on our “list-to-call-people, apart from the registered people, we have 500 to 600 people as new registrations. However, we are not calling many people — only 10 to 15 people a day as we have to follow the protocols and we do not want to endanger the safety of our stores people. We are taking things slow,” notes Ajith. On the process being followed by RCCF at its Smile stores, its managing trustee Suresh Gundecha notes: “We have the beneficiary’s Aadhar card number and mobile number fed i nto the computer and the software would block any beneficiary who is trying to purchase before a month has elapsed since the last purchase.” Suresh points that “we have collected three lakh peices of clothes, and through Smile stores, we channeled 1.5 lakh pieces. The rest were distributed to various institutions free of cost.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/database-of-beneficiaries/article37262861.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Garbage clearance is erratic at Muthulakshmi Nagar’||With garbage not being cleared on a daily basis at Muthulakshmi Nagar in Chitlapakkam, waste pile-ups and overflowing garbage bins have become an unseemly feature of the locality. Further, with intermittent rains, the roads have become messy. Chitlapakkam Muthulakshmi Nagar Residents Welfare Association has erected banners requesting people not to dump garbage on roads. Every day, we have to call the Chitlapakkam Panchayat officials request them that arrangements be made for regular clearnce of garbage. But most of the time, Panchayat officials cite manpower shortage for not clearing the garbage every day. Further, the branches of trees pruned by the Tangedco also lie on the road margins. We also request the Panchayat to carry out fogging operations to prevent mosquito breeding. L Sundararaman is the president of Chitlapakkam Muthulakshmi Nagar Residents Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/garbage-clearance-is-erratic-at-muthulakshmi-nagar/article37262866.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Provide us with a park’||Residents of MES Road Ganapathypuram, East Tambaram want the Tambaram Municipality to develop a park in the locality. As there is no park in the vicinity, residents either go to Gandhi Park, East Tambaram or Muthurangam Park, West Tambaram. These parks have a good number of play equipment for children and a spacious walkers’ pathway. “The parks are not located close so senior citizens don’t prefer to travel such a distance,” says Arun Kumar Bhattacharjee, a resident of MES Road Ganapathypuram. He says residents were using MES Road for their morning and evening walks, but following an increase in the number of accidents this number has come down. “We request the Tambaram Municipality and the Chengalpattu District Collectorate to open a park along with walkers’ track and play equipment for children.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/provide-us-with-a-park/article37262871.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Raw sewage is being let out of Nanmangalam treatment plant’||On and off, raw sewage is being let out on to the roads from the sewage treatment plant at Kakkan Street in Arul Murugan Nandavanam Nagar in Nangmangalam. We learnt from reliable sources that whenever there is a breakdown, sewage is being let out from the plant. Hence, it is evident that the treatment plant is wanting in maintenance. In spite of repeated complaints to the Pallavaram Municipality, redemptive action has not been taken. Sewage stagnates in low-lying areas and on roads that are ridden with potholes. The situation gets worse during rainy season. T. Thinagaran is the president of Arul Murugan Nandavanam Nagar Development & Welfare Association in Nanmangalam Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/raw-sewage-is-being-let-out-of-nanmangalam-treatment-plant/article37262873.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Craft fair at Madipakkam||A sale of handloom and handicraft products is on at Chellammal Sakthi Mahal in Plot No.3/4, Medavakkam Main Road, in Madipakkam. According to a press release, saris, dress materials, paintings, bedsheets, jewellery, bags, and wooden furniture are part of the collection. A discount ranging from 10 to 20 per cent is offered. The sale ends on November 4. Time: From 10 a.m. to 9.30 p.m. For details, call 99404 22426 / 91764 36272.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/craft-fair-at-madipakkam/article37262867.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We want name-boards in our colony’||Visitors to Sreedharan Street at Madipakkam are having difficulty locating their streets as there are no name boards. We request the department to look into this at the earliest. G. Vijay is a resident of Madipakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/we-want-name-boards-in-our-colony/article37262872.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Property fair ends today||Casagrand presents The Hindu PropertyPlus Virtual property fair, launched on October 22, 2021. The most trusted virtual property fair brings to you over 15 prestigious builders in Chennai. Sign up to find your dream home. The Virtual Property Fair will be open till October 31, 2021. Buyers will have an exciting array of options – from budget homes and functional apartment to lavish villas and luxury bungalows – all on a single platform. To register and view the special offers, visit https://bit.ly/THVP21 or scan the QR Code Our partners: Title Sponsor — Casagrand; and the other partners are: Lancor; Hiranandani Communities; SPR City; KG Builders; Sumanth & CO; VGN Homes; Navin’s; Voora; Fomra; Baashyaam; Marutham Group; Deccan; The Nest; Nova.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/property-fair-ends-today/article37262869.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A resident’s fight to set up a PHC in Mudichur||Residents of Mudichur want the State Health and Family Welfare Department to establish a Primary Health Centre (PHC) in the neighbourhood. Currently, the closest PHC is at Peerkankaranai, approximately seven kilometres from the region, which is not enough to cater to the over 21,000 people in the region. An ‘Amma Mini Clinic’ on the premises of Mudichur Village Panchayat office does not offer many facilities like that of a PHC, say residents. M. R. Sai Sampath Kumar, social activist and founder of Joint Hands of India, says, “There is a 32 cent plot at Vandimattai belonging to Mudichur Village Panchayat. The land is encroached upon. Steps were taken to remove the encroachments in 2018 and 2019, but they are back. A PHC could come up in this space.” On August 31, Sampath Kumar submitted a petition to the Deputy Tashildar, Tambaram Sanatorium, under Right to Information Act (RTI) to gather details about the encroachers and remove them. As per the norms of the RTI Act, the Public Information Officer should respond to the petition within 30 days. “As there was no reply from the PIO for more than 50 days, I was forced to file a First Appeal RTI addressed to Tashildar, Tambaram Sanatorium,” he says.  Sampath Kumar has submitted a petition to the Deputy Director, Chengalpattu Primary Health Centre regarding availability of land and requested that talks be initiated with the Revenue Inspector, Tambaram Taluk to establish a PHC on the land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-residents-fight-to-set-up-a-phc-in-mudichur/article37262856.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||MNS comes up with internship on nature||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mns-comes-up-with-internship-on-nature/article37262852.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Find your neighbours at these hunger spots||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/find-your-neighbours-at-these-hunger-spots/article37262857.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The fabric of kindness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-fabric-of-kindness/article37262859.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘You can’t save the world, but you must record it’||Fake news, post-truth, alternative news, the infodemic and, above all, the Orwellian hand of the state in shaping narratives and, thus, our lived realities — Amitava Kumar’s new novel, A Time Outside This Time , has it all. It is a cogitation on the present moment, with the narrator, an author called Satya, inspired to write a novel “based on an untrue story.” Author and journalist Amitava Kumar has been analysing the state of the world in all his works, most trenchantly in the award-winning Husband of a Fanatic and A Foreigner Carrying in the Crook of His Arm a Tiny Bomb: A Writer’s Report on the Global War on Terror. He reflects on the role of reporting and the relevance of fiction in this interview. Edited excerpts: Right now, you’re at a writer’s residency, just like your novel’s narrator. How much of the book is fiction and how much non-fiction? Writer Geoff Dyer once told The Guardian , “I like writing stuff that is only an inch from life, but all of the art is in that inch.” I started writing as a journalist, and the voice of the reporter, or the voice of reportage, feels real to me. And so, I work hard while writing even what is fictional to give it a reportorial texture. My narrators always seem to be reporting — from what they can see outside their window to the kind of life they lead. It is exciting to blur the line between fiction and non-fiction. For this particular work, this meditation on post-truth, why did you decide to go with fiction rather than non-fiction? It’s exciting to push the boundaries of the novel. I was reading a novel called Crudo by Olivia Laing that starts with a wedding, where someone picks up the phone and says, “Oh, Steve Bannon has resigned.” I liked that — not only the interruption of the wedding but also of the novel, of the fiction it weaves, by news from the real world. And I thought of a man sitting down to a breakfast of idli and sambar, for instance, and saying, “They lynched another man yesterday.” It’s a good way to let the world into our pages of fiction. What’s the role of slow news in all this? How can it help us gain perspective? This novel asks the question, “What is the role of fiction when we are surrounded by this fiction called fake news?” Certain world leaders are spouting lies everyday that are then amplified by their followers. One thing that fiction can do is not let a new piece of news swallow yesterday’s news. It can be a record of news. That way, a novel becomes an archive of the current moment, so the current moment doesn’t die on us with every succeeding headline. I was also thinking, “If I surround news with meditations on the news, perhaps I can slow it down for my readers.” That was the idea: to make the consumption of the everyday a more reflective and critical act. Academic psychology features prominently in your book. I keep noting down interesting psychology experiments that come to my attention. My narrator is happily married to a behavioural psychologist: psychology tries to provide scientific and rational explanations for certain apparently inexplicable human behaviour. Why, for example, does Celine Dion play on loop in Walmart? Because if you are listening to a sad song and you’re sad, you want to recover from your sadness and buy things to make yourself happy. My narrator loves his wife, but is a little bit sceptical of such neat narratives, because he thinks narratives are sometimes more complicated, more individual, and they defy the symmetries of science. I wanted to tell readers that they should be sceptical not only of the fictions propagated by the state but also of what is presented as science. Our reception of science also is often ideological or political — I wanted to underline that. What is the role of journalists and journalism in the post-truth era? Journalists should have courage. There are some media houses that are still able to stand up to power but we know what that costs. Some two days before she died, Gauri Lankesh tweeted that she wished the best for journalists fighting fake news. With whatever strength we have, we should keep that spirit of dissent alive. And what can we do as citizens, as consumers of news? You can’t save the world, but you must record it. Everyone, every citizen, should keep a record of what happened today. My book starts with the narrator reading about Obama’s daughter saying she liked what Hemingway said: “Write the truest sentence you know.” My narrator flips it and thinks he’ll write the most revealing lie. I was thinking of a video of a Muslim man from Delhi, who had been wrongly jailed for 17 months, saying, “Please hang me rather than giving me bail, because you have paralysed me, made me worthless. I would only be a burden to my family.” That is the kind of mann ki baat I want to listen to, and I want to record his words. This is very much a work of this moment in time — the zeitgeist, the pandemic, all of it. How do you think the novel will be read a few years down the line? I always wanted to write a novel that would be like blood on a bandage. It would have a sense of immediacy, a certain clear sense of having a wound underneath. I started the novel in the days leading to the first anniversary of Mohammed Akhlaq’s death. It had affected me. I wrote, “A lot of life is left in a man being killed.” Those were my first words. I was trying to imagine what he would remember as life ebbed out of him. I was trying to extend his life in a way. That is what the novel is — a response to the current moment. In future, I hope it is read as a document of the times, in the same way you might read a novel to find out what happened during the plague in London. But things like love and death, greed and power are eternal — when you read how they played out in the past, you discover something about the present too. The novel will be relevant later too, I hope.  I started writing as a journalist, and the voice of the reporter, or the voice of reportage, feels real to me. And so, I work hard while writing even what is fictional to give it a reportorial texture||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/you-cant-save-the-world-but-you-must-record-it/article37262913.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||An economist and a humanist||We know Amartya Sen as the winner of the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 1998 besides being a philosopher who has focused his work on the idea of justice. Sen’s memoir, Home in the World is a partial autobiography that ends in 1963 with his return to Delhi following nearly a decade living abroad — mostly in Cambridge in the U.K. — to pursue postgraduate, doctoral research and teaching. Values of diversity Sen’s work on the capabilities approach to human welfare and his emphasis on public health care and education being key to development is all the more important today as India (and the world) recovers slowly from its most severe public health crisis in decades. India is also going through a phase where democratic institution-building, dissent and constitutional values of pluralism and diversity are under threat. Reading Sen’s journey in the firming up of his cherished values should encourage those who want to re-dedicate themselves to democratic and welfare projects in present-day India. In the telling of the first 30 years of his life, which is abound with the people he grew up around, events that shaped his Weltanschauung and later his professional pursuits, Sen brings out the flowering of an academic intellectual we know. Born in 1933, Amartya Sen’s early years marked a tumultuous period for not just his native India but also the world in general. The poet and fellow Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore gave him his name, and he spent much of his early educational years in Tagore’s Santiniketan that exposed him to unconventional schooling methods and also shaped his humane, probing and eclectic nature. Sen writes evocatively about several of his relatives and many lines are devoted to his maternal grandfather Kshiti Mohan Sen, a Sanskrit scholar and teacher at Santiniketan, who was well versed in the scriptures and classical religious writings but was also a liberal non-conformist who asserted that the liberality flowed from reading the scriptures themselves. Kshiti Mohan’s influence also kindled Amartya Sen’s own atheistic worldview that he drew from the Lokayata tradition of ancient Hindu philosophy. Welfare economics The famine in Bengal in 1943 marks a seminal moment in Sen’s early years. The unfolding of a man-made disaster where lakhs of people died of hunger due to the skyrocketing of food prices in the World War II period and Sen’s exposure to the fragility of life in his home province convinces him to probe questions about how to tackle hunger, poverty and inequality and sows the seeds of his interest in “welfare economics”. This, combined with the cultural worldview that he honed at Santiniketan, allowed him to construct a progressive outlook that went beyond the narrow sequestration of identities or ideologies. This facet is brought out in his explanation of the Partition of the country (and Bengal) whose consequence is his family’s leaving Dhaka for good. Sen’s life-long work as an economist and philosopher has drawn substantially from different strands of political, cultural and social movements occurring around him. Even as he develops a political understanding that appreciates the Marxist current and its sympathy for the downtrodden, helped also from interactions with relatives who include a Congress socialist and a communist revolutionary, he firmly rejects authoritarianism and questions leftist fellow travellers who refused to see the degeneration of communism in the Soviet Union into Stalinist repression. His foray into collegiate studies in economics and mathematics were much in line with his early proclivities in school but his choice of academic studies also developed from his student activism and intellectual discussions in addas at Coffee House in Calcutta’s College Street in particular. While his concerns for equity and social commiseration, honed at Santiniketan, brought him closer to the Left as a student, his firm convictions about democracy and the pluralism inherent in its procedural frameworks made it difficult for him to identify entirely with left-wing activism that sought to scoff at liberalism, dissent and political opposition. His later foray into social choice theory is also kindled after reading Kenneth Arrow’s impossibility theorem during his college days. Arrow argued that only a dictatorial social choice mechanism can yield social decisions when “certain elementary requirements of apparently reasonable procedures have to be satisfied”. Sen was determined to scrutinise these procedures to negate the idea that it will not permit a non-dictatorial social choice. While he could not immediately embark upon social choice theory, his choice of academic work and the institution to pursue it — Cambridge — drew from his perceived closeness of thinking with economists such as Pierro Sraffa and Maurice Dobb. Both Sraffa and Dobb had persuasions close to the Left but were not limited to a sectarian outlook as Sen describes in the chapters on his learning experiences at Cambridge. Charming humility There is a charming humility that pervades the book, even in the telling of the difficult period when he had to undergo treatment for oral cancer when he was only 18, or in his achievements — a prestigious Prize Fellowship, early lectureship and a doctoral degree that make them almost seem easy to accomplish but which certainly are not. It is easy to see the influence of Tagore’s Ghare Baire ( The Home and the World ) in choosing the title of the book. After all, Amartya Sen is at home in a diverse, plural world traversing from Santiniketan to Calcutta to Cambridge and to Delhi, constantly enriching his views through persuasion, reasoning and understanding across time and geographical boundaries.  Home in the World: A Memoir Amartya Sen Allen Lane/PRH  Rs. 899||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/an-economist-and-a-humanist/article37262929.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A ringside view of India’s path to tax reforms and liberalisation||When economist Shankar Acharya returned to India in 1982, after studying and working abroad for 23 years, he had a job waiting for him in the newly set up National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP) in Delhi. He was to head a study commissioned by the Finance Ministry on the dimensions of India’s black money problem. He and his team submitted the report in early 1985 and it made quite a splash. Among other things it was sceptical about demonetisation and voluntary disclosure schemes to deal with the problem. Anecdotes like this are strewn all over An Economist at Home and Abroad.  Several economists including Manmohan Singh, Bimal Jalan, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, Rakesh Mohan, who would make major contributions to the country’s economic and monetary policies, chose to return to India in the 1980s. All of them went to the best universities in the U.K. and the U.S. and had settled down to jobs in the World Bank and similar international institutions. All of them wanted to do their bit for their country. Long stint Acharya was among those who came back. He ended up as the longest serving economic adviser to the Government of India, a member of the 12th Finance Commission and many other committees and panels. He was also Chairman of Kotak Mahindra Bank for 12 years. He gives us glimpses into the resistance for tax reforms during his years with the government. Finance Minister V.P. Singh’s 1985 Budget speech had promised a long-term fiscal policy (LTFP) and Acharya was asked to be the principal ‘draft animal’ in consultation with senior officials in revenue and expenditure. This was the Budget which introduced MODVAT (modified value added tax), which was a phased introduction of VAT (value added tax) principles. Says Acharya: “An aside: During the late stages of preparation of the LTFP, Bimal (Jalan) walked into my room one day and asked in effect, ‘Shankar can we drop the MODVAT stuff from the document?’ Apparently, he was getting a lot of resistance from certain quarters. I protested vigorously saying it was the jewel in the crown of our tax policy intentions. He did not pursue the matter.” Friends at Oxford The first part of the book is about his growing up years. Born in Calcutta in 1945, Acharya and his brother led a peripatetic life both in India and abroad, thanks to a civil servant diplomat father. Excelling in academics, he went to Oxford and then to Harvard from where he got his Ph.D. Acharya then pursued a career in the World Bank before returning to India. At Oxford, his closest female friends were Aung San Suu Kyi and Sunetra Bandaranaike. They are still his good friends. Till the recent crisis in Myanmar, he had been invited by Suu Kyi to help to get the country’s economy to move forward on several occasions. As chief economic adviser, his views on the prime ministers he has worked with are interesting. “Manmohan Singh was a great pleasure to work with. In meetings, he listened carefully, rarely raised his voice, but when he spoke his wisdom and substance shone through.” Then, “Compared to the rather inscrutable [Narasimha] Rao, [Atal Bihari] Vajpayee generally conveyed a more friendly and avuncular demeanour.” Acharya has been writing a column for many years and the last few chapters are drawn from his columns. This book is a product of the lockdown. It is a very readable, rather gentle book which effortlessly mixes the personal, intellectual and professional lives of the author. He does not badmouth anybody or reveal any secrets. It ends on a sombre note. Acharya has his doubts about whether the increasing non-inclusive nature of polity will be conducive to long-term growth.  The reviewer is a journalist and author.  An Economist at Home and Abroad: A Personal Journey Shankar Acharya HarperCollins  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-ringside-view-of-indias-path-to-tax-reforms-and-liberalisation/article37262927.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On October 31, 1941, after 14 years of work, this monument was completed. The idea of creating a sculpture in the Black Hills in South Dakota was dreamed up in 1923 by a historian to find a way to attract tourists to the state. Sculptor Gutzon Borglum, a friend of Auguste Rodin, wanted to carve a mountain and he chose to immortalise four people who made significant contributions to the growth of the United States. How better do we know this monument that was earlier known by the locals as ‘The Six Grandfathers’? 2 This find when unearthed in 1974 was one of the most amazing archaeological discoveries of all time. It was a huge cache of clay statues near the tomb of the first Emperor of China. who had died in 210 BC. Meant to protect him in the afterlife, life-size sculptures of 8,000 soldiers, 670 horses and 130 chariots were found standing intact. What is the name given to this enormous army due to the material they are made of? 3 Maserati is a manufacturer of luxury cars based in Italy whose logo is a trident. This was taken from a beautiful sculpture of the Roman god of the sea atop a fountain in the city of Bolgna. It was quite appropriate as the god himself represented strength and vigour, and the fountain an icon of the company’s home town. Which god is this who also gives his name to one of our celestial neighbours? 4 This iconic statue stands 17 feet tall and weighs six tonnes. Originally begun by sculptor Agostino di Duccio on a single block of marble in 1464, he stopped work on it after two years. Twenty-five years later, a 26-year-old prodigy got started on it, and the finished product became one of the many highlights of his career. Historians speculate that at one time the statue was covered in gold, and Queen Victoria was gifted a copy with a fig leaf, which is how it’s shown on The Simpsons . Otherwise unclothed, which Biblical figure is this gigantic statue a depiction of? 5 Originally titled Le Poète, this iconic sculpture is of a well-toned figure sitting on a rock as part of a group of statues based on The Divine Comedy by Dante. Some people believe the statue is actually of Dante himself just after he had written his work. Often used to depict quizzes and debates, by what name do we know this sculpture now exhibited in Paris? 6 Standing 30 metres tall atop a 700-metre-tall mountain that overlooks a bustling city, this statue has become iconic for an entire continent. Originally designed and built with clay in France, it was rebuilt with concrete in its present location in 1930. Earlier you had to climb 200 steps to reach it, but it now has a system of escalators to help tourists. Which sculpture is this which is also one of the modern wonders of the world? 7 This massive bronze statue in the Rockefeller Center in New York depicts an ancient Greek Titan holding the celestial vault on his shoulders. Frequently shown in TV series and documentaries that feature New York, it became associated with the Objectivist movement after Ayn Rand’s novel in 1957. Who does the statue depict, who also gives us a very important term in geography? 8 The Charging Bull is an 11-feet-tall, 16-feet-long sculpture in bronze of an aggressive bull in New York. Initially it was illegally planted in 1989, and the NYPD seized it, but thanks to public support it was brought back and re-installed. Although built because of a stock market crash, it has come to symbolise financial prosperity. In which area in New York would you come face to face with this bronze bull? 9 At the Institute of Cytology and Genetics of the Russian Academy of Sciences in Siberia, at the entry is a monument that pays tribute to a very important animal in science. It features a certain animal wearing glasses, holding knitting needles and knitting a double helix of DNA. It commemorates the sacrifice of this particular animal that has led to better understanding of the biology of diseases and helped us develop new drugs and cures. What animal is this a monument to? 10 Greyfriars Bobby Fountain is a commemorative statue in Edinburgh. It’s a life-size bronze representation of Bobby, who in the 1800s spent 14 years guarding the grave of one John Gray until his own death. At three feet high, it is technically Edinburgh’s smallest listed building, and is a well-known tourist spot. Who or what was Greyfriars Bobby? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article37262939.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A quiet, reflective pool||There are times when the voices get to be too much; words — spoken, written, performed — are everywhere, assaulting us from multiple media, calling out to us in pings and beeps and popping up as screens within screens. And then there are the many words that are in our heads, whole bundles of them trying to edge the others out, asking that we heed them, that we must do this or that before time goes by. Even as we attend to one set of demands another swishes in with a reminder of something even more important. No meaning Even the conversations we enter into in order to learn or to commune seem to be occupied by “busy words” — sentences that fill time but have little meaning. There is this urge, then, among many of us, to seek a space of silence, a retreat from this unending barrage, a still, clear pool that we can gaze into and find an unfiltered view not only of ourselves, but also something of the world we inhabit. The past couple of weeks I’ve rediscovered a version of that quiet pool in a podcast that had slipped out of my mind in my frantic and impossible rush to keep abreast of the cacophony of news and current affairs, or in my search for escape in true crime, comedy and drama. “The pandemic has forced many of us, at best, to work out the difference between isolation and loneliness or to find “ease within the aloneness inside ourselves,” says Krista Tippett as she opens a conversation with thinker and writer Stephen Batchelor (episode dated September 23, 2021). Inward freedom He responds: “...the practice of solitude, is the practice of creating an inward autonomy within ourselves, an inward freedom from the power of these overwhelming thoughts and emotions.” The hour-long conversation meanders in a relaxed fashion through Batchelor’s spiritual and intellectual journey, his immersion in Buddhism, touching on the work of Michel de Montaigne, Rainer Maria Rilke, among others, unpacking the paradox of living in a hyperconnected world where we have less and less time to connect with our inner selves. This is just one of close to 18 years’ worth of conversations that take it slow, that allow for pause and reflection, where there is no rushing to respond or economise questions. On Being , hosted by former journalist and broadcaster Krista Tippett, was originally a weekly show on U.S. National Public Radio before becoming part of the broader On Being Project, a non-profit “media and public life enterprise that, according to the website, has “an overarching commitment to social healing — to the human transformation that makes generative social transformation possible.” Gentle seriousness Proceeding from the conviction that issues of faith, spirituality and religion are as central to social life as economics and politics, the show treats with gentle seriousness and curiosity such topics as Forests are Wired for Wisdom (with forest ecologist Suzanne Simard), The Worlds Beneath our Feet (with writer and naturalist Robert Macfarlane), and Why We Contradict Ourselves and Confound Each Other (with behavioural economist Daniel Kahneman). While many of the guests on the podcast are not new to audiences, it is the tenor and breadth of the interactions with Tippett that make the show different, and it’s this difference that makes the listening more reflective, less anxious. It makes for a quiet reflective pool that allows me to return, refreshed and a little more thoughtful, to the busy-ness of the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-quiet-reflective-pool/article37262948.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Geek, genius, woman, wife||If you have read Tahmima Anam’s books, her latest, The Startup Wife, will come as a surprise, as its mood, temper and subject are completely different from her Bangladesh-centric earlier works. Yet, the novel does not disappoint. Written in peppy prose — there’s none of that dreamy lyricism that one has come to associate with the British-Asian author — The Startup Wife is a clever satire on the mores of the American tech industry, and turns a perceptive eye on its attitude to gender and race. Asha Ray, a brilliant Bangladeshi-American Ph.D student who is researching the possibility of making artificial intelligence more empathetic than humans, marries Cyrus Jones — a golden-haired, prodigiously well-read, part-hippie, part-philosopher übermensch with a panoptic view of multiple cultures and creeds. Cyrus’s thoughts about the relevance of rituals in the lives of those who disdain religion makes Asha, who is madly in love with her husband, hit upon the idea of a novel social media platform that will suggest rituals to users based on the things that are most meaningful to them. It’s a place where, explains Asha, users will come together not on the basis of what they like (take that, Facebook), but what gives meaning to their lives. Fired up All fired up with her idea, Asha quits her Ph.D programme, and with Cyrus and their inseparable friend Julian, moves to New York to set up camp at an ultra cool incubator called Utopia. Initially reluctant to be part of the project because he thinks tech is essentially evil, Cyrus soon becomes the platform’s face as well as its CEO. He comes up with a suitably new-agey name for it too — We Are Infinite, or WAI, which, you cannot fail to notice, also echoes the existential question, Why . What makes The Startup Wife largely a fun read is its insider’s look at the Western startup ecosystem filled with we’ll-change-the-world tech nerds, number-crunching venture capitalists with their bags of gold, crazies, wizards, and doomsday-planners, all busy incubating or disrupting while keeping themselves nourished on turmeric lattes and vegan food. Incidentally, Anam is something of a ‘startup wife’ herself, as she is married to the founder of a tech company. So she knows what she is talking about. Darker theme However, the laughs about the ways of startup culture underlie a darker theme. WAI becomes a gigantic hit the moment it is launched. Yet Asha, the super geek who writes the codes to build the platform, finds herself increasingly invisibilised by a boys’ club led by none other than her beloved Cyrus. Although she is the brains behind WAI, as a woman, and a woman of colour at that, she comes under pressure to cede ground, fall back, and let others take her place at the table. This, while the charismatic Cyrus keeps growing in stature — WAI’s users now regard him as a cross between a shaman and a demigod. All that halo notwithstanding, he coolly claims his wife’s achievements as his own. Asha’s experience is, of course, indicative of the sexism and inequality that run through the technology industry despite its much-vaunted values of liberalism and meritocracy. And Cyrus, who gradually pours himself into the template of the entitled male who swans around while his wife does all the hard work, epitomises a lot that has gone wrong with big tech: good intent slowly evaporating before corporate greed, growth prioritised over public good, and so on. In a sense, he also represents the moral exceptionalism that informs many founders of life-changing tech applications. Convinced that they have made the world a better place, they refuse to see the iniquities and dangers they have unleashed.  The Startup Wife is a quick and engaging read. However, Anam misses the mark when it comes to portraying her protagonist as the near genius that she is meant to be. Asha, who is also the first-person narrator, comes across as a bright young woman, but at no point does she seem particularly extraordinary. It doesn’t help that for much of the book she seems rather slavish in her love for Cyrus. The title of the novel also casts her in a less than heroic light, suggesting as it does that Asha’s identity as a gifted techie and startup founder is yoked to her identity as a “wife”. Perhaps Anam wanted to pose the question — can one be a startup founder and a wife? The answer to that really depends on what kind of “wife” women who value their self-worth are prepared to be. The reviewer is a journalist and author.  The Startup Wife Tahmima Anam Penguin Hamish Hamilton  Rs. 599    Anam is something of a ‘startup wife’ herself, as she is married to the founder of a tech company. So she knows what she is talking about||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/geek-genius-woman-wife/article37262915.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A pathological writer||I have always wanted to write a novel, dreaming to become a whodunit queen like Agatha Christie. Seeing this alarming preoccupation, my grandfather gifted me a copy of Erich Segal’s Doctors . I suspect that was a ploy to hook me into the glamorous world of medicine at an impressionable age. He probably felt I would be inspired to become the next Laura Castellano. But I identified more with Maury Eastman, the wacko guy who joined college only to write the great medical novel. I felt it prudent to take up forensic medicine or psychiatry as a specialty to get a ringside view of crime. But my mother disapproved of the idea. “Do you want criminals to climb my wall and psychopaths bang at the door,” she asked. So, in the end, I chose please-all pathology. I soon discovered that the arrangement of cells under my microscope looked like intricate bed-sheet patterns and would fervently wish I had this superpower to look at my microscope and the printed final diagnosis would come flashing before my eyes in Comic Sans font. I continued with such self-annihilation for about a year or so until one day I realised I had stumbled into the wondrous world of cells. And sooner or later, the diagnosis would reveal itself like the cold-blooded culprit in a murder mystery. I was a whodunit buster but not the type that could lend itself to writing a novel. I reminisce about my old dream and dig out the Doctors novel. My 12-year-old is curious to know what I am up to. She has been vocal in her antagonism to the medical profession. As our Kindles are synced, she can see what I read. I notice that she has started reading Doctors . Two days later, she is well into it. And I can’t help wondering, “Have I unleashed another wannabe doctor writer into this world?” drpriyasumod@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-pathological-writer/article37262906.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A model of development||“It is an incredible thing to empower people by making them part of their own story of change rather than [being] just passive spectators,” Snigdha Parupudi writes. It is this story of transformation and empowerment spearheaded by the Srinivasan Services Trust across rural communities that Parupudi’s book, A Silent Revolution , effectively documents. Working for change The Trust, which is the social arm of Sundaram-Clayton Limited and TVS Motor Company, was established in 1996 and has since then worked as a catalyst for change towards the development of rural areas predominantly in Tamil Nadu, as well as in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra. The book describes the model of community development the Trust follows as a ‘unique one’ that creates real, dynamic and replicable change which is empowering and self-sustaining. What makes the book thought-provoking is how the author has chosen to document this journey. Instead of limiting the book to a collation of facts and timelines, Parupudi delves into the workings of the Trust through the lived-experiences of those who have spearheaded the change as well as reaping its benefits. Parupudi’s extensive research and fieldwork is evident as the book is filled with anecdotes from people she met while documenting the work of the Trust. Padavedu in Tiruvannamalai, described as the ‘nucleus of SST’s work’ is where it all began in 1996. In 2005, the Trust adopted an inclusive model where the community was to pitch in for every project they undertook. The aim was to create a sense of ownership and the book illustrates through several voices how community participation was vital. “We can only sit back and marvel at the sheer scale of what is possible when people are given the opportunity to shape their own destinies,” writes Parupudi. From walls being built for anganwadis, to encouraging women to come together and form Self-Help Groups, the book acts as a window of sorts into many key areas of focus ranging from health, education, sanitation, infrastructure, and self-reliance through income generation. Overcoming hurdles An empathetic narrative is built as the author tries to unpack the structures under which a developmental programme of this scale thrives. Despite their overall success, the book does not shy away from talking about the roadblocks along the way and how they were dealt with. This forms a major chunk of the learning for the Trust that has contributed to its evolution. Despite being a pioneering model, Venu Srinivasan, Chairman, TVS Motor Company and Managing Trustee SST, says in the book that instead of passing it on, he would rather people used their system as a starting point and incorporate what they know well to create more silent revolutions. For several organisations that are looking to broaden their horizons and focus on social development, A Silent Revolution is the apt starting point and an invaluable resource to learn about SST’s unique model that paves the way to dignity, prosperity, and hope.  A Silent Revolution: The Journey of the Srinivasan Services Trust Snigdha Parupudi HarperCollins  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-model-of-development/article37262925.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Do dance, go France||Dear Agony Akka,  I am 17 years old, I live in Raipur, and I am desperate to be an actor. My parents, however, keep insisting that I should do IIT-IIM and leave the country for a fancy foreign job. I hate the idea. I hate engineering. I hate computers. Actually, I hate studies. I only want to go to Mumbai, do acting in hit movies and become a hero. I am very handsome, like Ranveer Singh types, and I can also dance very well. I always get selected in all school socials. But my parents are just not understanding. Please can you tell me how to convince them of my career choice. —Boldly Eager To Act   Dear BETA,  I amnot at all sure acting is a good career choice these days. Mind you, given your set of talents — being handsome, being able to dance, not at all interested in studies — acting does seem like the No. 1 profession of choice. But these days it seems to be a job with high risks. Look how Sushant Singh died off. God only knows what and all he must have suffered. Look what happened to Rhea. Channels made football of her life. Now same thing with great SRK’s son. If superstar’s son can go to jail, then what price son of Raipur businessman? You are doomed. Imagine, for one moment, you are standing one day smoking a cigarette and suddenly one car comes and parks next to you and 2-3 goonda types begin to unload many packets of white stuff and proceed to stash it away. Imagine further that you see them carrying guns. You try to become invisible. At that moment, another one car comes at great speed and screeches to a halt there. Two-three men step out and it soon transpires that they belong to the Narcotics Crime Bureau. What do you think will happen next? You are thinking they will arrest the goonda types. Hahaha! Foolish boy, you are standing there, first of all actor and second of all smoking. Of course, they will arrest you. Don’t you know smoking in public is prohibited? What do you mean by trying to be all stylish Rajini-type lounging against wall with cigarette? You will be locked up and the key thrown away. The Bureau is a chillingly efficient organisation that is completely fair-minded and transparent in all its actions. It does not care if you are famous actor or wannabe. All it wants is for dangerous dealers to be put away and it knows that tobacco is more dangerous than drug items. Another very important fact the Bureau knows is that drugs intake is giving hallucinatory experience, which can make even 3,000 kilos of drug look like 13 grams and vice versa. That is why quantity of drug seizure is not important in the phantasmagoric world of wheeling and dealing. What is important is occupation, religion, age, name etc. of persons standing nearby to drugs. My advice is you stay out of Mumbai altogether. If your parents want you to go to foreign countries, no need for IIT-IIM. No need for any kind of academics. Instead, you can sell tea or study religion, both have very good scope for foreign travel. In fact, if you become top-notch guru like our Nithya, you can even establish your own foreign country. You are thinking why I am giving career advice that is ignoring your dancing skills. I am not that foolish. You think you can become Nithya without dancing between Physics and Maths and Cosmos and You and Me and I? No chance.  — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/do-dance-go-france/article37262937.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Just for publicity?||The pandemic has become an era of online festivals of films, dance, and music. An ex-colleague and good friend, who is an actor and model, rang me up last week. He wanted me to watch a short film that he had directed with his daughter, a theatre activist and software engineer, as the associate director. Through arresting moments, the film narrates the chagrin of a middle-class technology professional working from home in quarantine. She is a single parent of a girl child and taking care of her widowed mother of unsound mind. While passing my feedback, I suggested sending it to some international festivals. “Yes, the producer is sending it to three festivals but not to all those prominent in social media,” my friend said. “Do you know that many of such festivals charge an entry fee ranging from $500 to $1,000?” He continued, “The marketing hook is that there will be some peanuts as awards for almost all entries from countries such as India.” But what shocked me more was another call last evening. On the other end was a Malayali theatre activist married to a dance connoisseur living in her country. They are conducting an online international dance festival. That’s a good idea, though many online dance festivals are going on, I said. Even I need over 48 hours a day to watch at least half of such online festivals, for which I am getting invitations. “But ours is with a difference, sir. We present a quality performance by professional artists of good merit; our aim is to help the talented,” he said. Moved by this gesture, I said I shall speak to a few of the artists from different streams and in a day, I was going to provide him the contacts of willing artists. Further, I told him to settle the remuneration part and other terms and conditions directly at first, followed by a contract with absolutely no recourse. “Payment for online performance? Don’t you know that our effort is to support the artists in their moments of trouble? We have limited sponsorship only. But, nevertheless, we are trying to bring them some publicity,” he shot back. I did not know if should shout, cry or laugh in madness. Regaining my composure, I went on: “Artists are also humans who have families to support. Without a wall, how could one paint?” kkgkerala@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/just-for-publicity/article37262904.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||I’ll have what he’s having||North’s two-heart bid was forcing to game, but South’s relentless enthusiasm after that is hard to understand. The four-heart cuebid was perhaps understandable, but the leap to seven clubs brought a gasp from the usually impassive audience. Kibitzers were whispering that South might have to be charged with BUI – Bidding Under the Influence – but his precise declarer play saved his reputation. The opening heart lead went to East’s queen and South’s king. A heart to the ace was followed by a heart ruff as East discarded a low spade. South led a spade to dummy’s queen, cashed the ace of clubs, and ruffed another heart while East shed another spade. South cashed the queen of clubs and the fall of the jack from East gave South confidence that East was out of trumps. Declarer cashed the ace and king of spades, discarding two low diamonds from dummy. A diamond to dummy’s ace was followed by the king of clubs, drawing the last outstanding trump. South now claimed with a good heart and a trump left in dummy. “Cocktails,” shouted South, summoning the club’s waitress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ill-have-what-hes-having/article37262942.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Homebound||Puja Changoiwala  HarperCollins Rs. 599 As COVID-19 cases soar in Dharavi, young Meher and her family realise they have to leave for their village in Rajasthan. With the lockdown and the resultant ban on public movement, they walk 900 km, facing cruel police officers, searing heat, wild beasts and indifferent deities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/homebound/article37262919.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Avishi||Saiswaroopa Iyer  Bloomsbury India Rs. 499 In this re-imagining of the story of the Rig Vedic queen with an iron leg, Avishi is the fearless warrior fighting the oppressive king, Khela, to protect the republic of Ashtagani. She is brutally injured and her leg is amputated. Will her disability let her continue the fight?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/avishi/article37262921.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Whose Samosa Is It Anyway?||Sonal Ved  PRH Rs. 499 What are the origins of chutney and samosa, or of the fruit punch, and how are they connected to India? Ved goes on a search and concludes that there is no definitive Indian cuisine but as many hyper-local cuisines as there are States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/whose-samosa-is-it-anyway/article37262931.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Infectious||John S. Tregoning  Simon & Schuster Rs. 699 COVID-19 may be only the first of many modern pandemics. The subject of infection and how to fight it grows more urgent every day. How do pathogens cause disease and how can our bodies fight them? Dr. Tregoning uncovers success stories in immunology and virology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/infectious/article37262933.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Violent Fraternity: Indian Political Thought in the Global Age||Shruti Kapila  Penguin Random House Rs. 899 Taking readers from early 20th century to the independence of India and formation of Pakistan in 1947, Kapila argues that it was in India that modern political languages were remade through a revolution that defied fidelity to any exclusive ideology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/violent-fraternity-indian-political-thought-in-the-global-age/article37262935.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3174||Across  1 Chart showing pub and hotel stocking mostly pinot, perhaps (3,5) 5 150 snakes offering embraces (6) 9 Placed in water, bananas simmered (8) 10 Sent back kind of pudding the French consumed: it’s very rich and creamy (6) 12 Divulge what they do in ‘Danny, the Champion of the World’ (4,3,4,4) 13 Liability set to return in experimental environment(4,3) 14 Elderly relative’s fragrant (to some extent) (4) 18 A little sad, Everyman’s a rejected novelist (4) 19 Perhaps Victoria, perhaps Dave (7) 23 ‘No hit’, twice: Kent ace resolved to accept defeat (4,2,2,3,4) 24 Not very quiet birdhouse – it’s full of bees (6) 25 Romeo, gutted; teardrops, perhaps – for his love? (8) 26 ‘Horrible Bosses’ to occupy one’s thoughts (6) 27 Rates some classes’ sessions (8)  Down  1 It’s used in snooker game (6) 2 Take out a degree of indirectness (6) 3 They’re seldom seen: essentially drab grim items of neckwear (8) 4 Illustrated talk giving position of baby in the womb (12) 6 Loudly compare fungus and alga (6) 7 Film’s leads hiding – icy, stuck up (4,4) 8 Distracted stingray wandering off (8) 11 Listen to a man performing Old Testament book (12) 15 Opposed to puncturing starch in the City (8) 16 Serviceman, new, sporting flowers and booze (4,4) 17 Programmer’s dearest material (8) 20 Terminating in Gulf, river irrigating Sumer, primarily? (6) 21 Some singers some paper reported (6) 22 Arising, well-groomed entertaining knight prepares for investiture (6)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3174/article37262945.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Oscar bound||The Tamil filmKoozhangal(Pebbles), directed by debutant filmmaker P.S. Vinothraj, was selected as India’s official entry to Oscars 2022 under the International Feature Film category. The film, shot in just 30 days in a harsh and arid landscape near Madurai, stars Chellapandi and Karuththadaiyaan, and is the story of a young boy, who along with his violent and alcoholic father, sets out on a journey to find his mother. It was inspired by a real incident in the director’s life when his sister was chased for 14km by her husband after a quarrel. The film received the Tiger Award at the 50th International Film Festival Rotterdam in Netherlands in February.Koozhangalwas chosen from 14 films, including the Malayalam filmNayattu,Mandela(Tamil) and the Hindi filmSardar Udham. “We wanted to select a film that celebrated humanism,” said Malayalam filmmaker Shaji N. Karun, who headed the jury for India’s Oscar entry. While no Indian film has won the Oscar so far,Mother India(1958),Salaam Bombay(1989), andLagaan(2001) made it to the final list of nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/oscar-bound/article37262902.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Silverview||John le Carré  Penguin Rs. 699 John le Carré’s last complete work is set in a small English seaside town, where Julian Lawndsley runs a bookshop away from the City and the high-flying job he had there. His life is disrupted with the arrival of Edward, a Polish émigré who seems to know a lot about him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/silverview/article37262910.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Kololo Hill||Neema Shah  Picador Price not mentioned 1972, Uganda. A decree is issued that all Ugandan Asians must leave the country in 90 days. The repercussions are analysed through the lives of Asha and Pran, who have to abandon their family business and house as violence escalates in Kampala. Will they all make it to safety in Britain?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/kololo-hill/article37262917.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Pride, Prejudice and Punditry: The Essential Shashi Tharoor||Shashi Tharoor  Aleph Rs. 999 This volume brings together fiction, non-fiction and poetry from Shashi Tharoor’s published books and journalism — as well as new pieces. Each section is devoted to a particular topic. For instance, ‘Our Unruly World’ covers international relations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pride-prejudice-and-punditry-the-essential-shashi-tharoor/article37262923.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article37262900.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||On fixing priorities for vaccinating children||In August, the Indian drug regulator (DCGI) granted an emergency use approval for Zydus Cadila’s DNA vaccine for use in adults and children aged 12 years and above. Recently the Subject Expert Committee of DCGI greenlighted Covaxin for children above two years. The vaccines are yet to be introduced in the national vaccination programme. The National Immunization Technical Advisory Group (NTAGI) Chairperson Dr. N.K. Arora had said children with comorbidities will be prioritised to receive the vaccine “immediately and healthy children can be immunised subsequently”. In an email, immunologistDr. Satyajit Rath,formerly with the Delhi-based National Institute of Immunology andDr. Chandrakant Lahariya,Physician-epidemiologist and vaccines expert discuss who needs the vaccine first and if healthy children need to be vaccinated.  Which subgroup of children and adolescents needs to get the vaccine on priority — the immunocompromised, adolescents, or those with comorbidities?  Satyajit Rath: This issue is somewhat complicated. Firstly, immunocompromised individuals, children or adults, may not, in fact, respond effectively to vaccination either. So simply saying that they are a vaccination priority is likely to be inadequate, and we need evidence (which we do not have) about what vaccination schedules might work well for them. Secondly, while it is true that children with the known comorbidities (which are not common among children) ought to be a priority for vaccination, there is another issue as well. In some instances, the nature of severe COVID-19 illness may be somewhat different in children (the so-called MIS-C), and we do not know, as far as I am aware, the predisposing factors for that. That all said, it is probably best, all other things being equal, to prioritise school-going children over younger children for vaccination, since that might have somewhat more of an effect on the spread of infection.  Chandrakant Lahariya: The current scientific evidence does not support vaccination of all healthy children. There is some experience and data now on use of a few specific COVID-19 vaccines in 12-17 years. Since COVID-19 vaccines are developed using different platforms, each needs its own data. Of the two COVID-19 vaccines being considered for use in the children in India, have so far been used only on 500-1,500 children in the trials. In fact, one of these vaccines — the Zydus vaccine (ZyCoV-D) — has not been used on any age group outside the clinical trials. Scientifically, we know that vaccines may have some the rare adverse events which can only be identified after their programmatic roll-out and effective adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) surveillance. We also know that the efficacy of these have been tested against moderate-to-severe COVID-19, which are relatively low in children. Then, the experience of COVID-19 vaccines already in use in adolescents indicates that the risk of rare adverse events is relatively higher in adolescents than in adults. Putting these two together, there is less benefit and higher risk in vaccinating children and that’s why we should wait for more safety data to be available to recommend COVID-19 vaccination beyond the high-risk groups in older children. Which high-risk sub-group to start with and which age sub-group has to be determined by review of the hospitalisation and mortality data from COVID-19 pandemic in India. That will provide fair insight where to start. Based upon such available data, starting with the high-risk children in 16-17 years could be one approach. Once full vaccine coverage of, let’s say 70-80% in that sub-group is achieved, it can be opened for high-risk children aged 12-15 years. Even the list of what constitutes high risk children should be based upon evidence and could be dynamic with possibility of inclusion of more conditions, once evidence is available. With available evidence, I don’t think India should consider vaccinating any child younger than 12 years before early next year. Are there sufficient data for disease severity and long COVID in children (12 years and younger) and adolescents without comorbidities? In the absence of such data, should India be in a hurry to vaccinate them?  S.R.: There is evidence that even very young children can indeed suffer from severe COVID-19. I am not sure what would be considered “sufficient” evidence. Since there is no substantial risk in giving vaccines, once safety-tested with standard protocols, I am not sure why we would think in terms of “hurry” in vaccinating children. Vaccination, after all, provides not only the individual gain of protection from severe illness but also of reduction (however modest) in the magnitude and duration of virus spread to other people. Are vaccines needed for healthy children and adolescents, especially since Covaxin supply is still limited and millions of adults are yet to be vaccinated with first/second dose, and nearly 60% of children have already been naturally infected?  S.R.: Well, vaccines are certainly needed for everyone. As an aside, again, I do not think that guesses about the proportions of people in various groups already infected/vaccinated, which depend on sero-surveys, are well founded. Many if not most of these sero-surveys have been modest in size, yet we are assuming that they correctly reflect reality. Also, we tend to assume that this percentage (60%) is uniformly seen in all children across the country, which is quite unlikely. Finally, I continue to think that vaccination carries value even for previously infected individuals. So we need vaccines. Our inability to provide them adequately does, however, create a depressing situation of having to make priority choices, and in this sense, adults are clearly a higher priority for COVID-19 vaccination.  C.L.: The healthy children in India do not need vaccination, at least not at present. It is not about vaccine availability alone. India has reached a stage where there is more COVID-19 vaccine supply then demand. However, just because a country has more availability, it should not start vaccinating children. At the same time, that does not mean healthy children would never need COVID-19 vaccines. They may, in future. As an example, if a new variant emerges which causes moderate to severe disease in children at a rate higher than at present, then we may have to vaccinate healthy children. The Zydus vaccine uses a novel vaccine platform, and outside the trial, the vaccine has not been used for vaccinating adults. Should such a vaccine be allowed to be used on adolescents without large-scale use in adults first?  S.R.: Since I do not think there are extraordinary risks with either the platform or the route of administration, I find the standard regulatory processes sufficient for determining whether to approve vaccine usage in children.  C.L.: It can be, at least theoretically. However, parents and people need to understand that none of the countries had rolled out vaccines for any subgroup of children without data being thoroughly examined and reviewed by the experts. None of the COVID-19 vaccines has been used in children in any country before millions of shots were administered to adults. There has been a time lag of around six months or longer use of a vaccine in adults before use in children. This was the approach even when there was a high rate of disease transmission in those settings.  Immunocompromised individuals may not respond effectively to vaccination either. So simply saying that they are a vaccination priority is likely to be inadequate. We need evidence. Satyajit Rath   Which high-risk sub-group and age sub-group to start with has to be determined by reviewing hospitalisation and mortality data. Chandrakant Lahariya||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/on-fixing-priorities-for-vaccinating-children/article37262567.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian farming practices: Learning from elsewhere in the world||A paper has appeared recently in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA (PNAS) titled: “Integrated farming with intercropping increases food production while reducing environmental footprint” (see: Q. Chai et al., PNAS September 21, 118(38)e2106382118 https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2106382118). This work found that (1) “relay planting” enhances yield, (2) within-field rotation or “strip rotation”, allowing strips for planting other plants (such as grass, fruits) besides the major crop was more fruitful, (3) “soil munching,” that is, available means such as crop straw, in addition to the major crop such as wheat or rice, and (4) “no-till” or a reduced tillage, which increases the annual crop yield up by 15.6% to 49.9%, and decreasing the environmental footprint by 17.3%, compared with traditional monoculture cropping. This led to the conclusion that small farm holders can grow more food and have reduced environmental footprint. How do these factors apply to the small farmers of India? Current statistics reveal that our country has a significant population of small farmers, many owning less than 2 hectares of land. About 70% of its rural households still depend primarily on agriculture for their livelihood, with 82% of farmers being small and marginal. The total production of food-grains in 2017-18 was estimated to be 275 million tons. Some others have pointed out that only 30% of all farmers borrow from formal sources. The farm loan waivers from the state governments have been helpful in this regard, but yet, over 50% struggle to borrow from Shylockian sources. Relay planting The site “Relay Cropping- GK Today” explains this in some detail. Relay planting means the planting of different crops in the same plot, one right after another, in the same season. Examples of such relay cropping would be planting rice (or wheat), cauliflower, onion, and summer gourd (or potato onion, lady’s fingers and maize), in the same season. Why do this? Well, less risk since you do not have to depend on one crop alone. It also means better distribution of labour, insects spread less, and any legumes actually add nitrogen to the soil! We have read about how small farmers in Telangana, Karnataka and Maharashtra are actually doing this and earning money out of such relay farming. They plant onions, turmeric, chillies, ginger, garlic and even some native fruits, thus making profit, during these relay times. ‘GK Today’ does, however, point out the difficulties involved in such relay cropping, namely mechanisation here can be difficult, plus the management requirements are somewhat higher. It is here that women come in handy. Women plant materials for home food, such as greens, leafy vegetables and pulses such as green grams, Finger millet ( ragi in Hindi, kezhwaragu in Tamil) horse gram ( chane ki dal in Hindi, kudure gram in Kannada, and kollu in Tamil), cowpeas, and also grass (all of which add to the nitrogen to the soil and also to the world around us, fixing nitrogen not just under our feet but also in the air we breathe; the carbon dioxide, ozone, and the oxides of nitrogen and phosphorus that we inhale every day from the filthy atmosphere is at least nullified a little, thanks to relay cropping)! Strip cropping Strip cropping has been used in the U.S. (where the fields are larger than those in India), where they grow wheat, along with corn and soyabean, in the same farm in an alternative manner. However, this needs large lands. In India, where there are large fields (such as the ones owned by cities and state governments), the land is divided into strips, and strips of grass are left to grow between the crops. Planting of trees to create shelters has helped in stabilising the desert in Western India. “Strip crop - a ray of hope” is the title given by the site ‘Vikaspedia’, which discusses Western Karnataka (and the nearby Telangana and Northern Tamil Nadu), dry belts with frequent droughts, where 80% of the farmers depend on groundnut as their option. The Karnataka Watershed Development (KAWAD), together with the AME Foundation, persuaded the farmers to stop using finger millets, fodder and groundnuts. Soil mulching and no-till While these methods are not easy for small farmers in India, they could be practised at least in larger farms such as the ones owned by industry and governments. Soil mulching requires keeping all bare soil covered with straw, leaves, and the like, even when the land is in use. Erosion is curtailed, moisture retained, and beneficial organisms, such as earthworms, kept in place. The same set of benefits are also offered by not tilling the soil. These four methods suggested by the international group are worth following in India. dbala@lvpei.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/indian-farming-practices-learning-from-elsewhere-in-the-world/article37262554.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Scientists find a mineral seen in the depths of the Earth in a meteorite||The key findings of a study led by IIT Kharagpur researchers could help us understand the formation and evolution of the Earth. They have studied a meteorite that fell near the town of Katol in Nagpur District of Maharashtra on May 22, 2012, reporting for the first time, presence of veins of the mineral bridgmanite, which is the most abundant mineral in the interior of the Earth, within the Katol L6 Chondrite meteorite. This finding adds evidence to the Moon-forming giant impact hypothesis. Abundant mineral “Bridgmanite is the most volumetrically abundant mineral of the Earth’s interior. It is present in the lower mantle (from 660 to 2700 km), and it is important to understand its formation mechanism to better comprehend the origin and evolution of planetary interiors,” says Sujoy Ghosh, Department of Geology and Geophysics, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, who designed the study and is the lead author of the paper published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Science (the U.S.).  The Moon-forming giant impact hypothesis is that long ago, nearly 4.5 billion years ago, the Earth collided with a planet the size of Mars named Thela, and the force of this impact was so huge as to melt the Earth down from the surface to a depth of 750 km to 1,100 km. The hypothesis goes that this caused the Earth to be bathed in a magma ocean, and the ejecta from the collision led to the formation of the Moon. This is the most favoured hypothesis on the formation of the Moon and the present finding by the Kharagpur team lends further support to it. Magma ocean "Earth was an ocean of magma in the past. The heavier iron and nickel went to the core while the lighter silicates stayed in the mantle. By studying the meteorite, we can understand more details about the formation of the Earth and other planets," says Kishan Tiwari, research scholar from the Department of Geology and Geophysics, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur and an author of the paper, in an email to The Hindu.  “Bridgmanite consists of magnesium, iron, calcium aluminum oxide and has a perovskite structure,” says Dr Ghosh. He further explains that while the crystal structure of natural bridgmanite has been reported in other meteorites such as the Tenham and Suizhou meteorites, their chemical composition does not fully match with the terrestrial bridgmanite present in the Earth's interior between 660 and 2700 km depth. “Our findings led to numerous other advances to understand how the Earth’s core formed about 4.5 billion years ago,” says Dr Ghosh. This finding could also help investigations of high-pressure phase transformation mechanisms in the deep Earth, which the group is planning to continue in future studies.  By studying the meteorite, we can understand the formation of the Earth and planets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/scientists-find-a-mineral-seen-in-the-depths-of-the-earth-in-a-meteorite/article37262555.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Asian spider seen in Georgia||A large spider native to East Asia has spun its thick, golden web on power lines, porches and vegetable patches all over north Georgia this year — a proliferation that has driven some unnerved homeowners indoors and prompted a flood of anxious social media posts. The Joro spider, (Trichonephila clavata) is common in Japan, China, Korea and Taiwan, Joro females have colourful yellow, blue and red markings on their bodies. It's not clear exactly how and when the first Joro spider arrived in the U.S. or why they are so abundant this year. The bottom line is: There are many unknowns. Most of the Joros are expected to die by late November, but they may return in equally large, or even larger, numbers next year, though scientists say even that is hard to predict with any certainty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/asian-spider-seen-in-georgia/article37262564.ece
31 October 2021||Rome,||U.K. to give 20 million COVID vaccine doses||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said that the United Kingdom will donate 20 million doses of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine to developing countries as part of efforts to share vaccines with countries that sorely lack them. Mr. Johnson made the announcement as he arrived in Rome for a summit of Group of 20 leaders, which started on Saturday. The U.K. says 10 million doses have been sent to the United Nations-backed COVAX vaccine-sharing program, and 10 million more will follow in the coming weeks. They join 10 million doses that have already been delivered, and form part of Britain’s commitment to share 100 million doses with needier nations by mid-2022. Push to vaccinate Mr. Johnson urged the club of economic powers to push to vaccinate the world by the end of 2022, saying that “our first priority as the G-20 must be to press ahead with the rapid, equitable and global distribution of vaccines.” Britain and other wealthy nations have been accused of hoarding more vaccines than they need, while some countries, especially in Africa, have few or none. Former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown, a World Health Organization (WHO) health envoy, has urged G-20 nations to speed things up and airlift unused doses to the developing world. The British leader is also hoping to focus the G-20’s minds on climate commitments as he prepares to host a United Nations climate summit in Glasgow, Scotland, which starts on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/uk-to-give-20-million-covid-vaccine-doses/article37263480.ece
31 October 2021||Madurai,||HC orders detention of Panama cargo ship involved in collision with boat||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday ordered the detention of MV Navios Venus , a cargo ship registered in Panama, involved in a collision with a mechanised fishing boat off the coast near Colachel in Kanniyakumari district. The ship is at present lying in the Mumbai Port Trust. In the petition filed by P. Rajamani, the owner of the boat, the collision took place around 3 p.m. on October 22, about 20 nautical miles off the coast near Colachel. A total of 17 fishermen on the fishing boat were fishing at the time. The boat was severely damaged in the impact. It was alleged that the cargo ship was operating in violation of the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1972. The petitioner sought the detention of the ship under Section 443 (power to detain foreign ship that has occasioned damage) of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958. An FIR had been registered at the Colachel police station with regard to the collision. Since the incident took place off the coast of Colachel, the cause of action appears prima facie to have arisen within the jurisdiction of the High Court, the judge observed. Given the strong possibility of the vessel leaving India’s territorial jurisdiction unless detained, the court directed to detain the cargo ship for three weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-orders-detention-of-panama-cargo-ship-involved-in-collision-with-boat/article37263476.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||How is Facebook embedding the real world in computing?||The story so far: On Thursday (October 28), Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced the rebranding of his company to Meta. The change, he said in a post, has been brought about “to reflect who we are and the future we hope to build”. Facebook, the social media platform, will, however, keep its name. What is the future it is hoping to build? It is called metaverse (thus the new name). Metaverse is what the Facebook founder calls “an embodied internet”. It is where “you’re in the experience, not just looking at it”. Mr. Zuckerberg gave a glimpse of the metaverse through a demo video. It shows him being called in to join his friends playing cards in a virtual space. They are all there as their chosen avatars, one of them even floating around the virtual room. They hide or reveal their cards just as they would in a real setting. He then dials another friend, who talks about an artist who is hiding augmented reality art pieces on street walls for people to find. The friends in the virtual space get sent the link of this art and view it then and there. Metaverse, for him, marks an evolution of how people connect with each other: “We’ve gone from desktop to web to mobile; from text to photos to video. But this isn’t the end of the line.” Is metaverse exclusive to Meta? No. Mr. Zuckerberg sees metaverse as a successor to the mobile internet and as something that will see contributions from many companies. Metaverse is a virtual environment that will lend itself to immersive experiences. It means, according to Mr. Zuckerberg, “having a shared sense of space and not just looking at a grid of faces”. The “defining quality of the metaverse” is the feeling of presence. “You will see their facial expressions, you will see their body language... All the subtle ways that we communicate that today’s technology can’t quite deliver.” Who else is talking about metaverse? Video games company Epic Games, software giant Microsoft and chipmaker Nvidia are some of the companies that have been talking about metaverse. In a recent interview to Harvard Business Review , Microsoft chief Satya Nadella said he sees the metaverse idea being fundamentally about this: “increasingly, as we embed computing in the real world, you can even embed the real world in computing”. Venture capitalist Matthew Ball wrote an essay last year: “What’s important is to recognise the metaverse isn’t a game, a piece of hardware, or an online experience. This is like saying World of Warcraft, the iPhone, or Google is the Internet. They are digital worlds, devices, services, websites, etc. The Internet is a wide set of protocols, technology, tubes and languages, plus access devices and content and communication experiences atop them. Metaverse will be too.” What are Facebook’s hopes with respect to metaverse? Within the next decade, Mr. Zuckerberg wants the metaverse to reach a billion people. Toward this, the company plans to sell virtual reality devices at cost or at subsidised rates, and offer developer and creator services with low fees. Its metaverse ideas will likely emerge out of its work around virtual reality ideas such as Facebook Spaces. What are critics saying? Privacy is an area of concern because in an immersive environment, such as metaverse, a lot more of one’s personality and information will be revealed. Social media platforms, like Facebook, essentially make their money through targeted advertisements. It has to be recorded, however, that Mr. Zuckerberg has in his note mentioned privacy and safety as things that “need to be built into the metaverse from day one”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-is-facebook-embedding-the-real-world-in-computing/article37262496.ece
31 October 2021||NEW DELHI,||After Ghazipur, Tikri border also opens for vehicular movement||A day after vehicular movement opened at Ghazipur border where farmers have been protesting against the new farm laws, Tikri border also opened for smaller vehicles on Saturday, the police said. A senior police officer said that roads have opened for two-wheelers, autorickshaws, bicycles among other small vehicles. Big vehicles not allowed “Bigger and commercial vehicles are not allowed at the moment because they’ll get stuck ahead in the protest,” the officer said. The police started removing the layers of barricades at the Tikri border on Thursday and the process ended late on Friday night after whichtraffic opened for public on Saturday. Vehicular movement opened at Ghazipur border on Friday, however, there has been no such development at the Singhu border. Protesting farmers have welcomed the move as they believe it paves way for their entry into the Capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/after-ghazipur-tikri-border-opens-for-traffic/article37263115.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The IPL ten||The story so far: On October 25, two new teams were added to the Indian Premier League (IPL) bandwagon after the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) awarded franchise rights to Lucknow and Ahmedabad. While the Kolkata-based RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group (RPSG) acquired the Lucknow team for Rs. 7,090 crore, CVC Capital Partners, which submitted the bid through its subsidiary Irelia Company Pte Ltd., bought the Ahmedabad franchise for Rs. 5,625 crore. Lucknow and Ahmedabad were chosen ahead of Indore, Dharamshala, Cuttack and Guwahati, the other cities in the mix. Who are the new owners? RPSG and CVC Capital Partners outbid several other heavyweight parties such as the Adani Group, Glazer Family (owners of famous English football club Manchester United) and Aurobindo Pharma. Founded by Sanjiv Goenka, RPSG is an Indian business conglomerate with interests in power and energy, retail, IT-enabled services, FMCG, infrastructure and education. RPSG likely picked Lucknow as its home base given that the group’s Noida Power Company Limited and retail outlets operate in the Greater Noida region. RPSG had earlier owned Rising Pune Supergiant, which featured in the IPL in 2016 and 2017. CVC Capital Partners is a private equity and investment advisory firm, headquartered in Luxembourg. The firm is not a new entrant to the world of sports, having earlier invested in Spain’s top football league, LaLiga, Formula One and Premiership Rugby. The company’s investments in sport betting companies, Tipico and Sisal, however, have caused some concern. Former IPL chairman Lalit Modi questioned the firm’s legitimacy on Twitter. Why was the bid price higher than the base price? The key reason for the high price is likely to be the IPL media rights contract that is up for grabs for the 2023-27 cycle. Broadcast revenue is the most significant portion of the BCCI’s central revenue pool from where money flows down to the franchises. From 2008 to 2017, Sony paid around Rs. 900 crore a year for the television rights. For 2018-22, Star raised it to a whopping Rs. 3,270 crore per year and with it — according to a How India Lives report published in Mint earlier this year — IPL’s valuation went up 40%. The new broadcasting deal (2023-27) is expected to rake in upwards of Rs. 5,000 crore a year. This is an attractive enough proposition for a prospective owner to bid large amounts. The high price of the new teams also gives a fair indication of the value of the existing teams, giving old owners leverage if they decide to sell stakes. How long do they have to pay the bid amount? The new teams can pay their bid amount over a 10-year period, with BCCI president and former India captain Sourav Ganguly saying that the Rs. 12,715 crore will be used to improve Indian cricket across levels. The BCCI and franchises share earnings from the IPL’s central revenue pool, which includes money from broadcast, title rights and official partners. The BCCI reportedly keeps 50% of the revenue and distributes the rest equally among the franchises. What are the revenue streams for a franchise? Apart from getting revenue from the central pool, franchises earn money through brand sponsorships and match-ticket sales. Brand sponsors include various deals, including logos on team jerseys and helmets, digital sponsors, and so forth. The successful Mumbai Indians franchise, for example, boasts of around 20 sponsors, including the likes of Samsung, DHL, Colgate and Cadbury Dairy Milk. There is also prize money on offer, with the 2021 IPL champion Chennai Super Kings receiving Rs. 20 crore. Will the player retention policy and tournament format change? In order to ensure a level playing field, the two new franchises are likely to be offered three player selections before the mega 2022 IPL auction. The existing teams will likely be allowed to retain four players from their 2021 squads. The match schedule may be similar to what was followed in the 10-team 2011 IPL edition. Teams are set to be divided into two groups of five, with a team facing the other sides in the same group twice (home and away), the four teams from the second group once (two at home and two away), and the fifth remaining side in the other group twice (home and away). This ensures seven home and seven away matches. A total of 74 matches will be held in IPL 2022, an increase from the 60 matches played in the previous edition.  Board of Control for Cricket in India president and former India captain Sourav Ganguly said the huge money committed by the two new IPL team owners will be used to improve Indian cricket across levels||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-ipl-ten/article37262498.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||AAP for regularisation of all sanitation workers||The AAP on Saturday demanded that the BJP-governed North civic body regularise all sanitation workers, instead of regularising only a handful. “We staunchly condemn this action by the BJP and demand an indiscriminate, scam-free regularisation of all employees,” said AAP MLA Rakhi Birla. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that all sanitation workers, who started working before 2003 are being regularised by the North body and the process will be completed by mid-2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-for-regularisation-of-all-sanitation-workers/article37263394.ece
31 October 2021||London,||Vulnerable groups to get booster jabs faster||COVID-19 booster shots can now be administered sooner than six months after the second dose to certain vulnerable groups for operational reasons, the U.K. government has announced. Under the new guidelines, care home residents who have been given their second vaccine dose at different times will be able to be jabbed in the same session, as long as it has been at least five months since their last dose. It is also expected to help other vulnerable groups, so that they can have their flu and COVID-19 vaccines at the same time. The flexibility in clinical guidance is expected to speed up the administration of life-saving booster jabs, making it more efficient to reach the country’s most vulnerable, people aged 50-plus, to ensure they’re protected in winter months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vulnerable-groups-to-get-booster-jabs-faster/article37263482.ece
31 October 2021||October 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Obstacle course||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/obstacle-course/article37263479.ece
31 October 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Two held for impersonating IAS officer||The Economic Office Wing of the Odisha Police arrested two persons, who impersonated an IAS officer and engineer, to cheat a businessman of Rs. 1.17 crore. They defrauded complainant Rikab Chand Munot, proprietor of Rashtriya Stainless Steel, and his son Akshaya on the pretext of facilitating big government contracts. The incident came close on the heels of the recent arrest of two fraudsters, who posed as ITDC officials. According to EOW, Surymani Tripathy and Amit Kumar were arrested after they impersonated an IAS officer and engineer respectively and entered into criminal conspiracy. “During 2017, Mr. Munot through one of his friends came in contact with Rajesh Gahlot, who introduced himself as an officer of RAW having many IAS officers in Odisha as his friends. He subsequently introduced accused Suryamani Tripathy, an IAS Officer, posted as Additional Secretary to Odisha’s Public Works Department,” EOW said in a statement. In subsequent meetings, they had assured to help Mr. Munot and his son in getting high value Government contracts under ‘Pradhan Mantree Yojana’ in Odisha. In order to generate confidence in victims, the fraudsters asked them to deposit Rs. 25 lakh with Government treasury for registering their firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-held-for-impersonating-ias-officer/article37263481.ece
31 October 2021||New Delhi,||BJP demands AAP Govt. to pay salary dues to DU employees||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Saturday demanded that the AAP Government release pending salaries to the employees of 12 Delhi University colleges under its jurisdiction. He also called the government’s education model a propaganda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-demands-aap-govt-to-pay-salary-dues-to-du-employees/article37263393.ece
