04-11-2021||Srinagar||Revenue clerk held for bribery||A revenue clerk (patwari) in Ganderbal district was on Wednesday arrested while accepting a bribe of Rs 2,000, the J&K Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) said.According to an ACB statement, Showkat Ahmad Lone, Patwari, Halqa Hari Ganwan, Gund, Ganderbal, demanded bribe for affecting the inheritance mutation of land in favour of the complainant. “After registering the complaint, a trap team was constituted which laid a successful trap and caught him red-handed. Further investigation into the case is going on,” it added. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/revenue-clerk-held-for-bribery-333937
04-11-2021||Srinagar||Tributes paid to Maj Somnath Sharma||The Army on Wednesday paid tributes to legendary war hero and its first Param Vir Chakra awardee Major Somnath Sharma who laid down his life while fighting tribal invaders from Pakistan in 1947.“A wreath-laying ceremony was held in the honour of Major Somnath Sharma, PVC (Posthumous), the first Param Vir Chakra of the Army at the ‘Saviours of Kashmir’ War Memorial, located at Srinagar International Airport,” a defence spokesman said here.He said Major Somnath Sharma, born on January 31, 1922, at Kangra in Himachal Pradesh, was commissioned in the 4th battalion of the Kumaon Regiment on 22 October 1942. Maj Somnath Sharma led the ‘D’ Company of 4 Kumaon and established a base at Budgam against the Pakistani forces approaching Srinagar from the northern side on November 3, 1947, the spokesman said.He said despite facing a numerically superior enemy supported by small arms, mortars and heavy automatic weapons, Major Somnath Sharma and his company held on to their positions and foiled the enemy's advance towards the Srinagar airfield for crucial hours. In this decisive battle of 1947, he along with a JCO and 20 other ranks made the supreme sacrifice, defending the motherland against all odds. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/tributes-paid-to-maj-somnath-sharma-333938
04-11-2021||Jammu||Efforts to check spread of dengue scaled up||With dengue cases in J&K nearing the 1,000 mark, the authorities in Jammu region have scaled up efforts to check its spread, officials said on Wednesday. A total of 993 cases of dengue have been reported in the Union Territory with Jammu (639 cases), Kathua (172) and Samba (87) districts in the Jammu division accounting for majority of the cases till Tuesday.“The office of the state malariologist in Jammu has scaled up preventive activities such as vector-control activities (bio-larvicide fish, spraying and fogging) and information education and communication (IEC) and behaviour change communication (BCC) activities,” an official spokesman said. Radio talks to increase awareness among the masses regarding preventive measures have been aired periodically by senior officers of the department, the spokesman added.In collaboration with the Jammu Municipal Corporation (JMC), he said, thermal fogging has been conducted to kill mosquitoes in Jammu urban areas. Similar activities were carried out in Samba, Kathua and Udhampur districts, he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/efforts-to-check-spread-of-dengue-scaled-up-333936
04-11-2021||Srinagar/Leh||99 new Covid cases in J&K, eight in Ladakh||J&K recorded 99 Covid cases and zero daily deaths due to the disease on Wednesday, taking the infection tally in the Union Territory to 3,32,457, officials said.Eighteen of the cases are from the Jammu division and the rest from Kashmir. Srinagar district recorded the highest number of 48 new cases, followed by Ganderbal with 12. There are 946 active cases in the Union Territory at present, while the recoveries stand at 3,27,172. The death toll due to the pandemic stands at 4,438.Eight more people tested positive for Covid in Ladakh, taking the tally to 20,979, while the active cases reached 81, officials said. Ladakh has registered 208 Covid-related deaths — 150 in Leh and 58 in Kargil — since the beginning of the pandemic. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/99-new-covid-cases-in-jk-eight-in-ladakh-333935
04-11-2021||Jammu||AAI to get 122 acres for new terminal||The J&K administration will soon hand over 122 acres of land to officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to build a state-of-the-art 25,000-square-metre terminal building at the airport here, officials said.Jammu Divisional Commissioner Raghav Langer informed about the development during a meeting to review the progress on demarcation of land for the new terminal, they said. The 122 acres or 974 kanals of land has already been identified and it will soon be handed over to the AAI.The runway at the Jammu airport has been expanded and the 30 per cent load penalty has been removed. It will bring huge relief to airlines and passengers, officials said. The divisional commissioner also directed Animal Husbandry officials to immediately shift animals and office buildings to other locations as over 100 acres of the department’s land has been identified for the expansion of the Jammu airport, they said.The Jammu Deputy Commissioner has been asked to demarcate the land and handover the same to the airport authorities so that the work can begin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/aai-to-get-122-acres-for-new-terminal-333934
04-11-2021||Jammu||Army Chief in Jammu to review security situation||Army Chief General MM Naravane on Wednesday carried out an aerial reconnaissance of forward areas and was briefed about the security situation along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu region, officials said.This is his second visit in two weeks amid an ongoing operation against terrorists in a forest belt in twin districts of Poonch and Rajouri, which is the longest one in the recent past that entered 24th day on Wednesday. General Naravane arrived in Jammu on a two-day visit to review the security situation and operational preparedness, and immediately flew to Rajouri district, officials said.He will visit forward areas and interact with troops and commanders on ground, the Additional Directorate General of Public Information (ADGPI) of the Army tweeted.On October 18 and 19, the Army Chief had conducted a two-day tour of the Jammu region and reviewed the ground situation and the ongoing counter-infiltration operation. He had also visited the border districts of Rajouri and Poonch, where a massive operation to track down the terrorists hiding in the forest areas of Mendhar, Surankote and Thanamandi has been going on since October 11. The operation started in Surankote forest on October 11, following the killing of five soldiers, including a JCO.The operation was subsequently extended to Mendhar to neutralise the fleeing terrorists where another encounter took place on October 14, leaving four soldiers, including another JCO, killed.The police have arrested a terrorist associate allegedly having links with terrorist handlers across the border, while over a dozen others are also being questioned in connection with providing logistic support to the terrorists in the forest belt. — PTI24 days of ops||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/army-chief-in-jammu-to-review-security-situation-333933
04-11-2021||New Delhi||Pakistan refuses use of its airspace for Srinagar-Sharjah flight||Pakistan has denied use of its airspace to Go First's Srinagar-Sharjah flight, the government officials said on Wednesday.According to officials, Pakistan's refusal on Tuesday forced the flight to take a longer route and fly over Gujarat to reach its destination in the UAE. Go First, previously known as GoAir, had started direct flights between Srinagar and Sharjah from October 23 and the service was inaugurated by Union Home Minister Amit Shah during his visit to the Valley last month.According to officials, till October 31, the flight was going through Pakistan airspace. However, Pakistan on Tuesday did not allow the flight to pass through its airspace, and therefore, the service had to take a longer route, going over Gujarat, adding around 40 minutes to the flight time, they said.There were no specific reasons given by the Pakistan government as yet for refusing the permission to the flight, officials said.Officials said the flight, which operates four times a week, did not face any issue when it used Pakistan airspace between October 23 and October 31.There was no immediate statement or comment from Go First on the matter. This is the first service between Jammu and Kashmir and the UAE after 11 years. Air India Express had started a Srinagar-Dubai flight in February 2009 but it was discontinued after some time due to low demand.Reacting to Pakistan's action, former J&K chief minister and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah tweeted "very unfortunate. Pakistan did the same thing with the Air India Express flight from Srinagar to Dubai in 2009-2010. I had hoped that @GoFirstairways being permitted to overfly Pak airspace was indicative of a thaw in relations but alas that wasn't to be."  Blaming the Centre, PDP chief and former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti tweeted "puzzling that GoI didn't even bother securing permission from Pakistan to use its airspace for international flights from Srinagar. Only PR extravaganza without any groundwork."  Inaugurating the flight, Shah had said the commencement of Srinagar-Sharjah services would boost tourism. "There are many people from Srinagar and Jammu who are settled in the Gulf countries. There are many tourists who want to come from the Gulf countries to Jammu and Kashmir. The tourism of J-K is going to get a big boost with the commencement of Srinagar-Sharjah flights," he added. The Srinagar-Sharjah flight duration is around 3 hours if the Pakistan airspace is used, however, with Islamabad refusing to allow the flight through its airspace, it will be nearly an hour longer, raising fuel and ticket costs. The Pakistan government, however, allowed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's special flight to Italy to use its airspace on Friday to attend the G20 summit. His return flight from Italy was also allowed to use the Pakistan airspace on Wednesday, officials said. — PTIVery unfortunate. Pakistan did the same thing with the Air India Express flight from Srinagar to Dubai in 2009-2010. I had hoped that @GoFirstairways being permitted to overfly Pak airspace was indicative of a thaw in relations but alas that wasn’t to be. https://t.co/WhXzLbftxfPuzzling that GOI didn’t even bother securing permission from Pakistan to use its airspace for international flights from Srinagar. Only PR extravaganza without any groundwork. https://t.co/3Cbj91C6Pb||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/pakistan-refuses-use-of-its-airspace-for-srinagar-sharjah-flight-333815
