08-11-2021||New Delhi||Srinagar joins UNESCO’s network of creative cities||UNESCO announced on Tuesday the addition of Srinagar to its network of creative cities.Srinagar has been designated as a “Creative City of Craft and Folk Arts”, said a UNESCO press release.From India, Srinagar joins Chennai and Varanasi (both UNESCO cities of music), Jaipur (crafts and folk arts), Mumbai (film). and Hyderabad (gastronomy).The “UNESCO Network” now has nearly 300 from 90 countries that invest in culture and creativity to advance sustainable urban development, said the press release.Worldwide, Srinagar is among the 49 new cities that have joined the “UNESCO Creative Cities Network” (UCCN) following their designation by UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay.By joining UCC, cities commit to sharing their best practices and developing partnerships involving the public and private sectors to develop hubs of creativity and innovation and broaden opportunities for creators and professionals in the cultural sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/srinagar-joins-unescos-network-of-creative-cities-335589
08-11-2021||---||Srinagar airport gets ‘major’ tag as annual traffic crosses 35 lakh||New Delhi, November 7In a significant move, the Union Government has issued a notification declaring Srinagar International Airport as a “major airport” under the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA) Act, 2008. The AERA is now empowered to determine and fix tariff for aeronautical services.In a gazette notification, the Ministry of Civil Aviation said, “In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of Section 2 of the AERA Act, 2008, the Union Government hereby declares the Srinagar airport as a major airport.”After the notification, the AERA, under the Ministry of Civil Aviation, would have the powers to determine tariff for aeronautical services at Srinagar airport, said an official.Under the AERA, the Centre can designate an airport as a major airport if it has annual passenger traffic of at least 35 lakh. For non-major airports, these tariffs are determined by the Airports Authority of India (AAI), a body under the Ministry of Civil Aviation.As per Section 13 of the Act, the AERA has been mandated to determine the tariff for the aeronautical services rendered at major airports, which include user development and passenger service fee levied under Rule 88 of the Aircraft Rules, 1937.On October 23, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had inaugurated international flight operations at Srinagar airport by flagging off the first direct international flight between Srinagar and Sharjah.AERA to fix tariff||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/srinagar-airport-gets-major-tag-as-annual-traffic-crosses-35-lakh-335395
08-11-2021||Poonch||Rs 38-cr projects sanctioned for tribal development in Poonch||The Jammu and Kashmir Tribal Affairs Department on Sunday sanctioned projects worth Rs 38 crore for Poonch district in the current fiscal, an official spokesman said.The projects include establishment of 12 smart schools, tribal museum and research centre, setting up two milk villages, developing public infrastructure in 18 villages, health infrastructure, mobile dispensaries, tourism infrastructure and sheep farms and dairy farms, he said.The spokesman said the sanction was granted by the Secretary, Tribal Affairs Department, Shahid Iqbal Choudhary at a meeting convened to review the progress under district capital expenditure, Border Area Development Programme (BADP), tribal welfare and youth engagement initiatives in the district.Choudhary asked the departments for immediate steps to ensure timely completion of projects under centrally sponsored schemes.He also took serious note of the slow pace of tendering in rural development work and delay in repair of machines and transformers for which departments were asked to fix responsibility.Detailed review of tribal plan and BADP was also conducted and departments were asked to ensure outcome-based utilisation of funds within stipulated time, the spokesman said.He said discussions were also held regarding youth engagement programme and it was agreed to provide funding to the tune of Rs 5 crore, including development of counselling centres, library, sports equipment and tournaments, grant-in-aid of Rs 60 lakh to youth clubs, funding for self-employment schemes, including Mumkin, Tejaswini and initiative for victims of border shelling and insurgency. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/rs-38-cr-projects-sanctioned-for-tribal-development-in-poonch-335391
08-11-2021||Srinagar||Constable shot by ultras in Srinagar||A policeman was shot dead by terrorists in the Batamaloo area of the city on Sunday, officials said. He was identified as constable Tausif Ahmad, they said.“At about 8 pm, terrorists fired upon Jammu and Kashmir Police constable Tausif Ahmad near his residence at SD Colony, Batamaloo,” an official said.They said the cop was critically injured and was taken to the SMHS hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. The area has been cordoned off and a hunt has been launched to nab the attackers, they added.Political parties, including the National Conference (NC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), expressed anguish over the killing. “Unequivocally condemn the cowardly & dastardly attack on 29-year-old policeman in Batmaloo, Srinagar, in which he lost his life. No words of condemnation would be enough! May Allah grant him a place in Jannat. Our hearts go out to his family and friends at this time of grief (sic),” the NC said in a tweet.PDP tweeted: “Anguished by the attack in Batamaloo which has claimed the life of @JmuKmrPolice cop Tauseef Ahmed. May his family find strength to bear the loss (sic).” People’s Conference president Sajad Lone said he was pained to hear about the killing. “Yet again an addition to army of orphans and widows. Pained to hear about the killing of Constable Touseef Ahmed. My heartfelt commiserations to the family. Inshallah Allah will grant Jannat (sic),’ Lone said. — PTIMilitant arrested from hospital||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/constable-shot-by-ultras-in-srinagar-335389
08-11-2021||Srinagar||Major General Srivastava takes charge of Victor Force||Major General Prashant Srivastava on Sunday took over as the General Officer Commanding of the Army’s south Kashmir-based counter-insurgency Victor Force, a defence spokesman said.Major Gen Srivastava took over from Major Gen Rashim Bali, who has moved to Delhi on an important assignment in the Integrated Headquarters of the Ministry of Defence (Army), defence spokesman Col Emron Musavi said. He said Maj Gen Srivastava was commissioned into elite Parachute Battalion of the Special Forces on June 9, 1990.“An alumnus of National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, the General Officer has attended all important career courses, including Defence Services Staff Courses Wellington (Tamil Nadu), Higher Command Course and National Defence College (USA). “He has an MSc in Strategic Studies and Masters of Philosophy to his credit. The General Officer has vast operational experience having served in intense counter-insurgency/counter-terrorist environment in Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir and the North East,” the spokesman said. He said Maj Gen Srivastava has been awarded Sena Medal in 2011 while commanding his unit. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/major-general-srivastava-takes-charge-of-victor-force-335387
08-11-2021||Srinagar||Bengaluru woman treks to 50 high-altitude lakes in Kashmir||Braving arthritis, a Bengaluru woman created a record of sorts by trekking to 50 high-altitude lakes, located about 10,000 feet above sea level, in Kashmir within a span of four months, earning the sobriquet of “Alpine girl”.Probably the first female to trek to these high-altitude lakes, Namratha Nandish, who stays in the Bengaluru’s Bellandur area, started with Tulian Lake, which is sandwiched between the Pir Panjal and the Zanskar mountain ranges in South Kashmir’s Pahalgam area, and concluded with Shilsar Lake in the higher reaches of the Anantnag-Kishtwar area.Alpine lakes are located above 10,000 feet from sea level. “It all started with an idea of my husband, Abhishek, adding a visit to Srinagar in the previous winters. He wanted to see the frozen Dal Lake,” says Nandish. The couple embarked on their journey to the Kashmir valley on January 26 and checked into a local hotel. “I had done my homework and decided to trek 33 lakes during the season as a birthday gift to myself,” Nandish, who turned 33 this year, said.An HR manager in an information technology company, the work from home facility, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, came in handy for her to reach her goal during the trekking season, which started in mid-June. “Work hard and play hard. On my weekends, I packed my bags and joined a trekking group to achieve my goal which started with Tulian Lake,” she said. Her local trek leader Syed Tahir, who accompanied her to most of the lakes, recalled his meeting with the Bengaluru women.Tourists come here and want to do a long trek of three to four days but here was a woman, who had set a goal for herself, even before the start of the season, Tahir, an expert trekker, said. “She will be the first female who has completed 50 lakes in one season as no one has been able to achieve this kind of feat to the best of my memory of covering 50 Alpine Lakes in one season spread across the Kashmir valley,” he said. Nandish feels nostalgic as she packs her bags for her journey back home. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/bengaluru-woman-treks-to-50-high-altitude-lakes-in-kashmir-335385
08-11-2021||Srinagar||165 fresh Covid cases, no death in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded 165 fresh cases of Covid-19, raising its tally to 3,33,076, officials said.No death due to the infection was reported from the Union Territory in the past 24 hours, they added.Of the fresh cases, nine were from the Jammu division and 156 from the Kashmir division. Srinagar district recorded the highest 87 cases, followed by 26 cases in Baramulla district, they added. There were 1,153 active cases in the UT, while the number of recovered patients stood at 3,27,483, the officials said.The death toll in the UT stood at 4,440. There are 49 confirmed cases of mucormycosis (black fungus) and no fresh case has been reported since Friday evening. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/165-fresh-covid-cases-no-death-in-jammu-and-kashmir-335384
08-11-2021||Srinagar||Police constable shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar||A policeman was shot dead by terrorists in the Batamaloo area of the city on Sunday, officials said.He was identified as Constable Tausif Ahmad, they said."At about 8 pm, terrorists fired upon JKP Constable Tausif Ahmad near his residence at SD Colony, Batamaloo," the officials added.They said the cop was critically injured and was taken to the SMHS hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead.The area has been cordoned off, and a hunt has been launched to nab the attackers, the officials added.Meanwhile, the National Conference (NC) condemned the attack. “Unequivocally condemn the cowardly & dastardly attack on 29-year-old policeman in Batmaloo, Srinagar in which he lost his life. No words of condemnation would be enough! May Allah grant him a place in Jannat. Our hearts go out to his family and friends at this time of grief,” the party tweeted. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/police-constable-shot-dead-by-terrorists-in-srinagar-335211
