15-11-2021||Jodhpur||Muslims under attack, mosques being ‘blown up’, says Farooq Abdullah||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah here on Monday urged the government to address the fears faced by Muslims, alleging that people from the community are being attacked and their mosques “blown up”.                                 He, however, did not cite any specific instance.In an interaction with the media, Abdullah said the government will have to act as Muslims who are standing with India are being “killed”. He also sought dialogue between India and Pakistan, saying it is the only “way out” for the problems between the two countries.“When we see in the country, there are attacks on Muslims, they are being beaten up and mosques are being blown up,” he said.“The victim would be us, who are standing with India. We will be killed as we do not have any other place except India. We are equal but the situation building around is causing fear and they (government) will have to address it,” he said.Referring to India-Pakistan relations, he said the dialogue is the only “way out” for all problems between the two nations.He said relations of Hindus and Muslims are being affected due to the strained ties between the two countries.“If we want to improve our relation, we will have to ease these differences and find some ways. And the only way for this is dialogue,” he said, citing the visit of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee to Pakistan to have a dialogue with his counterpart Nawaz Sharif. In a veiled attack on the Centre, he said they could talk with China even when it was already in India’s territory and advancing every day. “If we can talk with China, then why not with Pakistan. China is in our territory and advancing every day,” said Abdullah. On the situation in J&K after the abrogation of its special status under Article 370, Abdullah said the “media is not free there”. “No one can write freely and if you do, you can go to jail,” he said. Referring to the youth there, he said a large number of them are unemployed.Referring to China and Pakistan, he said: “We are stuck between them. We do not know if there is war someday. Only we will suffer. We will be killed”. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/muslims-under-attack-mosques-being-blown-up-says-farooq-abdullah-338429
15-11-2021||Srinagar||Militant gunned down by security forces in Srinagar||An unidentified militant was killed in a brief encounter with security forces in the Hyderpora area of the city on Monday, police said.The encounter broke out when the security forces were conducting an anti-militancy operation in the area, a police official said.The identity and group affiliation of the slain militant are being ascertained, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/militant-gunned-down-by-security-forces-in-srinagar-338422
15-11-2021||Srinagar||Google seeks more details in Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra case||Google has sought more details from the Jammu and Kashmir Police on its demand of records related to email exchanges of Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra, a close aide of PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, in connection with his alleged links with Pakistan-based secessionist leaders and terrorists, officials said here on Sunday.According to officials, they had recently submitted the replies sought by the authorities seeking further details about Parra’s involvement, which included the proof for linking the emails to the jailed PDP leader. The chargesheet, filed by the Counter Intelligence Kashmir (CIK) wing of the police in June, had said Parra used to share information through several email services, of which three have been brought on record.“Accordingly, a request has been forwarded through proper channels to Google US as per their standard forms and norms for providing details/contents of emails exchanged by Parra through his three email IDs,” the 19-page chargesheet said.The officials said the US-based company had raised some questions before executing the request and after the same had been replied to recently. Once the information is received, the CIK branch would file a supplementary chargesheet, they added.Parra’s lawyer as well as the PDP denied all allegations, calling them “politically motivated”.Charging Parra under the UAPA, the police had said in its chargesheet that the US authorities had been approached through the medium of Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty (MLAT) via the Ministry of External Affairs for providing necessary assistance in the case.“Google US has been requested to preserve the data of the emails (of Parra)… and Google has conveyed compliance,” the chargesheet said. The CIK, which is a part of the Jammu and Kashmir Police’s CID, has also asked Google to provide WhatsApp chats and data stored in Google Drive or cloud account connected to Parra’s mobile phone. — PTITerror link||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/google-seeks-more-details-in-waheed-ur-rehman-parra-case-338187
15-11-2021||---||Street vendor loses life savings to robbery, Srinagar SSP gives him Rs 1 lakh from own pocket||New Delhi, November 14In a heartwarming gesture that has taken Srinagar residents by pleasant surprise, city’s Senior Superintendent of Police Sandeep Chaudhary gave Rs 1 lakh from his personal savings to a local vendor who had lost all his savings to a robbery the day before.Srinagar SSP Sandeep Chaudhary earned generous praises not only from people of the city but from netizens across social media spaces today, as the news of his gesture went viral.Local vendor Rehman, 90, had made Rs 1 lakh from selling snacks at Srinagar’s Bohrikadal area.All alone, with no family to support him, Rehman had saved the money for his last rites.But a theft at his residence the day before left him distraught as the robbers fled with his entire life savings.Srinagar SSP then stepped in. Not only was an FIR registered and probe launched, the SSP also gave Rehman Rs 1 lakh from personal savings until the stolen money was recovered.Police sources said Rehman was relieved when he received the help.“Investigation in such cases can take time. Our attempt is to nab the culprits at the earliest. Until such time as we arrest the robbers, it was important to extend a helping hand to the elderly vendor who spent his entire life making a dignified living,” said Srinagar police sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/street-vendor-loses-life-savings-to-robbery-srinagar-ssp-gives-him-rs-1-lakh-from-own-pocket-338059
