17-11-2021||Jammu||Mehbooba stages protest, demands handover of bodies of civilians killed in Hyderpora encounter||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday led a strong protest here against the civilian killings by security forces, and demanded handing over of bodies of the deceased to their families.The former chief minister said since the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) has been in force, there has been no accountability for the killings of the innocents.Four people, including two civilians, were killed in a gunfight by security forces on Monday evening during an anti-terror operation.According to the police, Haider, a Pakistani terrorist, and his local associate Mohammad Amir, along with two civilians -- Altaf Bhat and Mudassir Gul -- were killed in the encounter in Hyderpora locality, where an illegal call centre and a terror hideout were allegedly being run.Inspector-General of Police (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar claimed that Gul was an active associate of militants and was running the call centre on premises owned by Bhat, who was killed in cross-firing with the terrorists.He expressed regret over Bhat’s death but said he would be counted among the “harbourers” of militants.Mohammad Amir’s father Latief Magray, a resident of Gool area of Ramban district, has refuted the official claim that his son was a militant.Holding a placard that read “Stop killing us, probe Hyderpora killings, end impunity and handover bodies to families”, Mehbooba, along with party activists and leaders, staged a protest against these killings outside the party’s Gandhi Nagar headquarters.A strong posse of policemen stopped the protesters from moving towards the main road.Mehbooba told reporters that the families of the slain civilians are holding protests in Srinagar and demanding handover of their bodies.“This cruel government is not even handing over the bodies after killing people. They (BJP) want to convert this nation of Gandhi, Nehru, and Ambedkar into a country of Godse. What else can I say?” the PDP leader said.Asked about the IGP’s claim of there being digital evidence against those killed, she said: “If they had prior evidence, why the police did not arrest them, as they have been doing on a daily basis.” “Whenever anybody gets killed in their firing, they dub him an Over Ground worker, and that is wrong.“Since the AFSPA has been in force, there has been no accountability and no one’s been answerable,” she said.“They are innocent civilians and their families are denied even performing of their last rites,” she added.Referring to a previous incident of fake encounter in which three youths were killed, she said the security agencies made the claim of having digital evidence even then, but the reality is that they have no evidence.Three orchard labourers were killed in a staged encounter in Amshipora village of Shopian on July 18, 2020.In another incident this January, Athar Mushtaq, a class 11 student, was killed along with two other youths in Lawaypora, Srinagar. Mushtaq’s father disputed the claim that his son was a militant and demanded an SIT probe into the matter.Mehbooba is scheduled to return to Srinagar later in the day after completing her five-day tour of Jammu. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/mehbooba-stages-protest-demands-handover-of-bodies-of-civilians-killed-in-hyderpora-encounter-339316
17-11-2021||Srinagar||Hyderpora encounter: Families of slain civilians protest, demand return of bodies||Families of two civilians killed in the Hyderpora encounter in Srinagar held a protest here on Wednesday, demanding justice for the victims and the return of their bodies.A controversy had erupted over Monday’s encounter in Hyderopra following conflicting claims about the two deceased civilians as their family members contested the police’s charge that they were “terror associates”.According to the police, a Pakistani terrorist and his local associate Mohammad Amir, along with two civilians—Altaf Bhat and Mudassir Gul—were killed in the encounter, where an illegal call centre and a terror hideout were allegedly being run.On Wednesday, the families of Bhat and Gul held a protest at Press Enclave in the city, demanding that their bodies be returned to them as they were not militants or OGWs.Police had said the bodies of all the four killed in the encounter were buried in the Handwara area of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district.Speaking to reporters, Altaf Bhat’s brother Abdul Majeed said as a ‘numberdar’ (revenue official), he remains in constant touch with the police and they would have informed him if his brother was involved in militancy.“He (Bhat) was doing business in Hyderpora Bypass for the last 30 years. He rented the building and we had furnished their (tenants) verification in police station Saddar. The police should have contacted us if there was anything (adverse),” he said.Majeed said his brother was a builder, a taxpayer and an innocent man.“You can verify in the whole locality. The police knew him, they used to visit his place every day, have tea with him, they can verify his credentials,” he added.Majeed said on Monday, the “Task Force” (J-K police’s counter-insurgency unit known as the special operations group) came and took his brother thrice for searches in the building.“They took him upstairs and brought him down three times. They used drones. (It was) as if they were shooting a movie there. Unfortunately, an innocent Altaf was martyred,” he said.The family demanded justice and also the return of his body.“We appeal the LG, request him, that verify and if there is anything (adverse) against my brother, then they can hang me in public in the city centre.“He (Altaf) was innocent, a civilian and not a militant. We want answers, we want justice. We want his body. Why is the government, the terrorists, killing innocent people?” Majeed said.Mudassir Gul’s wife Humaira Mudassir, while breaking down, said his husband was innocent.The family also demanded justice and sought the return of their kin’s body.“We want justice. Give justice to his wife, his mother and father. Give justice to his one-year-old daughter Inaya Mudasir,” Humaira said.Senior Awami Itehad Party (AIP) leader Sheeban Ashai, who joined the protest, said the civilians were used as human shields by the police.“I want to ask LG (Manoj Sinha) and India’s Home Minister Amit Shah that two innocent civilians were killed under their watch. How were they killed in the crossfire? Why were they not provided with protective gear when the forces took them for searches? That means they were used as human shields. That is the biggest loophole in the police story,” he said.Ashai alleged that police have started a new trend since August 5, 2019 – when the Centre revoked J-K’s special status – of picking anyone from his house, jailing him or killing him in encounter.“They (civilians) were killed in cold blood and look at the insensitivity and shamelessness of this government that they have detained even their dead bodies. I want to ask Sinha that is this the tradition in his UP?...why were the mortal remains not returned to their families?” he said.The AIP leader said the families of the two civilians will continue their protest and not leave the place till the bodies are returned.“No matter how many days, we will not leave from here till their bodies are returned,” he said.Ashai asked the people to come to Press Enclave to register their protest peacefully.He also asked the Lt Governor to direct the police to return the bodies of the civilians.“We demand an inquiry headed by a retired high court justice in which two persons from civil society are also included. The facts of the case be kept in the public domain,’ he said.He said the killings were a “cold blooded murder”.“Why was no security forces personnel killed in the firing? I hope that, if he has even one per cent of humanity in his heart, then he should come here and sympathise with the families,” he said, adding the administration should apologise for the killings.Meanwhile, National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah said the civilians were killed “because they were put in harm’s way”.“The police admit they took the building owner (Altaf) & the tenant (Gul) in to the building & used them to knock on doors. How then can these people be termed as militants? They are civilians who died because they were put in harm’s way,” Abdullah wrote on Twitter.He said to “vilify them as militants or OGWs is bad enough but to take the bodies away & forcibly bury them in North Kashmir is a crime against humanity”.“The bodies must be returned to the families so they can be buried. It’s the only just thing & it’s the only humanitarian thing to do,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/hyderpora-encounter-families-of-slain-civilians-protest-demand-return-of-bodies-339308
17-11-2021||Srinagar||3 injured in grenade attack in J-K’s Baramulla||Two CRPF personnel and a civilian were injured in a grenade attack by terrorists in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police said."At about 11.15 am, terrorists hurled a grenade near Palhallan Chowk in Pattan area of the north Kashmir district," a police official said.Further details are awaited. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/3-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-j-ks-baramulla-339276
17-11-2021||Srinagar||Chill intensifies in Kashmir||Srinagar recorded the coldest night of the season as the minimum temperature settled at minus 1.2 degrees Celsius, officials said on Tuesday.Kokernag was the only weather station in the Valley to record minimum temperature above the freezing point. Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for annual Amarnath yatra, recorded a low of minus 4.7 degrees Celsius. Pahalgam was the coldest recorded place in Kashmir.Gulmarg resort in Baramulla district recorded a minimum temperature of minus 1.2 degrees Celsius. The mercury in Kupwara settled at minus 2.3 degrees Celsius. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/chill-intensifies-in-kashmir-339084
17-11-2021||---||Srinagar: Families of traders killed in Hyderpora encounter reject terror link claim, seek probe||Srinagar, November 16After the families of two businessmen killed in Hyderpora gunfight on Tuesday contested police claims that the deceased were overground workers (OGWs) for terrorists, the National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party demanded a time-bound probe into the incident.According to the police, a Pakistani terrorist and his local associate Mohammad Amir, along with two civilians — Altaf Bhat and Mudassir Gul — were killed in the encounter in Hyderpora locality, where an illegal call centre and a terror hideout were allegedly being run.The families of Bhat and Gul, however, refuted police claims that their kin were helping terrorists and demanded that the bodies be returned for burial.Targeting civiliansUsing civilians as human shields, getting them killed and then labelling them as OGWs is part of government’s rule book now. —Mehbooba Mufti, PDP presidentTransparency neededIn the midst of conflicting claims, the least we deserve is a transparent description by a neutral institution. —Sajad Lone, Chief, J&K people’s conferenceKashmir IG Vijay Kumar said Gul was an active associate of militants and was running the call centre on the premises owned by Altaf. He said Altaf would be counted among the “harbourers” of militants.“He (Bhat) had kept the tenants and the police had no information about it. The responsibility of the owner does not end with renting out the place,” the IGP said.Video clips of family members of Altaf were posted on social media today with PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti retweeting the same. The clip features Altaf Bhat's daughter saying, “...My father was called for a search thrice. On two occasions he was sent back but on the third he was killed. When I asked the security person why my father was killed, he just smiled. What can I say?”Posting the video of the girl, Mufti tweeted, “Using innocent civilians as human shields, getting them killed in cross-firing and then conveniently labelling them as OGWs (overground workers) is part of GOI’s rule book now. Imperative that a credible judicial inquiry is done to bring out the truth and put an end to this rampant culture of impunity."NC vice president Omar Abdullah also demanded an inquiry. In a statement, the NC said a time-bound and impartial probe should be ordered. Lok Sabha MPs of National Conference Farooq Abdullah, Mohammad Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi in a joint statement said the Centre should spare a thought on the impact of such killings and the subsequent culture of impunity the civilian killings have created on the psyche of people.Both bizmenAltaf Bhat owned a commercial complex in Hyderpora which was cordoned for an anti-terror operation and Mudasir ran a computer centre in the complex. Among the four killed was a foreign terrorist.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/srinagar-families-of-traders-killed-in-hyderpora-encounter-reject-terror-link-claim-seek-probe-339085
17-11-2021||Udhampur (J&K)||1 dead, 6 hurt in mishap at Nashri tunnel||A person was killed and six people were injured on Tuesday when two vehicles collided on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Udhampur district, officials said.An SUV, which was on its way to Jammu, collided with a mini bus inside Nashri tunnel on the highway. One person died on the spot and six people were injured. All the injured were taken to Chenani hospital and four of them were critical.Traffic was briefly disrupted on the highway following the accident. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/1-dead-6-hurt-in-mishap-at-nashri-tunnel-339086
17-11-2021||Srinagar/Leh||144 new covid cases in J&K||J&K on Tuesday recorded 144 new Covid cases, taking the infection tally to 3,34,432 while two deaths due to the virus were reported in the past 24 hours, officials said.Of the fresh cases, 19 were from the Jammu division and 125 from the Kashmir division. At 51, the maximum cases were recorded from Srinagar district followed by Baramulla (21).There are 1,544 active cases in the Union Territory, while the recovered patients are 3,28,433. The death toll due to the pandemic rose to 4,455 as two more fresh deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. There are 49 confirmed cases of mucormycosis (black fungus) in the Union Territory as no fresh case has been reported since Monday evening.Ladakh recorded 29 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 21,205 on Tuesday. The active cases have gone up to 200, officials said.Ladakh has registered 211 Covid-related deaths so far. Two more patients have recuperated, taking the total number of recoveries to 20,794. A total of 316 samples were tested negative for Covid. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/144-new-covid-cases-in-jk-339087
17-11-2021||Srinagar||Omar, Mehbooba demand impartial probe in Hyderpora encounter||Former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti have demanded an impartial probe in the encounter at a house in Srinagar's Hyderpora area.The gunfight took place on Monday in which four persons, including a foreign militant and a local militant, were killed. The police said two of the four were overground workers of terrorist groups."Using innocent civilians as human shields, getting them killed in cross-firing and then conveniently labelling them as OGWs is a part of GOIs rulebook now. Imperative that a credible judicial enquiry is done to bring out the truth and put an end to this rampant culture of impunity," Mufti tweeted."An impartial and credible inquiry into the recent encounter in Hyderpora is an absolute necessity. There are far too many questions being raised about the encounter and about the people killed." Omar tweeted."There have been numerous instances of fake encounters in the past and the questions raised about this #hyderporaencounter need to be answered swiftly and in a credible manner." Omar tweeted.Police said four persons were killed in an encounter at Hyderpora in Srinagar on Monday, including the foreign militant identified as Haider and his accomplice.Inspector General Police Vijay Kumar said in a press conference that an overground worker of the militants and the house owner were also killed during the encounter. He said that the house owner was killed in a crossfire while Gul, living on rent in the building, had provided shelter to Haider and his associate.The families of two persons, however, have disputed the police version.—     IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/omar-mehbooba-demand-impartial-probe-in-hyderpora-encounter-338902
