20-11-2021||Srinagar||Elections not a solution to J&K issue: Mehbooba||Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said on Saturday elections have never been a solution to the Jammu and Kashmir issue, though they are important for addressing the basic needs of people.She said her party is ready for the polls whenever they are held.“Elections have never been a solution to the J-K issue. Elections, whether they take place today or tomorrow, will keep on happening. While they are important for addressing the basic needs of the people, they (elections) are not my priority. Whenever they take place, we are ready for that,” Mehbooba told reporters in north Kashmir’s Kupwara.The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief also accused the Centre of trying to divide the Muslim votes in Jammu and Kashmir by propping up new parties.“The Centre is attempting to divide the majority community vote in J-K. The Congress is being split, people were taken out from the PDP, the NC and new parties were created. It is being done to disempower the people here, to reduce their power. But I am sure that the people of Kashmir are politically mature and they understand it,” she said.Mehbooba has said several times in the past that she is not going to fight the assembly elections as her objective is to seek the restoration of Article 370 of the Constitution, which was abrogated by the BJP-led government in August 2019.She said farmers through their peaceful protest made Prime Minister Narendra Modi repeal the three contentious farm laws and expressed hope that a day will come when the Centre will restore Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370 “along with interest”.“Farmers protested peacefully for a year and secured their rights. Unfortunately, the people in J-K are not allowed to protest... There is jungle raj. But this will not remain as such.... A day will come when they (Centre) will have to give us back not only (Articles) 370 & 35-A, but along with interest,” she said.She said the people of Jammu and Kashmir will continue their struggle till the time the special status is restored.“It took BJP 70 years to revoke (Article) 370, so we will also struggle, be it for 70 days or 70 months, for the restoration of our identity, for the promise made by the country to our people which was enshrined in the Constitution. We will continue our struggle until Articles 370 and 35-A are restored and Kashmir issue is settled,” she said.The PDP president said even when there was tension between India and Pakistan, the countries were engaged in some dialogue process.“The Kartarpur Corridor has been reopened, did they not talk to Pakistan? There has been a ceasefire (along the Line of Control in J-K) for the past few months, so were there no talks with Pakistan? The NSAs (of the countries) talk to each other in other countries. Pakistan’s NSA was recently invited for talks on Afghanistan.“But when we say it (talk to Pakistan), they get irritated. The talks are going on and (former PM A B) Vajpayee, who was their tallest leader, also did it. Nothing will happen without dialogue,” she said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/elections-not-a-solution-to-jk-issue-mehbooba-340740
20-11-2021||Banihal/Jammu||Hyderpora encounter: Ramban DDC chief warns of protest if 3rd victim’s body not returned to kin||Ramban District Development Council chairperson Shamshad Shan on Saturday warned of protests if the authorities do not decide on handing over the body of Amir Magray, the third person killed in the Hyderpora encounter and whose kin claim he was innocent, to his family members.Shan, however, welcomed Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha’s order for a magisterial probe into the encounter which took place in Srinagar on Monday evening.After the bodies of two civilians killed in the Hyderpora encounter were returned to their families, the chorus for handing over the mortal remains of Amir Magray grew louder.Cutting across political spectrum, leaders from the mainstream as well as the separatist camp demanded that Magray’s body be also returned to his family in the Ramban area of Jammu for last rites.“We are not disappointed as we have full faith in the Lt Governor. We are awaiting his decision and I am hopeful that he will make one by this (Saturday) evening and return Magray’s body so his final rites could be performed. But in case he does not take a decision, the situation will compel us to go for protests,” Shan told reporters in Ramban.According to the police, Magray was a militant and was killed along with his Pakistani associate and two others. However, Magray’s father Abdul Latief refuted the police’s claim and appealed to the L-G to ensure justice for the family.On Friday Latief met the deputy commissioner of Ramban seeking the return of his son’s body.Additional District Magistrate of Ramban Harbans Lal Sharma on November 17 ordered imposition of prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code in Magray’s Famrote village, along with Sangaldan and Seripura, until further orders.Bodies of Mohammad Altaf Bhat and Mudasir Gul, two civilians killed in the Hyderpora encounter, were handed over to their kin on Thursday night after they were exhumed following protests by family members that they were innocent and not linked to militancy as claimed by the police.Police had initially buried them in the Handwara area of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district.“We are thankful to the Lt Governor for ordering a (magisterial) probe into the encounter and returning the bodies of two other civilians to their families. Let the government do its job to unveil the truth but let it also return Magray’s body. The law is equal for all civilians,” Shan said.“We have already petitioned the deputy commissioner of Ramban. This (Magray’s) family is nationalist, fought militancy and was awarded by the government for bravery besides giving a security cover. It is difficult to think their own son will be declared a terrorist,” she said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/hyderpora-encounter-ramban-ddc-chief-warns-of-protest-if-3rd-victims-body-not-returned-to-kin-340708
20-11-2021||Srinagar||Militant killed in encounter in J-K’s Kulgam||A militant was killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district on Saturday, police said.Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the Ashmuji area of the south Kashmir district following information about the presence of militants there, a police official said.During the operation, the hiding militants fired at the forces, leading to a gunfight, he said, adding one ultra was killed.The identity and group affiliation of the slain militant is being ascertained, he said.The operation is on and further details are awaited, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/militant-killed-in-encounter-in-j-ks-kulgam-340684
20-11-2021||Srinagar||Kashmir shivers as minimum temperature settles below freezing point; Srinagar records season's coldest night||A thick layer of fog engulfed many parts of Kashmir on Saturday morning as the minimum temperature settled below the freezing point across the Valley, with Srinagar recording the coldest night of the season at minus 1.5 degrees Celsius, officials said.The minimum temperature across the valley stayed below the freezing point on Friday night and the mercury was two to three degrees below normal for this part of the season, the MeT officials said.Srinagar recorded a low of minus 1.5 degrees Celsius -- down from minus 1.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday night, they said.The officials said Pahalgam recorded a low of minus 4.3 degrees Celsius. Pahalgam was the coldest recorded place in Kashmir.Gulmarg resort in north Kashmir's Baramulla district recorded a minimum temperature of minus 1 degree Celsius.The mercury in Kupwara in north Kashmir settled at a low of minus 2.7 degrees Celsius.Qazigund recorded minus 1.8 degrees Celsius, while Kokernag, in south Kashmir, registered a low of minus 1.3 degrees Celsius, the officials said.A thick layer of fog engulfed many parts of the valley early in the morning, causing difficulties to motorists.The MeT Office has said the fog/misty weather in the morning will continue for a few days as the weather will most likely remain dry till November 23.Light snow is likely over extreme north Kashmir parts on November 24, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/kashmir-shivers-as-minimum-temperature-settles-below-freezing-point-srinagar-records-seasons-coldest-night-340667
20-11-2021||Srinagar||Concerned Citizens Group demands judicial probe in Hyderpora encounter||The Concerned Citizens Group (CCG), led by former Union Finance Minister Yashwant Sinha on Friday expressed deep anguish at the civilian killings in the Hyderpora encounter and called for a judicial inquiry under the supervision of the Supreme Court in order to “uncover the truth” and restore people's confidence in the rule of law.“The government's explanation is as clear as mud and complicates the issue further. The Lieutenant Governor's decision to order a magisterial inquiry is nothing more than an eyewash,” the CCG said in a statement.It said a judicial inquiry under the supervision of the Supreme Court should be conducted. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/concerned-citizens-group-demands-judicial-probe-in-hyderpora-encounter-340374
20-11-2021||Srinagar||Punish 'erring officials' involved in killing of civilians: PAGD to President Kovind||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) has appealed to President Ram Nath Kovind to ensure that the rule of law prevails in J&K and the “erring officials” involved in the killing of civilians in the Hyderpora encounter are brought to book and punished.In a letter to the President that was issued to the media on Friday, PAGD president Farooq Abdullah said the tragic incident in Hyderpora had evoked enormous public anger. “In this unfortunate incident, three civilians got killed in suspicious circumstances. The incident calls for a time-bound judicial probe so that true facts are unravelled and brought in public domain,” he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/punish-erring-officials-involved-in-killing-of-civilians-pagd-to-president-kovind-340377
20-11-2021||Srinagar||Hyderpora encounter: Strike throws life out of gear in J&K||Normal life was affected across the Kashmir valley on Friday due to the strike call given by the Hurriyat Conference to express solidarity with the families of the civilians killed in the Hyderpora encounter earlier this week, officials said.Most of the shops, fuel stations and other business establishments in Srinagar were shut. Public transport was largely off road, but private cars and autorickshaws were seen plying in some areas of the city. Officials said similar reports of the strike being observed were received from other areas of the Valley.The effect of the strike was accentuated by the public holiday on account of Gurupurb. The Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq had given the strike call. “Hurriyat Conference regrets that as most peoples’ leadership and political activists are either in jails or under house detention, people should observe a shut down on their own to protest such inhumanity and in solidarity with the devastated families of the slain civilians,” the Hurriyat had said in a statement a day before. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/hyderpora-encounter-strike-throws-life-out-of-gear-in-jk-340378
20-11-2021||Srinagar||Hyderpora encounter: Return body of third civilian, demand political parties||Bodies of Mohammad Altaf Bhat and Mudasir Gul, the two civilians killed in the Hyderpora encounter, were laid to rest hours after they were exhumed here, officials said on Friday. With this, the demand for the mortal remains of Amir Magray, the third person killed in the gunfight and whose kin claim he was innocent, has grown louder.The bodies, which were exhumed at Handwara after sunset on Thursday, reached here around midnight. Men, women and children waiting for the bodies broke down, wailing over the mortal remains as they caught the last glimpse of the slain before they were laid to rest.Lack of faithThe fact that the families are begging for mortal remains instead of asking for justice reflects their lack of faith in the system. Mehbooba Mufti, PDP ChiefUnfortunateMagray’s father is a state bravery award winner. His son has been killed and falsely labelled as a militant which is highly unfortunate. Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami, CPM leaderEqual rightsAmir Magray of Ramban, as a citizen of India, enjoys the same rights (in life and in death) under Article 21 as Altaf Bhat and Mudasir Gul. Junaid Azim Mattu, Srinagar MayorWhat about 4th one?Does the administration and also we (the society) think he was child (Amir Magray) of a lesser mortal? What about the fourth one? Ruhullah Mehdi, National Conference leaderThe bodies were taken out in processions to the local graveyards amidst chanting of religious verses. The authorities had told the families to limit the gathering and bury them quickly, the officials said. They said the bodies were laid to rest at their ancestral graveyards in Barzulla and Pirbagh after funeral prayers were held.The exhumation came after tremendous pressure from the families as well as mainstream politicians. On Thursday, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha ordered a magisterial inquiry.Meanwhile, leaders from the mainstream as well as the separatist camp have said the body of Amir Magray should also be returned to his family in the Ramban area of Jammu.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti wrote on Twitter, “Aamir Magrey is yet to be given a decent burial by his mourning family. The fact that these families are begging for mortal remains instead of asking for justice reflects their lack of faith in the system.”National Conference leader Ruhullah Mehdi said tweeted, “...Does the administration and also we (the society) think he was child (Magray) of a lesser mortal? And what about the identity and details of the fourth one killed? Or was there a fourth one? Was there even a combatant among them?”Srinagar Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu tweeted that Amir Magray of Ramban, as a citizen of India, enjoyed the same rights (in life and in death) under Article 21 of the Constitution as Altaf Bhat and Mudasir Gul. He stated that Magray’s remains should be returned.CPM leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami said, “It has been proven beyond any doubt that Magray is a civilian. His father Abdul Latief Magray is a state bravery award winner and now his son has been killed and falsely labelled as a militant which is highly unfortunate. The least the administration can do is to return his body.” — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/hyderpora-encounter-return-body-of-third-civilian-demand-political-parties-340373
