29-11-2021||Srinagar||Cold conditions intensify in Kashmir valley||The minimum temperature at most places in Kashmir Valley settled several degrees below the freezing point, officials said on Monday.Srinagar recorded a low of minus 1.1 degrees Celsius on Sunday night, down from minus 0.2 degrees Celsius the previous night, the officials said.They said Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra, recorded a low of minus 3.4 degrees Celsius.Gulmarg resort in north Kashmir's Baramulla district also recorded a minimum temperature of minus 2.2 degrees Celsius.The mercury in Kupwara in north Kashmir settled at a low of minus 1.6 degrees Celsius.Qazigund recorded minus 2 degrees Celsius, while Kokernag recorded a low of minus 0.5 degrees Celsius.The MET Office has said the weather would most likely remain dry but cold till December 3.The wintry conditions in the valley set in much ahead of the beginning of extreme harsh weather conditions which usually start around the third week of December. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/cold-conditions-intensify-in-kashmir-valley-344199
29-11-2021||New Delhi||All ultras behind civilian killings ?neutralised?||Nearly all terrorists involved in the killings of civilians in Jammu and Kashmir last month have been neutralised and the armed forces arenow focussing on intelligence-based “surgical operations” involving smaller teams to deal with terror activities in the Union Territory, sources in the security establishment said on Sunday.They said a ‘refined’ approach to deal with terrorism had been put in place under a more nuanced framework of better coordination among the Jammu and Kashmir Police, intelligence agencies and the Army with an aim to minimise collateral damage.After a spell of relative calm, Jammu and Kashmir witnessed a spate of killings of innocent civilians last month, triggering apprehensions of an intensecycle of violence and turmoil in the region. The sources said a major focus of the anti-terror drill had been to achieve “zero loss” of innocent lives and all wings of the security forces have been trying to achieve it.That is why the focus has been on “intelligence-based surgical operations” involving smaller teams, with a focus on drawing support from the local population to such actions, they added.According to intelligence inputs, Pakistan-based terror handlers have instructed their proxies operating in Kashmir to ensure at least 10 civilian deaths whenever the security forces undertake counter-terror operations, the sources said.They said 24 civilians were killed and 49 injured in various counter-terror operations in 2018. Over the past three years, the security forces undertook a series of measures to ensure minimum collateral damage and as a result of such efforts, only two civilians were killed and two received minor injuries in 2021, the sources said.Asked about the encounter in Srinagar’s Hyderpora, they said a certain section is focussing on it to occupy “lost space”. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh recently said the ongoing investigation into the Hyderpora encounter suggested that the terrorists were supported by a network in carrying out terror activities.The sources said the security forces had been getting support, including actionable intelligence, from the locals in several parts of Jammu and Kashmir as they have rejected the “false propaganda” unleashed by Pakistan.“There were instances of terrorists even being allowed to escape when there was a threat of collateral damage or when the lives of innocents were assessed to be at risk,” said a source on condition of anonymity. The sources claimed that the situation in Jammu and Kashmir has been under control and pointed out that compared to the 318 terror-related incidents in 2018, only 121 incidents were reported in 2021.“Similarly, while 202 stone-pelting incidents were reported in 2019, only 39 have been reported in 2021,” said another source. The sources said elements close to the Pakistani establishment had been relentlessly attempting to instigate the Kashmiri people.On October 7, terrorist Mehran Yaseen Shalla killed two teachers inside a government boys’ higher secondary school at Safa Kadal, Srinagar. Shalla was killed by the security forces on November 24, the sources said.Terrorist Adil A Wani killed Sageer Ahmed Ansari, a carpenter and a resident of Saharanpur, near the Litar bus stand in Anantnag. Wani was killed by the security forces in Shirmal Shopian on October 20 under the “Operation Dragad”, sources said, citing anti-terror operations.On October 17, terrorist Gulzar Ahmed Reshi was involved in the killings of two labourers from Bihar and one labourer was injured at Wanpoh in Kulgam. Reshi was killed by the security forces on October 20 under the “Operation Sopat”, the sources said. — PTIHunting down terroristsHOW THINGS STAND||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/all-ultras-behind-civilian-killings-neutralised-344006
29-11-2021||Ranchi||J&K traders assaulted in J?khand, 3 detained||The Jharkhand Police on Sunday said it had detained three persons who were part of a group that allegedly forced Kashmiri traders to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Pakistan Murdabad’ in Ranchi.A 34-year-old man from Kashmir, who makes a living by selling winter clothes, lodged a complaint with the police on Saturday stating that a group of around 25 persons attacked him and some other traders from the union territory in Ranchi’s Doranda area and forced them to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Pakistan Murdabad’.A purported video of Kashmiri traders complaining about the incident has been shared on Twitter.One of them is heard saying, “Is it a crime to be a Kashmiri. They have made our life hell here. Are we not Indians? They ask us always to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Pakistan Murdabad’. Four of us were beaten mercilessly...We are Indians and law is equal for all....There should be no discrimination.” Chief Minister Hemant Soren retweeted the link to the video and sought strict action against the culprits.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Surendra Kumar Jha said an investigation into the case is underway. “We have detained three persons in connection with the incident. An investigation has been initiated into the matter and action will be taken against anyone found guilty,” he stated. — PTINo place for religious enmityChief Minister Hemant Soren on Sunday retweeted the link to the video purportedly showing Kashmiri traders complaining about the incident. Seeking strict action against the culprits, he said: “There is no place for religious enmity and discrimination in Jharkhand.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/jk-traders-assaulted-in-jkhand-3-detained-344005
29-11-2021||Jammu||Ready for Assembly poll: Omar Abdullah||National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah on Sunday said he supported a delimitation exercise based on the 2011 census data “rather than one driven by political motives”, even as he asserted his party was ready for Assembly elections, which are yet to be announced.He also said his party never believed in provoking the public and added that people get annoyed when there was a mistake on part of the government. “Getting ready for elections or holding elections is the responsibility of the Election Commission. Our (Assembly) elections have already been delayed for a long time as the last polls were held in 2014 and seven years have already passed,” the former CM said in Doda.He said his party was ready for the polls and would announce its candidates with the sounding of the poll bugle. “After that it is up to the people how long they are willing to accompany us. We have to convince them of that.”Asked about the ongoing delimitation process and the central government’s promise of holding the Assembly poll, Abdullah said: “It (delimitation) should not be conducted on the basis of politics. It should be carried out on the basis of the Census. There will be no objection from anybody if the delimitation is done in accordance with the 2011 census data.” — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/ready-for-assembly-poll-omar-abdullah-344004
29-11-2021||Srinagar||BJP creating rift among parties, alleges Mehbooba||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti accused the BJP on Sunday of creating divisions among the political parties in Jammu and Kashmir and aiming to justify the “unconstitutional and illegal” decisions of August 5, 2019 in the next Assembly through leaders switching parties.“First it (BJP) attacked the PDP and created proxy parties here — you know which ones and I do not have to take their names. Then they created a division within the NC (National Conference) in Jammu and made those leaders join the BJP,” she told reporters at Bandipora, where she addressed a party convention.Referring to the recent resignations from party posts by several Congress leaders in Jammu and Kashmir, the PDP chief said it seemed the BJP was now trying to divide the grand old party. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/bjp-creating-rift-among-parties-alleges-mehbooba-344003
29-11-2021||Srinagar||Restore statehood: Congress||The Jammu and Kashmir Congress on Sunday asked the Centre to restore the “dignity and honour” of the erstwhile state by granting the union territory statehood and reinstating the democratic right of the people.Addressing a party workers’ convention at Wachoo in the Khansaheb area of Budgam district of Central Kashmir, JKPCC president GA Mir said the Congress was the only unifying force capable enough to defeat the BJP’s “maneuvering to divide people” on the basis of region or religion with an aim to gain political mileage.The workers’ convention was part of the party’s Jan Jagran Abhiyaan — an initiative of the Congress to highlight the “wrong policies” of the Centre towards the people of the union territory.Alleging the people of J&K were witnessing the “ugliest situation on every count”, Mir questioned the “delay” in holding the Assembly poll and granting statehood to J&K as promised by the Centre.He asked the Centre to fulfil its promise rather than “making u-turns and (indulging in) misadventures aiming to gain political mileage, which the BJP has been doing since it assumed power”. “However, the people have realised that they were being exploited and used for electoral gains by the saffron party. They have decided to defeat its (BJP’s) designs,” Mir said, stressing efforts to weaken the Congress party would be thwarted. — PTI Questions poll delay||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/restore-statehood-congress-344002
29-11-2021||Srinagar/Leh||J&K reports 2 Covid deaths, 145 fresh cases||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 145 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the number of those infected to 3,36,531, while two new deaths due to the virus raised the toll to 4,475, officials said. Eighteen of the fresh cases were from the Jammu division and 127 from the Kashmir division of the Union Territory, the officials said.They said Srinagar district recorded a maximum of 61 new Covid cases, followed by 31 cases in Baramulla district. There are 1,658 active cases in the UT, while the number of recoveries stands at 3,30,398, the officials said.In Leh, 27 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Ladakh in the past one day, taking the overall virus tally in the UT to 21,494 and active cases to 249, an official statement said on Sunday. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/jk-reports-2-covid-deaths-145-fresh-cases-344001
29-11-2021||Srinagar||Mercury settles below freezing point in Kashmir||Minimum temperature at most places in Kashmir dropped on Sunday as cold conditions returned across the Valley and mercury settled below the freezing point. The temperature last night dropped across the Valley except in Kokernag town, Met officials said said.Srinagar recorded -0.2°C last night, Pahalgam -3°C, Gulmarg -1.5°C, Kupwara -1.4°C and Qazigund -1.3°C. The Met office said the cold conditions would most likely continue till December 3. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/mercury-settles-below-freezing-point-in-kashmir-343999
29-11-2021||Ranchi||Three detained in Jharkhand for attacking Kashmiri traders, forcing them to chant Jai Shri Ram||The Jharkhand Police on Sunday said it has detained three persons who were a part of a group that allegedly forced Kashmiri traders to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Pakistan Murdabad’ in Ranchi.A 34-year-old man from Kashmir, who makes a living by selling winter clothes, lodged a complaint with the police on Saturday stating that a group of around 25 people attacked him and some other traders from the Union Territory in Ranchi’s Doranda area and forced them to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Pakistan Murdabad’.A purported video of Kashmiri traders complaining about the incident has been shared on Twitter.One of them is heard saying, “Is it a crime to be a Kashmiri. They have made our life hell here. Are we not Indians? They ask us always to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Pakistan Murdabad’. Four of us were beaten mercilessly...We are Indians and law is equal for all....There should be no discrimination.”   Chief Minister Hemant Soren retweeted the link to the video and sought strict action against the culprits.“There is no place for religious enmity and discrimination in Jharkhand,” Soren said in the tweet.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Surendra Kumar Jha told PTI that an investigation into the case is under way.“We have detained three persons in connection with the incident. An investigation has been initiated into the matter and action will be taken against anyone found guilty,” he stated. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/three-detained-in-jharkhand-for-attacking-kashmiri-traders-forcing-them-to-chant-jai-shri-ram-343783
