03-12-2021||The by-pass of the national highway near Hamipur has turned into a garbage dump. It seems the highway authorities have turned a blind eye to the problem. Surprisingly||Highway turns into garbage dump||Construct tourist complex at PangiA tourism complex with an information centre and a hotel should be constructed in Pangi tribal subdivision to attract tourists to the scenic valley. For this, a provision should be kept in the Draft Annual Tribal Area Development Programme under the state tribal budget for the next financial year. It would help the valley residents in a big way. — Residents, PangiWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something that you feel needs to be highlighted?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/highway-turns-into-garbage-dump-345750
03-12-2021||Shimla||Force needed to check smuggling||India needs stern counter-strike forces against smuggling and counterfeiting, said Bimal Gupta, DIG-cum-Principal, HP Police Training College, here yesterday. He was addressing a virtual programme of FICCI Committee Against Smuggling and Counterfeiting Activities for police officers.He said criminals were exploiting consumers under the shield of Covid through fake medical products, frauds and cyber crimes”. Some key recommendations included the need for capacity building in terms of skills, infrastructure and technology among the law enforcement agencies to improve detection and investigation of crimes, need for additional manpower, a dedicated economic offence wing, non-bailable measures for repeated offence.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/force-needed-to-check-smuggling-345748
03-12-2021||---||Staff upset at inept handling of grievances: Cong||Shimla, December 2Congress MLA and chairman of the party media department Harshwardhan Chauhan today alleged that government employees were utterly frustrated due to an inept handling of their grievances by the BJP government.Chauhan, while addressing mediapersons at Solan, said that though they were a disciplined force, police personnel had been compelled to resort to a peaceful protest. “The issue cannot be taken lightly, as they have boycotted the mess food against non-fulfillment of their demands,” he added.He said that when the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh and the ABVP were openly criticizing their own party government, it was obvious that things were not right.“What the government has given to the employees in terms of the pay commission recommendations and reduction in the contractual period are their legitimate right and were also part of the BJP’s Vision Document issued before the 2017 Assembly elections,” he added.Chauhan demanded a White Paper on the financial position of the State so that people know where Himachal stands.“The debt burden of the state has crossed Rs 70,000 crore, but still no steps have been taken to cut down wasteful expenditure. The Central Government has not given any financial or industrial package to Himachal,” he said.He said that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had claimed that the BJP lost the byelections by only one per cent vote margin, but it was not true. “The difference in the vote share in 20 Assembly segments was 5.5 per cent and not one per cent. In Mandi, the Congress bridged the four lakh votes gap of the last parliamentary elections though we won by a slender margin. In Jubbal-Kotkhai, the BJP candidate got only 2,700 votes and her security deposit was forfeited,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/staff-upset-at-inept-handling-of-grievances-cong-345747
03-12-2021||Shimla||Kashyap takes up Shimla flight  issue in LS||The BJP state president and MP from Shimla Suresh Kashyap today raised the issue of Shimla airport in the Lok Sabha and appraised the House that Shimla is a tourist destination with international and historic importance, a release issued here today said.Since the world faced the corona pandemic, the flights to Shimla were shut down which resulted in dip in tourist influx. He said Air Alliance aircraft ATR42 used to fly in this sector which carried 30 to 35 passengers to Shimla and on its way back it used to carry 8 to 10 passengers.Kashyap also requested the Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia to resume the flight to Shimla on priority basis and also increase the frequency for the same. Earlier, the MP had attended a meeting with the Shimla airport officials and had widely discussed the problems faced by the airport authorities.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kashyap-takes-up-shimla-flight-issue-in-ls-345746
03-12-2021||---||PM invited to govt's 4th anniversary event||Shimla, December 2Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said he had extended an invitation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to grace the occasion of celebration of four years of the BJP regime at Mandi on December 27.Talking to media persons here today Thakur said in case the Prime Minister arrives, he will inaugurate and lay foundation stones of projects worth Rs 4,200 crore. These include inauguration of the Sawra Kuddu hydro project and foundation stone laying of Luhri and Dhaula Sidh hydel projects.“In case the committee on Cabinet affairs accords approval to Rs 7,000 Renuka hydel project (40 MW) in Sirmour district, then the PM will also lay the foundation stone for it,” said Thakur. He added that the fourth year anniversary function of the BJP regime is proposed to be held at Mandi.He said the ground breaking ceremony, the second after the Rising Himachal Global Investors Meet held at Dharamsala in November 2019, will be held on December 27. “We are hoping to hold ground breaking ceremony for investment up to Rs 20,000 crores on December 27, when our government completes four years in office,” said the CM.He revealed that the Investors Meet, scheduled for December 5 in New Delhi, has been postponed due to the wedding of the son of the industry minister, who would not be able to spare time.The state government had signed 614 MoUs worth Rs 93,000 crores at the Global Investors Meet held on November 7-8, 2019 in Dharamsala. Ground breaking for projects worth over Rs 13,000 crore was held on December 27, 2019, when the Jai Ram Government completed two years in office here in Shimla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pm-invited-to-govts-4th-anniv-event-345745
03-12-2021||Shimla||85 new Covid cases in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 85 Covid cases were reported in the state today. However, there was no death due to the virus.The highest number of 27 cases was recorded in Una, followed by 23 in Kangra and 16 in Shimla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/85-new-cases-345744
03-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Swami of Bir ashram dies||Palampur, December 2Swami Vishudananda Saraswati died at 110 at his ashram at Bir, 40 km from here, this morning. He was the disciple of Swami Ramakrishna Paramhans. However, some of his disciples claim that he was 130-year old.Swamiji had been living in Bir for the past 50 years and had constructed Dakshin Kali Temple in his ashram. He had been unwell for the past few months, yet he was regularly meeting the visitors in his ashram in the morning and evening.Swami Vishudanandaji came to Bir in seventies and set up a small ashram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/swami-of-bir-ashram-dies-345743
03-12-2021||Shimla||Union Govt's working style dictatorial, says Rathore||HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore today said the Union Government was working in a dictatorial style as the freedom to expression was being crushed.Addressing a press conference here today, Rathore said the BJP regime had refused to grant permission to the Congress to hold a protest rally in Delhi. “Now the proposed rally against price rise, unemployment and economic crisis will be held in Jaipur on December 12,” he said.He said the Central Government had always tried to crush any dissenting voice and now an effort was being made to deny the opposition its right to protest. “This in nothing short of violation of the rights enshrined in Article 19 of the Constitution, which entitles every citizen freedom of expression,” he remarked.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/union-govts-working-style-dictatorial-says-rathore-345742
03-12-2021||The Department of Computer Science and Engineering||Workshop on computer science||Pollution prevention day observedThe National Pollution Prevention Day was observed at St Bede’s College, Shimla, on Thursday. The event was organised by the Zoology Department, in collaboration with the NCC Unit. The speaker for the day was Dr Pawan Rana, scientist, Himalayan Forest Research Institute. He briefed students about pesticide pollution and preventive measures for the same. The students also performed a ‘nukkad natak’ and recited poetry on pollution.ABVP welcomes UGC decisionThe ABVP has welcomed the UGC decision to grant an additional six-month time to the final-year researchers to submit their work, in view of the constraints caused by Covid. The student body said it had written to the UGC in February to extend the period by one year. Nidhi Tripathi, ABVP's national general secretary, said the decision would offer relief to the researchers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/workshop-on-computer-science-345741
03-12-2021||Mandi||IIT, AIIMS sign MoU for joint research||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Mandi, has collaborated with the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Bilaspur, for research and academic activities. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed, aiming at conducting joint research and academic exchange activities. The institutions plan to work on joint research projects and involve in short-term joint academic programmes, providing researchers and students an opportunity to visit and work collaboratively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iit-aiims-sign-mou-for-joint-research-345739
03-12-2021||---||Voter awareness rally on Dec 8 in Shimla||Shimla, december 2A cycle rally ‘Cycling for Democracy and Well-being’ to create awareness on voting among the youth would be organised on December 8 at The Ridge by the Election Commission of India (ECI). The event would be held in association with the Cycling Association of Himachal Pradesh (CAHP) and under technical assistance from Himalayan Adventure Sports and Tourism Promotion Association (HASTPA).The two-hour rally would be flagged off by Governor Rajender Vishwanath Arlekar from the historic Ridge ground. The race would be held for boys and girls in three categories – U-16 (junior), U-23 (youth) and above-23 (elite). The cash prize in all categories would be Rs 17,500 each.The race would start from The Ridge and then proceed to Potters Hill where the riders would be timed in a competitive leg in their respective categories .The total distance of the race would be 20 km, in which 8 km would be a competitive leg around Potters Hill. The aim of the rally is to create awareness about the importance of voting and well-being of the people, especially the youth of the state.Mohit Sood, secretary, CAHP, said they were happy to be part of the initiative of the Election Commission to encourage the youth to participate in the democracy by exercising their right to franchise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/voter-awareness-rally-on-dec-8-in-shimla-345737
03-12-2021||Shimla||Himachal's GST revenue grows by 17%||The Goods and Services tax (GST) collection in November stands at Rs 385.21 crore compared to Rs 329.64 crore in November 2020, registering a growth of 17 per cent. The cumulative GST collection in the current financial year up to November stands at Rs 2,815.53 crore compared to Rs 2,023.70 crore during the same period last financial year, which is 39 per cent more, a spokesperson for the Excise and Taxation Department said here yesterday.The state GST revenue has continuously registered a positive growth in the current year. Some of the important factors are monitoring of top taxpayers, performance monitoring of field functionaries, effective enforcement activities, physical verification of e-way bills and increased economic activity. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gst-revenue-grows-by-17-345736
03-12-2021||---||Winter session of Himachal Pradesh assembly from Dec 10 at Dharamsala||Dharamsala, December 2Speaker Vipin Parmar today reviewed the arrangements for the coming winter session of the Assembly being held in Dharamsala from December 10 to 15.Talking to newspersons in Tapowan here, Parmar said there would be five sittings of the winter session. One day would be private members’ day and on the first day, homage would be paid to the MLAs who have died.Around 570 questions had been received from the members of the Assembly and these had been forwarded to various government departments for response.Parmar said he would request the members of ruling and opposition parties to conduct the proceedings of the House in a smooth manner so that discussions could take place in congenial atmosphere.The Speaker said a meeting had been held with officials of Kangra district for the smooth conduct of traffic, boarding and lodging of officials and MLAs coming to Dharamsala.Proper Covid protocols would also be followed during the session, he said.It was after a gap of two years that the winter session was being held at Dharamsala. Last year, the session could not be held due to the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/winter-session-from-dec-10-at-dharamsala-345735
03-12-2021||Dipender Manta||Sept 2022 deadline for first phase of Shivdham project||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 2The state government has set September 2022 as the deadline for completion of the construction work of the first phase of the Shivdham project in Mandi district at an estimated cost of Rs 40 crore.The project is aimed at promoting religious tourism in the district. Mandi is known as “Chhoti Kashi’’, where 81 temples of Lord Shiva are situated. The total cost of the project is Rs 150 crore, which will be constructed in two phases on 9.5 hectares at Kangnidhar. It is believed that once complete, it will give a new dimension to the tourism sector in Mandi and generate self-employment opportunities for locals.DC Arindam Chaudhary says that the work for the first phase of the Shivdham project will be completed by September 2022. With this ambitious project, Mandi will emerge on the religious-cultural tourism map of the country, he adds.He says that from cutting hills and levelling the ground to erecting pillars of the temples, the work is going on at a fast pace. SK Parashar, Deputy Director of Tourism Department, says, “There will be a Kailash gate to enter Shivdham. There will also be a vision of Shri Ganesh Mandal, in which a grand statue of Lord Ganesh will be installed. Besides, there will be a Ganga Kund and an orientation centre in the name of Shiv Vandana”.“There will be Rudra Mandal and Damru Mandal, Mansarovar Kund, Moksha Path, Bilvapatra Kund, Shivsmriti Museum and a big Shivlingam to attract tourists to have a glimpse of 12 ‘Jyotirlingas’ of Lord Shiva along with the idols of Goddess Parvati, Kartikeya and Lord Ganesh. There will also be a Herbal Garden, Nakshatra Vatika, amphitheatre and a parking facility for hundreds of vehicles,” says Chaudhary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sept-2022-deadline-for-first-phase-of-shivdham-project-345734
03-12-2021||---||To raise farmers income, help transfer new tech to fields: Himachal CM||Shimla, December 2Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur yesterday asked scientists to help in transferring research work from laboratory to fields so that the knowledge and income of farmers can be enhanced.He virtually addressed the 37th foundation day of Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry at Nauni in Solan from Shimla. “The government has set up a task force to successfully implement the New Education Policy. A vision document is almost ready to implement the policy, which will benefit students and usher in an education revolution,” he said.Train farmers: ThakurThe university should combine horticulture and tourism to establish an agro-horticulture based eco-tourism model. Its scientists should train more farmers in food processing and motivate them to adopt new techniques so that they could earn good profits from their produce. —Jai Ram Thakur, Chief MinisterThakur said over the years, Himachal had made splendid progress in the field of horticulture, which accounts for about 33 per cent of agricultural production and annual business of apples alone was worth more than Rs 5,000 crore. He added that the role of agriculture and horticulture in employment generation, nutritional security, and poverty alleviation programmes was becoming increasingly important.He said that higher education institutions such as Dr YS Parmar University help in developing the latest knowledge and technology for farmers. He praised the university for securing the ‘A’ grade in the Atal Innovation Rankings released by the Union Ministry of Education and the 11th rank in the Indian Council of Agricultural Research-affiliated university.He inaugurated a Rs 8 crore Electron Microscopy Lab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-raise-farmers-income-help-transfer-new-tech-to-fields-cm-345733
03-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Pong lake fishermen flay govt for denying housing scheme benefit||Nurpur, December 2As many as 2,500 fishermen, who used to earn livelihood by catching fish in the Pong lake, are up in arms against the state government for its failure to pass on the benefits of Centre-sponsored welfare schemes meant for them.A meeting of the Pong Dam Fisheries Association presided over by president Jaswant Singh at Jawali on Tuesday discussed various problems faced by them.According to Jaswant, the fishermen expressed resentment against the stopping of the Neel Kranti Awas Yojana in the state, depriving hundreds of fishermen the benefit of financial assistance for the construction of houses.“Under the scheme, the beneficiaries were to be identified by the state government and preference was to be given to the fishermen below poverty line. Fishermen owning land and kutcha houses were also considered eligible,” he said.He said that the fishermen, who were also paying royalty to the government, had suffered financial losses due to the bird flu epidemic and the coronavirus pandemic for two years due to a ban on fishing.“The government has given no relief to them. It did not disburse annual cash relief to them from June 15 to August 15. Besides, the Fisheries Department has not distributed life jackets to them,” he said. He urged the Chief Minister to frame a policy for their welfare so that they could continue to earn their livelihood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pong-lake-fishermen-flay-govt-for-denying-housing-scheme-benefit-345732
03-12-2021||---||MGNREGA workers hold  massive protest||Shimla, December 2MGNREGA and construction workers held a massive protest outside the Construction Workers Welfare Board office here today.Meanwhile, workers at the under-construction power projects went on a strike in different parts of the state. CITU president Vijender Mehra, addressing a large gathering in Shimla, said the Centre and the state government had reduced the facilities to MGNREGA and construction workers.He alleged that the registration of over 20 lakh MGNREGA, construction workers and migrant labourers was stuck midway because of the indifference of the government.Mehra alleged that the MGNREGA workers were neither getting the minimum wages of Rs 300 as fixed by the government, nor 120 days work as stipulated in the Act.The CITU president said if proper wages and other facilities due to the workers were not restored, they would intensify the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mgnrega-workers-hold-massive-protest-345731
03-12-2021||Dipender Manta||Efforts on to produce trout in Chandertal, Sissu lake||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 2To promote angling tourism in Lahaul and Spiti, the Fisheries Department is making efforts to produce trout fish in the Chandertal and the Sissu lake in the district.According to the Deputy Director, Fishery, at Kullu, “In the first attempt during the Covid period last year, the department had put around 2,500 fingerlings (fish seeds) in the Chandertal and Sissu lake to produce trout fish. This year, around 3,000 fingerlings were put in these lakes in September”.Fish production looks feasibleWe are planning to conduct a study in this region about the possibility of trout fish production. The department is putting fingerlings in different water streams and lakes to promote aquaculture. —Satpal Mehta, Director, Fisheries departmentThese were experimental attempts on the part of the Fisheries Department to find out the possibility of trout fish production in the region where temperature remains below the freezing point. The fingerlings are growing successfully in these lakes, indicating that the production of trout fish is possible in Lahaul and Spiti, he adds.Director, Fisheries Department, Satpal Mehta, says, “We are planning to conduct a study in the region about the possibility of trout fish production. However, in preliminary findings, it has been observed that the possibility exists. The department is putting fingerlings in different water streams and lakes to promote aquaculture”.Meanwhile, residents of Lahaul and Spiti are delighted with the success of the department and hope that it will help in promoting angling tourism in the region.Nestled in the majestic Himalayan mountains, the scenic Chandertal is situated in the Spiti valley. The lake located at an altitude of 14,100 ft is also known as the Lake of the Moon. It is a favourite among trekkers and campers. This crescent shaped water body has no visible source and gets water from underground.After the opening of the Atal Tunnel, tourist influx to the Sissu and Chandertal has increased steadily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/efforts-on-to-produce-trout-in-chandertal-sissu-lake-345730
03-12-2021||Subhash Rajta||Both Covid vaccination doses to Himachal's targeted population in next 2 days||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 2Himachal is all set to achieve the target of administering both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine to the projected eligible population in the next two days. It will thus become the first state in the country to vaccinate the targeted population with both doses. As per the state’s records, the 18-plus population stands at 53,77,820-–Himachal had used the data as a benchmark to claim 100 per cent immunization of the projected population while administering the first dose.“We are on the verge of touching this figure with regard to the second dose as well. We have vaccinated around 52.50 lakh individuals with the second dose, which comes to around 98 per cent of the projected population. We should be able to achieve the 100 per cent target in the next couple of days,” said NHM Director Hemraj Bairwa.He, however, clarified that the feat should not be confused with 100 per cent immunisation of the entire eligible population. “All we can say is that we have vaccinated nearly everyone who is eligible to have the dose,” he said. “There will always be someone who is left out due to reasons like migration to other state, contracting Covid after the first dose, which delays the due date of the second dose or some other reason,” he added.Meanwhile, the count of the first dose beneficiaries has crossed 58 lakh in the state though the eligible population, as per the state’s records, is 53,77, 820. “Again, this can be attributed to factors such as in-migration and the daily addition of beneficiaries to the eligible category. Every day a number of people are becoming eligible for vaccination as they turn 18,” said Bairwa.Nevertheless, the feat of immunising the projected population ahead of any other state is praiseworthy. “Persuading people to take the second dose was the main challenge we faced. Covid had subsided, and it took some effort to convince people to take the second dose,” he said. Another challenge was the geographical and climatic conditions in the state. “Monsoons lasted longer than normal this time, causing problems for us. Also, we focused more on tribal and hard areas to get vaccination done in time,” he added.An array of innovative ideas like setting up temporary vaccination centres at public places such as temples, fairs, barriers etc, and roping in PDS depot holders to keep tabs on non-vaccinated people and pass on the information to health officials also helped the department reach the target. “Besides, we roped in gram panchayats to mobilise people. It helped a lot in persuading people to take the vaccine,” said Bairwa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/both-vax-doses-to-targeted-population-in-next-2-days-345729
03-12-2021||Lalit Mohan||Green tax on electric vehicles in Himachal Pradesh opposed||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 2The owners of electric vehicles are being forced to pay green tax at the time of registration in Himachal Pradesh. They have to pay green tax ranging from Rs 500 on two-wheelers to Rs 5,000 on commercial vehicles depending on the category of electric vehicles. Though the state government has waived token tax on personal electric vehicles, the owners of such vehicles are being charged green tax.Suresh Sharma, a resident of Una, says that he bought an electric car recently and was perplexed when he was charged green tax. Green tax on electric vehicles is against the policy of the Union Government, which is promoting them, he adds.Inadequate infra for charging vehiclesInformation collected by The Tribune reveals that the sale of electric vehicles in the state is picking up at a steady pace. Till date, 273 electric two-wheelers, 33 passenger four vehicles, 164 three-wheelers, 90 public service vehicles and 11 electric goods carriers have been registered in the state.Sources say that while passenger or personal electric vehicles have been exempted from token tax, the owners of commercial or electric goods carriers have to pay it.Anupam Kashyap, Director Transport, says that there were no electric vehicles in the state when green tax was implemented. The state government will soon notify an electric vehicle policy and only then these will be exempted from green tax, he adds.The owners of electric vehicles, however, allege that charging green tax on electric vehicles is an oversight on the part of the Transport Department and it should be rectified at the earliest. People buying electric vehicles are also facing problems due to an inadequate charging infrastructure.They say that no petrol station in the state has a charging station for electric vehicles and they have to charge their vehicles at their homes. The government should ensure charging stations for electric vehicles at public places to encourage people to opt for greener technology, they say.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/green-tax-on-electric-vehicles-opposed-345727
03-12-2021||Dipender Manta||Himachal's Lahaul-Spiti has mild snow, hoteliers elated||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 2Lahaul and Spiti received fresh snow today. According to residents, it has been snowing in the Spiti valley since morning. The area received mild snow.Hoteliers are delighted due to the fresh snowfall and expecting good business during the winter. The hoteliers said snow was a big attraction for tourists.Sonam Targey, a homestay owner of the Spiti valley, said, “It has been snowing since morning, which delighted farmers as well as hoteliers. With the snowfall, the beauty of the Spiti valley has multiplied. We are expecting good business in the coming days.”Similarly, the Lahaul valley has been covered with snow. Mild snow occurred at Darcha, Sissu and Koksar.The movement of tourists was restricted beyond the Solang valley towards the Atal Tunnel from Manali.However, hoteliers of Kullu-Manali are a little bit disappointed. They were desperately waiting for snow.Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said the Lahaul and Spiti valleys had mild snow. The traffic movement was normal.He said people were advised to avoid unnecessary visits to high-altitude areas as there was a warning of snowfall in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-spiti-has-mild-snow-hoteliers-elated-345725
03-12-2021||Shimla||Rohtang, Kunzum passes get snow||The high-altitude tribal areas and Rohtang, Kunzum and other passes received fresh snowfall. Hansa recorded 3 cm of snow while adjoining valley areas had drizzle, causing sharp fall in day temperatures, which stayed four to nine degree below normal.Keylong and Kalpa in Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts recorded 2.9°C and 6.9°C, three and five degree below normal. An overcast sky and icy winds swept the region, forcing people to stay indoors. However, the minimum temperature rose by two to three degree and Keylong was the coldest in the region with low of -0.8°C against -4°C yesterday.The local MeT office has predicted rain or snow at many places in mid and higher hills on December 5 and 6 and rain and snow at isolated places in mid and higher hills on December 4 and dry weather in the region tomorrow.Light to moderate rain is predicted in the lower hills on December 5 and 6. The MeT office predicted colder days from December 3-10. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rohtang-kunzum-passes-get-snow-345724
03-12-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Shimla hoteliers pin hopes on early snowfall for good season||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 2Elated over the forecast of an early snowfall, Shimla hoteliers are hoping for a good season with significant increase in tourist footfall. At present, the hotel occupancy is around 50 per cent, which rises to 80 to 90 per cent during the weekends. Snowfall being a major attraction, a heavy tourist rush is expected in the coming days.However, the stakeholders are apprehensive of the new Covid strain, Omicron, and disruption of essential services, like water and power supply, and communication and road blockades due to landslides and snowfall.Usually, peak tourist season in Shimla and surrounding areas is from December 25 to January 15 and the occupancy in hotels rises to 95 to 100 per cent at that time. However, in case roads are blocked, a large number of hotels become inaccessible and their owners suffer losses.MK Seth, president, Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association, said the local administration had closed the road from Victory Tunnel to Sanjauli during snowfall last year and about 80 to 90 hotels in the area remained vacant, despite a heavy tourist influx. “We request the district administration to take necessary steps, like deployment of machines, in advance to ensure that roads are not closed due to snowfall or landslides.”The administration must take steps to ensure that the tourist season is not spoiled as the hotel industry had already suffered immensely during Covid lockdown, he maintained.Meanwhile, the Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC) is offering package tours for tourists. Christmas and New Year celebrations would be held at 12 prime HPTDC properties out of 54, Amit Kashyap, Director, Tourism and Civil Aviation-cum-Managing Director, HPTDC, said.A Rajasthani and Kashmiri food festival is also being organised between December 15 and 20, which would be another attraction for the tourists. The idea is to provide a variety of activities to tourists to promote tourism in the state, Kashyap added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-hoteliers-pin-hopes-on-early-snowfall-for-good-season-345723
03-12-2021||Legal Correspondent||High Court quashes HPSEB worker's transfer||Shimla, December 2The Centre, state governments and all public sector undertakings are expected to function like a model employer. This was observed by the High Court while quashing the transfer order of an employee of HP State Electricity Board.A division bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua further observed that “the model employer is under an obligation to conduct itself with high probity and expected candour and the employer, who is duty bound to act as a model employer, has social obligation to treat its employees in an appropriate manner so that an employee is not condemned to feel totally subservient to the situation. A model employer should not exploit its employees and take advantage of their helplessness and misery.”The court further observed, “In the present case, conduct of the official respondent is reprehensible and falls short of expectation of a model employer and to say the least, the official respondent has indulged in favouritism thereby driven the petitioner to unnecessary and avoidable litigation.The court passed this order on a petition filed by the employee of the board alleging therein that he was transferred from Electrical System Division, Totu, to Boards Secretariat, Shimla to favour the another employee. He further alleged that he has joined at Tutu January 14, 2020 and now the board again transferred him in a very short span of time.Taking a serious note of this the court further observed that “ the role of the respondent-board as a model employer has been deliberated upon by us with the fond hope that in future a deliberate disregard is not taken recourse to and deviancy of such magnitude is not adopted to frustrate the claims of the genuine employees. It should always be borne in mind that legitimate aspirations of the employees are not guillotined and a situation is not created where hopes end in despair.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-court-quashes-hpseb-workers-transfer-345722
03-12-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||High command to take call on Cabinet, party rejig: Himachal CM||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 2Amid speculation of a Cabinet rejig and major overhaul in the party organisation post bypoll debacle, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said all such decisions will be taken by the party high command, which has been apprised of the situation.“Any decision on any possible change will be taken by the Central leadership who has been apprised of the situation. The feedback of the three-day party deliberations held here is also with the high command,” he said. “Whatever the high command decides in the interest of the party will be acceptable to all,” he said.Major overhaul neededThakur will be leaving for Delhi on December 4 to attend a function being organised by Himachali community in the national capital. He will return the next day along with BJP national president JP Nadda and Union Health Minister for a function at Bilaspur the same day.It is for the first time that the Chief Minister will be in the national capital, post BJP’s dismal performance in the bypolls for Mandi Lok Sabha and three Assembly segments. Even though it is not certain whether the Chief Minister will meet any Central leaders, this will be his first visit after BJP’s dismal performance in the bypolls, including on his home turf of Mandi.Speculation is rife in the state about a major overhaul in the Cabinet so that the non-performing ministers are dropped to make way for new faces, who can be given an opportunity to perform within the next one year before the Assembly polls are held by the end of 2022.It is being felt that some major changes will be made even in the party set up. “The BJP’s dismal performance needs major overhaul in the party. Only then we can take on the rejuvenated Congress,” admitted a BJP legislator. He said the bypoll defeat had left the BJP workers demoralised and there was need for corrective measures.There is a strong feeling among the rank and file of the BJP that lack of coordination between the party and the government was one of the reasons for poor governance which too added to the woes of the BJP in the byelections.“Sympathy factor in the name of Virbhadra Singh worked in a big way for the Congress, especially in the three tribal segments of Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti and Bharmour, besides some parts of Kullu, including Anni,” admitted the Chief Minister.He denied that the sympathy factor would yet again give benefit to the Congress in the 2022 Assembly polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-command-to-take-call-on-cabinet-party-rejig-cm-345719
03-12-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal cops take to social media over pay hike, warned||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 2With Himachal cops going on a virtual warpath seeking revised pay scales, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur warned them, saying a stern view of their utterances on social media would be taken.Upping the ante against the government, families of police personnel today sought permission from DGP Sanjay Kundu to hold a protest rally in Mandi during BJP president JP Nadda’s visit on December 5.Only recently, a large number of constables converged on the CM’s residence. Sources said though the protest was peaceful, it put a question mark on the disciplined force resorting to such means.Thakur said, “We took a humanitarian view of the matter, but the way they have taken to social media to vent their anger is not acceptable. Such behaviour will invite stern action.” A social media post reads, “Injustice has been meted out to the 2015, 2016, 2018 and 2019 batches of constables. We have decided to stage a protest rally and in case the government does not relent, we will resort to indefinite fast.”The CM reiterated that prior to 2013, the service rules were different and changes were made in 2015 by the then Congress regime. “The personnel accepted the rules before joining the service. The court has already dismissed their plea,” Thakur said.He said it was wrong on their part to seek parity with forest guards who were appointed on a contractual basis. He, however, added the government was still sympathetic towards their demands and would try to find a way out.Row over Outburst against government||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cops-take-to-social-media-over-pay-hike-warned-345693
