04-12-2021||Shimla||78 new Covid cases in Himachal; active cases reach 800||Himachal Pradesh recorded 78 fresh cases on Saturday, pushing the infection tally to 2,27,483, an official said.The death toll from the pandemic remained unchanged at 3,835 as no new fatality was reported in the state, the health official said.The number of active COVID-19 cases now stands at 800 in the state.Seventy-five more patients recovered from the infection, taking the recovery count to 2,22,831, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/78-new-covid-cases-in-himachal-active-cases-reach-800-346305
04-12-2021||Dharamsala||Two Dharamsala trekkers go missing in Dhauladhar mountain ranges||Two trekkers from Dharamsala have gone missing in the Dhauladhar mountain ranges, authorities in the district said on Saturday.Authorities identified them as Harsimranjeet Singh, a resident of Gurudwara Road, and Naveen Singh from Dari. They’d gone trekking to Kundli pass near Kharota and have been missing since Friday.Authorities suspect that the two trekkers were left stranded on the upper reaches of the Dhauladhar mountain range after Friday’s snow.Families of the two trekkers said they’d approached the police after they couldn’t get in touch with them. Officials from Dharamsala district administration said they’d asked the union Defence Ministry to conduct an aerial survey to help locate them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-dharamsala-trekkers-go-missing-in-dhauladhar%C2%A0mountain-ranges-346272
04-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Beautify walls along roads||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Beautify walls along roadsHuge concrete walls are coming up with widening of roads in Shimla. The concrete walls do not gel with the surrounding greenery. The departments concerned should consider beautifying these walls in such a way that these they don’t look out of place as compared to the surroundings. — Mohinder Verma, ShimlaTourists don’t wear masksShimla is full of tourists these days. This is good for the local economy, but the most of the tourists do not bother to wear masks. The new Omicron variant has entered India and everyone needs to be careful. Unfortunately, some reckless people are putting others’ life in danger. — Naveen Sharma, Shimla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/beautify-walls-along-roads-345999
04-12-2021||Pranshu Aditya||Pranshu Aditya wins declamation contest||Conclave on tourism at HPUThe Institute of Vocational Studies (Tourism), Himachal Pradesh University, is hosting a conclave on ‘Roadmap for developing tourism in Himachal Pradesh’. The two-day conclave will have discussions and conversations with government officials, alma maters, travel agents, adventure tourism enthusiasts, homestay owners, hoteliers, academicians and other subject matter experts to highlight the current situation of the Himachal tourism industry and its future. Tourism experts from pan-India and academicians will sit together to highlight the remedies for development of tourism in Himachal. The four sub-themes of the conclave are ‘Envisioning tourism after Covid in Himachal’, ‘Enhancing private sector investment for tourism infrastructure building in Himachal’, ‘Taking tourism to rural areas in Himachal’ and ‘Establishing Himachal as a destination brand’.Scholarship test for girlsPinegrove School, Sabathu, Solan, will provide an opportunity to meritorious girls of the district as part of its drive to promote women education. An entrance test will be held on December 11 for the meritorious girl students who have been studying in Class V in government schools and belong to the Economically Weaker Section (EWS). The school has been regularly conducting the test for educating two girl children every year. The drive commenced in 2016 and has been running successfully, except for the last year, due to Covid-19. As of now, there are nine girl students from Solan, who are studying free of cost at Pinegrove School.CM releases book on tourismChief Minister Jai Ram Thakur released book, ‘Himachal Pradesh - a Treasure of Tourism’, authored by former IAS officer and noted author KR Bharti. While releasing the book, the Chief Minister lauded the efforts of the writer who, besides being an able administrator, is a noted writer of the state. He said Bharti had brought to the fore the treasure trove of tourism of Himachal Pradesh. Thakur said the readers would find the book informative and interesting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pranshu-aditya-wins-declamation-contest-346000
04-12-2021||---||ABVP wins CUHP student council election||Dharamsala, December 3The ABVP has claimed a landslide victory in the student council election at the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) that concluded here today. The ABVP claimed it won 12 posts in the student council.While the ABVP has claimed victory, the Congress alleged the candidates of its student wing, NSUI, were not allowed to contest the election. Former Rajya Sabha member and senior Congress leader Viplove Thakur today alleged the nomination of all NSUI candidates, except one, were rejected by the university authorities supervising the elections. The BJP was misusing power even in the student council election at the university, she said. It would give a wrong message to the youth studying at higher educational institutes, she said.Viplove Thakur allged that by hijacking the student poll in universities, the BJP wanted to illustrate it had the mandate of the youth. By doing so, it was trying to divert the attention of people from other crucial issues being faced by the youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/abvp-wins-cuhp-student-council-election-346001
04-12-2021||---||Free contrast CT scan to start at IGMC Shimla||Shimla, December 3The Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) will provide the facility of CT scan with contrast free of cost to patients. “Patients need to spend around Rs 2,000 for the injection required for CT scan with contrast. The measure will reduce the financial burden on patients,” said MS Dr Janak Raj. While this facility was already available for the patients covered under HIMCARE and Ayushmaan schemes, the decision will provide relief to others too.Besides, the IGMC has decided to install elbow-operated taps in operation theatres, labs, OPD and wards to check the spread of infection. Also, the hospital will carry out regular check-ups of the staff serving and cooking food for the safety of patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/free-contrast-ct-scan-to-start-at-igmc-shimla-346002
04-12-2021||Chamba||Looking into lapses by J&K Police: Chamba SSP||A team of the J&K Police entered into Jaladi village here on Thursday night to look for a missing girl. However, it did not inform the Kihar police station, under which Jaladi falls, and later entered into an argument with the village residents. The police team claimed it had orders of the J&K High Court for the action.Chamba SSP S Arul Kumar said procedural lapses of the J&K Police were being investigated so that next legal course of action could be followed with. As soon as the information reached Kihar police station, a team reached the spot and brought the situation under control. There was an atmosphere of peace in the area now, he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/looking-into-lapses-by-jk-police-chamba-ssp-346003
04-12-2021||Shimla||51 new cases, 2 Covid deaths in Himachal||A total of 51 new Covid cases and two deaths were reported on Friday. The number of active cases is now 797, with total positive cases being 2,27,405. The fatality figure rose to 3,835, with two people succumbing to the virus — in Shimla and Hamirpur. The highest number of 18 cases were recorded in Kangra, followed by 16 in Shimla, 10 in Solan, three Mandi, two Hamirpur and one each in Una and Kinnaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/51-new-cases-2-covid-deaths-in-himachal-346004
04-12-2021||Ravinder Sood||Validity of HIMCARE cards extended||Palampur, December 3The state government today extended the validity of the Mukhyamantri Health Care Scheme, also known as HIMCARE, which provides free health care up to Rs 5 lakh to residents of Himachal Pradesh without any criteria of income.The HIMCARE cards of many beneficiaries had expired in March and they could not get these renewed due to the pandemic. Such persons were deprived of the benefits for the past eight months. Padmawati (60), who is a widow and a resident of Rajpur Tanda village, was also one of them.The Tribune had highlighted the plight of Padmawati three days ago in these columns. A heart patient, she had to return from the TMC without treatment since she had no money to meet the cost of two coronary stents and other medicines, costing over Rs 2 lakh. Her HIMCARE card had also expired and she was not in a position to pay for her angioplasty.After the news was published, the state government swung into action and issued a notification on Friday to extend the validity of all HIMCARE cards till November 30, 2022, almost by a year so that patients like Padmawati could get immediate medical treatment and lives of such patients are saved.It is learnt that after going through the news item, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur convened a meeting of the Health Department officials at Shimla and directed them to extend the validity of HIMCARE cards with immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/validity-of-himcare-cards-extended-346005
04-12-2021||Our Correspondent||'Nazrana' announcement a poll gimmick: MLA||KULLU, DECEMBER 3Kullu Sadar MLA Sunder Singh Thakur yesterday alleged that the assurance given by the minister to give ‘nazrana’ (honorarium) to the deities attending the Kullu Dasehra Festival as soon as the model code of conduct for Mandi parliamentary constituency byelection gets over seems to be a mere ‘chunavi jumla’ (election gimmick) as over one month had passed but nothing had been done in this regard.The MLA said that ‘nazrana’ was paid to the deities during Shivratri festival in Mandi. It was not appropriate to discontinue the homage to the deities on the pretext of ‘no income amid Covid crisis’. He said there were adequate funds with the Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee. Payment of ‘nazrana’ was a routine matter and does not require any Cabinet decision.Thakur said it was after the resentment by the members of Dev Samaj and firm opposition of the government’s decision by Congress leaders that the minister assured ‘nazrana’ to deities. He said he had raised the issue in the Vidhan Sabha as well. He added that while travel allowances and other emoluments were being paid to the ministers, MLAs and officers, why discrimination was being done with the members of Dev Samaj of Kullu.The MLA said that he would not refrain from adopting legal recourse to ensure ‘nazrana’, ‘doori bhatta’ (travel allowance) and daily allowance to the ‘bajantris’.Kullu Deputy Commissioner and vice-chairman of the Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee (KDFC) Ashutosh Garg said that ‘nazrana’ is generally paid but this year it was unanimously decided that due to no income because of Covid crisis, the honorarium would not be given. This year 285 deities participated in the festivities.Will be paid soon: MinisterGovind Singh Thakur, Language, Arts and Culture Minister and chairman of Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee, said ‘nazrana’ (honorarium) will be given soon. The matter has been sent to the Finance Department and the ‘nazrana’ will be given as announced by him, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nazrana-announcement-a-poll-gimmick-mla-346006
04-12-2021||---||Speedy probe, pending railway projects discussed at Northern Zonal Council meet||Shimla, December 3Several important inter-state issues, including speedy investigation into cases of sexual offence against women and children and pending railway projects, were discussed at the 19th meeting of the Standing Committee of Northern Zonal Council, held here today.Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh presided over the meeting, organised by the Inter-State Council Secretariat, Ministry of Home Affairs.During the meeting, discussion on issues pertaining to coverage of villages by bank branches and postal banking facilities were held. Effective implementation of direct benefit transfer for social sector schemes, abandoning of cattle on trans-state border and Chandigarh-Baddi rail line issue were also discussed.Deliberations were also held regarding handing over of railway land at Jagatpura-Shivdaspura, near Durgapura railway station, Gandhinagar railway station and Bais Godam railway station. The committee also discussed introduction of central database of violators under the Motor Vehicle Act and execution of new inter-state routes.Anuradha Prasad, Secretary, Inter-State Council; PK Das, Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Revenue and Disaster Management, Haryana; Dharam Pal, adviser to Lieutenant Governor of Chandigarh; Umang Narula, adviser to Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh; Praveen Kumar Gupta, ACS Delhi; Sarvjit Singh, Principal Secretary Water Resources, Punjab; Manoj Kumar Dewedi, Principal Secretary, J&K; Naveen Jain, Secretary, Rajasthan; and other administrative secretaries and heads of departments were present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/speedy-probe-pending-railway-projects-discussed-346007
04-12-2021||Hamirpur||Specially abled kids perform on International Disability Day||Specially abled children gave a heart-touching performance on the occasion of International Disabled Day, at Bachat Bhawan here today. The function was organised by the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment to encourage special children.Deputy Commissioner Devashweta Banik said specially abled children were an important part of our society and people should respect and honour their feelings. A positive vision towards them would help and encourage them. Special programmes must be organised on regular basis to keep them happy, hale and hearty. The government had started many welfare schemes for the development and empowerment of the specially abled and officials should work for their benefit, she added.Sanjeev Kumar, District Welfare Officer, appraised people about the various programmes and policies of the government for specially abled people. Artificial limbs were also provided to some needy persons on the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/specially-abled-kids-perform-on-international-disability-day-346008
04-12-2021||Solan||Woman found 'murdered' at Baddi industrial area||The body of a woman (in her early 20s), who was assaulted in neck by a sharp weapon, was found in a room at the Chakka Road in the industrial area, Baddi, last evening.As per the building owner, Mamta had taken the room on rent with a man, a few days ago. The man had promised the owner that he would give the documents in a few days. The woman was murdered and her body was locked in the room. Foul smell from the room alarmed the owner, who called the police.The police sent the body for post-mortem and a team of forensic science experts visited the spot today for collecting the evidence, said Deputy Superintendent of Police Navdeep Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/woman-found-murdered-at-baddi-indl-area-346009
04-12-2021||Mandi||Participation of women to be encouraged at carnival: Minister||Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur said different activities would be organised during the Manali winter carnival to ensure active participation of village women. The carnival would begin on January 2 and conclude on January 6.To display the culture and tradition of Kullu, hundreds of village women wearing ‘black pattu’ and traditional jewellery would participate in Kullvi Nati mega show on January 3 at the Mall Road. Similarly, on January 5, these women would perform ‘nati’ in ‘white pattu’ at the same venue.“A large number of tourists from across the country come to Manali to celebrate New Year. The winter carnival remains the centre of attraction for them as they are able to get acquainted with the culture of the district,” he stated.Various sports events would also be organised during the carnival in which youth clubs of the area would participate. Self-help groups and individual women would be motivated to set up stalls of local delicacies during the carnival so that the visitors can taste local cuisines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/participation-of-women-to-be-encouraged-at-carnival-minister-346010
04-12-2021||---||Stop airing grievances online, Himachal police constables told||Shimla, December 3Himachal Police today issued an advisory to constables, asking them to communicate their grievances by written representation to the state government through police headquarters and refrain from making comments on the social media.The advisory directed all the unit heads to maintain discipline and asked the constables to go about their routine in a normal manner and consume food in the mess.The Himachal Police constables of 2015, 2016, 2018 and 2019 batches, demanding reduction in period of granting pay scale from eight to two years, had stopped taking meal in the police mess and recorded it in roznamcha (daily police diary) besides airing their grievances in social media through #justiceforhppolice.The constables were aggrieved by the decision of the government to extend the period of grant of pay scale from two to eight years and their repeated pleas to grant the pay scales as per the 2013 policy had gone unheeded. There are 5,700 affected constables.The constables appointed in 2013 in the pay scale of Rs 5,910+1,900 were released 10,300+3,200 pay scales after two years. However, for those recruited in 2015, this period was increased to eight years. They lamented it was discriminatory and unjustified.Now the families of these constables are coming forward to raise the issue and seek justice for the constables.Showing resentmentThe Himachal Police constables of 2015, 2016, 2018 and 2019 batches, demanding reduction in period of granting pay scale from eight to two years, had stopped taking meal in the police mess and recorded it in ‘roznamcha’ (daily police diary) besides airing their grievances in social media through #justiceforhppolice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stop-airing-grievances-online-constables-told-346011
04-12-2021||Shimla||Shimla Municipal Corporation plans stray dog vaccination, adoption drive||The Municipal Corporation, in collaboration with various NGOs working for the well-being of animals, is planning to launch a drive aimed at encouraging people to adopt dogs from streets.“We are planning to provide a parking spot and rebate in garbage fee to incentivise the adoption of stray dogs. We have met some NGOs to seek their help in encouraging adoption and vaccination of these dogs,” said MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli.In this proposed drive, people will be made aware of the advantages of adopting stray dogs over pedigreed dogs. “People go for pedigreed dogs as a symbol of social status without realising that stray dogs are friendlier, have better immunity and are easier to handle. Also, they are used to local weather and have better resistance to diseases than pedigreed dogs,” said Dr Vibhuti Sharda, president of the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA). The other issue that the drive aims to address is the reluctance of people to adopt female dogs. “We hardly get any requests for the adoption of female dogs. People fear the inconvenience when female dogs breed,” said Dr Sharda.Besides, the MC is also planning to vaccinate these dogs shortly. Of late, stray dogs have been affected by two diseases, canine distemper and parvovirus diarrhea, in the city. The MC and these NGOs are also planning to go to schools to educate children about stray dogs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-municipal-corporation-plans-stray-dog-vaccination-adoption-drive-346012
04-12-2021||---||Improved sewerage infrastructure in Shimla soon||Shimla, December 3The Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL) is ramping up the sewerage infrastructure in Shimla and peri-urban areas.Apart from upgrading and retrofitting the existing six sewage treatment plants (STPs), the water procurement and distribution company has prepared a detailed project report (DPR) of Rs 227 crore to replace 4-inch sewerage pipes with 6-inch pipes for uninterrupted flow of the sewage.“The DPR had been prepared and it will be sent to Delhi for clearance,” said an SJPNL official.Apart from the six existing STPs, two more are under construction at Totu and Ashwani Khud, while two at Dhalli-II and Mashobra are in the pipeline. The DPRs for the proposed STPs, which will cost around Rs 22 crore, have been prepared. “The three STPs at Lalpani, Malyana and Dhalli are being upgraded with the latest SBR technology and over 80 per cent work has been completed,” said RK Verma, GM, SJPNL. “The work of retrofitting of STPs at the IGMC, North Disposal and Summer Hill has been awarded,” said Verma.While the company is pushing for the upgradation of sewerage infrastructure, it’s struggling to recover arrears from the consumers. As per the company officials, the arrears stood at Rs 39 crore two months back. “As many as 54 defaulters owe company arrears over Rs 5 lakh. A total of 5.80 crore arrears are due from these 54 connections alone,” said a company official.Meanwhile, Verma said efforts were afoot to address the grievances of people regarding the bill amount at the earliest. “We have formed a special unit headed by an AGM to address the grievances regarding the bill amount. People need to contact the AGM office, and immediate action will be taken to address their concerns,” said Verma. “Most of the bills are correct. A few days back, someone getting a bill of Rs 9 lakh got a wide publicity. On rechecking, we found the bill was correct, and the owner had not paid the bill since 2017-18,” said Verma.Verma said people were actually getting lower bills since volumetric bills were being issued.“Around 10,000 of our consumers are getting monthly bills of less than Rs 200. Another 6,000 consumers are getting bills of around Rs 400,” Verma said.6 STPs to be urgraded, 4 more to come up||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/improved-sewerage-infrastructure-in-shimla-soon-346013
04-12-2021||---||HRTC suspends service between Manali, Keylong||Mandi, December 3The Himachal Pradesh Road Transport Corporation suspended its bus service between Manali and Keylong due to fresh snowfall today at Atal tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway. As many as eight routes were suspended between Kullu and Keylong.Rush expected in coming daysWe are expecting a high tourist influx to Kullu-Manali in the coming days as there is plenty of snow for the recreation of tourists at the Atal Tunnel and Gulaba, which are just a few kilometres away from Manali. Anup Thakur, Kullu-Manali vikas paryatan mandal presidentSnowfall started in morning at both portals of the Atal Tunnel at Dhundhi and Sissu. As a result, a considerable amount of snow has been deposited on the road, which made the movement of HRTC buses between Manali and Keylong risky.Mangal Manepa, Regional Manager of HRTC Depot at Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti, said, “Due to fresh snow on the Manali-Leh highway at the Atal Tunnel and beyond the tunnel towards the Lahaul valley, the road has become slippery for the movement of buses. So, bus service between Manali and Keylong has been suspended. Routes within Lahaul and Spiti are also affected.”He said as soon as the road becomes suitable for the movement of buses, the service would be restored.Meanwhile, the Manali administration stopped the movement of tourists beyond the Solang valley toward Lahaul on the second day in view of public safety. Only 4x4 vehicles were allowed to move beyond the Solang valley.Rohtang Pass and its nearby places like Marhi and Gulaba also received fresh snow today, which delighted hoteliers of Manali. They are expecting good business in the coming days as snow is a major attraction for tourists here. Anup Thakur, president, Kullu-Manali Vikas Paryatan Mandal, said, “We are expecting a high tourist influx to Kullu-Manali in the coming days as there is plenty of snow on the ground for the recreation at the Atal Tunnel and Gulaba, which are just a few kilometres away from Manali.”The Kullu administration also banned the movement of tourists towards the Jalori Pass in the Banjar valley today. Deputy Commissioner, Kullu, Ashutosh Garg urged tourists to avoid venturing towards high altitude areas of the district in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-suspends-service-between-manali-keylong-346014
04-12-2021||---||Higher reaches in Himachal Pradesh see another snow spell; 44 roads closed||Shimla, December 3As many as 44 roads were closed for traffic in the state as high altitude tribal areas and mountain passes received another spell of snow today, while a few places on middle hills received mild rainfall.The NH 3 (Darcha to Sarchu) and NH 505 (Gramphu to Losar) are officially closed till summer 2022. Two roads are closed in Lahaul and Spiti and one road each in Kullu and Chamba.Visitors elatedWe are happy to see such a beautiful weather with fog and drizzle and hope to see snow before returning. TouristsKoksar received 8 cm of snow, Gondla and Hansa 5 cm each and Keylong 3 cm. Manali with 20 mm of rain was the wettest, followed by Kothi with 11 mm rain, Tinder 8 mm, Khadrala, Sangla and Seobagh 7 mm each, Kalpa 6 mm, Banjar, Pooh and Baldwara 5 mm each while the state capital Shimla also received light showers.Tourists were happy to see the first spell of rain in December. “We are happy to see such a beautiful weather with fog and drizzle and hope to see snow before returning,” said a tourist couple from Panipat. Keylong was the coldest at night with a low of minus 1.7°C. The maximum temperatures were 3-4°C below normal and Una was the hottest at 24.3°C.Met office predicts rain, snow for todayThe local Met office has predicted rain and snow at isolated places in middle and high hills on Saturday (December 4), light to moderate rain in low hills and rain and snow at many places in middle and high hills on December 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/higher-reaches-see-another-snow-spell-44-roads-closed-346015
04-12-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Migratory birds at Pong wildlife sanctuary ringed||NURPUR, DECEMBER 3Staff of the Hamirpur Wildlife division conducted a five-day bird ringing exercise in the Pong Wildlife Sanctuary to study the migratory birds.During the exercise, which concluded on Thursday evening, 19 mist nests were used to catch the winged visitors surrounding the lake and 140 birds of 29 species were tagged. The data being prepared would assist the Wildlife Department in better stay management and conservation of the migratory birds.In-depth studyExperts prepared the data by recording the age, sex, moulting pattern, wing length, weight, body fat and muscle score, tarsus and head length of the birds. This data will be used to study the birds’ count and the richness of their species. Rahul Rohane, divisional forest officerRahul Rohane, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Hamirpur, who supervised the exercise, said experts prepared the data by recording the age, sex, moulting pattern, wing length, weight, body fat and muscle score, tarsus and head length of the ringed birds. “This data will be used to study the migratory route of the birds and close inspection will help in the identification of birds and their native places. It will also help in the study of the birds’ count and the richness of their species,” he said.The winged visitors, coming from Siberia, Mongolia, Tibet, China, Pakistan and Iraq, throng the wetland with the onset of winters every year, making the man-made water body eco-friendly. They return to their native countries in March, at the onset of spring season. The wildlife authorities undertake an estimation count of the birds fortnightly.Sprawling over an area of 24,000 hectares across Jawali, Dehra and Fatehpur subdivisions in lower Kangra district, the Pong Lake (wetland) has become a major attraction for tourists and these winged visitors are the star attraction for them. The lake was created in 1975 by building the Pong Dam on the Beas river in the wetland zone of the Shivalik Hill in Kangra district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/migratory-birds-at-pong-wildlife-sanctuary-ringed-346016
04-12-2021||---||Himachal government gives nod to Rs 1,376-cr projects||Shimla, December 3Nineteen projects for setting up new industrial enterprises and expansion of the existing units involving total proposed investment of Rs 1,376.93 crore (approx) were approved at the 20th meeting of the State Single Window Clearance and Monitoring Authority (SSWC&MA) held here today under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur.The projects would create employment for about 2,266 persons. The new proposals approved by the authority include that of New Wazir Chand Fruits (NWC) for setting up of the CA store in Theog (Shimla).The projects that got the approval include Lami Tubes Private Limited for manufacture of laminated tubes, FFS tubes; M G Petrochem Private Limited for manufacture of ethanol, animal feed and carbon dioxide; Hygena Life Sciences Private Limited for manufacture of ethanol, animal feed and carbon dioxide; Pro Flexi Packing Pvt. Limited Kheda Nihla village for manufacturing plastic tubes; RSA Energy Pvt Limited for manufacturing ethanol, animal feed and carbon dioxide; Jain Shawls for manufacturing dyed fabric and Bharat Sprits Pvt Limited for manufacture of ethanol, all in Nalagarh (Solan).German Formulations was given nod for manufacturing tablets, liquids Injectable, hand Sanitizer and Nitin Liquors for manufacturing of Liquors IMFL and Country Liquors in Kala Amb (Sirmour).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nod-to-rs-1-376-cr-projects-346017
04-12-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Electric vehicle policy approved, to be launched in 2 tourist towns in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 3Having been one of the leading states to start use of electric vehicles for public transport, the Himachal Government now plans to start a pilot project to make two tourist towns as model cities for electric vehicle readiness and adoption.“The Cabinet has given nod to the Draft Electric Vehicles Policy and we will soon start electric vehicle project in two tourist towns, be it Shimla, Manali, Dharamsala or Dalhousie so that people can be encouraged to switch over to pollution-free electric vehicles,” said Thakur. He said the use of electric vehicles will go a long way in reducing pollution levels.Under the pilot project in any two tourist towns, low or zero emission zones will be created where only electric vehicles, walking or cycling will be permitted. The local urban bodies will be asked to identify the zones, regulations and timings. Priority will be given to tourist spots, eco-sensitive areas and reserve forests so as to have minimum emission levels.The Electric Vehicle Policy aims to support sustainable, safe, eco-friendly and integrated mobility solutions in the hill state. The government has set a target to convert 15 per cent of the 21 lakh vehicles into electric vehicles for which incentives will be offered in the policy. Presently, 75 electric buses are being plied by the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) besides 50 electric taxis and 150 three wheelers.The policy envisages use of electric vehicles by government institutions and in public transport. In order to encourage people to use electric vehicles, certain incentives like road tax exemption leviable under Himachal Pradesh Vehicles Taxation Act, 1972 and permit exemptions have already been given. Also, there would be exclusive reserved parking for electric vehicles with charging infrastructure in high-volume parking spaces.Himachal is amongst the few states to adopt electric vehicles and use them for public transport. It was on the directives of National Green Tribunal (NGT) that the experiment to use electric vehicles on the ecologically fragile 51 kms stretch between Manali-Rohtang was undertaken. Ever since, these buses are being used not just on this route but also in the state capital of Shimla.However, the challenge faced by the government is to provide a network of public charging station, both in the cities as well as on the highways. This will include the fast charging stations on the busy national highways and slow charging ones on the state highways.Low or zero emission zones to be created||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/electric-vehicle-policy-approved-to-be-launched-in-2-tourist-towns-in-himachal-346018
04-12-2021||Ambika Sharma||Himachal firm booked for illegal drug trade||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 3In a major breakthrough, the state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) today arrested Dinesh Bansal, proprietor, M/s Zannet Pharmaceuticals, a licensed company at Baddi, and his manager Sonu Sain for operating a multi-crore illegal drug racket.Investigation revealed that within two years, Rs 100-crore drugs, including NDPS scheduled drugs, were sent to Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and other states, said G Shiva, SP, State Narcotics Crime Control Unit (SNCCU).The firm first obtained formulations of NDPS drugs from the Narcotics Control Bureau for legal sale, then diverted it for nefarious use.The trader had a shady past as earlier his wholesale drug licence had been cancelled in Punjab for violation of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act.A team of officials led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Dinesh Sharma raided the office and warehouses at Zirakpur and Baddi. The company has its headquarter at Zirakpur.While auditing the firm’s transactions, State Drug Controller Navneet Marwaha and his team had found suspicious sales following which they had requested the police to investigate the matter.Marwaha said, “The firm was under observation for the past about three months after reports of illegal trade had been received. The case was referred to the SNCCU as it involved inter-state trade.”A case has been registered against M/s Zannet Pharmaceuticals, Baddi, under Sections 8, 21, 22, 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and Sections 420, 468, 471 and 120B of the IPC for cheating and forgery.“During interrogation, Bansal revealed that he prepared fake bills of selling NDPS drugs, including nitrazapem, codeine and etizolam containing tablets, to a Mandi-based dealer. A preliminary probe, however, revealed that the drug dealer never received the consignments. Bansal used his car to transport the drugs to Rajasthan, Punjab and other states,” said SP G Shiva.Drugs sent to Pb, R’sthan, UPInterrogation revealed that the owner prepared fake sale bills and shipped drugs to Punjab, Rajasthan, UP and other states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-firm-booked-for-illegal-drug-trade-346046
04-12-2021||Solan||Himachal pharma firm booked for multi-crore illegal drug trade||In a major breakthrough in unravelling illegal drug trade, the state CID on Friday arrested Dinesh Bansal (38), a resident of Barnala district of Punjab and his manager Sonu Saini (32), resident of Panipat, who were allegedly operating a multi-crore illegal drug trade from M/s Zannet Pharmaceuticals, a wholesale drug license holding trading company at Himachal Pradesh's Baddi.Investigations reveal that within a span of two years, more than Rs 100 crores worth of drugs including Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) scheduled drugs have been transacted to states like Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, etc., informed G Shiva, SP, NCCU.The firm after obtaining NDPS formulations from the narcotic control bureau for legal sale diverted it for nefarious use as sedatives and hypnotics.  Since such drugs have dual presence under the NDPS act as well as under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, it has added to the gravity of the offence.The said trader has a shady past and investigations also revealed that his wholesale drug license had been cancelled earlier in Punjab for violation of Drugs and Cosmetics Act in 2018-19.A team of CID officials led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Dinesh Sharma raided the office and warehouse at Zirakpur in Punjab and warehouse at Baddi where inspections were still underway.State Drug Controller Navneet Marwaha and his team while auditing its transactions had found suspicious sales of the firm following which they had requested the state police to investigate the matter.  Marwaha said, “The firm was under observation since the last about three months after reports of some nefarious trade had been received. The case was referred to the State Narcotics Crime Control Unit (SNCCU) as it involved inter-state trade involving technical inspections.”A case was registered against M/S Zannet Pharmaceuticals, Baddi, under Sections 8, 21, 22, 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) and Sections 420, 468, 471 and 120B of the IPC for cheating and forgery. The company has its headquarters at Zirakpur.“During interrogation, Dinesh Bansal revealed that he prepared fake sales bills of selling NDPS drugs including Nitrazapem, Codeine and Etizolam contained tablets to Mandi-based wholesale drug dealer. Preliminary investigations, however, confirmed that the Mandi-based drug dealer never received such drugs from him.“Investigations further pointed out that he used his Toyota Innova car to transport NDPS drugs to Rajasthan, Punjab and other states in violation of rules of NDPS Act,” informed SP G Shiva.Many consignments from the firm had been sent to Rajasthan and other parts of the country.  Special teams have been formed under the Senior SP, SNCCU and overall supervision of IG, Crime.They will verify all sale transactions including transactions made to Rajasthan, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Further investigation would unearth possible interstate drug smuggling syndicate, run by the accused across northern Indian states, informed officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pharma-unit-management-in-baddi-booked-for-illegal-drugs-trade-345910
