07-12-2021||Shimla||2 killed, 25 injured as vehicle falls into gorge in Chamba||A pick-up vehicle fell into a gorge in Himachal Pradesh's Chamba district on Tuesday, leaving two people dead and 25 others injured, a district official said.The accident took place at Bharari in Dalhousie sub-division, Dalhousie Deputy Superintendent of Police Vishal Verma said.The injured have been admitted to a nearby hospital.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed grief over the deaths.The injured are being provided best-possible treatment, Thakur said in a post on social media. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-killed-25-injured-as-vehicle-falls-into-gorge-in-chamba-347448
07-12-2021||A water stream in the Tungal Colony area in Mandi town is turning into a dumping yard as people throw waste into it. There is a need to check this practice. The Mandi Municipal Corporation is providing door to door garbage collection service. So||Waste being dumped into stream in Mandi||Road in bad conditionThe condition of the Shimla-Dharamsala Highway near Darlaghat has become deplorable. The stretch near the HIMFED store is riddled with big, gaping holes and it's very dangerous to drive on it. Not only can the vehicles break down on this stretch, the chances of accidents are also quite high. — Gyan Thakur, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at :hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/waste-being-dumped-into-stream-347350
07-12-2021||The ABVP has demanded that Mandi's cluster university be soon upgraded to the state university. To press its demand||ABVP to launch agitation||SFI convention concludesThe 21st state convention of the SFI concluded on Monday with slogans and resolution against privatisation, centralisation and saffronisation of education. Around 300 delegates from different parts of the state participated in the convention. SFI secretary Mayuk Shivdas said the education set-up in the state as well as the country was crumbling as the government was withdrawing from subsidised education and handing it over to the private sector.Read Ambedkar's biography: GovernorOn the occasion of "Mahaparinirvan Diwas" of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar, Dr BR Ambedkar Peeth of Himachal Pradesh University organised an allocution, in which Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar was the chief guest. The Governor said, "On this day, we all should take a pledge to read the biography of Baba Sahib Ambedkar. We are all indebted to him for the ideas and direction he gave to the country and society." Referring to many incidents related to the life of Baba Sahib, he said he was a reformer of the Hindu society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/abvp-to-launch-agitation-347349
07-12-2021||Shimla||Anti-Money Laundering Cell set up in Himachal||The Anti-Money Laundering Cell (AMLC) has been constituted under the chairmanship of the Director General of Police at the Police Headquarters, Shimla. It will combat the organised crimes effectively, a spokesperson of the police department said here today.The cell had shared information of major organised crimes with the Enforcement Directorate.The Himachal Police had been targeting the mining mafia and dismantling its network.Three such cases under the Mines & Minerals Act from Una had been investigated and the criminal nexus of the accused had been dismembered, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anti-money-laundering-cell-set-up-347348
07-12-2021||Mandi||No heli taxi for Himachal tribal areas, Congress fumes||Ravi Thakur, former Congress MLA from Lahaul and Spiti, criticised the government today for not providing heli taxi to the tribal areas like Lahaul and Spiti, Kinnaur, Pangi and Bharmour.The government has decided to launch heli taxi to promote tourism for which the flight schedule has been issued. There is no mention of these areas.He said, “Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda has failed to raise the issue with the government.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-heli-taxi-for-tribal-areas-cong-fumes-347347
07-12-2021||Palampur||Palampur: Probe sought into death of poor patient||Sixty-year-old Padmawati of Tanda Rajpur villager near Palampur, who was a heart patient, died today in the Tanda medical college. She had a blockade in her two arteries and was in urgent need of angioplasty.She was taken to Tanda college last month by her son but was returned since she had no money for coronary stents. The People’s Voice, an NGO, in a letter to the CM demanded an inquiry into the death of Padmawati.The Tribune had highlighted her plight in these columns last week. Later, CM Jai Ram Thakur intervened and extended the validity of HIMCARE cards which expired in April this year. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/probe-sought-into-death-of-poor-patient-347332
07-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Kisan bhawan opens at Bhattiyat||Dalhousie, December 6Bhattiyat MLA Vikram Jaryal today inaugurated a kisan bhawan and a farmer counselling centre constructed at a cost of Rs 37.53 lakh at Thulel seed multiplication farm of agriculture department.Jaryal said a training auditorium had also been constructed in this building in which information related to agriculture would be provided to farmers. Training programs would be organised there.Later, presiding over a one-day farmer training camp, Jaryal said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had set a target of doubling the income of farmers by the year 2022. For achieving this goal, various schemes were being run by the Central and the state governments.Under these schemes, 50 per cent subsidy was being given for purchase of machinery, tractors, power weeders, brush cutters, threshers, etc to make agricultural works easier by the farmers.He also said this year 82 farmers of Bhattiyat development block were provided a grant of Rs 30.50 lakh on agricultural machinery. In addition, three custom hiring centres were set up.SDM Bachan Singh and Deputy Director (Agriculture) Dr Kuldeep Singh Dhiman informed the farmers about various schemes being run by the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kisan-bhawan-opens-at-bhattiyat-347324
07-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar lays stone of Una BDO office||Una, December 6Rural Development and Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar today called upon the elected members of Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) to use with honesty and transparency the administrative, financial and judicial powers vested in them.He was speaking at the district-level Panch Parmeshwar Sammelan in the city after laying the foundation stone of a new BDO office for Una block to be built at a cost of Rs 4.78 crore.Kanwar told the elected PRI members that petty cases of dispute should be settled in panchayats so that people do not have to go through lengthy litigation. He said that all elected members should update themselves regarding various welfare and development schemes of the Central and state governments and make efforts to link the beneficiaries with them. Chairman of the State Finance Commission Satpal Singh Satti was also present.Later, the minister laid the foundation stone of a solid waste management plant at Palkwah village in the Haroli segment.According to information, solid waste from about 6,000 households would be segregated and processed here.A sum of Rs 93 lakh would be spent on a cluster of 10 nearby panchayats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-lays-stone-of-una-bdo-office-347299
07-12-2021||Shimla||Fair price shops in Himachal to sell 5-kg LPG cylinders||Small LGP cylinders weighing 5 kg will soon be available at fair price shops in the state. The fair price shop owners have given consent, albeit with some riders, to sell LPG cylinders. “The decision has been taken to increase the financial condition of the fair price shop owners and the convenience of consumers,” says KC Chaman, Director, Food and Civil Supplies.The arrangement is voluntary and the shop/depot owners will be free to choose whether they want to sell LPG cylinders or not. “Also, the Department of Food and Civil Supplies will have no role in this arrangement. The understanding and arrangement will be entirely between the shop/depot owners and the oil companies and the distributors,” says Chaman.Also, the interested shop/depot owners will need to fulfil the terms and conditions as mandated by oil marketing companies for the storage of flammable substances. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fair-price-shops-to-sell-5-kg-lpg-cylinders-347298
07-12-2021||---||Projects worth Rs 32 cr inaugurated in Darang||Mandi, December 6Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today inaugurated development projects worth about Rs 32 crore at Jhatingari in Darang assembly constituency of Mandi district. He inaugurated the upgraded Ghatasni-Barot road, Lanjnu Bridge over Uhl river and the Barot-Maiot road constructed under PMGSY Phase-II by spending an amount of Rs 25.19 crore, Rs 1.96 crore and Rs 4.90 crore, respectively.Focus on BarotThe Chief Minister laid foundation stone of combined office building at Multhan to be completed by spending an amount of Rs 9.79 crore and also performed bhumi pujan of Government Degree College building at Multhan to be constructed at a cost of Rs 5 crore.Addressing a public meeting at Multhan, the Chief Minister announced opening of an ITI in the area. He also directed the PWD officers to ensure early completion of Bir to Baragaon road. He announced Rs 30 lakh each for both the assembly constituency areas for construction of roads.The Chief Minister said that an ambulance would be provided at CHC Barot. A PWD rest house would be constructed at Multhan. He announced that BDO Baijnath would sit for five days at Multhan every month to facilitate the people.He said that the issue of setting up a tower would be taken up with the Airtel and Jio authorities for better network facilities at Barot. He said that 40 meter bridge would also be constructed soon on Lohardi road. A helipad would come up in the area.The CM said Barot and Multhan area would be developed under the Nai Raahein Nai Manzilein Scheme so as to attract more and more tourists to visit this area. He said that Barot area has immense tourism potential and if explored properly it could emerge as one of the most popular destination for the tourists.“A college building at Multhan would be constructed soon so that students of the area could be benefited. The present state government was committed to balanced development of the difficult and far-off areas. The government was laying special stress on construction of roads and providing connectivity in rural areas.The Chief Minister said that Rs 10 crore has been provided for developing Bir Billing as paragliding destination under the ADB project.During his tour, the Chief Minister was accompanied by Darang MLA Jawahar Thakur, Baijnath MLA Mulkraj Premi, Jogindernagar MLA Prakash Rana and other local BJP leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/projects-worth-32-cr-inaugurated-in-darang-347297
07-12-2021||Subhash Rajta||3,000 Theog apple growers not paid subsidy for over 7 years||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 6Over 3,000 apple growers of Theog block in Shimla district are waiting for subsidy payment for the past many years. Many of them have not been paid subsidy since 2013-14.“There’s a pendency of over seven years in many cases. We will submit a memorandum to the Director, Horticulture, on December 8. If the subsidy amount is still not released, we will start an agitation outside the Horticulture Department office from December 19,” said Hira Singh Shastri, president of the Kisan Sangharsh Samiti formed to take up the matter of pending subsidy, here today.The government offers up to 80 per cent subsidy on anti-hail nets, power tillers, sprayers, etc, to increase the quality and quantity of the produce.“The government encouraged people to buy anti-hail nets and other equipment by offering heavy subsidies. They took bank loans or borrowed money on interest from their acquaintances in hope that they would repay it once they get the subsidy amount,” said Shastri. Unfortunately, most of the farmers have not received the subsidy amount, causing distress to them,” he added.DR Sharma, Deputy Director, Horticulture Department, Shimla, said that the department was working to pay the outstanding amounts to people. “The demand in Theog block is much higher compared to other blocks. It’s one of the reasons for high pendency. Also, there’s a shortage of staff, including a Horticulture Development Officer, in this block, which has delayed the processing of cases,” he added.Farmers, however, allege that Theog block has been discriminated against in subsidy payment. “There’s hardly any pendency in our blocks like Jubbal-Kotkhai and Narkanda. How come the pendency in Theog block is over seven years?” said Shastri.He said the subsidy amounts varied between Rs 10,000 and Rs 1.5 lakh. “We have been waiting patiently all these years for the subsidy but have run out of patience now,” he added.A few months ago, Horticulture Minister Mahender Singh had said the pending subsidy of Theog block was too high for the government to clear in one go.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-000-theog-apple-growers-not-paid-subsidy-for-over-7-years-347295
07-12-2021||Dharamsala||Dharamsala trekkers' bodies found||The bodies of two trekkers from Dharamsala, who had gone missing in Dhauladhar mountain ranges on December 4, were found in the forests near Dadhrala in Dhauladhar mountain ranges today.Harsimranjeet Singh, a resident of Ward No. 6 Gurudwara road and Naveen, son of Hari Singh, a resident of Dari, had gone on trekking to Kundli pass area near Kharota area in Dhauladhar mountain ranges along Dharamsala.Both went missing on December 4. The families of the missing trekkers lodged a complaint with local police after which the teams were deployed by the district administration and local trekkers today to undertake search operation. The postmortem of the bodies would be conducted tomorrow ascertain the causes of the death.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-trekkers-bodies-found-347291
07-12-2021||Ambika Sharma||Kasauli lab ensures safe Covid vaccines||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 6Testing 1,053 batches of Covid vaccine, comprising 1.521 million doses, during the pandemic is no mean achievement for the Central Drug Laboratory, Kasauli, which is the lone laboratory in India ensuring safety of vaccines.A dedicated staff of 72 has been assiduously working hard since June 2020, when the first batch of Covishield was received from the Serum Institute of India for testing.The vaccine test involves various procedures, like test planning, performance, result analysis, preparing standard operating procedures, taking note of trends in quality control parameters for further tests, etc.“Various tests, like efficacy to test the potency of vaccine safety, which includes abnormal toxicity test, sterility, endotoxin test, etc are conducted for a vaccine batch. Sterility test alone takes 14 days while other tests take two to seven days.To save time, parallel testing is being done, which has helped save time,” said Dr Arun Bhardwaj, Director, CDL.In a bid to speed up testing when there was a clamour for administering more jabs in the midst of the pandemic, basic tests were reduced by 20 to 30 per cent. “When several batches of a vaccine were found giving consistent results in various quality control parameters, some basic tests were done away with,” a lab official said.“This helped in testing more batches. The quality is never compromised as trends in various parameters are carefully assessed. If any variation in a trend pertaining to any parameter is noticed, more tests are conducted to ensure safety of the batch,” the official stated.New vaccines, however, are subject to all tests, to ensure there is no compromise on quality.The lab is conducting basic testing of various batches of the US pharma giant Johnson & Johnson’s Janseen vaccine. It is being manufactured in India by Hyderabad-based Biological E and its seven batches have been tested and released by the lab.“We are conducting all basic tests for Janseen vaccine while its specific tests for viral and spike protein are being conducted in the USA,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kasauli-lab-ensures-safe-covid-vaccines-347290
07-12-2021||Our Correspondent||17 foreign returnees quarantined in Una||Una, December 6The district administration has ordered all 17 persons, who have returned from foreign countries in the past one week, to be quarantined.The nasal swab tests of 15 persons have been reported to be negative for Covid, while the results of the other two samples are still awaited.Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Raman Kumar Sharma said that in the wake of new variant Omicron having been reported in some parts of India and other countries, all persons, who had returned from abroad in the past one week, had been home quarantined and told to isolate themselves from their family members.He said that even if the returnees test negative, they would continue to be in quarantine and the second sample would be taken after eight days.He added that even if the second sample turns out to be negative, these people would have to complete the mandatory quarantine of 14 days.Dr Sharma said that Health Department staff, ASHA and anganwari workers and panchayat representatives were strictly monitoring houses where the foreign returnees had been quarantined.He added that anyone found violating the quarantine order would face action under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act.1 dies in ShimlaShimla: As many as 112 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 227,630. Besides, one person died of the virus in Shimla district. The highest number of 54 cases was recorded in Mandi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/17-foreign-returnees-quarantined-in-una-347288
07-12-2021||Our Correspondent||6,419 vehicles crossed Atal tunnel at weekend||Kullu, December 6The strategically important 9.02-km-long Atal Tunnel registered a record passage of 6,419 vehicles during the winter season from Saturday 8 am to Sunday 8 am. The earlier record of 5,450 vehicles passing through the tunnel during the winter season was registered on December 26 last and the highest 7,276 vehicles crossing the tunnel were witnessed during the summer season on June 27.Lahaul and Spiti SP Manav Verma said that 3,838 vehicles from Himachal and 2,581 vehicles from outside the state crossed the tunnel within 24 hours. While 3,194 vehicles entered the tunnel from the Manali side, 3,225 vehicles came from the Lahaul side. The world’s longest tunnel located an altitude of 10,040 feet has become a major tourist destination and provides easy access to tourists the Lahaul valley. A large number of tourists were witnessed from the north portal to Sissu.Due to recent snowfall in higher reaches, the tourist’s influx gained pace at the weekend in Manali. Those associated with tourist business were elated by a large number of tourists thronging the scenic valley. The tourists were allowed to cross the Atal tunnel as the weather cleared after a couple of days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/6-419-vehicles-crossed-tunnel-at-weekend-347270
07-12-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Midnight snow brings cheer to Manali tourists||Kullu, December 6Manali town experienced the first snowfall of the season on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. The snowfall started around midnight and continued intermittently till 3 am. The town recorded around 2 inch of snow that was washed away by rain by noon today. The Solang Nullah received around six inch of snowfall. The higher reaches covered with snow presented a more scenic and panoramic view.Tourists were elated to witness snow. Nehru Kund and Palchan near Manali witnessed a heavy rush of tourists while some revellers also visited the Solang Nullah. A tourist from Haryana said that they prolonged their stay after witnessing snowfall for the first time in their life.Another tourist from Delhi said that Manali was rightly called ‘mini Switzerland’. The snow would give a boost to the Christmas and New Year season and the beneficiaries of the tourism industry were hopeful that the tourist footfall would increase.Power lines were also damaged in some areas due to the snowfall. However, there was no report of any major damage caused due to the inclement weather.Meanwhile, the Kullu district administration did not allow any vehicle to cross the Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh National Highway today, as approach roads had become slippery, making commuting risky. The Aut-Luhri highway was also blocked at the Jalori Pass.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/midnight-snow-brings-cheer-to-manali-tourists-347266
07-12-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Season's 1st snow at Himachal's Kufri, Narkanda||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 6The tourist resorts of Kufri and Narkanda received the first spell of mild snowfall today while the state capital Shimla and its surrounding areas were lashed by thunderstorm, sleet and intermittent rain. As many as 136 roads, including 127 in Lahaul and Spiti, six in Mandi and one each in Chamba, Kullu and Kinnaur, were closed for traffic following the snowfall.The mild snowfall in Kufri and Chharabra have made the road slippery and the Shimla police have advised the commuters to be cautious while driving on this patch and avoid travelling at night. They can dial 112 or 8894728016 (Dhalli SHO) in case they need any assistance.Hoteliers upbeatThe weekend occupancy in hotels, which was about 75 per cent, dropped to 25 per cent on Monday but the hoteliers are upbeat as the tourist inflow is expected to increase after snowfall. — MK Seth, President, Tourism industry stakeholders associationRohtang pass and the Atal Tunnel recorded heavy snowfall of 75 cm and 45 cm, respectively, while Koksar, Darcha and Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti recorded 45 cm, 30 cm and 20 cm of fresh snow, disrupting normal life in the region. Tourist destinations of Chitkul, Sangla and Kalpa in Kinnaur district received 15.5 cm, 7.6 cm and 6.0 cm of snow, respectively, while the remote Dodra Kwar and Chopal received 30 cm and 6 cm of snow, respectively.Kufri, Narkanda, Rohru and Khara Pathar received light snowfall, creating cold wave conditions in the region. The sky remained heavily overcast in Shimla and its surrounding areas and foggy conditions prevailed, reducing visibility and disrupting normal traffic.Deputy Commissioner, Shimla, Aditya Negi said 99 per cent of the roads were open for vehicular traffic in the district. Machines, JCBs and other equipment have been deployed on the vulnerable stretches.The weekend occupancy, which was about 75 per cent, had dropped to 25 per cent on Monday but the hoteliers are upbeat as the tourist inflow is expected to increase after snowfall, said Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association president MK Seth.The tourists were elated to witness sleet. “We planned a trip to Shimla after seeing the weather forecast of snow and will travel to Narkanda tomorrow, hoping to enjoy the snow,” said a newly wed couple Smriti and Akarshan.Widespread rain occurred across the state and Manali was the wettest with 29-mm rain while Mandi and Chamba received 23 mm, followed by Salooni 22 mm, Tinder 21 mm, Baldwara 19 mm, Jubbar-Hatti, Banjar and Jogindernagar 18 mm, Palampur 17 mm, Seobagh 16 mm, Bhuntar 14 mm, Chopal, Bajura and Nichar 13 mm, Palampur 12 mm, Sundernagar, Ghumarwin and Paonta Sahib 11 mm and Kotkhai, Bhoranj and Pandoh 10 mm and Shimla 9 mm.Minimum temperatures decreased by two or three degrees C and stayed close to normal. The local MeT office has predicted rain or snow at isolated place in mid and higher hills on December 8 and 9 and dry weather in the region tomorrow. A fresh Western Disturbance is likely to affect Western Himalayan Region from December 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/seasons-1st-snow-at-kufri-narkanda-347260
07-12-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Staff blues: Himachal Pradesh to aid of private universities||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 6With a significant number of ineligible teachers occupying posts in state’s universities, the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission has decided to create a pool of qualified candidates to help institutions in recruitments.After screening of documents of 16 private universities, the commission found that nearly 10-15 per cent faculty members were ineligible for their respective posts. It was found that faculty members did not fulfil UGC norms and some universities had not informed the commission regarding NET or Ph.D exemption.Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (retd), Chairman, said during the screening of 12 universities earlier, 30-40% of the faculty was found ineligible. The erring institutions were told to replace ineligible faculty, he said.“Lack of permanent teaching cadre is another area of concern. It has been decided that a pool of qualified teachers passed out from state universities would be created to help institutions recruit teachers with Ph.D and NET qualification,” he said.There are complaints of irregularities in some colleges. A committee has been constituted for inspection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/staff-blues-himachal-prades-to-aid-of-private-universities-347230
