08-12-2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh records 2 Covid deaths, 69 new cases||Himachal Pradesh recorded two Covid fatalities on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 3,840, while 69 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 2,27,753, an official said.A 73-year-old man and a 75-year-old woman succumbed to the virus in Kangra district, he said.There are 722 active Covid cases in the state, while 81 more patients recuperated from the infection, taking the recovery count to 2,23,174, the health official said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-records-2-covid-deaths-69-new-cases-347934
08-12-2021||NURPUR||Patwari held taking bribe in Fatehpur||The Kangra Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau team nabbed a patwari posted in Bari Patwar circle in Fatehpur while accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000 on Monday evening.Complainant Jagdish Chan of Kootkhana (Fatehpur), had submitted a complaint to the bureau, alleging that the patwari Ashwani Kumar was demanding a bribe for undertaking land demarcation.Balbir Singh, bureau SP, Dharamsala, said a team was constituted to nab the accused red-handed. A trap was laid and the team caught the patwari accepting bribe money before starting land demarcation. The accused has been arrested under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and produced in the district session court for taking remand. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/patwari-held-taking-bribe-347589
08-12-2021||KULLU||4 fruit shops gutted in Bhuntar||Four temporary shops were gutted in a fire at Bhuntar fruit market last night. The fruits and other material kept in the shops were ruined.The tarpaulins and wooden racks were reduced to ashes. The shops belonged to Sunil, Anil, Rajesh and Rakesh Kumar.Shopkeeper Sunil Kumar said the fire broke out around 12 midnight. Its cause was yet to be ascertained.The shopkeepers said that these shops were their only source of livelihood. They have urged the government to provide immediate relief to them so that they can resume their business.Fire Officer Durga Singh said fire tenders were rushed to the spot after receiving information about the fire. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-fruit-shops-gutted-in-bhuntar-347590
08-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Himachal Power staff to join stir for old pension plan||NURPUR, DECEMBER 7The Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Ltd (HPSEBL) Employees’ Union has decided to join dharna and protest of the New Pension Scheme (NPS) employees to be held on December 11 in front of the Assembly at Tapovan in Kangra district during its winter session.Kuldeep Kharwara, state president of the association, said here that the central executive committee of the association had convened its virtual meeting on Sunday and extended its wholehearted support to 1.20 lakh NPS employees of the state, who are demanding the restoration of Old Pension Scheme (OPS).Terming the NPS a cruel joke on government employees, Kharwara said if an MLA or an MP after taking his oath became eligible for lifelong pension, why had the Union Government snatched the pension right from employees.He said the committee had also decided to hold a demonstration before the HPSEBL head office in Shimla on December 8 against the proposed Electricity Amendment Act-2021. On a call given by the National Coordination Committee of Employees and Engineers, the association would submit a memorandum to the Prime Minister for the revocation of this Act.“The power employees shall also hold a protest before the HPSEBL’s divisional and circle offices and take out protest rallies on February 1 across the state against the Act. The association will also serve a 21-day notice to the electricity board management against its failure to address longstanding grievances and demands of the electricity employees,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-power-staff-to-join-stir-for-old-pension-plan-347591
08-12-2021||Ambika Sharma||Narcotic unit team raids Zirakpur firm||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 7A State Narcotic Crime Control Unit (SNCCU) team today raided a Zirakpur pharmaceutical unit’s head office. The scrutiny of records pertaining to manufacturing, sales and trading was under way till late in the evening.The SNCCU arrested Dinesh Bansal, proprietor, and Sonu Saini, manager of the firm, from Baddi on Friday for illegally trading Rs 100 crore narcotic drugs through fake firms on fake bills in various states.A team, led by DSP Dinesh Sharma, had earlier raided a Kurali company owned by Bansal. Drugs manufactured at the firm had been reportedly traded through a Mandi-based KN Medicos though the trader has refuted having dealt with any such firm.SP, SNCCB, G Shiva said the proprietor of KN Medicos would be produced before a judicial magistrate tomorrow for recording his statement at Nalagarh. This would ensure that he didn’t backtrack on the claim of not having dealt with Zannet Pharmaceuticals.SNCCB officials found that Zannet Pharmaceuticals had been trading with a Rajasthan firm at Sikar whose wholesale licence had been suspended in June 2021.“Since the Sikar firm is found involved in nefarious activities, the Drug Control Administration (DCA) of Rajasthan was on the lookout for the firm’s proprietor. He has been untraceable for the past several months,” said Shiva.Even officials of the DCA, Baddi, have failed to get response from the DCA, Rajasthan, when asked about the trader with whom Zannet Pharmaceuticals had traded drugs in the past about two years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/narcotic-unit-team-raids-zirakpur-firm-347592
08-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Overflowing sewerage chamber in Chhoti Shamshi area of Bhuntar||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.comOverflowing sewerage chamberThe overflowing sewerage chamber in Chhoti Shamshi area of Bhuntar has become a nuisance since the past couple of years. The area around the chamber is always stinking. Despite repeated requests, the problem has not been resolved. The issue was also raised with the CM helpline but to no avail. The sewerage lines from other nearby colonies had been joined with this chamber, due to which it is overflowing. A new sewerage line should be laid for the adjacent colonies to provide relief to the shopkeepers and residents of Chhoti Shamshi. — Varinder Sood, BhuntarAdmn must be ready for inclement weatherA hailstorm stalled traffic in the Totu locality of the city on Monday evening. Many buses got delayed due to the slow-moving traffic, and people reached home quite late in the evening. Given that winters are around the corner, the administration and the MC should expedite the process of keeping sand at the roads likely to be affected during snow and heavy hailstorm. — Divakar Sharma, Totu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/overflowing-sewerage-chamber-347593
08-12-2021||Sunil Upadhyay Education Trust and Red Cross Society||Shimla: Sunil Upadhyay Education Trust distributes blankets||Tourism conclave at HPUThe Institute of Vocational Studies (Tourism), Himachal Pradesh University, would host a tourism conclave on the topic “Roadmap for developing tourism in Himachal Pradesh”. The two-day conclave would witness discussions and conversations with government officials, alma maters, travel agents and tour operators, adventure tourism enthusiasts, home stay owners, hoteliers, academicians and other subject matter experts to highlight the current situation of the state's tourism industry and the immediate future with the new normal. It is for the first time in the history of HP that tourism experts and academicians would sit together to brainstorm and highlight the issues and remedies for development of tourism in the state.Skill development subject soonVidya Bharti, Himachal Pradesh, would soon introduce skill development subjects in Saraswati Vidya Mandirs in the state as per the New Education Policy. A committee has been formed to skill map all 12 districts of the state, and would submit its reports within a month. On the basis of this report, modules would be prepared for training. A list would be prepared of parents, social workers, retired exerts and businessmen who could educate children about skill development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/education-trust-distributes-blankets-347594
08-12-2021||Shimla||Mutual funds 'best option for small investors'||There is a wide spectrum of mutual fund schemes ranging from equity funds to debt funds to exchange traded funds that an investor can choose as per his risk appetite and investment horizon, said Surya Kant Sharma, Senior Consultant for the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), here today.Sharma was the keynote speaker at the national webinar on Management of Personal Finance, organised by the Department of Evening Studies, Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), in collaboration with the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) as part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’.He said mutual funds were the best option available for general investors interested in investing a minimum amount of Rs 500 though the systematic investment plan (SIP) and build a good corpus over a period of time.He also spoke about the importance of financial security and emphasised that an investor should first think and ensure adequate life insurance, reasonable medical insurance cover and an emergency fund. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mutual-funds-best-option-for-small-investors-347595
08-12-2021||Shimla||Campaign on child-mother health on cards||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said a special campaign would be launched to sensitise people about the importance of mother-child health during a workshop organised by the NITI Aayog and the state government on ‘Poshan and Cooperative Federalism’ here today.He said awareness must be created at the grassroots level so that nutrition could be made a mass movement. “The state government has completed the training of Anganwari workers and now 18,925 Anganwari workers and 5,99,643 beneficiaries are being registered on nutrition tracker. For the management of severely malnourished and moderately malnourished children, a standard operating procedure has been prepared in coordination with the HP National Health Mission and Women and Child Development,” he said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/campaign-on-child-mother-health-on-cards-347596
08-12-2021||Shimla||MoU to promote industry-education sector partnership in Himachal Pradesh||A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was yesterday signed between the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institution Regulatory Commission (HPPERC) to promote industry-academic partnership in training, exchange of students and faculty, upgradation of curriculum and joint research consultancy.The document was signed by chairman HPPERC Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (Retd) and the Chairman, CII HP Shailesh Agarwal here. The MoU provides for an exchange of non-confidential information related to the education sector in the state and also provides for exchange of professional experience relating to services rendered.Both sides have agreed to share with each other all research relating to activities, projects undertaken under the agreement and will enjoy joint ownership of all intellectual property rights in terms of copyrights, patents, trademarks for any discoveries, inventions and any outcomes resulting from the joint activities undertaken under the MOU. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mou-to-promote-industry-education-sector-partnership-347597
08-12-2021||---||Army's pact with 6 Himachal universities for research, skill education||Shimla, December 7The Army Training Command (ARTRAC) today signed memorandums of understanding (MoU) with six private universities in Himachal Pradesh to provide higher education and skill programmes to serving Army personnel.The MoUs were signed with Shoolini University, Chitkara University, Maharaja Agrasen University, Eternal University, Career Point University and Jaypee University under the aegis of the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPERC).Lt Gen JS Sandhu, Chief of Staff, ARTRAC, signed the MoUs on behalf of the Army in the presence of Chairman of the HPPERC Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (retd). Those who signed the MoUs on behalf of the universities are Vishal Anand (Shoolini University), Varinder S Kanwar (Chitkara University), Rajendra Kumar Sharma (Jaypee University), Davinder Singh (Eternal University),Kartar Singh Verma (Career Point University) and Suresh Gupta (Maharaja Agrasen University).The MoUs provide scope of academic and research cooperation between the Army and the private universities. These include efforts to promote and facilitate exchange of information on educational programmes run bythese institutions as part of their on-campus and off-campus programmes and research and innovation currently undertaken by these universities.The Army has agreed to sponsor officers to attend educational programmes in these universities. The MoUs also provide collaborative research and innovation in areas of mutual interest in basic and applied sciences, physical sciences, engineering, management, and social sciences.Shoolini University has offered over 50 Phd seats for serving Army officers in diverse subjects such as computer science, nano technology, journalism and mass communication, and basic and applied sciences and liberal arts. The number of seats to be allotted to Army personnel would be over and above the sanctioned strength in each subject.Maj Gen Kaushik (retd) said that the pioneering agreements between the Army and the private universities would prove to be path breaking and the initiative would prove useful for serving officers, who could also benefit from it after retirement.He said that the agreements provided a broad approach to further catalyse a synergy between the Army and the academia in the field of research and higher education. The Vice-Chancellors and other senior functionaries of the six universities said they were looking forward to association with serving Army officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/armys-pact-with-6-universities-for-research-skill-education-347598
08-12-2021||Our Correspondent||One more train restored in Kangra||PALAMPUR, December 7The railway authorities have restored one more train on KV rail line between Pathankot and Jogindernagar. The train was suspended in April 2021 because of Covid pandemic. Now total six trains are plying on this section daily, including one express train.The railways had already made five trains operational on this section last month. Out of six trains, one will be connected to Jogindernagar while five will terminate at Paprola. The Railways had introduced new rail engine in these trains which have the capability of generating higher speed.A spokesman for the Indian Railways said that out of seven, six trains had been made operational while the remaining one will be restored soon. He said the new timetable of the trains had been made public and was also available on the Indian Railways website.“The six trains made operational are covering 33 stations and pass through important places like Nurpur, Jawali, Jwalamukhi Road, Kangra, Nagrota Bagwan, Chamunda, Palampur, Baijnath and Jogindernagar, which are also the major tourist attraction centres of the state,” he added.In the absence of train services, people were facing a lot of difficulties while commuting. The daily commuters were the worst hit. Besides, the tourist visiting Kangra valley were missing the toy train.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-more-train-restored-in-kangra-347599
08-12-2021||---||Snow in high-altitude areas; 109 roads blocked in Himachal||Shimla, December 7As many as 109 roads, including 102 in Lahaul and Spiti, four in Kinnaur and one each in Chamba, Kullu and Shimla, were closed for vehicular traffic as high altitude areas received another spell of mild snowfall today.Kalpa received 8 cm of snow, followed by Kukumsheri 6 cm, Khadrala 5 cm, Shilaroo 2 cm, Kufri and Sangla 1 cm each while mid and lower hills were lashed by intermittent rains. Jubbarhatti was the wettest with 18 mm, followed by Banjar with 14 mm, Gohar 12 mm, Kandaghat 11 mm, Bharmour and Paonta Sahib 9 mm each, Karsog, Solan, Sarkaghat and Rohru 8 mm each, Mashobra, Baijnath, Shimla and Reckong Peo 7 mm each, Rampur and Mandi 6 mm each and Palampur, Manali, Bijahi and Bhuntar 5 mm each.The MeT office has predicted rain and snow at isolated places in middle and upper hills on December 8 and 9 and dry weather from December 10 onwards. The minimum temperatures decreased by 2 to 3 degrees and Keylong was coldest at night, recording a low of -9.4°C. Maximum temperature rose by 2 to 3 degrees and Una, with 25.3°C, was the hottest in the day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-in-high-altitude-areas-109-roads-blocked-in-himachal-347600
08-12-2021||---||Resident doctors at IGMC, Shimla, on strike from today||Shimla, December 7Patients will face a tough time at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital as resident doctors have decided go on a full-day strike from tomorrow. Resident doctors have been boycotting routine services for two hours over the last two days to protest the delay in NEET PG Counselling, 2021.“We have been boycotting routine services for two hours over the last two days. Since there has been no visible initiative by the government to expedite the counselling process, we have decided to escalate our agitation and go on an indefinite full-day strike,” said an official of the Resident Doctors Association, IGMC.With the footfall of over 2,000 OPD patients at the IGMC every day, the RDA’s decision is going to cause a lot of inconvenience to the patients coming to the hospital from various parts of the state. Even the two-hour strike for the two days had caused much inconvenience to the patients; the whole-day strike will hit the patients hard.The RDA said the emergency services would not be affected by the strike. Justifying the decision to go on strike, the RDA spokesperson said, “We are working round the clock for the patients, but the delay in counselling is testing our patience. It has enhanced the workload of the resident doctors. Also, the delay has kept the doctors waiting for counselling in a lot of uncertainty.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/resident-doctors-at-igmc-shimla-on-strike-from-today-347601
08-12-2021||Ravinder Sood||CT scan, MRI machines out of order in Tanda medical college||Palampur, December 7An MRI machine has been out of order in Tanda medical college for the past one week, causing inconvenience to patients. The TMC is the second biggest medical institution in the state, which caters to the needs of patients of six districts.The CT scan machine has already been non-functional for the past 11 months, affecting teaching and research work.Information reveals that 15 to 20 patients are being referred to private radiology centres for MRI reports daily.Sources said the government had not initiated any step for the repair of the machine, despite several complaints lodged by doctors, patients and their attendants.Meanwhile, the TMC has also not made any alternative arrangements to deal with the situation. Taking advantage of it, private centres have enhanced the rates and are fleecing the poor patients.In the TMC, the CT scan and MRI tests are conducted for Rs2,200 and Rs5,000 while in private radiology centres, patients are forced to pay Rs5,000 and Rs8,500 per test.A senior doctor said it would take one week for the repair of the MRI machine. As far as the CT scan machine is concerned, a new one would be purchased. The TMC has started the process and new machines would be installed soon.Patients made to pay heavily for testsIn the TMC, the CT scan and MRI tests were conducted for Rs2,200 and Rs5,000 while in private labs, patients pay Rs5,000 and Rs8,500 per test||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ct-scan-mri-machines-out-of-order-in-tanda-medical-college-347602
08-12-2021||Mandi||Construct Dev Sadan in time, Himachal CM urged||The Kardar Sangh has urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to ensure the completion of the construction of Dev Sadan at Kangnidhar in Mandi district in time.Dev Sadan is being constructed to provide accommodation to deities, who visit here during the week-long Shivratri festival every year.Shivpal Sharma, president of the Kardar Sangh, said, “The 99 per cent work on Dev Sadan has been completed. We want the project to be completed before Shivratri. Over 200 deities visit here from the far-flung areas for the festival”.According to sources, the project will be completed at a cost of Rs 30 crore. The district administration will use it to organise cultural activities round the year to promote the culture of Mandi.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/construct-dev-sadan-in-time-himachal-cm-urged-347603
08-12-2021||---||2 die, 25 hurt in Chamba mishap||Dalhousie, December 7Two women died and 25 others were injured when their vehicle rolled down the road into the Sarog nullah near Bharai in Bhattiyat of Chamba district today.Reports revealed that the occupants travelling in the vehicle were going to attend a condolence meeting at a nearby village. The deceased have been identified as Aarti Devi and Asha Devi.The local administration and the police carried out the relief and rescue operation with the help of the locals and brought the injured to the Chowari civil hospital. Bhattiyat SDM Bachan Singh said the vehicle was carrying 27 persons. Nine of the injured had been referred to the Tanda hospital in Kangra district.Immediate relief had been given to the next of kin of the deceased and the injured, the SDM said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-die-25-hurt-in-chamba-mishap-347604
08-12-2021||---||Himachal's new sports policy on December 11||Shimla, December 7A cash reward of Rs 3 crore has been proposed for Olympics gold medal winners, in the state’s new sports policy, to be unveiled on December 11. The silver and bronze medallists will receive awards of Rs 2 core and Rs 1 crore, respectively.Fate of Saina Nehwal’s academy uncertainSaina Nehwal hasn’t yet responded to the terms and conditions we have sent to her regarding her badminton academy, for which land has been allotted in Dharamsala. We want that 80 per cent children at the academy be from the state and they should be provided training free of cost. Even if Saina changes her mind, the government will build the facility. Rakesh Pathania, Sports minister“Union Sports Minister Anurag Thakur will unveil the new sports policy in Dharamsala on December 11,” Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania said. “The existing sports policy does not have enough incentives, in terms of cash awards. Besides, the new policy would address the issue of providing jobs to the deserving sportspersons,” he said.The minister said that associations should ideally be headed by people having sports background. “I would request everyone with non-sports background heading association to step down and let players or people with sports background run the bodies,” Pathania said.He said that the department would focus on conducting talent hunt programmes in every district of the state. “Also, we are looking to establish academies in each district for games that are most popular in that particular area,” he maintained. Besides, the minister said he was hopeful of starting a couple of high-altitude training centres in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachals-new-sports-policy-on-december-11-347605
08-12-2021||---||Take research work to farmers: Himachal Governor||Shimla, December 7Develop ability to lead society and move ahead by examining opportunities, said Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar while presiding over the 11th convocation of Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar Horticulture and Forestry University at Nauni in Solan district today.He appealed to young scientists to maintain high standards set by the university. He conferred 665 degrees, 11 gold medals (seven medals were won by girls) and 261 merit certificates.The Governor congratulated the gold medal winners and the degree holders and urged them to take their research work to farmers. He said that until research reaches farmers, it has no use. He also congratulated teachers and the parents of the students for their contributions.He said that their degrees were worthwhile only when the benefits of research reach fields. “The process of learning in life does not end and today is the beginning of new education and achieving new goals,” said Arlekar. He also directed the university administration to develop a counseling centre in the direction of entrepreneurship.The Governor said that there was need to reduce dependence of farmers on chemical pesticides, the cost of which was increasing every year. He added that it should be our objective to produce safe food items and the government had taken steps towards natural farming.Arlekar said that it was a matter of satisfaction that in the Atal Innovation Ranking released by the Union Ministry of Education, the university had been placed in the top Band ‘A’ (6 to 25 rank) of all government universities in the country. It was also ranked 22nd in the ranking of agricultural universities of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, he added.The Governor also released a RoadMap and Action Plan for execution of the National Education Policy 2020’. The blessing message of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was also displayed on the occasion.Vice-Chancellor Parvinder Kaushal said that the university had focused more on research activities and from 2020 till date 83 research projects of Rs 48.74 crore had been sent to various agencies for financial aid and 16 projects of Rs 7.54 crore had been approved.Earlier, the Governor inaugurated a 640 KW rooftop solar plant on the University campus. He also inaugurated an e-cart and an exhibition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/take-research-work-to-farmers-himachal-governor-347606
08-12-2021||---||Covid-19: 43 students found positive in Himachal's Pandoh||Mandi, December 7As many as 43 students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Pandoh, in Mandi district were found Covid positive yesterday.According to Chief Medical Officer Dr Devender Sharma, around 35 students of the school were found infected a few days ago. As per Covid protocol, after seven days, the samples of all students and teachers were taken.The CMO said, “All 43 students have been isolated for 10 days. They are asymptomatic. The school management is adopting proper protocol, where exams are under way.”Meanwhile, 54 Covid cases were reported in the state on Tuesday, taking the tally to 227,684. Besides, two persons died of the virus in Hamirpur and Mandi.The highest 15 cases were reported in Shimla, followed by 13 in Kangra, 12 in Una, five in Hamirpur, four in Solan, three in Mandi and two in Bilaspur. The number of active cases declined to 736.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-43-students-found-positive-in-pandoh-347607
08-12-2021||Lalit Mohan||Una police send property details of 20 illegal mining accused to Enforcement Directorate||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 7Una police has forwarded details of assets of 20 accused in cases of illegal mining in the district to Enforcement Directorate (ED) for further action. The accused were owners of tippers, JCB machines and tractor trollies that were used in illegal mining in Swan river of Una district. Most of the accused are from Punjab while a few are from Himachal. The properties details which have been shared with the ED are worth about Rs 3 crores.Sources here said that the investigations by Una police have revealed that the owners of tippers and JCB machines in most of the cases did not have enough sources of income to buy machinery that costs between Rs 25 lakh and Rs 40 lakh. The police suspects that in many cases the tippers and JCB machines being used for illegal mining in the district were benami properties of other people making it a case for money laundering and investigation by the ED.The sources said that the police has conducted inquiry into sources of income of owners of JCB machines and tippers and found that they did not have sources to income to buy such costly machinery.The accused, whose details have been shared with ED include Kapil Sharma, a resident of Ayal village in Una district. His JCB was found involved in illegal mining in October in Swan river.Other owners of tippers and JCB machines include Baldeep Singh, a resident of Phillaur area of Jalandhar district, Shish Pal, a resident of Danah Basti in Patiala, Mahinder Singh, a resident of Anandpur Sahib in Ropar district of Punjab, Arshad, a resident of Badala village in Una district, Neeraj Prabhakar, a resident of Lamba Pind in Jalandhar, Rajinder Singh, a resident of Mahalpur area Hoshiarpur district of Punjab, Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Lamba Pind, Jalandhar, Gursevak Singh, a resident of Anandpur Sahib, Ropar, Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Nangal in Ropar district, Balbir Singh, a resident of Tajpur road in Ludhiana, Gurnek Singh, a resident of Phillaur area of Jalandhar, Amarjeet Singh, a resident of Dasuya area of Hoshiarpur, Dinesh Kumar, a resident of Satoshgarh area of Una, Harpreet Singh, a resident of Nikku Nangal village in Ropar district, Shri Ram, a resident of Garshankar in Hoshiarpur district, Harpal Singh, a resident of Nangal in Ropar district, Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Nikku Nangal village in Ropar district and Harkamal Singh resident Garshankar area of Hoshiarpur district.SP Una Arjit Sen, when asked, admitted that the details of accused have been sent to ED for further investigations. He said that the ED is yet to register a case in the matter but the Himachal police has provided them all evidence collected against the accused to the central agency.It was for the first time that the Himachal police has carried out financial investigations against the accused in cases of illegal mining.ED yet to register case, but details given: SP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/property-details-of-20-illegal-mining-accused-sent-to-enforcement-directorate-347608
08-12-2021||---||Hamirpur tops good governance index in Himachal Pradesh||Pratibha ChauhanTribune News ServiceShimla, December 7Hamirpur has been ranked number one in good governance among all 12 districts of Himachal Pradesh with Bilaspur and Kullu ranking second and third, respectively.The ranking has been finalised on the basis of secondary data of 12 districts, with focus on seven themes, 19 subjects and 75 indicators. Himachal is the first state in the country to have started assessing the quality of governance in vital sectors. The District Good Governance Index (HPDGGI) Annual Report-2020, prepared by the Department of Economics and Statistics, was released today. This is part of an initiative to use information technology to usher in an era of e-governance. Interestingly, only a score of 0.203 separates topper Hamirpur from the lowest ranked tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti. Mandi slipped from second to fourth position, while Shimla improved from 10th to fifth position this year.In one of the key areas related to women and children, Solan tops with a score of 0.709, whereas Kangra is at the bottom (0.461). Una, Sirmaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Chamba, Mandi and Kangra districts fall below the state average of 0.589.The percentage of institutional delivery is the highest in Hamirpur (97.6 per cent) and the lowest in Chamba (72 per cent). Kullu, Solan and Una have achieved 100 per cent immunisation of children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-tops-good-governance-index-in-himachal-pradesh-347692
