09-12-2021||Solan||Cannabis seized||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cannabis-seized-348165
09-12-2021||The condition of the road at Darlaghat is poor. There are potholes on the road||Potholes on Darlaghat road||IGMC patients suffer Patients are having a tough time at the IGMC because of the strike by the resident doctors. The doctors went on strike for the entire day, which caused inconvenience to the patients. Many had to wait for a long time for their turn, and some could not even see the doctor. — Sanjeev Verma, TheogWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something that you feel needs to be highlighted?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/potholes-on-darlaghat-road-348164
09-12-2021||Students of Sacred Soul Cambridge||Students excel in powerlifting c'ship||Reopen Central School in Sirmaur: MPSuresh Kashyap, Member of Parliament and BJP state president, emphasised the need to reopen Central School in Rajban in Sirmaur. While speaking in Parliament, Kashyap said the school was shut for some reasons in 2002. He said there was no Central School in Sirmaur, even though many Central government employees and retired personnel lived there.Meeting to fight drug abuse held at HPUThe Nasha Nivaran Samiti held a meeting at Himachal Pradesh University, which was chaired by VC Sikander Kumar. He said drug addiction was a social evil and everyone should make efforts to eradicate it. Conveners from all departments of the university attended the meeting and shared their views on the malpractice. The VC said the addicted students should be identified, counselled properly and eventually weaned away from drugs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/students-excel-in-powerlifting-cship-348163
09-12-2021||Shimla||Voter awareness rally flagged off in Shimla||Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar today flagged off a cycle rally “Cycling for Democracy and Well Being” organized by the State Election Department in association with Himachal Pradesh Cycling Association from the historic Ridge Maidan here.This rally was organized with the aim of creating awareness on voting among the general public, especially youths and girls of 18 years onwards. Men and women are competing in this rally in junior, youth and elite categories.Speaking on the occasion, the Governor said revision of photo electors-2022 was being done in the state. The name of every resident of the state, who was a citizen of India and has attained the age of 18 years or more as on January 1, 2022, should be included in the voter list. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/voter-awareness-rally-flagged-off-348162
09-12-2021||---||Need to hone skills of special kids, says Himachal Governor||Shimla, December 8It was the responsibility of the society to hone the skills of special children, said Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, during his visit to the Institute of Children with Special Ability at Dhali, near Shimla.He said these children were an inspiration to the society. He expressed happiness over organising of several vocational programmes for the students at the institute, so that they could become self-reliant.The Governor said all children should be provided equal opportunity to express their feelings and showcase their talent. The Governor thanked the teachers for taking special care of the children and providing training to them.Earlier, Payal Vaidya, Secretary General, Himachal Pradesh Child Welfare Council, said 105 hearing-impaired, 35 visually-impaired children were enrolled at the institute, and about 46 teachers and non-teaching staff were involved in their care. She said five vocational courses were being run at the institute.The Governor distributed track suits and blankets through the State Red Cross Society among the children. Principal, Institute of Children with Special Ability, DP Rana welcomed the Governor and told him about various activities being undertaken at the institute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/need-to-hone-skills-of-special-kids-says-governor-348161
09-12-2021||Subhash Rajta||Himachal to import 5 lakh plants from US, Siberia||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 8The Horticulture Department will import over 5 lakh plants this year under the World Bank-funded Horticulture Development Programme. The total consignment will comprise around four lakh apple plants (varieties and rootstocks) and 1.5 lakh other temperate fruit plants like berries, walnuts etc.“This year we will bring planting material from the US and Siberia. A horticulture team will soon visit the nurseries in these two countries to place the order,” said Horticulture Secretary Amitabh Awasthi. It’s for the first time that plants would be imported from Siberia. Last year, around nine lakh plants were imported from the USA. Prior to that, the department had imported the material from Italy, which had recorded a very high mortality rate in the post entry quarantine facilities. “The survival rate of the material imported last year has been pretty high at over 95 per cent,” said Awasthi.One-year quarantine norm not followedAwasthi said it’s the last time the planting material will be imported under the World Bank project, which is coming to an end in 2023. As per the information, the Horticulture Department has around 15 lakh rootstocks at its PCDOs.“We have been propagating rootstocks over the last few years and we now have enough quantity with us to start selling from the next year,” said a horticulture official. “This will be sold at much lesser price than the imported plants are given to the growers at the moment,” the official said. Instead of keeping the plants in quarantine for one year, some private importers sell it to the farmers straight away, thereby risking the spread of virus/diseases that might have come with the plants. “Action should be taken against the violators under the Nursery Management Act,” said Awasthy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-lakh-plants-to-be-imported-from-us-siberia-348160
09-12-2021||Shimla||Himachal's scheme to save crop from animals finds many takers||The Mukhya Mantri Khet Sanrakshan Yojana (MMKSY), launched six years ago to save crops from monkey and wild animals, has started picking up and 5,535 farmers have benefited to the tune of Rs 173 crore and 4,669-hectare land has been recultivated.The state government is providing subsidy to the agriculturist for solar power fencing and farmers are entitled to 80 per cent subsidy for setting up the fence at personal level and 85 per cent subsidy at community level. The fencing is operated with solar power and keeps animals at bay.In the past few years, there were a handful of farmers who opted for the scheme and the animal menace was so potent that farmers had started leaving their lands uncultivated. As per government claims, 4,669-hectare barren land had been re-cultivated under the scheme.Earlier, the farmers were not coming forward to avail the benefits of the scheme as the cost of barbed wire was unaffordable even after the subsidy.Following suggestions, the state government had made a provision of 50 per cent subsidy on barbed wires and chain-link fencing along with 70 per cent subsidy on composite fencing, a spokesperson said.Consequently, an increase in the number of beneficiaries has witnessed in the past two years as farmers have felt that due to solar fencing, trespassing of wild animals has reduced. To avail the benefit of the scheme, farmers can apply individually or as a group to the Deputy Director, Agriculture. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/scheme-to-save-crop-from-animals-finds-many-takers-348159
09-12-2021||---||Issue White Paper on investors meet organized in Dharamsala in 2019: Congress||Dharamsala, December 8The Congress has demanded a White Paper from the BJP government in the state on the investors meet organized by it in Dharamsala in the year 2019. Congress spokesperson Dr Rajesh Sharma, in a press conference organized here today, said that the present government was planning a ground breaking ceremony for investors in Mandi this month.The spokesperson charged that the government was wasting funds on organizing events to please its national leadership. Before organizing further events on investment, the government should put on record before the people as to what had happened regarding the investors meet organized in Dharamsala. The government should tell people of the state as to how much amount was spent on organizing national and international investors meet by the present government till date.What had happened to the MoUs signed between proposed investors and the state government. How much investment for which MoUs were signed during the Dharamsala investors meet have taken to ground and how many youth in the state have been provided employment. The government should tell how much investment has been brought in Kangra parliamentary constituency, he asked.The Congress spokesperson said that the problem of unemployment had become acute in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/issue-white-paper-on-investors-meet-cong-348158
09-12-2021||Lalit Mohan||Himachal shepherds losing flocks to viral, foot rot disease||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 8Shepherds migrating to lower hills or plains of Kangra and Una district these days are facing losses. They are losing their flocks of sheep and goats to viral and foot rot disease. Many shepherds have reported this to veterinary doctors in the area, saying it had caused huge financial losses to them.Veterinary doctors have blamed climate change and foot rot disease for the high mortality rate.Dr Sandeep Mishra, Assistant Director of cattle production at Palampur, said after mortality of young sheep and goats was reported by shepherds, a team was sent in Una to ascertain the reasons. Post-mortem examinations were conducted and it was found that the animals had damaged lungs. It seems to have been caused due to lower temperatures than normal in the plains of Una and Kangra districts. The younger animals are in stress due to low temperatures which is likely causing mortality, he said.Dr Mishra also admitted that the foot rot disease was causing losses to shepherds in Himachal for the past few years. Scientists of the Palampur Agriculture University have submitted a project to the Union Government for developing a vaccine for foot rot disease. The disease is bacterial, which causes permanent deformity in animals. At present, there is no vaccine for the disease and the standard procedures for treatment have been conveyed to shepherds to help treat and stop the spread of disease in their entire flock, he said.The Animal Husbandry Department of Himachal has sent dead sheep and goats for postmortem to the veterinary college of Palampur Agriculture University.Shamu, a shepherd, said, “I lost about 12 sheep due to a strange disease. We reported the matter to veterinary doctors but no solution has been found. I fear losing my flock to this disease and it would be devastating for me and my family. The government should help us, else we will lose our livelihood.”Akshay Jasrotia, who runs an NGO for the shepherds of Himachal, said, “Shepherds contribute considerably to the economy of the state. Despite that, the government has not kept any special budget for this community.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shepherds-losing-flocks-to-viral-foot-rot-disease-348157
09-12-2021||Mandi||Bring Bill for setting up university in Mandi: ABVP||The ABVP held a ‘Hunkar rally’ at Seri Manch here today seeking the setting up of a state university in Mandi district expeditiously. It urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to bring a Bill to set up the university during the upcoming Winter Session of Vidhan Sabha at Dharamsala.At the recently held Cabinet meeting, the state government had approved the setting up of a new university in Mandi.Today, a large number of ABVP activists from Mandi and its neighbouring districts gathered at Seri Manch to show their solidarity over this issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bring-bill-for-setting-up-varsity-in-mandi-abvp-348156
09-12-2021||Dipender Manta||Land identified for permanent campus of AMRU in Mandi: VC||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 8Dr Surender Kashyap, Vice-Chancellor of Atal Medical & Research University (AMRU) Himachal Pradesh, said the university administration had identified 125 bigha forest land at Sayohali in Balh tehsil of Mandi district for setting up a permanent campus of the university. He said the state government has given approval to initiate the FCA case for the acquisition of land.“Currently, the AMRU administration is functioning from the premises of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital (SLBSGMC&H) at Nerchowk in Mandi,” he said.“The university has been established to create uniformity in the standards of education in all streams of health sciences, including modern system of medicine, dental sciences, nursing, Indian system of medicine and homeopathy, various paramedical and para dental discipline such as medical laboratory technology, pharmacy, physiotherapy and speech therapy with a view to enhance the quality of education,” he added.The Vice Chancellor said that AMRU is constantly gaining new dimensions to achieve the highest standards of academic excellence at all levels. To make the university fully functional, statutes and ordinances have been approved by the Chancellor and the Board of Management, respectively. Post graduate and under graduate courses of medical, dental and nursing colleges are being affiliated by the AMRU at Nerchowk.“Medical/dental students of the academic session 2020-21 have been registered with this university and the examinations for the same will be conducted by the university. The counselling and admission process for various medical/dental/nursing courses is being done online,” he said.The Vice Chancellor stated that “the counselling and admission for the ayurveda and homeopathic courses for the academic session 2022-23 will be held by the AMRU. Integrated University Management System (IUMS) is being implemented and admission module, examination and fee module has started functioning.”Dr Surender Kashyap, Vice-Chancellor of AMRU, was recently awarded fellowship of the National Academic of Medical Sciences India in 2021 for outstanding contribution for the advancement of medical sciences at Varanasi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/land-identified-for-permanent-campus-of-amru-in-mandi-vc-348155
09-12-2021||Solan||Solan: Dental college students protest faculty shortage||Students of MN DAV Dental College at Tatul, near Solan, boycotted classes today in protest against the inadequate number of faculty members, including heads of departments (HoDs), in the institution. They sat outside the college and raised slogans demanding adequate faculty, as their practical training was getting affected.The protesting students said, “We are facing difficulties in studies due to the indifferent attitude of the college authorities. The absence of a sufficient number of teachers is affecting the quality education and hospital management”.“The college management has dismissed three heads of departments and other staff in the pastthree months and now only five HoDs are available against eight earlier,” rued students Sneha, Shreya and Prachi. The services of two HoDs were terminated yesterday night while one HoD was dismissed from service earlier. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dental-college-students-protest-faculty-shortage-348154
09-12-2021||---||Plan discussed to control traffic congestion in Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 8Frequent traffic jams in Shimla that are caused due to some bottlenecks would be a thing of past if the strategy prepared by the district administration is implemented by line departments.The matter was discussed at a meeting chaired by Deputy Commissioner (DC) Aditya Negi.A building under construction at Boileauganj Chowk, which is causing traffic jams, is slated to be completed in the next 15 days. A joint inspection will be done for identifying sites for the construction of parking at Totu and Dhanda and the vehicles coming to Shimla from Mandi and Bilaspur side would be diverted via the Totu-Taradevi road, he said.Parking sites to be identifiedEfforts would be made to start and terminate the Upper Shimla and Karsog-bound buses at Dhalli bypass which would reduce the congestion at Dhalli Chowk, Negi said.Besides, services of small buses etc would be made available to people for coming to Shimla town and all these steps would reduce traffic congestion considerably, providing relief to commuters, he added.The meeting was also attended by Additional District Magistrate (Law and Order) Rahul Chauhan, Sub-Divisional Magistrate (Urban) Manjeet Sharma, Sub-Divisional Magistrate (Rural) BR Sharma and other officers concerned.Long traffic jams have become a common sight near Totu and Boileauganj Chowk and between Kufri and Sanjauli and the commuters are a harried lot.The Shimla city traffic regulation and management plan, prepared by the Shimla police in February 2020, named 16 road stretches and bifurcations as perpetual traffic bottlenecks.It had suggested major remedies like the shifting of Sabzi Mandi and thegrain market from central Shimla to outskirts, relocating Lakkar Bazaar bus stand at Dhalli Workshop and covering the drainage lines with iron road to widen the roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/plan-discussed-to-control-traffic-congestion-in-shimla-348153
09-12-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||General Bipin Rawat had close association with Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 8Hard work is the key to success. These were the inspirational words of the Army Chief Bipin Rawat to the Edwardians. General Rawat had a close association with Shimla and he had done his schooling at the famous St Edwards School.He had visited the school in May 2019 when he was the Army Chief.Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and other personnel of the Armed Forces died in a tragic helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu today.Visited alma mater two years agoGeneral Rawat was on way to Defence Services Staff College, Wellington (Nilgiri Hills) to address the faculty and student officers of the Staff Course when the mishap took place.It was a nostalgic journey down memory lane for the Army Chief, a pass-out of 1972-73 batch, he took a stroll on the school campus and visited three classrooms and the physics lab. He then had a brief interaction with the students.During the interaction, he replied to the queries of students and motivated them to join the Army. “I am very impressed by the turnout and drill of NCC cadets and wish you all the success”, he had written in the visitor’s book.General Rawat accompanied by his wife Madhulika Rawat had spent about one and a half hour on the premises of the school.Replying to a question that was it the family pressure or his passion towards the Army that inspired him to join the armed forces, the Army Chief had said that he was always motivated by the men in uniform.Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed deep grief over the sudden demise of General Rawat.In his condolence message, the Governor said that Gen Rawat contributed immensely for security of the nation and for modernising the Indian armed forces. His demise was a great loss to the nation.The Governor expressed his sympathy with the bereaved family members.The Chief Minister said, “The nation has lost a decorated officer and top commander of the Indian Army, who has made the country proud on several occasions.” He said that the country would always remember the services provided by him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/general-rawat-had-close-association-with-shimla-348152
09-12-2021||---||Shimla divided into 5 zones to tackle snow hardships||Shimla, December 8The district administration has chalked out a plan dividing Shimla city into five sectors and appointed officers for each sector with a view to ensuring that people do not face hardships due to the snowfall.A meeting was held here under chairmanship of Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi to review the preparedness of the administration to handle any situation arising out snowfall. It was decided that the officers concerned would also hold meetings with other officers regarding the measures to be taken.Negi said that Sanjauli, Dhalli, Kufri, Naldehra, Mashobra and Baldian would fall under Sector-I, Dhalli-Sanjauli bypass, Sanjauli Chowk-IGMC-Lakkar Bazaar-Victory Tunnel, Kaithu, Bharari, Chaura Maidan, Annandale and the Deputy Commissioner’s office under Sector-II, Shimla bypass via the ISBT to Shoghi, Chhakar, Boileauganj, HPU, Totu, Jutogh, Nabha, Phagli, Khalini, Vikas Nagar and BCS under Sector III.Victory Tunnel to Chhota Shimla Chowk, ARTRAC, US Club, Mall Road, Ridge, Rich Mound and Ram Chandra Chowk under Sector IV and High Court, Raj Bhawan, Benmur, State Secretariat, Mehali, Kusumpti and Pantha Ghati under Sector V.He said that a parking facility would be ensured on the Dhalli-Kufri road, arrangement of buses for going to Kufri would be made and a chained ambulance and 4x4 vehicles for Quick Response Teams (QRT) would be arranged during snowfall.He asked drivers and conductors to give their mobile phone numbers if theirbuses were stranded due to snow so that their location could be identified.He instructed the Public Works Department to keep manpower and machinery in the state of readiness.Negi said that all vulnerable points should be identified and adequate staff be deployed for clearing snow and dumping it at some other place to avoid inconvenience to tourists due to traffic obstruction or jams. He directed the local administration to prepare a plan for the parking of vehicles.Meanwhile, 105 roads, including 100 in Lahaul and Spiti, are still closed in the state. The Met Department has forecast a dry weather in the state for the next four days. Keylong was the coldest place recording the minimum temperature of minus 7°C while Una was the hottest at 27°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-divided-into-5-zones-to-tackle-snow-hardships-348150
09-12-2021||---||Jaisinghpur gets projects worth Rs 144 cr||Dharamsala, December 8Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of development projects worth Rs 144 crore in the Jaisinghpur Assembly constituency of Kangra district.Thakur, while addressing a public meeting at the Chawgan ground, said that the Jal Jeevan Mission started by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had ensured that every household in the state gets drinking water through taps. “Himachal Pradesh has emerged as the first state to effectively implement the scheme. Not even one bridge was constructed in Jaisinghpur during the tenure of the previous Congress government, while six bridges were constructed here in the past four years,” he added.Major announcements made by CMHe said a PWD division had been set up at Jaisinghpur to ensure proper maintenance and construction of roads and bridges.Thakur accused Congress leaders of politicising the sensitive issue of pandemic and misleding people. They did not spare even their own central leaders and raised bills worth Rs 12 crore as expenditure during the pandemic, he added.He thanked doctors, health workers and other frontline workers for making Himachal the first state in the country to vaccinate 100 per cent eligible population.He said that Opposition leaders were befooling people on the old pension scheme issue. He alleged that the previous Congress government had abolished the old pension scheme in 2003. The Congress government had also changed the R&P Rules of the police in 2015, depriving police personnel of a few benefits. He said the government was aware of the situation and would do whatever possible for their welfare. Local MLA Ravinder Dhiman also addressed the gathering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jaisinghpur-gets-projects-worth-144-cr-348149
09-12-2021||---||69 new Covid cases in Himachal Pradesh; two deaths in Kangra||Shimla, December 8As many as 69 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 227,753. Besides, two persons died of the virus in Kangra district.The highest number of 20 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 17 in Shimla, 10 in Mandi, six in Una, four each in Bilaspur and Solan, three each in Hamirpur and Sirmaur and two in Kullu. The number of active cases declined to 722 while the total of fatalities increased to 3,840.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/69-new-cases-two-deaths-in-kangra-348145
09-12-2021||Una||Funds misused in Una  during lockdown: Congress||Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri today accused the district administration of misuising public money during Covid lockdown under the garb of the Disaster Management Act.Agnihotri, while addressing mediapersons here, alleged that around Rs 1.25 crore was spent on hiring vehicles during the pandemic though a large fleet of government vehicles along with drivers was lying idle in the district during the lockdown.He alleged that the district administration did not take permission from the Administrative Secretary of the state government to hire private vehicles. While bills were taken from the Pre-Paid Taxi Union, payments were made directly to vehicle owners, ignoring the requirement of PAN, TAN and GST numbers of the payees. The mileage meter readings were not entered on bills, there were no quotations, he alleged.Agnihotri alleged that of Rs 1.25 crore claimed to had been utilised for hiring private vehicles, Rs 41 lakh was paid for taxis that were not used at all and the entire amount was paid as waiting charges.Agnihotri alleged that Rs 54 lakh was paid to hotels for boarding and lodging of quarantined persons. As per the guidelines, locals were to be provided accommodation in government facilities, while overseas returnees were to be isolated in hotels on the payment of food and room rent.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/funds-misused-in-una-during-lockdown-cong-348143
09-12-2021||---||To deal with strike, IGMC-Shimla to call doctors from vacation||Shimla, December 8Resident doctors of the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) began their day-long strike from today. Even as resident doctors continued to provide emergency services, the routine OPDs and other services were adversely affected. They have gone on strike to protest the delay in NEET counselling.“We are running skeletal services with the help of the faculty. Overall, the work has suffered because of the strike,” said IGMC Principal Surinder Singh. Even as senior doctors are manning the OPDs, the Principal fears things would become unmanageable if the resident doctors boycott emergency services too.‘Emergency services not affected’Resident doctors have boycotted even emergency services at many hospitals across the country, but we are performing emergency services so that people do not suffer. —Spokesperson, Resident doctors associationWith a view to ensure that patients do not suffer because of the strike, Dr Singh advised patients coming from far-flung areas to defer their visit by a couple of days if they are not facing any emergency situation. “We will continue to provide emergency services, but routine patients can avoid coming to hospital for a few days,” the Principal said.The IGMC has taken certain other measures to handle the evolving situation. “We have issued orders to all heads of departments to recall the doctors who have gone on routine leave,” said Dr Singh. “Also, we have requested Director, Medical Education, to recall our doctors from other medical colleges, where they have been sent on deputation,” said Dr Singh.Meanwhile, resident doctors reiterated their demand for expediting the counselling process. “Resident doctors have boycotted even emergency services at many hospitals across the country, but we are manning emergency services so that people do not suffer,” said a spokesperson for the Resident Doctors Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-deal-with-strike-igmc-to-call-docs-from-vacation-348142
09-12-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Heliport awaits nod, no service from Shimla's Dhalli yet||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 8Even as two new destinations — Mandi and Rampur — will get heli-taxi service from tomorrow, Dhalli heliport from where it was to start is awaiting approval from the Director General Civil Aviation (DGCA).With no commercial flights from Jubbarhatti airport, 24 km from here, the state capital is still deprived of air connectivity. As long as the Dhalli heliport, which is 6 km from here, doesn’t become functional, Shimla will not get effective air connectivity. Not just tourists, even locals don’t prefer to travel to Jubbarhatti as it takes almost an hour. “A DGCA team is expected to inspect the heliport again in the next 10 days. The heliport is ready. Even the security net has been installed,” said Amit Kashyap, Director, Tourism and Civil Aviation.It is learnt that in its earlier inspection, the DGCA had pointed out certain shortcomings, which have been resolved. Meanwhile, Pawan Hans will connect Mandi and Rampur to existing heliports from tomorrow, although the formal launch function will not take place due to the demise of Gen Bipin Rawat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heliport-awaits-nod-no-service-from-dhalli-yet-348100
