11-12-2021||Shimla||HP Assembly: Congress stages walkout on police pay issue||Opposition Congress staged a walkout from Himachal Pradesh Assembly on Saturday as the Speaker refused its legislators’ request to discuss under adjournment motion the issue of pay anomalies of police personnel.Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and several other Congress legislators gave a notice to speaker Vipin Parmar on the second day of the winter session at Tapovan in Dharamsala for the adjournment motion.Speaker Vipin Parmar said some Congress legislators had already asked questions in this regard which are listed for question hour on December 13.He said the matter is not so important that it needs to be discussed under adjournment motion and refused its permission.When the motion was refused, Congress legislators raised slogans and walked out from the Assembly.Later, Parliamentary Minister Suresh Bhardwaj said pay anomalies for the police personnel were created because of a policy made by the Congress government in 2015.The BJP government has already set up a committee to find ways to resolve the issue, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-assembly-congress-stages-walkout-on-police-pay-issue-349171
11-12-2021||Dharamsala||17,142 jobs lost amid pandemic in Himachal||Amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, a total of 17,142 people have lost their employment in the private sector in Himachal Pradesh, the state Assembly was informed on Saturday."Since the outbreak of Covid-19, 17,142 persons have lost their employment working in different companies in Himachal Pradesh. The data of Himachali who lost their employment in companies situated outside the state is not available with the department,"Industries Minister Bikram Singh said in a written reply to the question of Vikramaditya Singh.He added the state government has provided employment to 17,033 people in the government sector and 4,311 in the private sector amidst the pandemic till October 31.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/17-142-jobs-lost-amid-pandemic-in-himachal-349142
11-12-2021||Dharamsala||Himachal CM receives mortal remains of Lance Naik Vivek Kumar killed in helicopter crash||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday received the mortal remains of para commando Lance Naik Vivek Kumar at the Gaggal airport near here, who died in helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu.He was among the 13 people who were killed in the crash, including Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat.The Chief Minister paid tributes to Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, hailing from Jaisinghpur in Kangra district, by laying a wreath on his body.Later, the Chief Minister told the media that the state was committed to the welfare of the family of the martyr. He said the state gave Rs 5 lakh as immediate relief to the bereaved family. He also announced additional Rs 5 lakh to the family from his discretionary fund.Lance Naik Vivek Kumar was born in 1993 and joined the Army in 2012. He was the sole breadwinner of the family.The CM also consoled martyr's father Ramesh Chand.Two days before his death, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar (28) had called up his wife Priyanka to enquire about their six-month-old son. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-receives-mortal-remains-of-lance-naik-vivek-kumar-killed-in-helicopter-crash-349135
11-12-2021||Some street vendors have set up their shops outside the gate of the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital right next to the dustbin with ‘Swachh Bharat’ written on it. This practice is unhygenic. Either the street vendors should sit somewhere else or the dustbin should be shifted.||Vendors sit near dustbins||— Monika Chauhan, SanjauliNo sanitisers at banksThough the government has issued directions for Covid-appropriate behaviour, several public places such as banks and ATMs have stopped the practice of keeping a sanitiser handy. At many ATMs in Shimla, sanitiser bottles have disappeared over the past few months. People touch the same buttons while using the ATM and hence, it is important that these places have a sanitiser on the premises. — Rohit Sood, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vendors-sit-near-dustbins-348972
11-12-2021||The fifth annual Inter-college Sports and Youth Festival began at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry||Inter-college sports meet begins||World Human Rights Day observedWorld Human Rights Day was observed at Him Academy Public School. A poster-making event was organised for the students of Class VI to IX. Students were told about the fundamental rights as mentioned in the Constitution. Principal Naina Lakhanpal laid emphasis on the fact that rights must be enjoyed along with duties towards society and the nation.Training programme at HIMCOSTEA certificate course on ‘Value Addition and Marketing of NTFPs (Animal origin): Wild Beekeeping and Processing’, under the Green Skill Development Programme (GSDP), concluded at the Himachal Pradesh Council for Science, Technology and Environment (HIMCOSTE). The training programme was conducted in collaboration with the Department of Horticulture, Government of Himachal Pradesh. A total of 15 candidates were trained under this programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/inter-college-sports-meet-begins-348971
11-12-2021||---||Shimla: One killed in landslide||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 10One person was killed while two others were injured in a landslide at Sambakyar Notikhand village in Shimla district this evening.The incident occurred when three labourers were working at the site. The deceased has been identified as Bhagat Ram, a resident of Sunni tehsil in Shimla, while the injured are Aadam Chand and Mansi Lal.The district administration has given an immediate relief of Rs 10,000 to next of kin of the deceased and Rs 5,000 to the injured persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-killed-in-landslide-348970
11-12-2021||---||32nd anniversary of Nobel Peace Prize to Dalai Lama celebrated||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 10The Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) today celebrated the 32nd anniversary of the conferment of the Nobel Peace Prize on the Dalai Lama at the Sikyong auditorium in Gangchen Kyishong, Mcleodganj.Sikyong Penpa Tsering highlighted the Dalai Lama’s contribution to global peace and harmony.“The Dalai Lama’s philosophy of love and compassion results from rigorous study, training and practice since his childhood. One can feel the infinite depth of his compassion through His Holiness’ Words of Truth,” Sikyong said.Recalling the Dalai Lama’s constant efforts to resolve the Sino-Tibetan conflict through dialogue, Sikyong said His Holiness wrote to China’s paramount leader Deng Xiaoping in 1981 to improve the Sino-Tibetan relations and establish contacts with Tibetans inside and outside Tibet.Sikyong further lauded the Dalai Lama’s initiatives to engage in dialogue with scientists through the Mind and Life Institute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/32nd-anniversary-of-nobel-peace-prize-to-dalai-lama-celebrated-348969
11-12-2021||---||Connect Dalhousie & Pathankot via rail line: Kangra MP in LS||Our CorrespondentDalhousie, December 10During the ongoing Lok Sabha (LS) session, Kangra MP Kishan Kapoor on Thursday raised the issue of rail connectivity between Dalhousie and Pathankot.During the Zero Hour, the MP requested the Railway Ministry to consider the proposal of connecting Dalhousie with the Pathankot (Chakki Bank) rail line. “Since Chamba is an aspirational district, more attention is needed towards its development,” he said.The MP said Chamba district of is famous for its rich culture, historicity and natural aura among domestic and foreign tourists. “The district, spread over 6,500 sq km, shares boundary with J&K on one side and Punjab on the other. Fifty per cent population of the district belongs to Scheduled Castes and Schedules Tribes. Moreover, the district provides ample opportunities for pilgrimage as well as adventure tourism,” he added.Referring to the historical background of Dalhousie, Kapoor said the place was also related to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and freedom fighter Ajit Singh, the uncle of revolutionary Shaheed Bhagat Singh. Also, Dalhousie is just 85 km away from the Pathankot railway station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/connect-dalhousie-pathankot-via-rail-line-kangra-mp-in-ls-348968
11-12-2021||---||ADM: Villagers not against Sumdo-Gramphu road survey||Tribune news ServiceMandi, December 10Additional District Magistrate, Kaza, Mohan Dutt Sharma has said public representatives of the panchayati raj institutions had no objection to the survey of the Sumdo-Kaza-Gramphu road in Lahaul and Spiti conducted by the GREF for its widening.The ADM stated that a meeting was held with the public representatives of the panchayati raj institutions at Kaza on Friday to ascertain their views. Earlier, they were raising objections to the survey at three places - Lari, Tabo and Qiling Kwang.“Panchayat pradhan, up-pradhan, BDC member, Zila Parishad member, BRO officials and the XEN of the Public Works Department attended the meeting,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/adm-villagers-not-against-sumdo-gramphu-road-survey-348967
11-12-2021||---||Himachal Kisan Sabha to celebrate farmers' 'victory' today||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 10The Himachal Kisan Sabha will tomorrow celebrate in rural parts of the state the victory of farmers, who will return home from Delhi borders after over a year-long agitation. “The 380-day agitation is the longest one held in the recent times. The struggle and the unity of farmers forced the government to retract,” said Himachal Kisan Sabha president Kuldeep Tanwar.He said the Himachal Kisan Sabha through its volunteers would tell the villagers of the state about the unprecedented struggle of farmers. “Everyone must know what the struggle has achieved, and what remains to be accomplished. The battle has been won, but the war continues,” he said. “In HP, too, farmers are facing several issues. The success of the farmers’ agitation will inspire them to fight for their rights,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kisan-sabha-to-celebrate-farmers-victory-today-348966
11-12-2021||Shimla||MLA: Women empowered under BJP||The process of political empowerment of women speeded up after the BJP came to power, said Rajya Sabha member Indu Goswami here yesterday.Indu, while addressing the state working committee of the Mahila Morcha, accused the Congress of spreading lies and misguiding people by giving false figures. “I have worked for the BJP in Assam, Delhi, Chandigarh and Himachal and it is an honour for me to be a member of the party, which has 18 crore members,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mla-women-empowered-under-bjp-348965
11-12-2021||---||Clubs in schools, colleges must collaborate, says  Education Dept||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 10All clubs in schools and colleges like eco clubs, road safety clubs, anti-drugs clubs and literary clubs would adopt an integrated approach and function in a collaborative manner in carrying out various awareness campaigns.A meeting of the State Level Committee on Road Safety held under the chairmanship of Additional Chief Secretary (Transport) decided that all activities of these clubs should be held in a collaborative manner, road safety centres be created in educational institutions and road safety material be displayed to raise awareness among students.The Director, Higher Education, has asked all Deputy Directors and Principals to issue necessary instructions to all institutions under their control to organise activities collectively by members of all clubs.He said during the awareness campaign on road safety, the drama clubs could stage nukkad nataks on the theme, the creative clubs could display paintings, posters and banners, singers and budding poets could sing songs and recite poetry to make the campaign more meaningful and interesting.This joint collaboration will have many positive outcomes and as such these activities should be completed within the year, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/clubs-in-schools-colleges-must-collaborate-says-education-dept-348964
11-12-2021||---||Indora cane growers 'paid' less by Punjab mills||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 10Rita Dhiman, BJP MLA from Indora, today brought a calling attention notice stating that sugarcane farmers of Indora in Kangra district are not getting the right price for their produce.She said that sugarcane was grown on about 4,000 acres in Indora. As there was no sugar mill in Kangra district, the farmers of Indora sell their produce to a sugar mill at Mukerian, which was paying Rs 325 per quintal to the farmers of Himachal but Rs 360 per quintal to the farmers of Punjab.She said that the sugarcane farmers of Indora were also getting delayed payments for their produce from Punjab mills. She asked the state government if it had an intention to establish a sugar mill in Kangra district.Responding to the calling attention notice, Varinder Kanwar, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayats, said that the total sugarcane produce in 25 villages of Indora was 3.95 lakh quintals, which was not enough to make the establishment of a sugar mill viable. So, there was no proposal to set up a sugar mill in Kangra district, he added.The minister said that no private investor had shown interest in establishing a sugar mill in Kangra though a private party had shown interest in setting up a mill in the Amb area of Una district.Kanwar assured Rita Dhiman that the matter would be taken up with Punjab sugar mills that the less price should not paid to the farmers of Himachal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/indora-cane-growers-paid-less-by-pb-mills-348963
11-12-2021||Dharamsala||No intention to implement old pension scheme, says Himachal govt||The state government has no intention to implement the old pension scheme, the Assembly was informed on the first day of the winter session here today. The government, while replying to a question from Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, stated that the old pension scheme would put a financial burden of Rs 2,000 crore, besides a burden of Rs 500 crore per annum. The Central and all state governments had adopted the new pension scheme, it added.Rs2,000 cr burdenThe old scheme will put a burden of Rs2,000 cr, besides a burden of Rs500 crore per annum. — Jai Ram Thakur, Chief MinisterThe government also informed the House that in the past three years, it had provided 23,931 jobs in various departments. Responding to a question from Jagat Singh Negi, Congress MLA from Kinnaur, the government said that it had an intention to open a mountaineering institute at Sangla.To another question from BJP member Rakesh Dhawala, the House was informed that the government was examining a proposal to increase the honorarium paid to panchayat members. At present, a honorarium of Rs 250 per meeting up to the maximum of Rs 500 per month was being paid to the panchayat members.To Rohru MLA Mohan Lal Bragta's question, the government said that administrative approval had been granted to the Rs 190.82 crore Pabbar river channelling project. The Central Water Commission had given investment clearance for the project but funds were still awaited.To Jubbal-Kotkhai MLA Rohit Thakur's question, the House was informed that the MoU between the Agriculture Produce Export Corporation Authority (APECA) and the HPMC for establishing apple stores had been cancelled due the lack of grants. The government stated that Rs 4.18 crore had been sanctioned to set up a store in the Churrah area of Chamba district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-intention-to-implement-old-pension-scheme-says-govt-348962
11-12-2021||Dalhousie||Dalhousie hospital staff honoured||A 'Kayakalp Samman Samaroh' was organised here on Friday to honour local dignitaries, philanthropists, heads of educational institutions, various social organisations and hospital staff for their contribution to the government hospital of Dalhousie in achieving the state-level ‘Kayakalp Award’ for 2018-19 and 2020-21.It is the highest award in the field of health services, under which, a health institution abides by the norms set for health facilities and services. Before the start of ceremony, a two-minute silence was observed to mourn the demise of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others.Presiding over the ceremony, Chamba District Market Committee chairman DS Thakur lauded Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Dr Bipin Thakur, who is also in charge, civil hospital, the doctors and the staff for their services.He said an oxygen generation plant had been set up by the government for the hospital at a cost of about Rs 1 crore. Referring to the vacant posts of paramedical staff and clerks at the hospital, he said he had urged the CM to fill them at the earliest. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalhousie-hospital-staff-honoured-348961
11-12-2021||---||Himachal: UHF university forms association to deal with food-related issues||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 10Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry (UHF), Nauni, has constituted a Functional Food Association of India (FFAI) to address food-related issues. It was formally launched by the Governor of Himachal Pradesh on the occasion of the university’s 11th convocation on December 7.To help people adopt healthy lifestyleThe easy way-out to address junk food-related issues is to educate people about healthy food choices. The FFAI will be instrumental in that. — Dr KD Sharma, Founding President, FFAIFunctional foodsFunctional foods offer health benefits beyond their nutritional value like foods fortified with vitamins, minerals or fiber.The scientists of the Department of Food Science and Technology of the university initiated the move. The governing body of the association has food scientists from renowned institutions of the country as their office-bearers.Dr Parvinder Kaushal, Vice-Chancellor of the university and patron of the FFAI, said: “In India, the shift from traditional to modern lifestyle, consumption of a diet rich in fat and calories, combined with a high-level of mental stress, has resulted in increased incidences of lifestyle-related diseases. Scientific evidences regarding the role of food in maintaining good health and preventing diseases, and adverse effects of allopathic medicines and rising health care costs are some of the factors which require education of large population toward functional foods and nutraceuticals.”The association's founding president, Dr KD Sharma, said: “Japan was the first country to realise the ill effects of junk food and introduced the idea of functional food in 1980, which led to increase in life-span of their population with the delayed onset of chronic diseases. It also saved the government expenditure in setting up huge hospital infrastructure.”The first conference of the Functional Food Association of India will be held in 2022 at Solan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/varsity-forms-assn-to-deal-with-food-related-issues-348960
11-12-2021||---||SFI opposes admissions to PhD without examinations||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 10The Students' Federation of India (SFI) unit of Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) today staged a demonstration on the university campus, opposing the direct entry of students in P.hD courses without examinations.The SFI accused the HPU authorities of violating the UGC guidelines to give admission to some “favourites” in P.hD when qualifying the JRF was mandatory for the same. Wards of university officers on high posts have been given direct entry into PhD, said SFI campus president Rocky.The activists said despite the fact that regular classes had been started in the university, the 24-hour library had been opened only for 12 hours from 9 am to 9 pm. The protesters demanded that it be opened for 24 hours so that those students who are unable to study during the day could study there at night.The activisits warned the university authorities and said a strategy for an “aggressive” agitation would be launched in case their demands were not fulfilled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sfi-opposes-admissions-to-phd-without-examinations-348959
11-12-2021||Shimla||Inmates of old age homes, jails made aware of human rights||The District Legal Services Authorities (DLSA) observed Human Rights Day today in 11 areas while the Sub-Divisional Legal Services Committees held programmes at 48 places. Awareness events were held in jails, childcare institutions, homes for the elderly, slums and labour colonies throughout the state.Prem Pal Ranta, member secretary, HP State Legal Service Authority, said Justice Sabina, a Judge of the High Court of Himachal Pradesh and Executive Chairperson of the HP State Legal Services Authority, directed all legal services institutions to make people aware of the basic human rights. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/inmates-of-old-age-homes-jails-made-aware-of-human-rights-348958
11-12-2021||Subhash Rajta||Shimla ridge restoration project hangs fire for FCA approval||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 10The Shimla Municipal Corporation (MC) will again write to the Forest Department to exempt the Ridge Restoration project from the purview of the Forest Conservation Act (FCA). The MC has taken the decision following the Forest Department’s refusal to grant clearance at the local level to the much-delayed project.Tree authority committee has given nodThe Tree Authority Committee and the Cabinet Sub-Committee have already approved the project. We hope the Forest Department will reconsider its decision so that the project could start at the earliest. — Ashish Kohli, Municipal Commissioner“We have received a letter from the Forest Department advising us to apply for clearance under the FCA. As the Tree Authority Committee (TAC) and the Cabinet Sub-Committee have already approved the project, we will write to the Forest Department to reconsider the case and exempt it from the purview of the FCA,” said Municipal Commissioner Ashish Kohli here today.It’s been close to six months that the MC and the Forest Department have been communicating to clear the hurdles in the way of the restoration of the iconic Ridge. Earlier, it took the Public Works Department (PWD) several months to get the sinking portion of the Ridge inspected by the IIT, Roorkee, and have the final drawings of the project. At the eleventh hour, the PWD discovered that the forest clearance was required for the project. Since then, the MC and the Forest Department are trying to reach an agreement, though without success.While the Forest Department insists that the project will need the FCA clearance, the MC argues that why was the case listed before the Tree Authority Committee if it required the FCA clearance? “The DFO (Urban) is the member secretary of the Tree Authority Committee. Why was the matter referred to the TAC if the permission under the FCA was mandatory?” asked Kohli. “The TAC and the Cabinet Sub-Committee have already approved the project. In this light, we are hoping that the Forest Department will reconsider its decision so that the project could start at the earliest,” he said.If the MC and the Forest Department still fail to reach a consensus, the project might lose the funds sanctioned under the Smart City Mission, which is coming to an end next year. Also, the chances of the Ridge sinking further will increase. In the process, the huge water tank underneath the Ridge could also become vulnerable. If the tank collapses or gets damaged, the city will have to pay a big price for it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ridge-restoration-project-hangs-fire-for-fca-approval-348956
11-12-2021||---||Complete pending MPLADS works by March: Chamba DC||Our CorrespondentChamba, December 10Deputy Commissioner DC Rana today told Chamba district officials to complete before March 31 various works sanctioned under the MPLADS, which are pending for the past two years.Tenders not invitedTenders have not been invited for works under development schemes being implemented through the Rural Development Department. DC Rana, Deputy CommissionerRana gave these instructions while presiding over a meeting with block development officers to review the progress of various schemes related to rural development.He said that tenders had not been invited for works under various development schemes being implemented through the Rural Development Department. In such a situation, it should also be ensured to complete the construction work within six months of the approval granted.Besides, all block development officers should organise monthly meetings with the panchayat heads to ensure time-bound execution of various works, the DC added.He directed the district panchayat officer to provide a list of pending works and also told all officers to provide the utilisation certificates of the completed works. Rana said that a target had been fixed for the construction of 618 anganwadi centres in the district. More than 500 anganwadi centres would be built under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act.He said that the NITI Aayog had approved the construction of 40 anganwadi centers. He added that the construction of 18 anganwadi centres must be completed by March-end.He asked the block development officers and assistant engineers to increase the number of inspections of the ongoing works going in various panchayats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/complete-pending-mplads-works-by-march-chamba-dc-348955
11-12-2021||---||Kullu-Keylong Himachal bus service resumed||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 10The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) resumed its bus service between Kullu and Keylong today after seven days. Due to snowfall at the Atal Tunnel on December 3, the HRTC had suspended its bus service. The HRTC also resumed its bus service between Keylong and Udaipur, which was suspended on December 3.Mangal Manepa, Regional Manager of HRTC Depot at Keylong, said that the bus services between Kullu and Keylong and Keylong and Udaipur had been resumed. However, due to snow on the ground, the HRTC could not resume its bus service between Kullu and Pangi.“As soon as the Kullu to Pangi road becomes suitable, the bus service would be resumed on this route for the convenience of people” he said.Meanwhile, a large number of tourists thronged the Atal Tunnel today to enjoy snow. The district administration of Lahaul and Spiti has limited the timing for tourists to enter the Lahaul valley beyond the Atal Tunnel from the Manali side from 10 am to 2 pm.According to SP, Lahaul and Spiti, Manav Verma, it is a must for tourists to return to Manali before 2 pm. After 1 pm, no tourist vehicle will be allowed towards Sissu from the Chandra Bridge. Tourists travelling on two-wheelers are not allowed to enter Lahaul.The SP said that the decision was taken in view of public safety because the road had been rendered slippery due to snow on the ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-keylong-hrtc-bus-service-resumed-348954
11-12-2021||Dipender Manta||At popular Himachal destination of Jalori Pass, parking lot, toilets on cards||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 10The district administration has decided to construct a parking lot and toilets at a cost of Rs 5 crore to provide better amenities to tourists on the Jalori Pass in Kullu district.The Jalori Pass in Banjar is one of the most famous tourist destinations. However, the place lacks basic amenities due to the neglect by successive governments.Deputy Commissioner Ashutosh Garg said, “The district administration has decided to construct a parking lot and toilets for tourists. I have given the responsibility of the works to the Forest Department, which has already conducted an exercise. The district administration will provide funds to the department,” he added.“The Jalori Pass receives heavy snowfall in winters. As soon as the weather permits, the work will start,” he said.The pass is situated at 10,800 feet, which is accessible from Mandi, Kullu and Shimla districts through the Aut-Luhri highway. The area is blessed with a bounty of nature and attractive forest treks, which lure tourists.Meanwhile, residents of Anni and Banjar have appreciated the decision of the district administration. They are hopeful that the administration will execute the project at the earliest for the promotion of tourism in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/at-jalori-pass-parking-lot-toilets-on-cards-348953
11-12-2021||---||Snowfall provides relief to Kullu apple growers||Abhinav VashishtKullu, December 10Apple orchardists in the Kullu valley are feeling relieved following recent snowfall and rain after a prolonged dry spell. Last year, the snowfall had occurred in the valley in November and Manali received its first snowfall on November 16. However, this year, Manali witnessed its first snowfall on December 6. The spell of adverse weather continued intermittently for a couple of days, causing the mercury to dip. The entire valley is in the grip of a cold wave after rain in lower reaches and snowfall in higher reaches.Snowfall is considered white manure for apple, which is a major crop in the valley. The apple crop is the sole source of income for 25 per cent of farmers of Kullu district, while for the other 50 per cent it provides up to 70 per cent of their income.About 1,600 to 1,800 chilling hours are required for the royal crop of apple. Chilling hours refer to the existence of apple plants at a temperature below 7°C during the dormancy period. This allows the apple trees to get moisture for a long time.The orchardists of the region say that frequent spells of snow enable apple trees to get the required chilling period. They add that the apple crop is sensitive to its growing conditions and snowfall and low temperatures are the key factors for a good harvest. Dr BM Chauhan, Deputy Director, Horticulture Department, Kullu, says that snow reduces the chances of the spread of diseases like canker, scale, woolly aphid, root rot, etc, in orchards.Snowfall also reduces the number of rats in the orchards, as a large number of them die in cold conditions. Rats damage the roots of apple plants in the orchards. Snow also helps in reducing the problem of mites in the orchards.Kullu Fruit Growers’ Association president Prem Sharma says that the minimum chilling hours for different varieties of apple plants started after the recent snowfall and rain. He adds that frequent snowfall will help in maintaining the chilling hours required for apple trees, which will result in a better yield.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snowfall-provides-relief-to-kullu-apple-growers-348952
11-12-2021||---||Three students test Covid +ve, Nalagarh govt college closed||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 10Teaching was suspended at Government Postgraduate College, Nalagarh, today after three students of the sports wing tested Covid positive.The Nalagarh SDM ordered the suspension of teaching till December 12 and the sampling of all students and staff to be done on December 13.The college authorities were informed by their counterparts at Una where the three students had gone for a sports meet. A random sampling was conducted. All students were asymptomatic.The college authorities informed the block medical officer, who told the SDM. The college authorities fear more students and staff members could have contracted the virus as the three students had been in the college.Meanwhile, 54 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 227,859. However, there was no death due to the virus.The highest number of 19 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 10 in Una, nine in Shimla, eight in Hamirpur, four in Solan, three in Bilaspur and one in Mandi. The number of active cases declined to 651.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-students-test-covid-ve-nalagarh-govt-college-closed-348951
11-12-2021||---||CDS chopper crash: CM sanctions Rs 5 lakh to Army jawan's kin||Ravinder SoodPalampur, December 10The Army authorities airlifted Ramesh Chand, father of Lance Naik Vivek Kumar who was killed in the Mi-17 helicopter crash along with Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat, to New Delhi today for the identification of the body, matching of the DNA and other formalities. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur sanctioned an immediate relief of Rs 5 lakh to the bereaved family.Vivek was killed in the helicopter crash along with CDS Gen Bipin Rawat in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. The Tribune team today visited Theheru village of Vivek Kumar. Priyanka (25), wife of Vivek, was inconsolable. His mother Asha Devi had not consumed food for the past three days.The family said that the Army authorities had told them that Ramesh Chand would be back home by tomorrow along with Vivek’s mortal remains. Their house was crowded with locals and mediapersons.Meanwhile, the Chief Minister sanctioned Rs 5 lakh as ex gratia to the bereaved family as immediate relief. Jaisinghpura SDM Pawan Sharma visited the family this morning and handed over the cheque to Vivek’s wife. Besides, jawans of Vivek’s unit also consoled the family.Official sources said that Vivek’s mortal remains would be consigned to flames at his native village with full state honours tomorrow. The body is likely to reach the local Army cantonment tomorrow morning, from where it will be brought in an ambulance to the village for cremation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-sanctions-5-lakh-to-army-jawans-kin-348949
11-12-2021||Dharamsala||Himachal Pradesh to have Swarn Varg Aayog, says Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur||The government today accepted the demand of thousands of Swarn Morcha activists protesting outside the Dharamsala Assembly complex and issued a notification for the constitution of a Swarn Varg Aayog in the state. The notification was issued by the Secretary, GAD.The activists held a protest on the first day of the winter session of the Assembly here. Thousands of them from across the state reached the Zorawar stadium here this morning despite barricades put up by the police at many places. Most of them came from Sirmaur and Solan districts.The overwhelming number of activists came as a surprise for the law enforcement authorities. Chief Secretary Ram Subagh Singh and DGP Sanjay Kundu tried to pacify the protesters but it was only after the CM announced that the government would form a Swarn Aayog that the protesters relented.He said the government would bring a Bill in the budget session to constitute a Swarn Aayog. However, the government later issued the notification. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/state-to-have-swarn-aayog-says-thakur-348947
11-12-2021||Dharamsala||Homage paid to Gen Bipin Rawat, former MLAs||The Himachal Assembly today paid homage to late Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other soldiers, who were killed in an M17 helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu on December 8. The House also paid tributes to former members GS Bali, Bodh Raj and Shiv Kumar Sharma, who passed away during the intervening period between the last and current sessions.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur introduced the motion to pay homage to Gen Bipin Rawat and former MLAs. He said the country had lost a decorated soldier in the form of General Rawat. He remembered former minister GS Bali as a leader who worked in his unique way and tried to look for innovative ideas for solutions to problems.Shiv Kumar Sharma was a social activist, who did a lot for society, while Bodh Raj was a down-to-earth person, who always lived among people, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/homage-paid-to-gen-bipin-rawat-former-mlas-348946
11-12-2021||Lalit Mohan||Himachal assembly session: Congress no-trust motion rejected||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 10Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar today rejected a no-confidence motion brought by Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri against the state government on the first day of the winter session of the Assembly here.Agnihotri said that the government had lost the mandate of people after the BJP lost all four byelections in the state recently and so the House should debate the no-confidence motion.However, the Speaker said that the motion brought by the Congress was being rejected on technical grounds. He added that a minimum of 23 members were required to introduce a no-confidence motion in the Assembly against the government. However, only 20 Congress MLAs were present in the House and so the motion was rejected. The Congress MLAs raised slogans and alleged that the government was running away from a debate on the no-trust motion.Agnihotri, while talking to mediapersons outside the Assembly complex, alleged that the no-confidence motion they submitted to the Speaker had the signatures of 22 Congress MLAs and lone CPM member Rakesh Singha. This means that 23 MLAs, which was the required quorum, were supporting the no-confidence motion against the government.He said, “The Congress brought the no-confidence motion as the law and order machinery in the state had broken down. Police constables and their family members are protesting but the government is registering cases against them. Government employees are protesting and people had even protested before national BJP president JP Nadda in Bilaspur. Today, due to a traffic jam, all MLAs failed to reach the Assembly complex in time. The situation is such that people are protesting against the government and so the Congress had brought the no-confidence motion”.Singha said that he supported the no-confidence motion as there was an urgent need for a debate on many issues such as the condition of farmers and rising unemployment. The government was running from debating these issues, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-no-trust-motion-rejected-348945
