13-12-2021||---||Congress stages walk out over 'back door' entries in government jobs||Dharamsala, December 13Congress MLAs on Monday walked out from the House on day three of the winter session after their adjournment motion for discussion over alleged back door entries, outsourced employees and jobs to be given on compassionate ground was not allowed by the Speaker.As soon as the question hour began, the Congress members demanded discussion over their adjournment motion.The speaker said since the Congress had raised multiple issues, the discussion could not be allowed.The Congress MLAs moved to the Well of House raising slogans against the government. They also raised questions over Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur not being present in the House.Congress members sat on dharna in the Well of House before staging a walkout.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-stages-walk-out-over-back-door-entries-in-government-jobs-349858
13-12-2021||A dumpster placed along a road at Chharabra attracts monkeys and langoors from the forest. As the dumpster doesn't has a lid||Monkeys, langoors a threat||Dumping of waste material on road irks commutersPEOPLE and contractors, carrying out construction work along the national highways in the state, have been found dumping waste material on the roads. The construction material such as sand and gravel is spread on the roads and it leads to mishaps and road accidents at many places, especially in night. The government must a note of the situation and stop people from dumping waste material on the roads. — Suresh Sharma, KangraWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you?Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/monkeys-langoors-a-threat-349651
13-12-2021||A seminar was organised by the HPU Public Administration Department on the theme ‘Reducing Inequalities and Advancing Human Rights’ to make people aware of their rights. The seminar was organised in hybrid mode||Seminar on human rights at HPU||Int’l conference on trends in mathsThe Himachal Ganita Parishad (HGP) has begun a two-day international conference on recent trends in mathematical sciences in online mode. Prof PL Sharma, president, HGP, said international conferences were a great opportunity for researchers and scientists to showcase their work. In the conference, researchers will make network for future collaborations and find out what is new in the related areas of research. He said the Himachal Ganita Parishad was the first organisation of its kind which had been formed with an aim of improving mathematical education at all levels. He further said 84 participants had registered for the conference from across the country, and 52 budding researchers would present their research work in the conference.Awareness camp on road safetyThe Shimla police made NSS volunteers aware about the road safety norms at Government Senior Secondary School, Khalag. It was done under the traffic awareness campaign being run in the state from December 6 to 15. The students present in the camp were also made to take a pledge against consumption of drugs. All Covid protocols were followed during the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/seminar-on-human-rights-at-hpu-349648
13-12-2021||Shimla||AAP to protest outside Himachal Vidhan Sabha today||The Aam Aadmi Party will hold a protest outside the Vidhan Sabha on Monday against issues such as unemployment and inflation. Aam Aadmi Party state in charge Ratnesh Gupta will lead the protest.“I appeal to all Aam Aadmi Party workers to collect at Dharamsala for a protest outside the Vidhan Sabha. We will raise issues concerning unemployment, inflation and ASHA workers’ demands. The government can’t rule without resolving these issues,” said Gupta. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aap-to-protest-outside-vidhan-sabha-today-349647
13-12-2021||Shimla||35 new Covid cases reported in Himachal||A total of 35 new Covid cases were reported in 24 hours, while none died due to the virus. The number of active cases stands at 606, with the total positive cases being 2,27,939. The highest number of eight cases was reported in Kangra and Solan each, followed by Una and Mandi (seven each), Chamba (two) and Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Kullu (one each) while no case was reported from Kinnaur, Mandi, Lahaul-Spiti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/35-new-covid-cases-reported-349646
13-12-2021||UNA||Una: 2 held for killing migrant over Rs 8K||The police have solved the murder case of a migrant worker from UP, whose body was found a week ago near the railway track in Kotla Khurd village. Ram Dhan had Rs 8,000, due to which Jagdish and Kallu, with whom he stayed, killed him. They have been remanded to police custody for three days. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-held-for-killing-migrant-over-8k-349645
13-12-2021||Mandi||1 dead, 3 hurt in Mandi mishap||One person was killed, while three others were injured, when the car they were travelling in rolled down the road at Lagdhar in Mandi district today. The occupants were travelling from Balh to Kumahrda for a marriage ceremony. When they were returning from the wedding procession, the driver lost control of the vehicle at Lagdhar and the car fell into a deep gorge in the area.The police said the deceased was identified as Bhoop Singh of Dyari village in Mandi.The injured persons, Yadav Singh, Subhash Rana and Janak Raj, were rushed to a nearby hospital at Kotli. Mandi SP Shalini Agnihotri said the cause of the nishap was yet to be ascertained. A case was registered under Sections 279, 337 and 304-A of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-dead-3-hurt-in-mandi-mishap-349644
13-12-2021||---||BJP event 'Divya Kashi' in Himachal from today||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 12The BJP will organise the Divya Kashi, Bhavya Kashi programme in all 68 Assembly constituencies of the state to highlight the religious and cultural importance of Kashi.The programme will start with rejuvenation, beautification and integrated developmental works in Kashi Vishwanath on December 13 and will continue till January 14, 2022, said Ram Singh, state vice-president of the party. Ram Singh, who is also the state convener of the BJP, said grand functions would be held at all 12 ‘Jyotirlings’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-event-divya-kashi-from-today-349643
13-12-2021||Dharamsala||Gaddis to get relief for loss of cattle in disasters: Himachal CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, while presiding over the 18th meeting of the Himachal Pradesh Gaddi Kalyan Board at Dharamsala today, said the HP Police Department had been directed to take steps to check theft of sheep and goats of the Gaddi community.Thakur said compensation should be provided to the Gaddis without delay on loss of their sheep or goats due to natural disaster or pandemic. He directed the officials concerned to ensure timely vaccination of the animals to protect them from serious diseases. He also gave directions to separately examine the issues raised in the meeting regarding opening and upgrade of health and educational institutions in the tribal areas. He directed the department concerned to ensure that no one transfers the grazing permit issued to them to another person.The Chief Minister directed various departments to keep in mind the development and welfare of the Gaddi community while making their plans. He also asked the Animal Husbandry Department to improve the income of the community members by providing them latest scientific technology. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gaddis-to-get-relief-for-loss-of-cattle-in-disasters-cm-349642
13-12-2021||---||Natural farming takes roots in Indora||Rajiv MahajanNurpur, December 12A group of progressive farmers in Indora has availed of the benefits of the Agriculture Department’s Prakritik Kheti Khushhal Kisan Yojana (PKKKY). The aim of the scheme is to reduce the cost of cultivation and enhance crop production to make natural farming a sustainable livelihood.The farmers have set an example in producing organic farm yield under the guidance of Kangra district’s Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA) scheme. The farmers’ group is not only cultivating organic vegetable and cereal crops, but also sensitising others to take up natural farming.Information gathered by The Tribune reveals Sunil Dutt of Chaloh village, Sanjay Pathania of Smoon village, Des Raj of Bhadroya started natural farming. Sunil and Sanjay joined hands and grew organic vegetables and cereals on their 25 kanals whereas Des Raj has grown vegetables on his 12 kanals.They claimed that they had not used any chemical fertiliser on their vegetable and wheat crops and prepared manure from Sahilwal cows’ dung. They have bought Sahilwal cows availing 50 per cent government subsidy. They are using neemastra, brahmastra and agniastra natural (no-chemical) fertilisers to protect their field crops from pests and insects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/natural-farming-takes-roots-in-indora-349640
13-12-2021||Shimla||Shimla: 150 kids examined at medical camp||A total of 150 children were examined during a free medical camp organised at the Primary Health Center, Jutogh Cantt, Shimla, by Pratibha Spandan, a charitable society. The camp was held for children from 0-12 years of age. Pediatricians from the IGMC provided medical services during the camp. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/150-kids-examined-at-medical-camp-349639
13-12-2021||---||Red tape slows down tourism promotion in Himachal, say experts||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 12A two-day Tourism Conclave-2021 on “Roadmap for developing tourism in Himachal Pradesh”, was organised by the Institute of Vocational Studies (IVS-Tourism), Himachal Pradesh University (HPU). During the conclave, it came to light that construction activities were going on and investment was witnessed in the tourism sector even during the pandemic, as a segment of people, who lost their jobs, became entrepreneurs and tourism is a promising venture in the state.Govt programmes not reaching publicChander Mohan Parsheera, Director, IVS, said a large number of investors had agreed to put money in the tourism sector during the investors meet in 2019 and the government should check the current status of such projects and help them in speedy approvals.The objective of the conclave was to find solutions to bring Himachal on the list of top 10 tourism destinations. The four sub-themes of the conclave included envisioning tourism after Covid, enhancing private sector investment for infrastructure building, taking tourism to rural areas and establishing Himachal as a destination brand, he said.During the conclave, government officials, travel agents and tour operators, adventure tourism enthusiasts, home stay owners, hoteliers, academicians and other subject matter experts highlighted the current situation of the tourism industry and the immediate future with the new normal. It was found that the programmes of the government were not aggressively published to reach the target audience.Single window system started by the state government had added another hurdle and it was like a ‘Hawa Mahal’, which opened 100 windows together, an expert said.A few others opined that the promotion of tourism was invisible and stressed the need for strong political, administrative and academic leadership to pursue product identification, marketing and tourism promotion as a mission.Rural tourism was another dimension that could be provided to tourists but the identity of villages, their culture, heritage and nature should not be affected. Innocence of rural people is what attracts tourists and efforts should be made not to convert villages to semi-urban areas.With the best resources, in respect to wellness, pilgrimage, adventure, sports and nature, Himachal Pradesh had not been able to tap international tourists, as compared to some other states. The report, with productive suggestions and recommendations, would be submitted to the government for formulation of future tourism development policies, Nitin Vyas, Assistant Professor, IVS, said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/red-tape-slows-down-tourism-promotion-say-experts-349638
13-12-2021||Shimla||Shimla: CPM slams BJP for 'rise in atrocities' on Dalits||CPM leader Subhashini Ali today slammed the BJP government for allowing a section of the society to take out a ‘funeral procession’ of reservation and SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. She said it amounted to murder of the Constitution of the country.“In the past four years, violence against Dalits has been rising in the state as well as the country. While it demands a strict implementation of the Act, the government is trying to weaken it,” she said, while attending Dalit Shoshan Mukti Manch’s state-level seminar on Sunday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cpm-slams-bjp-for-rise-in-atrocities-on-dalits-349637
13-12-2021||---||Kullu fire victims given Rs 5,000||Our CorrespondentKULLU, DECember 12Banjar MLA Surender Shourie and Kullu Deputy Commissioner Ashutosh Garg today visited Mazhan village, which was struck by a massive fire yesterday. The MLA said all possible help would be provided to the affected villagers and guidelines had been issued to the administration for the same.The DC said a team of revenue officials would assess the loss and an amount of Rs 5,000 each had been given to the affected families as immediate relief. Besides, an amount of Rs 20,000 each would be provided by the Red Cross. Blankets, tarpaulins, ration material, utensils etc had been distributed as per the relief manual, he maintained.He said the Education Department had been asked to distribute reading material and uniforms to the students whose books have been burnt. A report of the houses that had been gutted would be sent to the government under a special case. Action in this regard would be taken as per the guidelines of the Chief Minister so that the construction of houses could be ensured under the Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana.The Deputy Commissioner appealed to the residents to take special precautions during the winter season to keep threat of fire at bay. Timely replacement of electrical wires must be done to avoid the possibility of fire, Garg added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-fire-victims-given-5-000-349636
13-12-2021||---||Half-built Palampur culvert a death trap||Ravinder SoodPalampur, December 12A narrow half-built culvert in crowded Sulaha Bazaar near Palampur on Nalti-Sulaha Nanao road has turned into a death trap. Dozens of accidents have taken place at the “killer culvert” in the past four months and the Himachal Pradesh Public Works Department is yet to take a note of the issue.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that four months ago, the construction of this culvert was taken up by the Bhawarna Division of the HP Public Works Department but the work was left halfway leading to mishaps. Besides, it is also resulting in frequent traffic jams. The road is also linked to the Sulaha Public Health Centre and local schools. Since this is a single culvert with a narrow curve, it has become a major accident hazard.A senior officer of the PWD, when contacted by The Tribune, said the state PWD was well versed with the situation and DPR for the culvert was under preparation. The construction of the culvert would resume soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/half-built-palampur-culvert-a-death-trap-349635
13-12-2021||Dharamsala||Drone fest in Dharamsala tomorrow||A drone festival will be organised at the SAI ground here on December 14. Various companies will demonstrate their capacity of delivering medicines and vaccines with drones at the festival.Skye Air Mobility, a delivery by drone logistics firm from Delhi, will be participating in the festival. Having completed over 750 successful drone flights delivering vaccines, food and groceries in the past two months, Skye Air will showcase its capability and products at the event, where Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, along with Technical Education Minister of Himachal Pradesh Ram Lal Markanda, will also be present.The firm will demonstrate an autonomous drone flight from the SAI sports ground to Medical College Hospital, covering a distance of nearly 12 km. The flights will be carrying vaccines and medicines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/drone-fest-in-dharamsala-tomorrow-349633
13-12-2021||Aditi Tandon||Sex ratio below 900 in Himachal Pradesh||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 12Himachal Pradesh is among the only three states and UTs now where sex ratio at birth continues to be below 900, the other two being Goa, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.The National Family Health Survey data for 2019-21 published recently shows the sex ratio at birth (females per 1,000 males) for kids born over five years prior to the study declined in Himachal Pradesh from 937 in NFHS 4 (2015-16) to 875 in NFHS 5 (2019-2021), a drop of 62 points.Compliance data under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act reveals why sex ratio at birth trends refuse to improve satisfactorily.The latest States Quarterly Report under the Act submitted to the Health Ministry reveals that only 71,096 diagnostic facilities, including genetic counselling centres, genetic labs and clinics and ultrasound and imaging centres have been registered under the law so far.Of 3,158 court cases filed by district appropriate authorities, only 617 convictions have been secured and a meager 145 medical licences suspended or cancelled.This translates into a conviction rate of only 19.53 per cent under the PCPNDT Act.Overall, sex ratio at birth nationally improved marginally from 919 in NFHS 4 to 929 in the fifth survey edition even though sex ratio at the population level improved significantly from 991 to 1020 over the two survey periods, crossing the 1000 mark for the first time ever.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sex-ratio-below-900-in-state-349628
13-12-2021||---||Una: 4 yrs on, ex-DGP's son booked for fraud||Our CorrespondentUNA, DECEMBER 12The Una Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate has issued orders to the SHO of the Haroli police station to register an FIR against Ammel Minhas and his wife Harpriya Minhas in a case related to forgery committed in 2018.Timeline Dec 2017 Ammel and Harpriya sign deed to purchase 2.3 hectares in Pubowal village from Amrik and shareholders. Couple present 12 post-dated cheques amounting to Rs 60 lakhJan 2018 All cheques bounce, but the land is transferred in the name of Ammel and Harpriya as the deed was registered in 2017Sept 2019 In another case, Una Excise and Taxation Department audit finds fake payment receipts made to the State Cyber Treasury amounting to Rs 2.63 cr by liquor contractors Harpriya and Rohit in the districtSept 2019 HP Vigilance begins probe in liquor payment case, Harpriya and Rohit get anticipatory bail. Ammel’s involvement comes to lightJan 2020 HC denies anticipatory bail to Ammel in Cyber Treasury forged payment receipts case, accused goes undergroundMarch 2020 Land sale victims learn that their land has been pledged as guarantee to Excise Department and is part of case propertyApril 2021 Ammel surrenders at Una courts in Cyber Treasury forged payment receipts caseDec 2021 Una court orders FIR in land purchase case involving cheating by Ammel and wifeComplainants said they had to approach the court as the police had not registered the FIR on their complaint because the accused was the son of a former state DGP.Almost four years after the crime, the FIR was finally registered on Saturday. Complainant Amrik Singh said he, along with four other family members, owned land at Pubowal village in Haroli. On December 11, 2017, the land owners entered a deal to sell 2.3 hectares of their land at Rs 60 lakh to Ammel and Harpriya, he said, adding that the couple gave them 12 post-dated cheques of Rs 5 lakh each.The complainant said since the date mentioned on the cheques was January 23, 2018, they refused to sign the deed. However, the couple managed to convince them and the deed was registered. The cheques later bounced due to unavailability of funds in the bank accounts, said the complainant, adding that notices sent to the accused on their addresses also returned.Meanwhile, the complainant said they approached the police, but the FIR was not registered since Ammel Minhas was the son of a former DGP. Ammel and Harpriya, who were liquor contractors in Una in 2017-18, are also accused in a case pertaining to submitting forged treasury challans of over Rs 2 crore for payments which were to be made to the Excise and Taxation Department for purchase of liquor.Amrik said while investigating the liquor payment case, officials from the department also inquired into the land ‘purchased’ by Ammel and Harpriya from him and other shareholders. The officers informed him that the revenue papers of the land were submitted as guarantee to the department.Amrik Singh said since they had not received any payment for the land, it could not be pledged as guarantee in any government department by the accused. The court has ordered the police to investigate the matter. A case under Sections 406, 417, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 34 of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-yrs-on-ex-dgps-son-booked-for-fraud-349625
13-12-2021||---||Govt ignoring Kangra: Viplove Thakur||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 12Senior Congress leader and former Rajya Sabha member Viplove Thakur, in a press statement issued here today, accused the present BJP government of working against the interests of Kangra district. She alleged the government had diverted the heli taxi that used to come directly from Shimla to Dharamsala to the Shimla-Mandi-Dharamsala route.Viplove alleged the people or tourists, who wanted to come to Dharamsala from Shimla, would have to spend Rs 2,000 extra. If the government wanted heli taxi service to Mandi, it should have started a separate one to the district than diverting the one that was coming directly to Kangra, she said.“Earlier also, there was a proposal by the Union Government to expand the Gaggal airport. However, the present BJP government pushed for the international airport at Mandi. Now, both projects are unlikely to take off,” Viplove alleged.She alleged many offices had been shifted from Kangra to Mandi district and the significance of one of the politically biggest districts of the state was being undermined. As many as 10 BJP MLAs from Kangra district would have to pay the price in the Assembly elections due next year for failing to protest the interests of their region, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-ignoring-kangra-viplove-349624
13-12-2021||---||Tourist rush chokes road to Atal Tunnel||Abhinav VashishtKULLU, DECEMBER 12Manali witnessed a huge rush of tourists this weekend. Thousands of vehicles reached the town on Friday and Saturday to visit Lahaul through Atal Tunnel.Safety ensuredIn the wake of icing on the road, a vehicle was sent to survey the stretch between Solang Nullah and Dhundi and tourist vehicles were allowed after 10 am after ascertaining the safety of commuters. — Gurdev Sharma, Kullu SPMost visitors were stuck between the Solang Nullah and the south portal of the tunnel at Dhundi. It took around 2 hours to cover the distance of 12 km.After the construction of the tunnel, the Lahaul valley has become easily accessible due to which the influx of tourists has started increasing.Aditya More, a tourist from Maharashtra, said he tried to cross the tunnel yesterday but could not make it as the Lahaul police returned the tourist vehicles after 2 pm. He said today, he was stuck in a long jam at Palchan but was, however, able to cross the tunnel and enjoy snow.Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said in the wake of icing on the road, a vehicle was sent to survey the stretch between Solang Nullah and Dhundi and tourist vehicles were allowed after 10 am after ascertaining the safety of commuters.He said since the capacity to accommodate vehicles was less at Sissu, these were sometimes stopped at the south portal. As the road became risky to commute after sunset due to icing on the road, the tourists were sent back from Lahaul by 2 pm to 3 pm.Meanwhile, the occupancy in Manali hotels had also increased to about 50 per cent and the hoteliers are elated. Tourists have also started making advanced booking for the New Year and most big hotels in Manali are already packed for Christmas and New Year.Travel agents Suresh, Purshotam and Surender said it seemed that Manali would be packed. Advanced booking had increased due to recent snowfall in the region. Manali Hoteliers Association (MHA) president Mukesh Thakur said tourism was expected to be good during the winter season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tourist-rush-chokes-road-to-atal-tunnel-349623
13-12-2021||Satya Prakash||Punjab, Himachal among eight oppose all-India judicial service||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 12In all, 13 high courts and eight states, including Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, have opposed the idea of having an all-India judicial service (AIJS) even as Haryana and Mizoram supported it.“In view of the existing divergence of opinion among the stakeholders, the government is engaged in a consultative process with the stakeholders to arrive at a common ground,” Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju has told the Lok Sabha.Consultation in progressIn view of the existing divergence of opinion among the stakeholders, the government is engaged in a consultative process with the stakeholders to arrive at a common ground. —Kiren Rijiju, Law MinisterHowever, the government maintained that a properly framed AIJS was important to strengthen the overall justice delivery system as it would give an opportunity for induction of suitably qualified fresh legal talent selected through a proper all-India merit selection system as well as address the issue of social inclusion by enabling suitable representation to marginalised and deprived sections of society.According to a written reply given by the Law Minister on Friday, Haryana and Mizoram were the only states in favour of the AIJS. “The proposal seems to be justified,” maintained Haryana.Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh were not in favour of the AIJS, while Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Manipur, Orissa and Uttarakhand wanted certain changes in the proposal.The Punjab Government said, “The state does not favour the creation of the AIJS.” The Himachal Government maintained, “Keeping in view the ground realities, it will not be appropriate to have an all-India judicial service. As such, the state is not in its favour.”Thirteen states — Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, West Bengal, Telangana, Goa, Sikkim and Tripura — were yet to spell out their stand on the issue.Among the high courts, the ones in Sikkim and Tripura were in favour. Thirteen HCs, including those of Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta and Madras, were against it, while six others wanted changes in the proposal.Two other HCs were yet to respond. The Patna High Court said judicial services couldn’t be compared to civil services, while the HCs of Punjab & Haryana and Calcutta said the AIJS would be against federalism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/pb-hp-among-8-oppose-all-india-judicial-service-349561
13-12-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Appointment of VCs of private varsities in Himachal under lens||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 12The qualifications and experience of newly appointed vice-chancellors (VC) of eight private universities in Himachal is under the regulator’s scrutiny even as one university is without a VC for the past eight months.The Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPERC) has sought clarification and additional documents from the VCs of Bahra and Arni universities while the papers of the VCs of IEC and APG universities are under scrutiny.The documents regarding qualification and experience of new VCs are yet to be submitted by Chitkara, Maharishi Markandeshwar, Shoolini and ICFAI universities, sources in the commission said. A 10-year experience as professor is mandatory for the post, according to University Grants Commission guidelines. Earlier, the HP Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commissionhad, after the scrutiny of documents, pointed out that the V-Cs of 11 of the 17 private universities in the state were ineligible for the post on account of age, experience or educational qualifications. Three of them had subsequently quit on their own while eight were told to step down in 2020.HPPERC Chairman Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (retd) said their aim was to ensure quality education. “Appointing ineligible people at top posts reflects in the quality of education. It’s a matter of grave concern. We are not against any private institute, but malpractices will not be tolerated… The eligibility of all new V-Cs will also be verified,” he said.Meanwhile, the Indus International University, Una, has been functioning without a vice-chancellors for the past eight months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/appointment-of-vcs-of-private-varsities-in-himachal-under-lens-349553
13-12-2021||Satya Prakash||Punjab, Himachal, six other states oppose All India Judicial Service||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 12Thirteen high courts and eight states, including Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, have opposed the idea of having All India Judicial Service (AIJS) even as Haryana and Mizoram supported it.“In view of the existing divergence of opinion amongst the stakeholders, the Government is engaged in a consultative process with the stakeholders to arrive at a common ground,” Law Minister Kiren Rijiju has told the Lok Sabha.However, the Government maintained that a properly framed AIJS was important to strengthen overall justice delivery system as it will give an opportunity for induction of suitably qualified fresh legal talent selected through a proper all-India merit selection system as well as address the issue of social inclusion by enabling suitable representation to marginalised and deprived sections of society.According to a written reply given by the Law Minister on Friday, Haryana and Mizoram were the only states in favour of AIJS. “The proposal seems to be justified,” maintained Haryana.Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh were not in favour of AIJS while five states—Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Manipur, Orissa and Uttarakhand wanted certain changes in the proposal.The Punjab Government said, “The State Government does not favour creation of AIJS.” Similarly, the Government of Himachal Pradesh maintained, “Keeping in view the ground realities, it will not be appropriate to have All India Judicial Service. As such, the State of Himachal Pradesh is not in favour of the creation of an All India Judicial Service.”The Madhya Pradesh Government said, “The State Government had earlier forwarded the comments of MP High Court. The High Court is not in favour of the formation of the All India Judicial Service.”Arunachal Pradesh said the proposal may not suit a tribal state, while Maharashtra favoured such recruitment only at the Judicial Magistrate First Class Level.Thirteen states—Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, West Bengal, Telangana, Goa, Sikkim and Tripura were yet to spell out their respective stand on the issue.Among the high courts, only the high courts of Sikkim and Tripura were in favour of creation of AIJS. Thirteen High Courts, including those of Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta and Madras, were against it while six other high courts wanted changes in the proposal. Two other HCs were yet to respond. The Patna High Court said judicial services can’t be compared to civil services, while the high courts of Punjab & Haryana and Calcutta said the AIJS would be against federalism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/punjab-himachal-six-other-states-oppose-all-india-judicial-service-349538
