16-12-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Ice skating starts at Asia's biggest natural rink in Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 16Ice skating, the major winter attraction of Shimla, commenced today at Asia’s biggest natural ice skating rink the in the Queen of Hills, ending the long wait of the sport lovers who were anxious to enjoy the thrill of sliding on ice.The trial run held yesterday was successful and the ice skating session started today morning as mercury dropped below freezing point and about 20 skating enthusiasts braved piercing cold wave conditions and arrived at the rink, said Shimla Ice Skating Club secretary Bhuvnesh Banga.While people shivered sitting near heaters at home, the skaters enjoyed the warmth of sliding on skates. Earlier, a red balloon hanging on the top of Town Hall Building in the heart of the city indicated that session is on but after the renovation of the building, the practice has been stopped and messages were sent to the members on a WhatsApp group, he said.Clear sky with low temperatures during winter with minimum temperatures staying below 4 to 5 degrees Celsius is pre-requisite for ice skating.“We were hoping for a good season as the Covid threat is not so grave this year compared to last year,” said Mokshana, a Class VIII student. “It is the first day this season and I am really happy and thrilled to meet my friends here,” said Garima, a Class X student.Incidentally, 2020 was the centenary year of the club, established in 1920, but there were no celebrations and festivities and even the regular features like Gymkhana and carnival had to be skipped due to Covid pandemic. However, if weather permits, the skating carnival would be organised between December 25 and 31 and Gymkhana in the first week of January 2022, besides ice hockey championship, said Pankaj Prabhakar, an official of the club.The membership charges for adults and juniors for fortnight to full season ranges from Rs 1,700 to Rs 3,000 and Rs 900 to Rs 1,800, respectively. Casual staking charges per session for tourists are Rs 300. Skates are available for members at Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,500 with a security deposit of Rs 3,000.This year, the area of skating rink, which is equal to the size of five tennis courts (58 mts X 30 mts) has shrunk temporarily by almost 10 per cent as a lift from Lakkar Bazaar to Mall Road is being constructed under the Shimla Smart City Mission right at the entry of the rink.The season normally starts in the last week of November or early December. Last year, the ice skating season started on December 17 and ended on February 7 with 86 sessions. There are about 300 regular members of the club. Earlier, the minimum number of 12 sessions of ice skating were held in 1972 while the maximum 118 were held in 1996-97.The history of the club dates back to 1920 when tennis courts were converted into a natural ice skating rink by Irish military official Blessington. In the winter months, when he sprinkled water on the tennis court to settle the grass, it froze within seconds and he immediately thought of converting the arena into an ice skating rink.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ice-skating-starts-at-asias-biggest-natural-rink-in-shimla-351047
16-12-2021||---||Crackdown on illegal mining in Himachal’s Paonta Sahib||Solan, December 16A police team on Thursday morning raided the Yamuna riverbed in Paonta Sahib of Sirmaur district and impounded a tractor involved in illegal mining.The team was led by Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur and comprised an SHO, constables and home guards.DSP Bir Bahadur said an FIR under Section 379 of the IPC and the Mining Act had been registered against the tractor owner.Preliminary investigation shows the tractor belongs to Kulhal area of Uttarakhand on the Himachal border.Bahadur said, “Since the Yamuna forms the border between Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, it becomes difficult for the police to apprehend the miscreants owing to the river’s flow at places. The raid was conducted at 6 am. Three more tractors found in the valley area have been impounded and the mining officials requested to demarcate the land leased for mining and the government land so that those involved in illegal mining can be booked.”Following the raid, around 10 tractors with labourers fled towards the Uttarakhand side.“I have requested the forest and mining departments to identify and mark the leased mining land and forest land for further action,” the DSP said.He said the Paonta Sahib SHO had been told to keep surveillance in the area to check illegal mining. “Also, we have monitored the entire area using drone surveillance that would continue in future too,” he said.This is the second FIR in as many days. An FIR was registered against the owners of two tractors involved in illegal mining at Rampurghat valley forest area after the tractors were impounded on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/crackdown-on-illegal-mining-in-himachals-paonta-sahib-351043
16-12-2021||UNA||Judo meet begins in Una||The Inter-College Judo Championship of Himachal Pradesh University began at Government College here yesterday.Teams from 26 colleges are participating in the championship.Chairman, State Finance Commission, Satpal Singh Satti was the chief guest at the opening ceremony.Satti called upon the organisers to bring about transparency in the selection of players. College Principal Dr Trilok Chand was also present. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/judo-meet-begins-in-una-350925
16-12-2021||---||Fourlane project-hit hold protest in Dharamsala||Dharamsala, December 15Families displaced due to widening of the Pathankot-Mandi national highway held out a protest march in Dharamsala yesterday. Hundreds of people protested in the city carrying placards and raising slogans demanding justice. The march culminated at the Zorawar stadium.The affected families alleged that they were not getting adequate compensation for their land acquired for the project. Many families had lost their livelihoods due to the widening of the highway.They would not be able to resettle at any other place near their towns as the costs of land was much higher than the compensation being offered by the National Highways Authorities of India (NHAI).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fourlane-project-hit-hold-protest-in-dharamsala-350923
16-12-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Digital font of endangered 'pahari' script ‘Pabuchi Lipi’ developed||Kullu, December 15Linguistic scholar and researcher Biswajit Mandal, who is associated with the Central Institute of Indian Languages, has developed a digital font of the endangered pahari script ‘Pabuchi Lipi’ with the assistance of Yatin Pandit, a local research scholar.Biswajit says that he was able to accomplish the task within one month. He wanted to create digital fonts for endangered scripts ‘Pandvani’, ‘Bhattakshari’ and ‘Chandvani’ as well.Yatin says it is a historic decision to preserve the ancient ‘Pabuchi Lipi’. The script was used in ‘Sancha’ to perform ‘tantra’, ‘mantra’, ‘vaastu’ and ‘jyotish’ and used by Pabuch Brahmins in Sirmaur and Chaupal areas of Himachal.The digital font will open a new scope to understand and preserve the ‘Sancha Granth’.Yatin says mostly individuals and private organisations are trying to revive the endangered scripts but there is no support from the government. The endangered script ‘Takri’ was digitised in 2016.He says old scriptures can be digitised and preserved using these fonts in a simple language, for the reference of future generations. A research in ancient scripts will reveal various facts about the history and it is necessary that the government shows keen interest and do the needful.Yatin says that a large number of ‘pandu lipis’ are available with the HP Academy of Arts, Culture and Languages but these are not easily accessible to research scholars, leave aside other individuals.He adds the academy should make more efforts to digitise the ‘pandu lipis’ and make these available to the scholars for further research.“It is our responsibility to preserve the rich cultural heritage bestowed upon us by our ancestors,” Yatin adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/digital-font-of-endangered-pahari-script-developed-350920
16-12-2021||Dharamsala||Himachal grievance redressal cells in Himachal Sadan at New Delhi and Himachal Bhavan in Chandigarh||The General Administration Department of the state has opened grievance redressal cells in Himachal Sadan at New Delhi and Himachal Bhavan in Chandigarh for the residents of the state.The HP Tourism Development Corporation staff would be deputed to collect complaints of Himachal residents at the properties in Delhi and Chandigarh. Two landline numbers 0172-2637504 and 011-21610380 have been dedicated towards receiving complaints of residents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-grievance-redressal-cells-350918
16-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Data management firm to set up Rs 450 cr centre at Nadaun||Hamirpur, December 15Linnunrata of VueNow, a multinational data management company, will establish a centre at a cost of Rs 450 crore on 24 acres at the industrial area coming up near Rit village in Nadaun .Sukhvinder Kharoda, managing director of Linnunrata, along with Tilak Raj Sharma, Additional Director Industries, visited the site proposed for the data centre on Tuesday. The company would provide training and jobs to youths of the state, particularly those from the district.Kharoda said, “Linnunrata is an edge data centre venture by VueNow. Once all clearances are accorded, the centre will be established to deliver high-end cloud computing services and cached data to end-users”.Rakesh Kumar Prajapati, Director Industries, said that the company had decided to set up the centre at the identified land. Linnunrata would invest Rs 450 crore at the Rit data centre, and the file of the company was with the government for approval, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/data-mgmt-firm-to-set-up-450-cr-centre-at-nadaun-350916
16-12-2021||---||Industrialists duped by fake Shimla MP||Solan, December 15In a bizarre case, two industrialists of Parwanoo and Nalagarh have been duped of Rs 2.22 lakh by a miscreant, who posing as Shimla MP Suresh Kashyap called them on their cellphones and asked them to donate money for the construction of a temple.In another case, Shiv Sharma of Manjushree Technopack Limited situated at Jharmajri in Barotiwala also received a similar call for Rs 1.25 lakh on Monday. He, however, cross-checked with the MP, who is also the Himachal BJP president, and did not pay the money. The Barotiwala police registered a case under Section 170 of the IPC last evening and a probe was underway.In yet another case, Vinod Khurana, partner of Khurana Oleo Chemicals, Nalagarh, was duped of Rs 71,000 by a caller posing as Suresh Kashyap on December 11. The money was transferred to the bank account of Ronak Patel from IDBI Bank, Bapunagar, in Ahmedabad.Baddi DSP Navdeep Singh said that two complaints had been received from the industrialists and a probe had been initiated.The Parwanoo police registered a case last evening after Subodh Gupta, CMD of Microtek International Private Limited, Delhi, was duped of Rs 1.51 lakh on the same pretext.Solan SP Virender Sharma said that a miscreant duped a local investor of Rs 1.51 lakh by calling on his cellphone while posing as Shimla MP Suresh Kashyap. A probe was underway and the call details of the cellphone and the bank details had been sought. The transaction was done at a bank in Gujarat.The preliminary probe has revealed that the caller had used a cellphone number of Gujarat and bank transactions were also made in Gujarat.Meanwhile, Kashyap has asked the police to speed up the probe and nab the miscreants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/industrialists-duped-by-fake-shimla-mp-350915
16-12-2021||Dharamsala||Youth Congress workers protest near Himachal Assembly||Youth Congress workers staged a protest here yesterday against the price rise and unemployment. They tried to go towards the Assembly but were stopped by the police, leading to a scuffle. Some protesters were injured in the melee.CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri said in the House that the police lathi-charged Youth Congress workers, injuriing many of them.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/yc-workers-protest-near-assembly-350913
16-12-2021||Students of Lawrence School||Lawrence School, Sanawar, students donate money||Varsity praised for recruitment driveTimes Higher Education (THE) Asia Awards-2021 has placed Shoolini University among three universities that have made India proud. Shoolini University has been commended for the student recruitment campaign of the year as per the rankings released recently. VC Prof Atul Khosla said it was a stellar achievement by the Outreach Team who organised over 300 webinars and a quiz. It also organised Asia's first Artificial Intelligence (AI)-judged debating contest.Decision to set up varsity in Mandi hailedWelcoming the decision to establish a university in Mandi, the ABVP said it would be a big gift for local students. ABVP's state secretary Vishal Verma said they had been demanding that a university be constructed in Mandi for over two years. "Those who can't go to Shimla for further studies will now be able to study here," Verma said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/school-students-donate-money-350911
16-12-2021||---||Teaching staff crunch in Banjar school||Mandi, December 15The shortage of teaching staff at Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS) at Mohini in Banjar of Kullu has made parents worried about the future of their children.According to Surender Pal, president of the School Management Committee, there are eight vacant posts of teacher. “There is need to deploy teaching staff at GSSS, Mohini, to ensure better education. We have submitted a request to Banjar MLA Surender Shourie and urged him to take up the matter with the government. We have also submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Director, Higher Education, Kullu,” said Pal.TC Mahant, former vice-president of Mohini Panchayat, said due to an acute shortage of teaching staff, parents were concerned about the education of their children. “We urge Education Minister Govind Thakur to fill the posts within a week. If he fails to do so, we will stage a protest in Kullu and at the office of the Deputy Director, Higher Education,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/teaching-staff-crunch-in-banjar-school-350910
16-12-2021||Palampur||VMRT Hospital  gets cardiac cath lab||The Vivekananda Medical Research Trust (VMRT) today set up a cardiac cath lab and digital radiography facilities at VMRT Hospital, Palampur.Shanta Kumar, chairman of the VMRT, inaugurated the lab. Shanta said the commissioning of the lab and the digital radiography facility would raise the standards of medical treatment here where health services were negligible.He said the cath lab was a necessity as people had to go to Chandigarh and Delhi for heart ailments. The VMRT had installed the latest version of the cath lab that facilitates diagnosis and treatment of cardiovascular diseases with minimal invasive tests and procedures. It would be of great help to the common man, he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vmrt-hospital-gets-cardiac-cath-lab-350907
16-12-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Kullu district hospital first in Himachal to start online registration for patients||Kullu, December 15The Regional Hospital, Kullu, has become the first district hospital in the state to provide online registration slips for OPD patients so that they don’t have to stand in queues for long.Now, the patients can register on the hospital website (https://www.kulluhospital.com). Thereafter, they will be provided a token on arrival in the hospital after which they can directly visit the OPD.Kullu Deputy Commissioner Ashutosh Garg said it was decided at a meeting of Rogi Kalyan Samiti (RKS) that online registration for OPD patients would be launched to facilitate patients and save time. He said the facility was launched yesterday and around 78 persons had registered on the first day itself. He said people of Kullu, Lahaul & Spiti and Mandi district would be benefitted by this facility. “Online registration will ensure that people don’t have to stand in queues. This will reduce rush at registration counters and help in maintaining social distance as well,” he said.Chief Medical Officer Dr Sushil Chander Sharma said wide publicity would be given to the online registration system so that the crowd at the OPDs could be controlled and patients were not forced to wait for long time.He said the service would be more beneficial for the elderly. He appealed to the masses to register online before coming to the hospital to avoid long waiting period. “The provision of swift health services will be encouraged by adopting this system and it will assist in improving the overall working in a systematic order,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-district-hospital-first-in-state-to-start-online-registration-for-patients-350906
16-12-2021||---||Crackdown on mining mafia, 6 tractor-trailers impounded in Paonta Sahib||Solan, December 15In a major crackdown on mining mafia, as many as six tractor-trailers engaged in mining were impounded by officials in the Paonta Sahib subdivision of Sirmaur district today.Team comprising SDM Vivek Mahajan, DSP Bir Bahadur, DFO Kunal Angrish and mining official descended on the riverbed of Yamuna and its adjoining forest area and impounded six tractor-trailers. Some of the vehicles were full of quarry material which had mined illegally from the riverbed.DSP Paonta Sahib said, “Some tractor-trailers were plying without registration numbers while others had been registered for agriculture use and these had been diverted for this nefarious activity. Two were found engaged in illegal mining in the forest area near Yamuna riverbed against whom FIRs are being registered.”The officials carried out the raid in a planned manner and even chased the vehicles below the Yamuna bridge though the drivers managed to flee towards, Uttarakhand, informed the SDM.The illegal and unscientific mining at various places like riverbed of Yamuna river, Yamuna bridge, Bhuppur, Rampurghat, etc., is not only playing havoc with the environment but it was also causing loss to the government revenue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/crackdown-on-mining-mafia-6-tractor-trailers-impounded-350904
16-12-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||After deity's decree, liquor, chicken banned in Malana||Kullu, December 15Malana panchayat has imposed a ban on liquor, chicken and eggs in the remote village in Kullu district after the decree issued by the chief deity Jamdagni (Jamlu) Rishi.No one will sell liquor. However, goat meat has not been prohibited.Malana panchayat president Raju Ram said the village had witnessed a couple of fire incidents in which a major portion of the village, including the sanctum sanctorum of Jamlu deity, had been gutted, rendering many people homeless.Fire the triggerHe said after the recent fire incident on October 27, in which 16 houses were reduced to ashes, the people had taken refuge in the presiding deity and requested him to protect them from natural calamities.The president said, “Jamlu Devta gave his verdict through Dev Vani that due to the increasing addiction of alcohol and the use of non-vegetarian food, the sanctity of the sacred place is being disturbed. The rules of deities have been compromised and they are annoyed and to pacify them, it is necessary to improve the conduct.”According to the panchayat head, the deity has given orders to prohibit liquor, chicken and eggs, which has been accepted by the panchayat, the deity committee and villagers and its implementation will be ensured in letter and spirit till further orders by the deity.He said in case of disobeyance, a fine would be imposed on the violators and social boycott would be done on the repeated offence. However, the villagers and visitors can consume alcohol and chicken outside the village.A fine of Rs 1,100 will be charged from the offender, if caught consuming alcohol or chicken. If a person is caught selling liquor, chicken or egg, he will be fined Rs 10,000 for the first instance and face social boycott, if caught the second time.Former panchayat president Bhagi Ram said, “We have been following the orders of Jamlu Devta for centuries and this is paramount for us. The panchayat has also asked the people coming to Malana to ensure strict adherence to the prohibition rule.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/after-deitys-decree-liquor-chicken-banned-in-malana-350903
16-12-2021||Shimla||Rs 70 crore spent on procuring sub-standard apple in Himachal||The government has spent nearly Rs 69.55 crore on procuring sub-standard apple through Market Intervention Scheme this year. Over 73,000 MT apple has been procured through MIS this year, a record procurement in the last 10 years.As per the government’s response in the Vidhan Sabha, Rs 20 crore has already been released to settle the procurement done this year. Out of this Rs 20 crore, Himfed has paid over 50 lakh to growers. Meanwhile, the HPMC has distributed equipment worth Rs 90 lakh in lieu of cash to the apple growers.As for the remaining payment, which is over Rs 50 crore for 2021-22, the Horticulture Minister said it would be made after budgetary provision.Incidentally, the MIS payment is pending from as far back as 2013, which amounts to around Rs 6.71 cr. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/70-crore-spent-on-procuring-apple-350902
16-12-2021||---||3.43 crore apple boxes produced in Himachal this year||Shimla, December 15Himachal has produced around 3.43 crore apple boxes this year, the highest since 2015. “A little over 3.03 crore boxes have been marketed in and outside the state, around 73,000 metric tonne apple was procured through MIS and around 38,000 metric tonne is stored in CA stores. This translates into around 3.43 crore boxes,” said Gyan Verma, Deputy Director, Horticulture.The state had produced more than this in 2015, when the tally touched 3.88 crore boxes. “The number of boxes would have been higher had there not been untimely spell of snow, hailstorms and drought. It affected both quality and quantity of the fruit,” said Verma.How badly the apple crop was hit by inclement weather this time is reflected in the huge surge in the procurement made through MIS this season. The HPMC and Himfed together procured over 73,000 metric tonne and both the agencies owe apple growers around Rs 70 crore.As per the estimates of the Horticulture Department, the overall apple business this year is around Rs 5,000 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-43-cr-apple-boxes-produced-this-year-350900
16-12-2021||---||Ban sought on import of apple from Iran||Shimla, December 15Following the suspension of import of kiwi fruit from Iran by the Ministry of Agriculture a few days back, apple growers are demanding similar action with regard to the import of apple from that country.The Agriculture Ministry suspended the import following several interceptions of quarantine and non-quarantine pests, a threat to the biosecurity of the country, in the kiwi consignments coming from Iran. “We had written to the government last year that the Iranian apple and kiwis weren’t meeting our phytosanitary standards. Now that the government has banned the import of kiwis, the apple import, too, should be banned,” said Lokinder Bisht, president of the Progressive Growers Association.Bisht further claimed that the presence of insects like codling moth and acuba scale has been noticed in certain shipments of apple from Iran. “At the very least, all apple consignments from Iran should be checked thoroughly for the presence of pests and insects before they are released into the Indian market,” said Bisht.The other issue the apple growers have with the Iranian apple is the extremely low cost at which it’s available in the Indian market. The Iranian apple reaches Indian market at around Rs 50-60 per kg which drags down the market of the local produce as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ban-sought-on-import-of-apple-from-iran-350899
16-12-2021||Subhash Rajta||Shimla: Rs 35K annual income cap for BPL card unrealistic, say councillors||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 15Councillors fear that not many households will be eligible for the Below Poverty Line (BPL) cards in the ongoing drive of the Shimla Municipal Corporation to issue new cards and renew the old ones.Citing the criteria of an annual income less than Rs 35,000 as a major hurdle for any household to make the BPL cut, the councillors feel the income limit is absurd and unrealistic, especially in the urban areas these days. “Even a daily wager earns around Rs 500 per day in Shimla. He will end up earning Rs 10,000 if he gets work for 20 days in a month. That way, he will earn Rs 10,000 in a month and Rs 1.20 lakh in a year,” said Rakesh Sharma, a councillor from Panthaghati.“And if there’s any other earning member in the family, the income will rise further. So, it’s difficult to see many households fulfilling this criteria,” he said.In fact, the House has already passed a resolution for the revision and enhancement of the income limit to a reasonable amount. “The unrealistic financial limit would deprive many genuine families of the benefits of the BPL facilities. The income bracket has not been revised for a long time and the cost of living has increased manifold in urban areas over the last decade. It’s high time the criteria was revised to a reasonable amount,” said Nabha councillor Simi Nanda, who had brought the resolution to revise the economic threshold.“Besides, the condition like the BPL households should not own goods like TV and fridge is flawed. Many people give away used consumer goods to their domestic helps. Will it be justified to deprive such people of the BPL benefits?” Nanda asked.Shelly Sharma, a councillor from Summer Hill, said such an unrealistic income limit suggested the government probably didn’t want to offer BPL benefits to the urban poor anymore. “I held a meeting to make new BPL cards in my ward a couple of days ago. I have just received 3-4 new applications and I am not expecting more,” she said.However, in Totu ward, councillor Vivek Sharma has received over 40 applications. “We are taking the affidavits submitted by households at face value. Councillors have no way to check their veracity,” he said when asked if all applicants fulfilled the income condition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/35k-annual-income-cap-for-bpl-card-unrealistic-say-councillors-350898
16-12-2021||Shimla||Centre has okayed Renukaji dam project: Himachal CM||The Union Government today approved the Renukaji dam project as part of the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) at a Cabinet meeting held in New Delhi, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur.He said that the detailed project report (DPR) for Rs 4,596.76 crore was accepted in 2015, but as there was no agreement between the beneficiary states, the project could not be taken forward.Thakur said that Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, signed an interstate agreement on January 9, 2019. Later, the Ministry of Jal Shakti accepted the DPR for Rs 6,946.99 crore on December 9, 2019.The Chief Minister said that the project envisages the construction of a 148-metre high rock fill dam with storage capacity of 498 million cubic metres, which would be used for supplying drinking water @ 23 cubic metres per second to the National Capital Territory of Delhi.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-centre-has-okayed-renukaji-dam-project-350894
16-12-2021||Dharamsala||Lal Dora area residents to get land rights in Himachal Pradesh||The Himachal Pradesh Abadi Deh (record of rights) Bill 2021 was passed in the Assembly today with a voice vote. The Bill aims at giving ownership rights of land to people living in Abadi Deh or Lal Dora areas of villages as per the scheme notified by the Union Government.The objective of the Bill was to implement the Union Ministry of Panchayati Raj’s scheme ‘SVAMITVA’ and record and resolve the existing rights of proprietors within the Abadi Deh areas of villages.The Abadi Deh areas in Himachal Pradesh are not assessed to land revenue. This area has remained without recording of rights of the proprietors, preparation of records or the marking of boundaries through a survey. This has over the years resulted in disputes about the demarcation of boundaries and identification of rights in the dwelling and other areas.The aim of the Bill was to make a law to identify record and resolve the existing rights of proprietors within the Abadi Deh by a process of ascertaining the persons best entitled to be recorded as proprietor besides demarcating/delineating the boundaries and areas of each survey limit. It also aims to create presumption of truth in the records so prepared.The Assembly also passed the Himachal Pradesh Technical University (Amendment) Bill 2021. It proposes an amendment to Section 12 of the HP Technical University Act that if the post of VC of the university suddenly falls vacant, the Administrative Secretary of the Technical Education Department should act as Vice-Chancellor temporarily till a regular appointment is made.The amendment also proposes that if the Vice-Chancellor is unable to perform his duties, the senior-most faculty member or an officer appointed by the government may be nominated as Vice-Chancellor.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lal-dora-area-residents-to-get-land-rights-350892
16-12-2021||Lalit Mohan||Land for Mandi airport yet to be finalised: IPH Minister||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 15The site for the construction of an airport in Mandi has not been finalised, said Minister for IPH Mahender Singh Thakur in the House today while responding to a question from CPM MLA Rakesh Singha.Singha had asked if as per the Land Acquisition Act of 2013, could the government acquire multi-crop growing land for the airport project. The minister said that as per the provisions of the Act, multi-crop growing land could be acquired in exceptional circumstances.While responding to a query from Doon MLA Paramjeet Singh, the Minister for Labour said that in the Baddi-Barotiwala and Nalagarh (BBN) area, 60,127 Himachalis were employed in private industries. Paramjeet Singh, however, alleged that data given by government was false. He alleged that there are 2,500 industries in the BBN area and they were not employing 70 per cent Himachal residents as per the rules of the Industries Department.Lakhwinder Singh Rana, Nalagarh MLA, alleged that the rule of employing 70 per cent Himachal residents was being flouted. Ram Lal Thakur, Naina Devi MLA, said that many companies were not paying EPF to their employees. The minister urged the members to give precise information about the industries that were flouting the norm of employing 70 per cent Himachal residents and the Labour Department would take action against them.To the question by Ashish Butail, MLA from Palampur, regarding the implementation of the Forest Rights Act, the government said that information on the issue was being collected. Butail alleged that the government has been evading information over the issue for the past two sessions. He alleged that the FRA Act was brought by the UPA government in 2006 but the state government was shirking from implementing it.Responding to a query from Dalhousie MLA Asha Kumari, Mahender Thakur said that payments to the tune of Rs 197.98 crore to government contractors had been held up, as they had not submitted X forms for transporting mining material. The payments had been held on the orders of Himachal High Court, the minister said.Asha Kumari said that most of the payments that have been held up are of works that have been completed. The contracts of these works were allotted before the High Court orders and the order did not apply to them, she said. The minister said that the matter was being put up before the court and payments could be released only after court orders, he said.CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri said 90 tubewells had been installed in the Haroli Assembly constituency under his MLA priority scheme but he was not invited to inaugurate them though he is the local MLA.Air connectivity vital for development: CM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/land-for-mandi-airport-yet-to-be-finalised-iph-minister-350864
