18-12-2021||Dharamsala||RSS not govt’s remote control, says Mohan Bhagwat||The media portrays the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) as the government’s remote control, but nothing could be further from the truth, its chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Saturday.He also said though India is not a world power, it certainly has the potential to become a world ‘guru’ in the post pandemic era.Addressing ex-servicemen here, Bhagwat said, “The media refers to us as the remote control of the government, but that is untrue. Though, some of our workers are definitely part of the government. The government does not give assurances of any sort to our swayam sevaks. People ask us what we get from the government. My answer to them is that we may even have to lose what we own.”Highlighting the ancient Indian practices in medicine, he said, “What saw us through were our traditional Indian remedies such as kadha, kwath (herbal formulations) and hygiene. Now, the world looks up to India and wants to emulate the Indian model. Our country may not become a world power, but it can certainly be the world guru.”          The RSS chief observed a minute’s silence in memory of Chief of Defence Staff Late Bipin Rawat and 13 others who died in the chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu recently.Calling for unity, he said the undivided land of India lost several battles with foreign invaders over the centuries as the local population was not united. Quoting social reformer BR Ambedkar, he said we are never defeated by anyone’s strength but by our own weaknesses.Bhagwat is on a five-day tour to Himachal Pradesh and is likely to meet Tibetan spiritual leader The Dalai Lama, sources said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rss-not-govts-remote-control-says-mohan-bhagwat-351794
18-12-2021||Traffic jams have become a common sight in Shimla||Buses cause traffic jams in Shimla||Challan Tourists who don’t wear face masksA large number of tourists are making a beeline for Shimla, which is a good thing for the tourism sector. However, the casual attitude of tourists is posing a threat to residents’ lives. The pandemic is not over and most of the tourists can be seen on The Mall and The Ridge without face masks. The police and the district administration should ensure everyone wears a mask in public places. — Yash, ShimlaWhat Our Readers SayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something that you feel needs to be highlighted?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/buses-cause-traffic-jams-351619
18-12-2021||Chamba||Congress for sports promotion  in Chamba||The Block Congress Committee (BCC) has urged the government to take steps for promoting sports in the district on priority.BCC president Kartar Thakur said, “Chamba, which has been a focal point of sports, is now lagging behind as the government is not paying attention towards boosting these activities in the district.” Referring to the construction of indoor sports complex building in Chamba town, the foundation stone of which was laid on October 19 last year, Thakur demanded to complete the work at the earliest. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-for-sports-promotion-in-chamba-351614
18-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Pensioners above 80 yrs honoured in Chamba||Chamba, December 17To mark National Pensioners’ Day, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana presented shawls and caps to Ashwani Kumar Bhardwaj, Shri Chand Nayyar, Janaki Dulari, Shaligram Bhardwaj, Kamal Narayan Chona and Devi Prasad Upadhya, all above 80 years of age, here today.Rana congratulated the pensioners and said that the district administration would try to fulfil their genuine demands. He also wished them good health.HP Pensioners’ Welfare Association district president PC Oberoi apprised the Deputy Commissioner of various problems being faced by the pensioners. Oberoi honoured Rana by presenting him a shawl and a cap.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pensioners-above-80-yrs-honoured-in-chamba-351612
18-12-2021||Our Correspondent||2-day 'Ravi River Mahotsav' to begin in Chamba on Dec 22||Chamba, December 17Under various programmes being organised to mark ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, the district administration has decided to hold ‘Ravi River Mahotsav’ here on December 22 and 23.Deputy Commissioner DC Rana stated this while presiding over a meeting at the Bachat Bhawan here to discuss the preparations for the event. The meeting was attended by heads of departments, municipal council officials, panchayat members, stakeholders and voluntary organisations.The purpose of the festival is to emphasise the importance of public participation in conservation and cleanliness of the Ravi.The DC said a cleanliness campaign would be launched in the Ravi under the proposed festival and plastic as well as solid waste would be collected from the adjoining areas. Painting, slogan-writing and declamation competitions will be organised for school and college students. Prizes will be given to the winners.“The Ravi is our lifeline and Chamba’s identity. To keep it clean, cooperate with the administration, the municipal council and panchayats,” Rana appealed to the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-day-ravi-mahotsav-to-begin-on-dec-22-351607
18-12-2021||Solan||Illegal mining: Three more tractors seized in Paonta Sahib||The Paonta Sahib police today seized three tractor-trailers and issued challans for carrying mining material without the M-form in the Manpur Devra area. A penalty of Rs 29,000 was realised, said DSP Bir Bahadur.Besides, two tractors were seized from the Yamuna riverbed at Bhuppur, and Paonta Sahib this morning by a team led by the DSP and the Paonta Sahib SHO under the Mining Act.The police have impounded 13 tractors in the past three days. The DC, additional DC, SDM, executive magistrates, SP, Additional SPs, DSPs, Conservator of Forests, Divisional Forest Officers, Assistant Conservators of Forests, Range Forest Officers, general manager of District Industries Centre and mining officers are authorised to book such offenders.As mining is restricted in the Dehradun belt, quarry material from riverbeds in Paonta Sahib caters to the needs of construction activities there. “The scale of mining is so immense that one has to battle traffic jams while travelling on the Paonta Sahib-Vikas Nagar route after 9 pm as there is an influx of tractor-trailers on the highway,” said Hari Om, a commuter.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-more-tractors-seized-in-paonta-sahib-351603
18-12-2021||---||Agriculture leadership summit today at Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar University||Solan, December 17The Krishi Udyami Krishak Vikas Chamber, in association with Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry (UHF), Nauni, and Sikkim State Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation Ltd, is organising the Progressive Agriculture Leadership Summit-2021 at the university tomorrow.Parshottam Rupala, Union Minister for Fisheries, and Animal Husbandry, will be the chief guest while Virender Kanwar, state Minister for Agriculture, JP Dalal, Haryana Agriculture Minister, and Randeep Singh Nabha, Punjab Agriculture Minister, will be the guests of honour.Besides, Vice-Chancellors of four universities, including Dr Parvinder Kaushal of the host university, and those of Hisar, Jammu and Bareilly as well as representatives of the agri-industry and policymakers of agriculture and fisheries departments from Punjab, Haryana and Himachal, will be present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/agri-leadership-summit-today-351600
18-12-2021||NURPUR||Train engine derails, traffic hit for six hours on Pathankot-Jogindernagar narrow gauge line||Railway traffic on the Pathankot-Jogindernagar narrow gauge line remained suspended for six hours on Friday after a train engine derailed in the wee hours, near the Koporlahar railway station.The 01608 passenger train departed from Baijnath at 4 am and its driver failed to notice a small boulder lying on the track, near the Koparlahar railway station. The train engine derailed but all passengers were safe.The train driver informed the railway authorities at Pathankot about the incident and a relief engine was sent to the spot. A technical team of the department restored train traffic around 12.15 pm.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/train-engine-derails-traffic-hit-for-six-hours-351595
18-12-2021||Lalit Mohan||Communal tension in Indora village after cow found dead||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 17Tension is brewing in Surdawan village in the Indora area of Kangra district. Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) activists have started a protest demanding that Muslim Gujjars, who have settled on common land in the village, be evicted. They had blocked traffic over the issue in Indora recently as part of their agitation.The Gujjars, on the other hand, allege that they are being harassed by vested interests. They allege that miscreants have burnt their hay dumps many times but the police have not taken action against anyone.Kangra admn trying to defuse situationThe current situation obtained after the carcass of a cow was found in the area. The VHP activists accuse Muslim Gujjars of killing the cow.Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, Nipun Jindal says that a postmortem performed on the dead cow indicated that the animal had died of some natural cause. So, the allegation that the cow was killed by a particular community was unfounded, he adds.He says that the VHP activists have been demanding the eviction of the Gujjars from government land in Surdawan village. However, besides the Gujjars, there are many other people who have encroached upon government land in the area. The district administration has started legal proceedings to evict all encroachers, irrespective of their religions, from government land.Hassan Deen, a Gujjar leader of Himachal, says, “Most of the Gujjars, who are settled in Surdawan village, are residents of Himachal. They had bought land in the village and settled there along with their herds of buffaloes. The land of some Gujjars was washed away in floods a few years ago and after that they settled on government land in the vicinity. Some vested interests are trying to create communal disharmony to target the Gujjar community”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/communal-tension-in-indora-village-after-cow-found-dead-351594
18-12-2021||---||Ice hockey training camp begins at Kaza in Lahaul and Spiti||Mandi, December 17An ice hockey training camp started for children of the Spiti valley at Kaza in tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti today. This camp will continue till December 24.Sakaljung Dorje, in charge, Youth and Sports Services Department, Kaza, said 395 children had been registered for the camp. This year, more children were registered as compared to the last year.“The camp is divided into three categories. These include beginner, basic and advanced categories. Children have been placed in different groups and national coach Amit Belwal is teaching them basics of ice hockey,” he said.The National Women’s Ice Hockey Development Camp will start from December 25. The National Women’s Ice Hockey Championship 2022 is proposed to be held in Kaza on January 16. “It is for the first time that a national-level competition is being organised at Kaza,” said Dorje.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ice-hockey-training-camp-begins-in-kaza-351590
18-12-2021||An online alumni meet was organised at Government Polytechnic for Women||Alumni meet at Government Polytechnic for Women, Kandaghat||Quality Control Biologist course at HPUThe Quality Control Biologist (QCB) certificate course for the second batch of candidates under a DBT-funded three-month ‘Skill Vigyan Programme’ was inaugurated on the campus of Himachal Pradesh University. During the inaugural event, the importance of maintaining quality of drugs, dairy and food products, packaging materials, and vaccines in commercial ventures was discussed. Candidates were told about the role of a quality control biologist in ensuring the quality of the product. The function was conducted online and attended by 25 candidates from the state.Atal Tinkering lab inauguratedThe Atal Tinkering Lab was inaugurated at Phoenix School of Integrated Learning, Behna, Mandi. The government has established 9,856 Atal labs, out of which103 have been established in Himachal Pradesh. The Chief Engineer-cum-MD, Jal Prabhandan Nigam Ltd, was the chief guest on the occasion.HPU, Bennett Coleman Ltd ink MoUA memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between International Centre For Distance Education And Open Learning (ICDEOL), Himachal Pradesh University, and Bennett Coleman & Co Ltd for providing employment and internship opportunities to students, and organising industrial visits, seminars, workshops and conferences. This MoU would be helpful for the management and help students understand the key demands of the industries, said HPU Vice-Chancellor Professor Sikander Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/alumni-meet-at-polytechnic-institute-351587
18-12-2021||---||IGMC-Shimla doctors save 29-year-old with stent, major surgery averted||Shimla, December 17In a rare feat, the cardiologists of Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) saved a 29-year-old woman by Endovascular Aneurysmal Closure, avoiding the risk of a major surgery, which could have proved fatal.This is one of a kind intervention performed at the IGMC, in which the large Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm with impending rupture was successfully tackled without opening up the abdomen.The patient hails from Pangana in Karsog tehsil of Mandi district. She had perpetual pain in the abdomen and back for nearly three months. The CT scan pointed out that there was large out pouching measuring 5cm x 5cm in the artery which supplies fresh blood to the body. The out pouching was about to rupture and an Endovascular Graft Stent (a stent which is covered completely from outside) was placed in the Abdominal Aorta across the Aneurysm.There were no associated complications and the pain subsided on the operating table itself. The procedure, which lasted around an hour, was done under local anesthesia, said Prof Arvind Kandoria, Department of Cardiology, IGMC.The other members of the operating team includedDr Rajesh Sharma (Assistant Professor, Cardiology), Dr Rahul Nijhawan (Senior Resident, Cardiology),Dr Seema Panwar (Associate Professor, CTVS), Dr Rajesh Chopra (Assistant Professor, CTVS).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/igmc-doctors-save-29-year-old-with-stent-major-surgery-averted-351586
18-12-2021||Nurpur||Tributes paid to 1971 war martyrs at Nurpur||The local unit of the Ex-Servicemen League paid tributes to the martyrs of the 1971 war with Pakistan and also honoured war veterans at Gangath, near here, today. Colonel NS Pathania (retd.), chairman of the league, presided over the ceremony organised as part of the Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations.A large number of war veterans and their families, veer naris and ex-Army men assembled at Gangath. Col Pathania recalled the battle of Longewala where the Indian Air Force unit based at Jodhpur eliminated Pakistan army brigade called ‘Tufan Division’. He added that the Pakistan army deserted its tanks, even with their engines switched on which were then switched off by 8 Dogra Regiment soldiers.Free coaching to NDA aspirantsHony Capt Rumal Singh Pathania (retired) and Flight Lieutenant Sehdev Singh Pathania (retired), aged 102 and 93 years, respectively, were honoured for their bravery in the 1971 war. Colonel Pathania said that the Indian Army had opened the entry of women into the force through the NDA.He said that the league had also earmarked a Rs 5 lakh fund for purchasing private land for the construction of a sainik hall in lower Kangra. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tributes-paid-to-1971-war-martyrs-at-nurpur-351585
18-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Kangra MP urges Centre to amend tribal sub-plan norms||Chamba, December 17Kangra Lok Sabha MP Kishan Kapoor has requested the Central Government to amend the Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) norms so that only the people belonging to the community can avail of the benefits of the budget earmarked for tribal areas.He said that the budget allocation for the tribal sub-plan in Himachal was done on the basis of percentage in the past many years, which needs to be amended. Kapoor expressed these views at the meeting of the Consultative Committee of Tribal Parliamentarians held under the chairmanship of the Union Minister for Tribal Affairs in New Delhi on Wednesday.He said that the problems of the people of Bharmaur, Pangi, Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur tribal areas were different from those of the tribal areas of other states. The tribal people of Himachal were deprived of basic facilities due to difficult geographical conditions, he added.He said that it was the responsibility of the government to provide facilities useful for these people. He stressed employment generating programmes in tribal areas so that livelihood opportunities could be made available at the local level itself.Kapoor said that such programmes of employment generation at the local level could also solve the problem of migration of youths from tribal areas. He urged the government to fill vacant posts reserved for tribal candidates at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-mp-urges-centre-to-amend-tribal-sub-plan-norms-351583
18-12-2021||Dharamsala||Himachal Govt wasting money on political events: Viplove Thakur||Former Rajya Sabha member Viplove Thakur, in a press release issued here today, stated that the incumbent state government was wasting money by celebrating its being in power for the past four years in Mandi district.However, for the people of Himachal there was nothing to celebrate. A CAG report tabled in the Himachal Assembly illustrates that the earning of the government had gone down by over 30 per cent since 2015-16. Income sources of the government were going down while its expenditure was growing. The report also stated that the government would now have to repay interest of Rs 6,200 crore every year for the next five years, she said.In such a scenario the state government should be frugal and cut down its expenditure.The government should issue a White Paper on the financial position of Himachal, she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-wasting-money-on-political-events-viplove-351581
18-12-2021||---||Raise deities' honorarium for Shivratri fair: Kardar Sangh||Mandi, December 17Kardar Sangh has urged the state government to increase the honorarium of those deities, who visit here in Mandi town to attend the week-long Shivratri fair every year. A general house was called by Kardar Sangh yesterday to hold discussion on several issues related to deity society.“Over 200 deities visit Mandi town from distant parts of the district to attend this fair. The honorarium, which is being provided by the state government to deities, is quite less. It should be increased considerably,” Shivpal Sharma, president of Kardar Sangh, said.“Bajantris also play a crucial role during the fair. They are an integral part of deity culture. Kardar Sangh demands that their honorarium should be increased for the upcoming shivratri fair,” he added.“Kardar Sangh is concerned about the seating arrangements of the deities during the fair. This matter would be raised with the district administration. Last year, the sitting arrangement of deities was in the college campus near Paddal ground. But this year, due to on-going construction work of the college building, that place cannot be used for the seating of deities,” said Sharma.“We have urged the state government to provide land ownership to those deities, whose temples are situated on the government land so that necessary facilities can be provided to the devotees visiting these temples in the district,” he remarked.He said that Mandi Shivratri fair is a glimpse of the deity culture, which is playing a crucial role to preserve it in this modern era. Every year, a large number of deities visit here along with their followers to carry the legacy of this event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/raise-deities-honorarium-for-shivratri-fair-kardar-sangh-351579
18-12-2021||Ravinder Sood||Palampur civic body faces acute fund shortage||Palampur, December 17The government has not released funds for development works such as installation of streetlights, re-carpeting of internal roads, strengthening of drainage system and purchasing machinery for garbage treatment in Palampur.The MC was set up in Palampur in December last year by merging 15 panchayats into it. These panchayat areas were fully urbanised as dozens of new housing colonies had come up though without any civic amenities.Government ignoring Cong-ruled cityThe government is extending a step-motherly treatment to the city since it is governed by the Congress. Mandi was also granted MC status along with Palampur but the state government has provided manpower as well as liberal funds to Mandi alone. —Poonam Bali, Mayor of palampur MCHowever, even after one year, the residents of these areas have failed to get basic amenities.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that the state government had released funds only for the works under the Swachh Bharat Mission. The MC had no funds to construct rain shelter, drains, paths and roads. In many wards, not even a single brick was laid in the past one year. Rajpur, Tanda, Maranda, Banuri, Bindravan and Chokki were the worst hit, where no development works had been taken up.Poonam Bali, Mayor of the Palampur MC, said the government was giving a step-motherly treatment to the town since it was governed by the Congress. The priority of the MC was to upgrade the Aima garbage treatment plant but despite repeated requests, no funds were released for the purchase of machinery.The plant was installed by Aima panchayat for the treatment of garbage of only two panchayats. Later, it was handed over to the civic body after its formation, but the plant is unable to bear the load of 15 wards. Therefore, a new plant is needed immediately. If no funds were released, it would be difficult for the MC to collect, treat and dispose of the garbage of the town, the Mayor said.Poonam said the state government had also not provided manpower, causing delay in the approval of maps for new buildings, further leading to inconvenience. Mandi town was also granted the MC status along with Palampur but the state government had provided manpower as well as a liberal fund to Mandi, she claimed.As for the installation of streetlights, it would be commissioned next year. All councillors were unitedly working for the development of Palampur despite odds, Poonam added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-civic-body-faces-acute-fund-shortage-351577
18-12-2021||---||Himachal Governor visits Jwalamukhi temple||Dharamsala, December 17Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar paid obeisance at the Jwalamukhi temple in Kangra district today, and prayed for the prosperity of the state.While interacting with mediapersons, he appreciated the arrangements made by the temple committee for the devotees.MLA Ramesh Dhawala, Kangra Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal and Superintendent of Police Khushal Sharma were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/governor-visits-jwalamukhi-temple-351576
18-12-2021||Dipender Manta||Poor air link setback for Kullu tourism industry||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 17Poor air connectivity is a setback for the tourism industry of Kullu and Manali. At present, only Alliance Air, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Air India, operates flight to the Bhuntar airport. The airlines operates single flight between Delhi and Bhuntar.Also read: Publicise Manali carnival outside Himachal to lure tourists, say hoteliersFresh snowfall in Manali, tourists, hoteliers rejoiceFor the past many years, the hoteliers of Kullu and Manali have been urging the state and Union governments to increase the number of flights from Chandigarh and Delhi to attract high-end tourists but to no avail. Because of shorter runway, only a 70-seater ATR-72 aircraft operates and is allowed to carry only around 20 passengers from Kullu. The airline generally charges over Rs 22,000 for a Kullu-Delhi ticket and Rs 20,000 for Kullu-Chandigarh travel.Single flight between Kullu, DelhiNakul Khullar, MD of a resort in Manali, says, “The expansion of the runway at the Bhuntar airport and increasing the number of flights are the two major demands of hoteliers here. We are demanding that a Detailed Project Report be prepared for widening of the left-bank road between Kullu and Manali.”Mukesh Thakur, president of Hoteliers Association, Manali, says, “Better road and air connectivity is a must to give a fillip to tourism here. Poor condition of the Chandigarh-Manali highway is a big blow to the industry. Due to the ongoing work on the Kiratpur-Manali road widening project, the condition of the highway is pathetic. There is need to complete the project at the earliest to enable a hassle-free travel and save the troubled industry of Kullu and Manali.”“We urge the state and the Union government to take steps to increase the frequency of flights from Delhi and Chandigarh to attract larger number of tourists. The airfare to Kullu is quite high, which is a big deterrent to those intending to visit this area,” he adds.“We urge Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to take up the matter of the Bhuntar airport extension with the Union Government to ensure regular flights and better flight frequency at the Bhuntar airport to give a push to the tourism industry,” says Mukesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poor-air-link-setback-for-kullu-tourism-industry-351574
18-12-2021||Shimla||57 new Covid cases, no death in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 57 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 228,227. However, there was no death due to the virus.The highest 25 cases were recorded in Mandi, 9 in Kangra, 6 each in Solan and Hamirpur, four each in Una and Shimla and one each in Kullu, Bilaspur and Sirmaur.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/57-new-cases-no-death-in-himachal-351573
18-12-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal: Cops' kin resume online campaign for pay hike||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 17Relatives and well-wishers of constables have once again flooded social media, with appeals to the DGP to do justice by accepting their demand. There was earlier a lull in the campaign following an assurance by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to consider the demand of constables of 2015, 2016, 2018 and 2019 batches for a higher pay scale and pay band.Now, identical messages have been posted under the banner #justiceforHPpolice by several persons on Facebook and mailbox, supporting the demand and pleading the case of constables.Extension of period for higher scales resentedLetters have been addressed to the DGP, expressing unhappiness: “On the one hand, the Chief Minister gave assurance that efforts would be made to remove anomalies in pay scales, on the other, orders were issued asking police constables to maintain discipline and refrain from posting anything on social media regarding their demands”.“Parents, spouses and children of constables even went to Bilaspur to meet BJP president JP Nadda but FIRs were registered to silence our voice,” the messages stated, questioning what was wrong if constables were seeking higher pay scales.The constables are feeling aggrieved by the decision of the government to extend the period for the grant of Rs 10,300+Rs 3,200 pay scale from two to eight years. They are demanding reduction in the period of service regularisation from eight to two years. About 5,700 constables are affected by these decisions.“Why a step-motherly treatment is being meted out to constables, who work round-the-clock for the safety of people”, the messages say pointing out that the DGP had set up a committee to look onto the matter but nothing had come out of it.“We request you to submit the report to the government and do whatever is possible to help the constables get their demands accepted,” they urged.The messages also pointed out that there is a vast difference in the pay scales, ration money and other facilities for the HP Police, as compared to the police of other states, but the employees could not agitate or raise their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cops-kin-resume-online-campaign-for-pay-hike-351572
18-12-2021||Dipender Manta||Publicise Manali carnival outside Himachal to lure tourists, say hoteliers||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 17Hoteliers of Manali have urged the Kullu district administration and the HP Tourism Department to advertise the winter carnival on a big scale to attract more tourists to Manali during the five-day event. The winter carnival is scheduled to be organised from January 2 to 6.Also read: Poor air link setback for Kullu tourism industryFresh snowfall in Manali, tourists, hoteliers rejoicePiercing cold wave grips Himachal PradeshThe hoteliers said that it had been observed in the past years that the winter carnival celebrations have failed to attract a large number of tourists dealing a setback to the hotel industry of Kullu-Manali. The reason, they said, is poor publicity of this event outside the state. There is dire need on the part of the district administration and the tourism department to make arrangements for promotion of this event in a big way.Using social mediaEfforts are being made to do promotional advertisement of this event outside the state through social media to attract tourists to Kullu-Manali. Ashutosh Garg, Deputy commissioner, KulluHem Raj Sharma, a hotelier, said that “For the past few years, we have observed that the winter carnival has failed to attract considerable number of tourists. The reason is poor promotional efforts of this event outside the state as tourists remain unaware about the event.”“Besides, there is a need to make this event more attractive. Winter sports activities should be included along with the cultural activities. This event should be organised in the middle of March, when the environment is more suitable,” he suggested.Anup Thakur, president of Kullu-Manali Paryatan Vikas Mandal said that “we are urging the district administration and tourism department to ensure the celebration of winter carnival at Manali on the lines of Goa carnival to attract more tourists.”Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg said efforts were being made to do promotional advertisement of this event outside the state through social media to attract the tourists to Kullu-Manali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/publicise-manali-carnival-outside-himachal-to-lure-tourists-say-hoteliers-351571
18-12-2021||---||Piercing cold wave grips Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, December 17The piercing cold wave sweeping most parts of Himachal continued unabated as higher reaches had mild snowfall. The minimum temperatures hovered around the freezing point at many places.Also read: Fresh snowfall in Manali, tourists, hoteliers rejoicePublicise Manali carnival outside Himachal to lure tourists, say hoteliersPoor air link setback for Kullu tourism industryBharmour and Chhatarari in tribal areas of Chamba district recorded 5 cm and 4 cm of snow, followed by Kufri (1 cm) while Kothi, Keylong and Gondla had traces of snow and Sanjauli in Shimla town and Narkanda saw snowflakes. Foggy conditions prevailed under partially clouded sky and thick ground frost occurred in mid and higher hills.The weather remained dry at most places but strong icy winds swept the region, making people reel under biting cold wave conditions.The mercury stayed between minus 8 and minus 12°C in high-altitude tribal areas. Keylong and Kalpa in tribal Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts recorded minimum temperatures at minus 8.0°C and minus 4.4°C, while Dalhousie and Kufri shivered at minus 2.8°C and minus 2.0°C, followed by Shimla and Solan at minus 0.2°C Manali at 0.6°C, Dharamsala and Sundernagar at 2.2°C, Una at 2.6°C and Bhuntar at 2.9°C, 2-5°C below normal.The MeT office has predicted clouded conditions in mid and higher hill with possibility of drizzle/light snowflakes in Shimla, Lahaul and Spiti, Kinnaur and Chamba and the adjoining areas during the next 24 hours and continuation of cold wave conditions in Shimla, Chamba and adjoining areas for next three to four days.Moderate to dense fog is likely to occur in lower districts of Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Una and parts of Solan and Kangra districts. Moderate rainfall/snowfall is likely at isolated places in the state on December 22 and 23 as a fresh Western Disturbance is approaching the region, the MeT office said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/piercing-cold-wave-grips-state-351557
18-12-2021||---||Fresh snowfall in Manali, tourists, hoteliers rejoice||Mandi, December 17Tourists and hoteliers were elated at fresh snowfall in Manali town this evening. A large number of tourists were seen strolling on the Mall Road enjoying snowfall.Also read: Piercing cold wave grips Himachal PradeshPublicise Manali carnival outside Himachal to lure tourists, say hoteliersPoor air link setback for Kullu tourism industryThe hoteliers of Kullu and Manali were happy to see snowfall, which would give impetus to the tourism industry. They expected good business in the coming days.Lahaul and Spiti district also experienced snowfall, forcing the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) to suspend its bus service between Kullu and Keylong. Due to snowfall beyond the Atal Tunnel towards the Lahaul valley, the Manali-Leh highway has become slippery for the movement of vehicles.Movement towards lahaul restrictedDue to fresh snowfall in the region, traffic movement towards Lahaul from the Manali side has been restricted during night hours. —Neeraj Kumar, deputy commissioner, Lahaul and SpitiThe HRTC also suspended its bus service on the Keylong-Udaipur route in Lahaul and Spiti. Due to the warning of inclement weather today, the movement of tourist vehicles was restricted towards the Lahaul valley beyond the Solang valley. Only 4x4 tourist vehicles were allowed up to Sissu from Manali.Lahaul and Spiti DC Neeraj Kumar said that due to fresh snowfall in the region, traffic movement towards Lahaul from the Manali side had been restricted during night hours.Boost to tourismThe hoteliers of Kullu and Manali were happy to see snowfall, which would give impetus to the tourism industry. They expected good business in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fresh-snowfall-in-manali-tourists-hoteliers-rejoice-351552
18-12-2021||---||Himachalis' votes to play decisive role in Chandigarh MC elections: CM Jai Ram Thakur||Chandigarh, December 17To woo Himachal Pradesh voters living in Chandigarh ahead of the MC elections, state Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur addressed a series of public meetings in different parts of the city today.Thakur said the votes of Himachalis would play a decisive role during the Chandigarh MC elections.He campaigned for Sarvjit Kaur Dhillon (Ward No. 6) in Mani Majra, Kuljeet Singh Sandhu (Ward No. 14) at Dhanas, Anoop Gupta (Ward No. 11) in Sector 21, Ravinder Pathania (Ward No. 29) in Sector 56, Bharat Kumar (Ward No. 31) in Sector 52, Shakti Devshali (Ward No. 30) in Sector 41 and finally in Sector 29 at an event organised by the Himachal cell.Thakur said many people of Himachal had made Chandigarh their permanent home. There was a mutual bond between Himachalis and Chandigarh. For the convenience of people of Himachal settled in Chandigarh, a “CM single window” had been started at Himachal Bhawan, Sector 28, where native residents living in Chandigarh could file their complaints and suggestions for the development of the state. He said the people of the hill state had not faced any problem in the UT during the last five years. This was clear evidence that the BJP-led MC had protected the interests of the people of Himachal.Sanjay Tandon, co-incharge of Himachal and former president of the Chandigarh BJP, said during the past five years, “sabka saath, sabka vikas” had been strengthened here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/himachalis-votes-to-play-decisive-role-in-chandigarh-mc-elections-jai-ram-thakur-351588
