19-12-2021||New Delhi||Anurag bats for Renukaji dam||Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur said here yesterday that the Renukaji dam project would benefit residents of HP, Punjab and Delhi and also help in rejuvenation of Yamuna.Thakur said several projects pending for years had been completed and more would be completed in future. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anurag-bats-for-renukaji-dam-351954
19-12-2021||Mandi||CM reviews preparedness for PM's rally||CM Jai Ram Thakur today visited the Paddal ground in Mandi to review the preparedness for the proposed rally of PM Narendra Modi on December 27. He directed the district administration to make arrangements and ensure that people do not face any inconvenience and traffic is managed effectively.The CM said arrangements must also be made for organising the ground-breaking ceremony on the occasion. MP and state BJP president Suresh Kashyap, MLAs Rakesh Jamwal and Vinod Kumar, Chairman, Wool Federation, Trilok Kapoor were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-reviews-preparedness-for-pms-rally-351952
19-12-2021||Shimla||Be alert against online frauds, caution police||The lacunae in the fast-changing technologies in the IT sector are coming to the fore and fraudsters are finding new ways to dupe customers using online trading platforms.Pointing out that the online trading processes are being misused by scamsters, the cyber crime branch of the Himachal Police has issued an advisory to remain alert and not believe in false promises for high returns and do research before accepting any product by any unknown source.“Recently, Praveen Kumar, a victim of cyber crime, said a foreigner told him about the benefits of online trading and the process to be followed. He invested Rs 10 lakh in ‘ManwingGold’ but later came to know that he had become a victim of cyber fraud,” said Additional SP (Cyber Crime) Narvir Singh Rathore, adding: “We acted quickly and the victim got his money back.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/be-alert-against-online-frauds-caution-police-351949
19-12-2021||Dharamsala||Join RSS, chief Bhagwat urges ex-servicemen||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat addressed a gathering of over 600 ex-servicemen at the Government College auditorium here today.He urged the ex-servicemen to join the RSS, the aim of which is to build national character among the citizens of the country. “Just like the Indian Army, the RSS teaches the participants in its shakhas (morning meetings) discipline, exercise and cooperative working,” he said.Bhagwat urged the ex-servicemen to once visit the RSS meetings and houses of Sangh workers to understand how the organisation functions. “There are many misconceptions about the RSS that can only be dispelled if a person attends its meetings or training programmes,” he said. He said when the RSS was founded in 1925, nobody thought that Hindus could unite. “The RSS is not directly involved in politics, but many people, who undergo training with the Sangh, join various political parties,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/join-rss-chief-bhagwat-urges-ex-servicemen-351947
19-12-2021||---||Renuka dam oustees seek relief||Solan, December 18Families displaced due to the Renuka Dam project held a protest at the office of Himachal Pradesh Power Development Corporation Limited (HPCL) at Dadahu during its foundation day celebrations today.The 1,142 affected families protested under the banner of the Sangharsh Samiti headed by its president Yogendra Kapila. He said, “It is lamentable that successive state governments and the dam authorities have not accepted their demands being raised since 2007 while they have been running from pillar to post”. Around 300 persons also took out a protest rally at Dadahu town demanding an immediate solution to their long-pending demands, including issuance of cards to those displaced, and rehabilitation and jobs.Kapila said, “The dam officials should issue cards to the displaced families so that they can get relief and are rehabilitated. The officials should also make it clear that the compensation granted to the displaced families had been given in lieu of the land, houses, or other assets as no such bifurcation had been indicated”.The affected people rued that though they were promised land, little had been done to allot it. “At a time when the dam officials are preparing for the online foundation stone laying of the dam, it is deplorable that the issues of the displaced families have not been addressed,” said Kapila.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/renuka-dam-oustees-seek-relief-351946
19-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Khel Maha Kumbh begins in Hamirpur||Hamirpur, December 18Deputy Speaker Hansraj Chauhan inaugurated Khel Maha Kumbh, a sports event, at Kharwar near here today.The event was started by Anurag Thakur, Minister of Sports and Information and Broadcasting, in Parliament to encourage youth in 2018. This year, over 2,100 teams in various disciplines would participate in the event that would continue for over a fortnight.The competitions include kabbadi, volley ball, basketball, football, wrestling and athletics.Chauhan said: “Sports helps in building confidence and brings discipline in life.The winners will get prizes worth Rs 50 lakh. The event will help keep youth away from drugs and other bad habits. The participation of women is also significant and will help attract more women to sports.”Bhoranj MLA Kamlesh Kumar said the event would provide an opportunity to youth to display their talent.The first match (kabbadi) of the event was played between SVN College Terkwari and CPU Kharwar and was won by the latter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/khel-maha-kumbh-begins-in-hamirpur-351945
19-12-2021||Shimla||Call to engage youth to save mountains||Sonam Wangchuk, an eminent reformist from Ladakh, today said that it was bigger cities which owe people in the mountains the support and finances to deal with hazards like climate change for better preparedness.“The future will see many unprecedented calamities if we don’t act now,” warned Wangchuk, an innovator who is known for his reforms in the field of education in Ladakh. He was here to attend a seminar on “Secure Himalayas–Safe India: Reducing Climate Change Induced Risks and Vulnerabilities due to Glacial lake Outburst Floods in Himalayas”.Wangchuk, an engineer, emphasised the need for engaging the youth to save mountains. “Eco literacy and climate literacy should become paramount in the education system, especially in the mountainous regions,” he said.“We will have to come up with original and fundamental solutions for mountainous regions as the challenges and lives are different from those living in New Delhi or New York. One cannot just keep adapting to climate change as mitigation is the key,” he said.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur also stressed the need to ponder over impact of climate-related risks and vulnerabilities for the next generations.Walter J Lindner, Ambassador of Germany to India, said the implications of accelerated glacial melting for people living downstream were immense and mitigation steps would have to be taken jointly by all.“Climate change manifests in different ways and support from developed countries is required for developing countries. Germany and India have a long standing cooperation in climate change, hydropower and agriculture,” he said.The CM and Lindner launched the revised State Action Plan on Climate Change and the Knowledge Network and State Platform on Climate Change Adaptation. A Digital Climate Change Reference Centre was also launched.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/call-to-engage-youth-to-save-mountains-351944
19-12-2021||Dharamsala||Governor for promotion of Ayurveda||Governor RV Arlekar, who was on a visit to Kangra district, said the Ayurveda was a permanent system of medicine, which was being adopted by the world today.The Governor said this while addressing heads of departments of various faculties at Government Ayurvedic College, Paprola. He said it was ironic that Ayurveda medicines were taken as an alternative medicine. The government was promoting the ayurvedic system in a big way. Ayurvedic decoction and kwath had been widely recognised during the pendemic, he said.He also praised the administration for setting up herbal gardens on the college campus. “We can also inspire others towards medicinal plants. I have spoken to the State Forest Department. The college can make a contribution. Students can play the role of a catalyst in this work,” he said.Principal of the college Vijay Choudhary, welcoming the Governor, said the specialisation was being made available in 14 subjects. A multi-facility hospital of about 200 beds had been set up, he said.Nipun Jindal, DC, Kangra, informed the Governor about the decoction prepared by NGOs at the local level and other products made from bamboo. Earlier, the Governor visited the house of martyr Lance Naik Vivek Kumar in Upper Thehdu village under Jaisinghpur, met his family members and consoled them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/governor-for-promotion-of-ayurveda-351943
19-12-2021||---||In Mandi, ground-breaking  for projects worth Rs20K crore||Shimla, December 18Prime Minister Narendra Modi will preside over the state government’s ground-breaking ceremony for projects worth Rs 20,786 crore in Mandi on December 27. The Prime Minister is visiting the state on the completion of four years of the government in office.“The government has signed 279 MoUs with investors. The MoUs will see an investment worth Rs 20,786 crore,” said Bikram Singh, Minister for Industries and Transport, here today.The minister said the ceremony would see the advent of defence industry for the first time in the state. “It’s a project worth Rs 3,000 crore. For the first time, defence equipment will be made in the state,” he said. “Besides, pharma companies are also making big investments. While a company is making an investment of Rs 850 crore, another firm Indo Pharma is investing Rs 510 crore for expansion. Vardhman is also investing Rs 600 crore for expansion,” he said.The minister said the Industries Department had signed 130 MoUs which would bring in an investment of Rs 11,503 crore. The power sector, too, would see big investments coming in. “Against the 14 MoUs signed for power projects, Rs 5,511 crore will be invested, while Rs 1,294 crore will be invested in 42 Himurja projects,” he said. The first ground-breaking ceremony was held in December 2019. The government hopes that the ceremony will help bring back the economy, shattered by Covid-19, on track and help it in the elections next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-mandi-ground-breaking-for-projects-worth-20k-crore-351942
19-12-2021||Shimla||39 new cases, one death in Himachal||As many as 39 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 228,266. Besides, one person died of the virus in Bilaspur.The highest number of 11 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by seven in Shimla, six in Mandi, five each in Una and Bilaspur, four in Hamirpur and one in Solan. The number of active cases declined to 510. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/39-new-cases-one-death-in-himachal-351940
19-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Rathore gives Rs21k to poor hockey player||Hamiprur, December 18Kuldeep Rathore, president of the Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC), has provided a financial help of Rs 21,000 to Neha, a national hockey player who sells fast food in a kiosk in the town.Deepak Sharma, a senior spokesperson for the HPCC, handed over the cheque for Rs 21,000 to Neha here today.The poor girl started getting help after her poor financial condition was highlighted in the media recently.Lives in tin shedNeha was forced to work and leave hockey and studies after her father, the only breadwinner of the family, fell sick.Sharma said that Rathore had shown deep concern for the players who had brought laurels to the state in various sports. He added that the Congress would make a rational policy to address the problems of such players.“It is unfortunate that players, who have given their time and energy to sports, are living in such pathetic conditions,” he said.He said that the Congress would consider it on priority to provide employment to players so that they need not have to struggle for their survival.He added that the state government should look into the matter sympathetically and financially help such players.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rathore-gives-21k-to-poor-hockey-player-351938
19-12-2021||---||Contractual jobs for  HRTC protesting staff||Shimla, December 18Offering a major relief to around 1,000 piecemeal workers of HRTC, Transport Minister Bikram Singh today announced that these workers would be taken on contract.The piecemeal workers had been demanding contractual jobs for a while now and had been on strike for over two weeks. “There are a total of 989 piecemeal workers and all of them will be brought on contract,” said Bikram Singh after the Board of Directors’ meeting of HRTC here today.Other key announcements“Against the available vacant posts, 663 piecemeal workers will be offered contracts from December 1. Out of the remaining workers, 163 will be brought on contract on March 31, 2022, and the remaining in September,” said the Transport Minister.In another major announcement, the minister said in the case of on-duty accidental death of any HRTC employee, the dependents will be offered Class III or Class IV jobs on compassionate grounds within three months. The rule will apply even in the case where the person is alive with over 80 per cent disability.He said 205 new buses, including Volvo luxury buses, will be included in the HRTC fleet by March 2022. The new addition will cost Rs 69 crore. “Also, there is a proposal to induct 300 more buses in 2022-23, including 50 electric buses. This will cost Rs 129 crore,” he said.He said HRTC had suffered losses to the tune of Rs 840 crore due to Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/contractual-jobs-for-hrtc-protesting-staff-351935
19-12-2021||---||Need to conserve Beas: CM||Mandi, December 18Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur performed the Beas Aarti here today as part of the Meri Beas Jeevan Ki Aas event being organised by the state Jal Shakti Department under the Nadi Utsav Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav.Earlier, the Chief Minister performed puja at the Ekadash Rudra temple. He also administered oath to people to keep the Beas neat and clean. Students of a local school presented a colourful cultural show on the occasion.Thakur said, “There is need to conserve the Beas, which has religious importance. The state government is making efforts to make the river a centre of religious and tourism activities.The government has received Rs 2,100 crore under the ADB project, of which money would be spent to develop ghats on the banks of the Beas in a planned manner for tourism purpose”.“It is the responsibility of every citizen to ensure cleanliness of the river and avoid dumping of garbage in it. Every year, a grand Beas Aarti will be organised to give a message to people to conserve the rivers of the state” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/need-to-conserve-beas-cm-351934
19-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Sub-panels for tourism activities near tunnel soon||KULLU, DECEMBER 18Education Minister Govind Thakur discussed tourism activities up to the south portal of Atal Tunnel and from Kothi to Gulaba at a meeting with the local administration and the associations of tourism stakeholders at Manali today.He said icing on the road towards Gulaba and near Atal Tunnel increased the risk of accidents. Vehicles could not be allowed to these places during adverse weather conditions and heavy snowfall.The minister said if the weather remained clear, vehicle movement could be allowed. He asked the SDM and the police to take a decision only after assessing the condition of the roads in coordination with officials of the Border Roads Organisation. He also invited suggestions from the locals and the associations.The minister directed the SDM to constitute sub-committees for keeping the tourism activities smooth till Atal Tunnel and Gulaba. Office-bearers of tourism stakeholder associations should be included in these committees.Decisions should be taken regarding the continuation of tourist activities soon. He said meetings of the sub-committees would be organised from time to time, so that tourism activities were not affected.The tourism stakeholders had held a protest and blocked the Manali-Leh national highway for over two hours after allegedly being denied commercial activities between Solang Nullah and the south portal of the tunnel on December 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sub-panels-for-tourism-activities-near-tunnel-soon-351933
19-12-2021||Mandi||No tourists beyond Atal Tunnel in Lahaul||After fresh snowfall at Manali and its nearby places in Kullu district, a large number of tourists thronged the town today. Manali witnessed a sudden surge in the tourist influx, delighting hoteliers.In the wake of fresh snow at Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway, the district administration of Lahaul and Spiti has stopped the movement of tourist vehicles towards the Lahaul valley beyond the tunnel.Manu Sharma, press secretary of the Hoteliers Association, Manali, said “We witnessed a surge in the tourist influx to Manali after fresh snowfall yesterday. In the coming days, we are expecting an increase in the tourist footfall to Kullu-Manali.” Gajender Thakur, chief patron of the association said, “The fresh snow is proving to be a boon to the tourism industry. The room occupancy in hotels has increased up to 70 per cent. We are hopeful that during Christmas and the New Year eve, it will increase up to 90 per cent.”“There is a manifold rise in online enquiries for rooms. We hope this year, it will be white Christmas. There is sufficient snow in the Solang Valley, Atal Tunnel and Gulaba for the recreation of tourists,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-tourists-beyond-atal-tunnel-in-lahaul-351931
19-12-2021||---||Cold wave intensifies; water supply hit in Chamba, Shimla||Shimla, December 18The severe cold wave sweeping the state further intensified today following snowfall in tribal areas and higher reaches and mild rainfall at isolated places.The minimum temperatures hovered around the freezing point. Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti and Kalpa in Kinnaur recorded the minimum temperatures of minus 10.3°C and minus 7°C, respectively. Nichar and Kalpa in Kinnaur district received 10 cm and 8 cm of fresh snow while Kothi in Kullu district received 7 mm of snow, followed by Narkanda, Khadrala and Sarahan 4 cm and Keylong 1 cm.The high altitude tribal areas reeled under biting cold conditions as the mercury stayed 10 to 15 degrees below the freezing point after fresh snowfall. Scattered rain occurred at isolated places. Wangtoo received 9 mm of rain, Banjar 4 mm and Manali 1 mm.The minimum temperatures decreased by 2 to 3 degrees in the past 24 hours. Famous tourist destinations of Kufri, Dalhousie, Manali and Shimla shivered at minus 2.8°C, minus 1.3°C, minus 0.4°C and minus 0.1°C while Dharamsala recorded a low of 1.8°C.The maximum temperatures also decreased by 2 to 3 degrees in the past 24 hours and were 5 to 6 degrees below normal. Una was the hottest in the region at 19.4°C.Meanwhile, essential services like water supply was disrupted due to the freezing of water in pipes in higher reaches of Chamba, Lahaul and Spiti, Kinnaur and Shimla districts.The local MeT office has predicted dry weather in the region over the next four days but a Western Disturbance as a cyclonic circulation over Jammu and neighbourhood now lies over Uttarakhand and neighbourhood. A fresh Western Disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region December 22 onwards.Moderate to dense fog is likely to occur at isolated places in Una, Hamirpur, Bilaspur, Kangra and Solan districts for three days during morning and evening hours, reducing visibility to less than 500 metres while the cold wave may continue at isolated places in Shimla, Chamba, Solan, Lahaul and Spiti, Kinnaur districts and adjoining areas for three days, the MeT office cautioned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cold-wave-intensifies-water-supply-hit-in-chamba-shimla-351930
19-12-2021||Solan||Illegal mining: 6 tractors impounded in Paonta Sahib||The Paonta Sahib police today seized six tractors plying without the M-form issued for the mining of minor mineral, thus causing losses to the state exchequer.A team led by DSP Bir Bahadur and SHO, Purruwala, Vijay Raghuvanshi raided the Giri riverbed below the Bangran bridge around 6.30 am today and seized five tractors involved in lifting mining material without the requisite M-form. Another tractor was impounded on the main road near the Bangran bridge for carrying mining material without the necessary M-form. Action was initiated under the Mining Act at Purruwala police station in all cases.While two FIRs have been registered in the past four days, three tractor-trailers have been challaned and Rs 29,000 realised as penalty. The police have initiated action against more than 20 tractor-trailers in the past four days for various violations.“It has been observed that tractors plying in the leased areas are meant for the agriculture purpose. As the lease area at the Giri riverbed hasn’t been marked properly, illegal mining continues unabated in more than the leased area,” said the DSP.“Tractors carrying mining material along with the M-form are supposed to transport 11 tonnes of material but when the police weigh it again it is found to be more than 15 tonnes. The crushing units are flagrantly causing revenue losses to the exchequer by carrying at least five tonnes of excess material per trip,” added Bahadur, who conducted the raid for the fourth day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-mining-6-tractors-impounded-in-paonta-sahib-351899
