20-12-2021||---||2 lakh HP employees to get revised pay-scales, to put Rs 4,000 cr annual burden on exchequer||Shimla, December 20Himachal Government on Monday gave nod for providing revised pay scales as per recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission to about two lakh employees, which will put an additional annual burden of Rs 4,000 crore on the state exchequer.The decision was taken by the Cabinet at its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here. The employees would get salary of January 2022 payable in February 2022 as per the revised pay-scale. The State Government has already provided interim relief of about Rs 5,000 crore to the employees as part of the arrears.The Government will have to spend a sum of Rs 260 crore as its contribution as six years’ arrears under new pension scheme, which will put an additional financial burden of Rs 260 crore on it. A decision was also taken to enhance the salary of contract employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-lakh-hp-employees-to-get-revised-pay-scales-to-put-rs-4-000-cr-annual-burden-on-exchequer-352550
20-12-2021||---||Sonia names 4 Punjab MPs, Pratibha Singh, Deepender Hooda as CPP office-bearers||New Delhi, December 20Several MPs from the region and the maximum from election-bound Punjab found place among office-bearers Congress president Sonia Gandhi appointed to the parliamentary party on Monday.Four MPs from Punjab are part of the list. While Jalandhar reserved segment MP Sanokh Singh Chaudhary has been appointed one of the only three secretaries of the Congress Parliamentary Party, Amritsar MP Gurjeet Aujla, Faridkot MP JS Gill and Rajya Sabha MP SS Dullo have been included in the 22-member executive committee of the CPP.The other two secretaries of the CPP are Kozhikode MP MK Raghavan and the party’s Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat Amee Yagnik.Newly-elected Mandi MP Pratibha Singh and Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Haryana Deepender Singh Hooda are in the executive committee which also has among members MPs Karti Chidambaram, Neeraj Dangi (RS member from Rajasthan) and Pradeep Tamta (RS member from Uttrakhand).Sonia Gandhi has also included Phulo Devi Netam, one of the 12 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs, in the CPP executive panel.Netam is a Rajya Sabha MP from Chhattisgarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/sonia-names-4-punjab-mps-pratibha-singh-deepender-hooda-as-cpp-office-bearers-352549
20-12-2021||Dharamsala||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat meets the Dalai Lama||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Monday met the Dalai Lama at Gaden Phodrang, his residence at Mcleodganj.The RSS chief yesterday attended a seminar at Kangra with 60 intellectuals, including Sikyong Penpa Tsering and Speaker Khenpo Sonam Tenphel.The RSS chief, who is on a five-day tour to Kangra, during his meeting with the Dalai Lama was accompanied by Indresh Kumar, senior leader of the RSS.After meeting the Dalai Lama, the visiting RSS leaders were met by Sikyong Penpa Tsering, Kalons of the 16th Kashag (Cabinet of Tibetan government in exile) and Speaker Khenpo Sonam Tenphel.During their meeting with the RSS leaders, the Tibetan leaders expressed the Tibetan people’s gratitude to the government and people of India for their hospitality and support to the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan people.Speaking to reporters following the meeting, Sikyong said: “It’s very natural that when Mohan Bhagwat is in Dharamsala, he should meet the Dalai Lama. And from the part of His Holiness the Dalia Lama, it’s also natural that he meets a prominent leader representing a large number of the Indian population.”“RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s visit came after the Dalai Lama started granting in-person meetings since December 15, the first of which was offered to Sikyong, making this The Dalai Lama’s second in-person meeting after the emergence of the ongoing pandemic,” Sikyong added.Although the conversation between the Dalai Lama and the RSS delegates is not disclosed, Sikyong Penpa Tsering assumed the talk could be about the general issues saying, “They must have talked about the larger interest of humanity on major issues.”Indresh Kumar, while talking to media persons, said the Dalai Lama told them that India is the model of religious harmony and that India should make it known to the world. He added that RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat also expressed India’s solemn support to Tibet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-meets-the-dalai-lama-352527
20-12-2021||---||Nod to Rs 860 cr under self-employment plan in Himachal||Shimla, December 19Conceived to create self-employment opportunities in the state, the Mukhyamantri Swavalamban Yojana is getting a good response. The scheme has been helpful in stopping the migration of the local youth to big cities.Under the scheme, 4,862 cases with an investment of Rs 860.15 crore have been approved by the banks. It will provide employment opportunities to as many as 14,551 persons in the state.At present, 2,593 units with an investment of nearly Rs 430 crore had been established and are providing employment to as many as 7,216 persons and Rs 147 crore has been provided as subsidy.Under the scheme, the local youth are being provided benefits in the manufacturing, trade and identified service sector on projects up to Rs 1 crore. Men in the age group of 18 to 45 years and women in 18 to 50 years could avail the benefits under this scheme, a spokesperson of the government said here on Sunday.Meanwhile, on investment in machinery and plants worth Rs 60 lakh, there is a provision of 25% subsidy for men, 30% for women and 35% subsidy for widows. Also, 5% interest subvention for three years has been provided on loan up to Rs 60 lakh.Interested beneficiaries are required to submit the application on the prescribed form to the joint/deputy director of the Industries Department or the general manager of the District Industries Centre along with a copy of Aadhaar card and bona fide Himachali certificate.Notably, the state government has added some more activities under the scheme, taking the total to 103. These include small scale service and business enterprises such as establishment of silage units, Unnat Dairy Vikas Project (a unit of minimum 10 cows or buffaloes), establishment of cold storage facilities for milk and its products, farm stay, agro and farm tourism, construction of retail outlets for agriculture and manufacturing of farm equipment among others.About the schemeThe Mukhyamantri Swavalamban Yojana (MSY) aims to turn the educated youth from jobseekers to job creators and to give support to the Startup and Innovation Projects in the state, to provide employment opportunities and to stop the migration of the local youth to big cities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nod-to-rs-860-cr-under-self-employment-plan-352216
20-12-2021||---||Parshottam Rupala lauds Himachal govt for natural farming initiatives||Solan, December 19The Progressive Agri Leadership Summit 2021 concluded on Saturday evening at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry (UHF), Nauni.Parshottam Rupala, Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, was the chief guest for the day.The event was organised by the Krishi Udyami Krishak Vikas Chamber, in association with the university and Sikkim State Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation Limited.Addressing the gathering, Rupala lauded the state government for its natural farming initiatives and appreciated the efforts of Sikkim for promoting organic farming.He laid emphasised on the documentation of success stories of farmers and novel agri-innovations for future policy formulation. He also laid stress on popularising indigenous livestock.In his address, Virender Kanwar, state Agriculture Minister, said the government was committed to doubling farmers’ income, adding that there was a need to reduce the cost of cultivation and suggested natural farming as a solution.JP Dalal, Haryana Agriculture Minister, said the mandi system in the state had been strengthened and they hoped to establish the biggest mandi in Haryana. Farmer leader and former Agriculture Minister of Haryana OP Dhankher also spoke on the occasion.A session on “Peri-Urban Agriculture: Realising Potential for Resilient and Enterprising Ecosystem” was also held during the summit, in which Dr Parvinder Kaushal, Vice Chancellor, UHF; Dr BR Kamboj, Vice Chancellor, HAU, Hisar; Dr GC Sharma, Vice Chancellor, SKUAST, Jammu; along with the representatives from the agri-industry discussed peri-urban agriculture.As many as 42 awards were distributed during the summit under various categories.Himachal bagged the awards for soil health and best initiative in agriculture marketing and practices, while Haryana bagged the awards for risk management and initiative in brand development. Jammu and Kashmir was awarded for saffron promotion and production, while Punjab was awarded for crop residue management. Uttar Pradesh bagged the award for the best initiative in animal health and Uttarakhand took home the award for organic farming.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rupala-lauds-himachal-govt-for-natural-farming-initiatives-352217
20-12-2021||Our Correspondent||River festival in Kullu on December 21||Kullu, December 19The district-level river festival on the theme ‘Meri Beas, Jeevan ki Aas’ will be organised under the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav in the Nature Park at Mohal in Kullu on December 21.The key attraction of the festival will be ‘Maha Aarti’ amid the lighting of thousands of lamps on the Beas. Kullu Deputy Commissioner Ashutosh Garg says that many programmes will be organised from 8 am to 7 pm at the Nature Park.Garg says that the event is being held to spread the message of river protection. He has appealed to all citizens to participate in the Maha Aarti of the river. A cleanliness drive will also be carried out in the Beas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/river-festival-in-kullu-on-december-21-352218
20-12-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||68K winged visitors arrive at Pong lake||Nurpur, December 19As many as 68,188 migratory birds have thronged the Pong Wetland, lying on the foothills of Kangra district, in a fortnight.The wildlife wing of the state Forest Department completed its fortnight counting on Saturday evening and estimated the arrival of 88 different species. The department also deployed 15 wildlife teams for the estimation count.As per the official information, the annual count will be held on January 31.According to Rahul Rahane, Divisional Forest Officer, Wildlife, Hamirpur, the main 20 species of migratory birds which arrived till November 15 at the Pong Wetland are bar-headed goose (27,139), common coot (12,867), northern pintail (5,291), little cormorant (3,339), common teal (4,445), common pochard (4,229), ruddy shelduck (1,654), gadwall (1,118), spot-billed duck (948), northern shoveler (423), common moorthen (420), tern (341), eurasian wigeon (594), black-winged stilt (209), brown-headed gull (185), river lapwing (269), little grebe (253), great cormorant (268), purple moorthen (370) and barn swallow (425).The Divisional Forest Officer said the department had also deployed 12 teams to conduct daily surveillance of the whole wetland area to check poaching of migratory birds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/68k-winged-visitors-arrive-at-pong-lake-352219
20-12-2021||Tribune NewsService||Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam chief Nand Lal Sharma gets 'Him Rattan'||Shimla, December 19Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam (SJVN) chairman Nand Lal Sharma has been presented ‘Him Rattan’ by Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur. The award was presented to him during a function organised by the Promoters of Social and Cultural Heritage of Himachal Pradesh.The award has been given to him in recognition of his contribution to administration and power sector. Sharma has been instrumental in transforming the SJVN into a transnational company. The SJVN presently has more than 11,000 MW projects in its portfolio.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sjvn-chief-gets-him-rattan-352220
20-12-2021||Shimla||Three houses gutted in Shimla district||Three houses were gutted by a fire that broke out at Lalpani in Chopal subdivision of Shimla district on Sunday.The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.An immediate relief of Rs5,000 and food items were given to the victims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-houses-gutted-in-shimla-district-352221
20-12-2021||---||HRTC workers call off strike||Shimla, December 19Protesting workers and the technical union of the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) have withdrawn its strike after the Transport Minister announced that the protesting workers would be taken on contract.The workers had been on strike for the past two weeks, demanding contractual jobs. Their ‘tools down’ strike had adversely affected the maintenance of the HRTC fleet as many HRTC buses had broken down due to lack of repair and maintenance.“We are thankful to the government for accepting our demand. Following the Transport Minister’s announcement, we have called off our strike and workers have joined the duty,” said Khen Chand, president of the workers’ association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-workers-call-off-strike-352223
20-12-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM honours professors||Teachers are the builders of the nation and the guides of society and they mould students’ character to make them ideal citizens, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur at a function organised by the Akhil Bhartiya Shikshak Mahasangh at Kufri today.He said the education system should be such that our future generations could be inspired to move forward with their culture, civilisation and values of life.On this occasion, the CM and religious guru Gyananand Maharaj jointly honoured Prof Kapil Kapoor, Dr Badri Prasad Pancholi and Renu Dandekar with the Shiksha Bhushan Award.He said the state had started many ambitious schemes to enhance the quality of education in the state. Earlier, the CM visited the exhibition put up by various departments based on the developmental schemes and programmes of the state government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-honours-professors-352222
20-12-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: 29 new cases, two deaths in Himachal||A total of 29 new Covid cases were reported in the past 24 hours besides two deaths in Shimla and Mandi districts. The number of active cases was 491 with the total positive cases being 2,28,295.The highest number of eight cases each were reported in Bilaspur and Hamirpur followed by Shimla (7), Kangra (3), Kullu, Mandi and Una (1 each) while no cases were reported from, Chamba, Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti and Solan and Sirmaur districts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-29-new-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-352224
20-12-2021||---||Fund crunch hits Nalagarh cow sanctuary working||Solan, December 19The absence of adequate funds to feed animals at the Handa Kundi cow sanctuary in Nalagarh has deprived bulls of quality fodder.A senior veterinary officer had expressed concern over the prevailing situation where the absence of quality dry and green feed can cause progressive ketonemia. He says that if left unaddressed, the situation will result in high mortality of animals.The CM had inaugurated the sanctuary on February 28. It houses 500 abandoned animals, a sizeable number of them is massive bulls weighing 450 kg to 550 kg.“Since these animals have recently been shifted to the sanctuary, they suffer from internal injuries, aspirational pneumonia and internal crushing injuries,” says the veterinary officer.Such sanctuaries were opened with much fanfare to provide shelter to cows and other deserted animals, but the lack of adequate funds is hindering their smooth functioning. The management of the cow sanctuary is being looked after on an ad hoc basis. A veterinary officer pays a visit twice a week and a pharmacist is deputed for an hour everyday.Officials say that this is not enough given the high number of animals housed here. Though a provisional society has been constituted to look after the sanctuary, it will soon fall short of funds unless some provision is made at the earliest.About Rs 8 lakh will be required to deal with the current problem and provide dry and green fodder, concentrate feed and deworming treatment at least once in six months to all animals, according to an estimate sent to senior officials and the local administration by a senior veterinary officer.Besides funds for medicines, deworming and iodised salts to keep the animals in good health, a full-time official or pharmacist is required to look after the sanctuary.Was inaugurated in Nalagarh on Feb 28||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fund-crunch-hits-cow-sanctuary-working-352225
20-12-2021||Lalit Mohan||Gaggal airport expansion uncertain, locals worried||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 19Residents of Gaggal town, located about 10 km from here, are alleging harassment due to uncertainty over the expansion of the local airport. They say that the project has been in limbo for the past five years and they are living on the edge, as the government is mulling over the expansion of the airport.Pushpa Devi, who resides along the Manji river, says that her family has a two-room house. “We want to add a room to our house but have not been able to do so due to the uncertainty over the expansion of the Gaggal airport. If the government decides to expand the airport, our house will be acquired and demolished. So, we do not want to spend any money on construction,” she adds.Another resident Ashutosh, who runs a shop, says that locals are living in uncertainty for the past many years, fearing that the government will acquire their properties. “We have met the district authorities and told them to either acquire our properties and give us compensation or let the residents do what they want to with their properties,” he adds.As per the survey reports sent to the state government by revenue officials of Kangra, about 40 hectares are required for the airport’s expansion. This will include almost the entire Gaggal township. The officials have estimated that about Rs 500 crore may be required for land acquisition, most of which is commercial and high rates may have to be paid to the owners.Kangra DC Nipun Jindal says that a report over the security of the proposed bridge is still awaited and the further process on the airport’s expansion can only be started after that. The government is pursuing the matter aggressively, he adds.Meanwhile, sources say that due to opposition from Gaggal residents and the high cost of land, the administration has proposed to provide land at alternative places for a bigger airport in Kangra district.Bridge proposal yet to be okayed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gaggal-airport-expansion-uncertain-locals-worried-352226
20-12-2021||Ambika Sharma||To evade fine, overloaded vehicles use 'escape routes' in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 19Two trucks carrying excess load were seized by a team of the Baddi police led by the DSP during a surprise checking on the Barotiwala-Haripur road last night.The police had laid a naka on the road for checking various offences when they intercepted three trucks carrying iron products. These trucks were going to Solan using the Barotiwala-Haripur-Patta Mehlog-Baand single-lane rural road instead of plying through the national highway through Parwanoo.Violators to be punishedA vehicle is permitted to take a day to reach its destination if the distance is less than 100 km. The validity of an e-way is auto-generated on the GST portal. If any tax evasion on the account of excess goods than shown on the e-way bills is brought to our notice, due action will be taken. Varun Katoch, DC, State taxes and excise, BaddiBaddi DSP Navdeep Singh said, “Last night, we intercepted three trucks carrying iron products at a naka on the Barotiwala-Haripur road. Two of the vehicles were carrying two-tonne excess load than the permissible limit following which a challan of Rs 20,000 was issued by the RTO. Meanwhile, the issue of heavy trucks plying on the narrow single-lane road that is unfit for industrial vehicles will be taken up with the officials of the Department of State Taxes and Excise.”Notably, the single-lane road connects to the national highway at Dharampur, which further leads to Solan and is used despite it being a longer route.One of the e-way bills seized by the police indicate a distance of 64 to 68 km from Baddi to various destinations in and around Solan. The rural route through Haripur-Patta Mehlog, Baand, is, however, a longer route.As per the e-way bill, a vehicle that took off from Baddi at 5.24 pm on December 17 was intercepted last night at Dharampur around 11 pm. It’s surprising that why a vehicle would take more than 24 hours to cover a distance of mere 68 km. The probability of the same e-way bill allegedly being used multiple times can’t be ruled out. Also, the use of such escape routes further lend credence to the probability.Meanwhile, residents living along this rural route lament that constant plying of vehicles had created huge potholes on the road, where even smaller vehicles could not ply smoothly now. They demanded that either the road be recarpeted or it be declared an industrial corridor. If not, the movement of heavy vehicles on the road be banned, the residents added.“A 14-km steep ascend from Baand to Chamiyan village is the worst-stretch as the road is merely a few metres wide at places and it had become prone to accidents,” said Manish Kumar, a driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-evade-fine-overloaded-vehicles-use-escape-routes-352227
20-12-2021||Dipender Manta||1,376 drug offenders jailed in Mandi in five years||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 19Despite strict vigil, illicit drug business is rampant in Mandi. As per the data of the Police Department, 1,376 persons had been arrested for involvement in drugs trade in the district from 2016 to August 2021.The district is also under scanner for illicit cultivation of cannabis and poppy plants, mainly in Chohar valley under Darang constituency, a few parts of Seraj and remote areas of Jogindernagar and Karsog Assembly segments.The data shows that from 2016 to August 2021, the police have recovered 1,67,885 illicit cannabis and 18,76,736 poppy plants in different parts of the district.This year till August, the police have recovered 118-kg charas and 1-kg heroin from drug offenders. Also, 977 cases were registered under the NDPS Act and 1,376 persons had been jailed for possession of drugs from 2016 to August 2021. The data also showed that of 1,376 drug offenders put behind bars, only three were foreign nationals.To deceive the police, the offenders involve women to supply drugs. Of 1,376 offenders, 35 were women.SP Shalini Agnihotri said, “To sensitise people on the ill-effects of drug abuse, we organise awareness camps. We also urge people to inform the police if they find any person involved in drugs trade.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-376-drug-offenders-jailed-in-five-years-352228
20-12-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal's cyber fraud graph heads north||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 19There is no let-up in the cyber fraud cases in the state with increasing incidents of designing fake applications and software, looting people through online trading and ticket booking.SOCIAL MEDIA GOLD MINE OF INFOThe social media platforms are a gold mine of information for scammers as the email IDs and phone numbers used in these sites are also linked to the bank accounts of consumers. Narvir Singh Rathore, ASP, Cyber crimeOnce such incident, Kuldeep, Army ex-serviceman and former SBI employee, was duped of Rs 16,000 while booking train tickets. “Recently, I was trying to book two train tickets costing Rs 5,202 and Rs 1,019, but failed to do so due to the server issue. When I was contacting the helpline, I received a call from a mobile number, with a person claiming to be from the IXIGO-IRCTC office in Gurugram,” Kuldeep said.“The caller asked me to open the app quick support. I followed the instructions and revealed the number mentioned in the app. The caller asked me for the account number, so that the ticket amount could be credited, saying that the money would be refunded in two hours. But later, my Internet banking was locked and when I checked the ATM for balance, Rs 16,000 had been taken out from my account,” he added.Another victim Praveen said: “A woman from abroad contacted me and lured me into online trading. I invested Rs 10 lakh but the later found that the fraudster had designed a fake software to dupe people.”As per the information, over 8,000 complaints have been received in various police stations across the state. Of these, as many as 5,181 complaints – 2,015 related to financial fraud, 1,663 social networking, 172 of lost or stolen mobile phones and 1,331 others — were received in the Cyber police station in Shimla alone from January 1 to December 10, 2021.Meanwhile, ASP, Cyber Crime, Narvir Singh Rathore said: “A large number of fake websites and applications, e-commerce platforms, social media accounts and emails have been created. Cyber criminals are now using software and applications like Team Viewer and Any Desk app to access mobile phones of people to transfer funds from their accounts.”“Maximum complaints received are related to financial frauds,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachals-cyber-fraud-graph-heads-north-352229
20-12-2021||---||Dharamsala to host India, Lanka T20I in March||Dharamsala, December 19After about seven years, the Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) will hold an international cricket match at its Dharamsala stadium.President of the HPCA Arun Kumar Dhumal gave this information at an annual general meeting of the association late last evening. Arun announced that the BCCI had decided to host a T20 match between India and Sri Lanka in March next year.The last international match at the stadium was played in 2013. Thereafter, two matches were planned by the BCCI here in 2019 and 2020. The 2019 one-day international match between India and South Africa was washed out due to rain while the second match, the T20I tie between the same teams, could not be held due to the Covid pandemic.Arun Dhumal, who is also the treasurer in the BCCI, said the Dharamsala stadium was one of the most beautiful cricket stadiums of the country and the body wanted to organise more matches here. As soon as the pandemic scare will reduce, more matches would be held here.The news regarding the international cricket match in Dharamsala has been welcomed by the hotel industry that has been reeling under losses due to the pandemic.General secretary of the Smart City Dharamsala Hotel Association Sanjeev Gandhi said it was a welcome decision by the BCCI and the HPCA. “It will attract tourists to the area,” he added.He said the government had been talking of making Dharamsala a sports hub. However, besides bringing up an international cricket stadium, nothing much had been done to promote it as a sports destination. International visitors were the lifeline for the tourism but they might not return soon due to the Covid threat. Hosting of international matches was the only way domestic tourists could be brought back to the area, he said.Two Ties planned, cancelled later||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-to-host-india-lanka-t20i-in-march-352230
20-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something that you feel needs to be highlighted?||Haphazard parking near houses irks New Shimla residents||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Haphazard parking near houses irks residentsThe haphazard parking of vehicles near shops in Sector-I in New Shimla has become a nuisance. The entrance to the residents' houses in the lane is blocked as people park their vehicles on the entire stretch as they sit in cars enjoying eatables from the adjoining shop. The police must challan such vehicle-owners, who have become a nuisance for residents, especially in the evening. — Sanjay Sood, New ShimlaDemand for industrial centreAn industrial centre with the latest modules is needed urgently in Pangi valley of Chamba district. At this centre, local handicraft and other products can be produced. The valley residents have been pleading for setting up the industrial centre at Killar or Dharwas, where sufficient government land is available. — Residents, Pangi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/haphazard-parking-near-houses-irks-residents-352231
20-12-2021||On the closing ceremony of the three-day inter-college badminton tournament at Government College||Involve students in sports: Minister Suresh Bhardwaj||Four-day tech conclave concludesThe four-day University Industry Conclave (UIC) and UIT UTKARSH- 2021 (techno-culture fest) ended with the valedictory address of UIT director professor PL Sharma. He said HPU Vice-Chancellor professor Sikander Kumar helped conduct the event. Sharma also thanked the general manager-finance, Himachal Pradesh Koushal Vikas Nigam, Saneel Thakur on announcing support of Rs 4 crore to the department to establish and enhance the level of labs. Sharma said the University Institute of Technology would establish a new centre for cryptology, which would cater to the need of the current scenario of communication. He said an action plan would be made to execute the signed MoU for the welfare of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/involve-students-in-sports-minister-352232
20-12-2021||Shimla||Shimla cardiac surgeon Dr Deepak Puri awarded||Dr Deepak Puri, a senior cardiac surgeon, who hails from Shimla, has been awarded Indian Icon 2021 (cardiac sciences) for contribution to the evolution of integrated approach for cost effective management of cardiovascular diseases.Dr Puri is also the founder chairman of Cardiomersion, which is a global group of cardiovascular and allied specialists, promoting integrated approach to comprehensive cardiac care. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-surgeon-awarded-352233
20-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Narcotic team honoured in Nurpur||NURPUR DECEMBER 19A narcotic team comprising Assistant Sub Inspector Hamid, head constables Vipin Kumar and Arjun Singh was honoured by the Sub Divisional Police Officer (SDPO), Nurpur, Surinder Sharma here last evening for discharging duty excellently.The team has detected 31 narcotic cases in the past three months, a record time, and arrested 38 drug peddlers, including 21 women and 17 men involved in drug peddling. Indora and Damtal police stations have registered cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act.According to Sharma, most arrested drug peddlers are the offenders, who have been booked under the Act in the past, too. He said the Kangra police had launched a special drive against drug peddlers, especially in the border areas.“The police have also initiated financial investigations against the drug peddlers, who have raised properties worth crores of rupees,” he said.The rising trend of the involvement of women in the peddling in Indora and Nurpur has become a matter of concern among the locals. The youngsters are falling prey to the peddling and drug addiction.The detection of synthetic drug rackets, freezing of movable and immovable properties and registration of the NDPS Act have failed to deter the peddlers in the border areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/narcotic-team-honoured-in-nurpur-352234
20-12-2021||Balkrishan Prashar||Construct hostels at Pangi college, panel urges Himachal CM||Pangi (Chamba), December 19The Pangwal Ekta Manch, Pangi, has expressed resentment over the inordinate delay in the construction of hostels for girls and boys in Government Degree College at Killar, headquarters of Pangi tribal subdivision in Chamba district.The students hailing from the tough terrains have to face difficulties, the manch said. In a letter submitted to state Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, manch chairman Trilok Thakur and co-chairman Bhagat Barotra stated that the govt college was established in 2007 and, initially, the classes were started in the building of the local Govt Senior Secondary School. In October 2018, the college was shifted to its newly constructed administrative building, which was inaugurated by the CM during his visit to Pangi. But, the building is not enough to meet the education standards.“At present, approximately 260-300 students are studying in different streams of arts, science and commerce in this college”, manch office-bearers disclosed.The manch requested the government to construct the hostels, which was indispensable for the security of girls, who were residing in rented accommodation at their own expense, it said.It also the government to arrange for accommodation and fill sanctioned posts of assistant professor in the departments of economics, botany, zoology, commerce, etc, which had been lying vacant for many years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/construct-hostels-at-pangi-college-panel-urges-himachal-cm-352235
20-12-2021||Dipender Manta||Litter woes: Jute bags for Lahaul and Spiti tourists to throw trash||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 19The Lahaul and Spiti administration has decided to give jute bags to tourists for putting waste and to stop littering in the open.After the opening of the Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway, plastic waste on roadsides and in water streams of the Lahaul valley has increased considerably due to a heavy tourist influx. Because of a poor garbage disposal system and irresponsible behaviour of tourists, the beauty of the valley is getting marred.Garbage collection centre to come upThe district administration has decided that a garbage collection centre will be set up at the North Portal of the Atal Tunnel. It is here that jute bags will be distributed among tourists at the time of entry. Neeraj Kumar, DC, Lahaul and SpitiEnvironmentalists and residents of the valley, who have been concerned about the issue, have welcomed the decision of the administration. Akash Vashishta, an environmentalist, who recently visited the Lahaul valley, says, “It was shocking to see heaps of waste dumped along roads, in streams and drains and in the snow-clad mountain ranges of Koksar”.“This is in violation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. The state has failed to enforce the Act even in higher altitude eco-sensitive areas. There is need to take corrective measures,” he says.DC, Lahaul and Spiti, Neeraj Kumar, says, “After the opening of the tunnel, the tourist influx in the district has increased significantly. Many tourists throw garbage in the open. To make the district clean and beautiful, the administration has decided to provide jute bags to tourists to put waste and not litter the place. At present, orders have been placed for10,000 jute bags and these will be given to tourists soon”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/litter-woes-jute-bags-for-tourists-to-throw-trash-352236
20-12-2021||---||Severe cold in Northwest, no relief likely for 3 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 19Haryana, Punjab, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh are in the grip of a severe cold wave, the Meteorological Department said on Sunday. People in Punjab and Haryana reeled under biting cold conditions with the holy city of Amritsar on Sunday recording a minimum temperature of minus 0.5 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal.Moderate fog was reported in Amritsar and Ludhiana. In Haryana, Sirsa was the coldest at 0.6 degrees Celsius. Churu in Rajasthan reported the lowest minimum temperature of minus 2.6 degrees Celsius in northwest India, followed by Sikar (minus 2.5 degrees Celsius) and Amritsar (minus 0.5 degrees Celsius). Delhi recorded a minimum of 4.6 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), cold to severe cold wave conditions are highly likely to continue over the next three days. Dense fog is predicted in Uttarakhand over the next two days and in Punjab and Haryana on December 23 and 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/severe-cold-in-northwest-no-relief-likely-for-3-days-352273
20-12-2021||Subhash Rajta||Poor infra, Himachal misses paddy procurement target||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 19The first-ever paddy procurement drive in Himachal Pradesh could not achieve even half of its target. Against the estimated purchase of 56,000 metric tonne (MT) of grain, only 27,628 MT could be procured.Limited capacity, tough norms“Since it was the first such exercise, it is possible that the state agencies got their estimate wrong,” said an official of the Food Corporation of India (FCI).The Department of Agriculture doesn’t agree. “It’s certainly not a case of overestimation. In fact, we had kept it on the lower side. Given the area under paddy cultivation, the produce could be up to 75,000 MT,” said DR Thakur, Joint Director. But how does one explain the huge gap between the target and actual procurement? “Our procurement centres had limited capacity. Since it was the first time, we were creating facilities while the process was still on,” said Thakur.“Also, the grain had moisture content and the temperature too was on the higher side. There was fear among farmers that the grain might get spoiled. Instead of waiting, they probably sold their produce in other markets,” he said.Another reason for low procurement, according to an official involved in the drive, was stringent norms of the FCI. “The number of rejections was quite high. Farmers sold their produce in Punjab and Haryana with the help of commission agents,” the official said.Despite low procurement, most departments involved in the process feel that the purchase would be higher nexttime. “We have gained experience and will be better prepared next year,” said Thakur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poor-infra-himachal-misses-paddy-procurement-target-352272
20-12-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||No officer, mining mafia thrives in Nurpur||Nurpur, December 19With the post of Mining Officer (MO) at Nurpur is lying vacant for the past eight months, the mining mafia is blatantly operating in lower Kangra areas bordering Punjab and is causing irreparable loss to the environment and ecology of the area.The post has been lying vacant since April when the then MO was transferred to Una. The post was created in 2016-17 during the previous Virbhadra Singh government after a spurt in illegal mining activities in the Chakki, the Chhonch and the Beas in lower Kangra areas.At present, only three Assistant Mining Inspectors (AMIs) and four mining guards are deployed in the area, while one post of Mining Inspector is lying vacant for a long time. The deployed mining staff have no power to confiscate machinery (excavators) engaged in illegal mining on riverbeds.The mining mafia fear confiscation of their machinery and registration of FIRs but the AMIs can only issue challans to offenders. Moreover, the mining field staff have been provided no security even while on night patrolling or checking duty in isolated and deserted areas. At present, only one MO, posted at Dharamsala, is looking after 15 subdivisions of Kangra district.The state had issued a notification on April 30, 2011, designating 39 officials of 20 departments to challan offenders. The government had also issued challan books to the departments. It had also reduced the number of officials from 39 to 25 and departments from 20 to 13 by issuing a notification on December 1. The Tribune has a copy of the order.Bharatiya Kisan Sangh Kangra president Hoshiar Singh says illegal mining has damaged the ecology, underground water resources and agrarian land. “The government should empower the field mining staff to confiscate excavation machines, instruct the officers to issue challans to the offenders and ensure patrolling in areas that are worst hit by illegal mining,” he says.Post vacant since AprThe post of Mining Officer at Nurpur has been lying vacant since April, when the then officer was transferred to Una. The post was created in 2016-17.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-officer-mining-mafia-thrives-in-nurpur-352237
20-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Himachal Govt neglecting Palampur Civil Hospital, alleges Ashish Butail||Palampur, December 19Local MLA Ashish Butail on Sunday accused the state government of neglecting the Palampur Civil Hospital, which caters to the medical needs of five lakh residents of the region.Paramedical staff neededOver a dozen posts of paramedical staff and two of operation theatre assistant were also lying vacant, hampering the surgeries in the hospital. The X-ray plant of the hospital has been lying defunct. Ashish Butail, MLAHe said the frequent transfers of doctors from this hospital had made the matters worse, resulting in inconvenience to the public. “Despite the fact that I have raised these issues before the CM as well as in the state Assembly, no steps have been initiated to improve the affairs at the hospital.”Addressing the mediapersons here on Sunday afternoon, Butail said the key post of a paediatrician was vacant in the hospital for the past one year. Despite his repeated requests, the government had not filled it.“Moreover, over a dozen posts of paramedical staff and two of operation theatre assistant were also lying vacant, hampering the surgeries in the hospital.”The X-ray plant of the hospital had also been lying defunct for months but no efforts had been made for its repairs, he added.Butail further said in the absence of necessary infrastructure, the health services in the 200-bed hospital had gone far from satisfactory. He said recently, the state government shifted medical specialist Dr Jaides Rana to the Nurpur Civil Hospital, virtually crippling the health services in Palampur.Butail claimed when the Congress was in power in the state, all major surgeries were performed in the Palampur hospital.The MLA, however, alleged that as he was a Congress MLA that’s why the government was deliberately not hiring doctors and paramedical staff for the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-neglecting-palampur-civil-hospital-alleges-ashish-butail-352238
20-12-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Decline in tourist arrivals worries hoteliers in Kullu||Kullu, December 19People associated with the tourism industry have expressed concern over the declining number of tourists in Kullu district after 2017.The number of tourists has been growing steadily for the past couple of decades, but there was a sudden decline in their arrival in 2018 and 2019. There was a drastic decline due to the Covid outbreak in 2020 and 2021.The data obtained from the Tourism Department reveals that as many as 36,80,360 domestic and 1,33,409 foreign tourists arrived in Kullu in 2017, but only 29,52,552 domestic and 97,888 foreign tourists arrived in 2018. The arrivals in 2019 was 26,96,003 domestic and 93,948 foreign tourists. After the Covid outbreak, only 7,63,308 domestic and 7,044 foreign tourists arrived in the district in 2020.Those associated with the tourism industry say that the lackadaisical approach of the government is perpetuating the fall of the tourism industry, which is the backbone of the region’s economy. They allege that the government has done almost nothing over the years to improve infrastructure in the region to boost tourism. They add that while the Central Government has granted funds for the development of Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir and the North Eastern region to promote tourism, it has failed to harness the potential of tourism in HP.Chhuni Lal, a hotelier, says a heavy green tax is charged on tourist vehicles entering Manali, besides a permit fee and congestion charges to visit the Rohtang Pass, but the region lacks even basic amenities like toilets and drinking water. “Restrictions at tourist spots and tourism activities also contribute to the decline in the graph of tourist arrivals. The poor condition of the road between Mandi and Kullu, due to the ongoing expansion work, also deters tourists from visiting the region,” he adds.Himachal Pradesh Travel Agent Association president Budhi Prakash Thakur says that the government lacks vision and understanding to harness the potential of tourism, which can boost the economy of the state. He adds the Tourism Department should rope in experts and specialists. “A sharp increase in airfares is another reason for the decline in tourist footfall. While subsidised airfares are charged for travelling to J&K, Leh and many North-Eastern states to promote tourism, the monopolistic subsidiary of the national carrier operating here is charging exorbitant fares,” he says.He says that with no rail connectivity and poor air and road connectivity, the number of tourists may fall further if timely necessary steps are not taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/decline-in-tourist-arrivals-worries-hoteliers-in-kullu-352239
