21-12-2021||Shimla||Sympathy for late chief minister Virbhadra Singh won’t work for Congress in HP Assembly polls: BJP||Sympathy for late Congress leader Virbhadra Singh will not work for Congress in next Assembly elections in Himachal Pradesh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said here on Tuesday.Thakur told the media that sympathy will not yield poll wins for ever.The ruling BJP attributed its defeat in Mandi Lok Sabha and all three assembly seats — Fatehpur, Arki, Jubbal-Kotkhai — in by-election in Himachal Pradesh in October to the sympathy of voters for the six-time CM Virbhadra Singh, who breathed his last on July 8 due to post-Covid complications.Speaking about BJP’s defeat in the bypoll, Thakur said the results of those elections were affected by special circumstances. Congress sought votes in the name of Virbhadra Singh by raising the slogan “Vote Nahin, Shardhanjli Hai”, he added.Thakur further stated: “BJP is seeing bypoll results as an alert (for the coming Assembly polls). (Bypoll) defeat will become a reason for our victory (in Assembly polls)”. The trend of electing BJP and Congress alternately in HP will end and the BJP will repeat its government in the state in the next Assembly elections in December 2022, he claimed.The chief minister evaded direct reply regarding possible reshuffle in his cabinet after the defeat in the recent bypoll.Thakur said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend a state level public meeting in Mandi to mark the fourth anniversary of BJP government in Himachal Pradesh on December 27.Modi will also visit different parts of the state including AIIMS in Bilaspur for its inauguration in the next year before the Assembly elections scheduled to be held in December, he added.Thakur said that PM would inaugurate and lay stones of various works worth Rs 11,279 crores during his two-hour stay on Monday.The CM accompanied by Industries Minister Bikram Singh said that the second groundbreaking event of projects worth about Rs 20,000 crore of the Rising Himachal Global Investors’ Meet would also be done in PM’s presence on that day. A Global Investors Meet was held in Dharamsala on November 7-8, three years ago. The first groundbreaking ceremony of projects worth over Rs 13,656 crores to turn these proposals into real projects was held in Shimla on December 27, 2019 in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sympathy-for-late-chief-minister-virbhadra-singh-wont-work-for-congress-in-hp-assembly-polls-bjp-352941
21-12-2021||Haphazard wires hanging around in the vicinity of Mandi's Indira Market not only look ugly||Loose wires in Mandi market||— Suresh Kumar, MandiIncrease parking capacityWith tourists flocking to the town for Christmas and New Year, finding a parking slot in the city has become an acute problem. Even locals don’t find a place to park their vehicles in the town these days. The government should increase the parking capacity in the city. — Surinder Kanwar, DhalliWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something that you feel needs to be highlighted?The Tribune Invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/loose-wires-in-mandi-market-352797
21-12-2021||The SFI activists held a silent protest at the law department of Himachal Pradesh University||SFI holds silent protest||Book ‘Pakhi’ for children releasedA book titled 'Pakhi', authored by Somu Shankar Ray, was released on Monday. A collection of short stories, the book is meant for girl child and is dedicated to the youth. It exhorts children to enjoy their childhood to the hilt, along with their education.Education Trust collects clothesThe Sunil Upadhyay Educational Trust collected old clothes from Shimla residents to provide these to the needy. Trust secretary Surinder Sharma said the organisation collected clothes and blankets every year. Sharma said they would continue to hold such events in different parts of the town and provide relief to the poor in the biting cold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sfi-holds-silent-protest-352796
21-12-2021||Chamba||Kangra MP Kishan Kapoor for tribal research institute||Kangra MP Kishan Kapoor today called on Union Tribal Affairs Minister Arjun Munda and requested him to set up a tribal research and training institute (TRTI) for tribal areas of the aspirational Chamba district.Kapoor said the institute would prove helpful in the overall development of the tribal community.Kapoor informed the Union Minister that in most of the tribal areas in states, such institutes had been set up under the centrally-sponsored schemes but Himachal Pradesh had been deprived of the institute. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mp-for-tribal-research-institute-352795
21-12-2021||---||Mandi win overall kho-kho championship||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 20In the inter-college women’s category, the players of Vallabh Government College, Mandi, won the overall championship in the state level kho-kho competition held at Government Sanskrit College, Nahan, on December 17, 18. A programme was organised to felicitate the women players today. YP Sharma, college principal, presided over the award ceremony.The principal said sports play an important role in inculcating discipline and developing personality. There are a number of employment opportunities in sports, he said. He said the women players had brought laurels to the college.Media coordinator of the college Assistant Professor Dr Chaman said the women’s kho-kho team was led by Prof Punam Chaudhary. “Team captain Sapna Devi and other players like Shalini Thakur, Geetanjali, Hitesh Kumari, Aishwarya Sharma, Dolma Kumari, Anita, Nisha Devi, Devina Kumari, Shakuntla Devi and Krishna Devi performed excellently and earned the first position across the state,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-win-overall-kho-kho-championship-352794
21-12-2021||Shimla||School to be health promoting institution||Government Senior Secondary School, Mahunag, Mandi, has been certified as the first health promoting educational institution in the state. “The strategy is a joint venture of the Health and Education Departments. A spokesperson said, “The grading of health promoting educational institutions is done by the institute itself, based on the scores decided by the Health and the Education Departments. The final certification is done by a committee formed by the Block Medical Officer of the districts.”He said health promotion at the school-level was important for the well-being of students.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/school-to-be-health-promoting-institution-352793
21-12-2021||---||Kullu: 6-kg charas seized||Our CorrespondentKullu, December 20A team of the Kullu police’s special investigation unit has arrested two persons for allegedly smuggling 6.048-kg charas. Identified as Kumar Chand of Bhulang village and Suraj Mani of Gramang village in Padhar tehsil of Mandi district, both have been slapped with an FIR under the NDPS Act.Modus operandiKullu SP Gurdev Sharma said the police team left for Banjar for patrolling yesterday when they got information about the accused who had reached Gushaini from Mandi to purchase charas.At Fagu bridge, the team established a checkpoint to nab them. The SP said the accused took up a novel way as they got their vehicle towed using a recovery van to make it look as if it had met with some mishap. Both were travelling in another vehicle. Sharma said the drug was put in the recovery van to evade detection.The police searched both vehicles in front of independent witnesses and seized charas which was kept in a bag. Kumar Chand and Suraj Mani were arrested and a case was registered under the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/6-kg-charas-seized-352792
21-12-2021||Shimla||Action against workers in Dharamsala politically motivated: AAP||Calling the police action against its workers in Dharamsala on December 13 politically motivated, the AAP today blamed the BJP for trying to suppress its voice. The AAP also alleged that the ‘violent’ protests by the supporters of the Swarn Ayog, drew mild response from the police. “The Swarn Ayog supporters indulged in violence, but the government decided what needed to be done on the issue on the same day. In the case, the government viewed things through a political prism,” said AAP leader ID Bhandari, former DGP, Himachal Pradesh.AAP state president Anoop Kesari said the AAP workers were trying to meet the political representatives to apprise them of issues of unemployment, inflation, OPS, etc. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/action-against-workers-politically-motivated-aap-352791
21-12-2021||Shimla||IGMC-Shimla resident docs withdraw strike call||The Resident Doctors Association (RDA) of Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) has withdrawn its strike call from today following the initiation of the PG-NEET counselling. “We received a copy of the SC order yesterday. On the basis of that order, we have released the schedule for the counselling,” said IGMC principal Surinder Singh. The resident doctors were all set to initiate the second round of strike from today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/igmc-resident-docs-withdraw-strike-call-352790
21-12-2021||UNA||Police recruitment tests in Una from January 5||Ground tests for recruitment of constables to the Himachal Pradesh Police will be held at Una from January 5 to 15. In a communiqué issued by Superintendent of Police (SP) Arijit Sen Thakur, it was stated that the applicants would be called in batches and the date of test for each candidate had been communicated to them by SMS on their registered mobile number.The ground tests will be done at the Una Police Lines in Jhalera. Candidates should download their admit card from recruitment.hppolice.gov.in by entering their registered mobile number and password. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-recruitment-tests-in-una-from-january-5-352789
21-12-2021||---||HRTC buses to be restored  on 35 routes||Our CorrespondentHamirpur, December 20The local bus depot of Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) will restore bus service on as many as 35 suspended routes in the district.Services on some routes were suspended following low turnout of passengers while buses on other routes did not ply due to technical snags in eight buses which could not be repaired following protest by the technical staff.It was learnt that the scarcity of new tyres was also one reasons for suspension of bus services. It was surprising that yesterday, buses only on 48 routes were operational. Sources revealed that the buses plied only on major routes.Vivek Lakhanpal, Regional Manager of the HRTC, here said workers had returned from the strike and the service on the remaining routes would be restored in three days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-buses-to-be-restored-on-35-routes-352788
21-12-2021||Solan||Work on for Nalagarh blood bank||Sadhana Thakur, chairperson of the State Red Cross Society, today inspected the work on setting up of the first blood bank in Nalagarh.Expected to open soon, the facility will cater to the needs of patients from Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial belt, who have to rush to Chandigarh and other cities for blood requirement. Nalagarh Sub-divisional Magistare Mahendra Pal said since the rate of accidents on the Baddi-Nalagarh highway was high, so emergency blood requirement was also high.A delay can result in a casualty. Equipment worth over Rs 1 crore will be provided soon by the Union Government. Sadhana Thakur appreciated the local administration’s efforts towards this noble cause— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-on-for-nalagarh-blood-bank-352787
21-12-2021||---||Rain, snow in Himachal from Dec 22: MeT office||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 20The local MeT office has predicted rain and snow from December 22. A western disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan region. Another western disturbance is also likely to hit the Northwestern part from December 24.The tourist rush to the hill stations has increased and the tourism industry is pinning hope on white Christmas and New Year for prolonged good season. Online bookings are pouring in for Christmas and New Year.Keylong was the coldest at night, recording a low of minus 10.2°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-snow-from-dec-22-met-office-352786
21-12-2021||---||BRO: Palchan to Atal Tunnel road safe for traffic||Our CorrespondentKullu, December 20Border Roads Organisation (BRO) Chief Engineer VK Singh today said the road from Palchan to Atal Tunnel was completely safe, especially during the winter season. He said the BRO had made elaborate arrangements to check the problem of glaciers at various places. He was speaking during a meeting held with Lahaul and Spiti Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar to review safety issues of Atal Tunnel, besides the existing road conditions.The Chief Engineer said 11 of the 12 snow protection structures and galleries had been completed between Palchan and north portal of the Atal Tunnel and over 50 per cent of the construction work of the 12th structure had already been accomplished and the remaining work would be done soon after the winter season. He said modern technology and engineering had been incorporated in their construction and these structures were fully capable of protecting people against danger by reducing the intensity of the glacier.He said in view of the increasing number of tourists, an action plan had also been prepared by the BRO for the construction of two parking lots with a parking capacity of 3,000 vehicles. He said, “To deal with the problem of traffic jams during the peak tourist season, an alternate bypass would also be constructed which would be completed within the next two years.” He added that the BRO was also working on a plan to set up three cafeterias equipped with all facilities in view of the winter season from Palchan to Sissu.Lahaul-Spiti DC Neeraj Kumar said the Kullu Superintendent of Police had been asked to devise a separate mechanism for Lahaul-bound local vehicles so that they do not face problems due to unnecessary traffic jams. He added that emergency services might also get affected due to the long traffic jams in the Solang area and in view of both these aspects, the Kullu police had been asked to develop a system and make appropriate arrangements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bro-palchan-to-atal-tunnel-road-safe-for-traffic-352785
21-12-2021||---||Transformer snag hits power supply in Palampur||Ravinder SoodPalampur, December 20Most parts of Palampur and its satellite areas have been facing power cuts for the past two days after a snag developed in one of the transformers of the Maranda power substation. Only one transformer is functional, so the HPSEB has resorted to power cuts during peak hours in the morning and evening to maintain the supply to the town.No land for substationThe HPSEBL had made several plans for setting up a separate power substation for Palampur, but they could not materialise. The HPSEBL has also failed to get land for the substation. HPSEBL officialThe 50-year-old Maranda power substation feeds 80 per cent of the areas and is unable to bear the load, which has multiplied several times in the past 10 years. This substation was set up in 1970 to feed the population of 5,000, which has already crossed over 75,000.Urbanisation has taken place in Palampur. Over 10,000 houses with new colonies have come up, but the power infrastructure is the same. At present, the satellite areas of Palampur have no power substation and its satellite areas also rely on the Maranda feeder.The HPSEBL had made several plans for setting up a separate power substation for Palampur, but these could not materialise. The HPSEBL has also failed to get land for the substation.An HPSEBL official said a piece of land had been earmarked for the substation near the local ITI. However, the state and the Palampur MC had not given no-objection certificate, he said. He said there was no shortage of funds with the HPSEBL. If the land was available, the project could be taken up within two months, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/transformer-snag-hits-power-supply-in-palampur-352784
21-12-2021||---||Dry spell delays crop sowing in lower Kangra||Rajiv MahajanNURPUR DECEMBER 20Farmers and fruit growers in lower Kangra district are a worried lot as the ongoing prolonged dry spell has not only hampered the sowing of rabi crops, but also hit citrus fruit cash crops.Farmers have ploughed and prepared their fields for rabi crops but in the absence of rain and soil moisture, they are unable to sow their crops.Some farmers, who sowed wheat crops in the end of November expecting rainfall during the first fortnight of December, are likely to incur losses. The maximum agrarian land in the area is rainfed and farmers are dependent on rainwater as they have no irrigation facilities.According to official information, farmers cultivate wheat crops in around 9,850 hectares and maize and paddy in 4,670 and 5,892 hectares.Diwan Singh and Subhash Singh of Kopra, Ranjit of Kherian and Kamal Sharma of Sadwan said the farming was dependent on rain and if the existing dry spell conditions persisted, their hopes of cultivating their fields would be dashed to the ground.Usually, farmers start sowing the crop in the first week of November but they have not been able to do the same for want of timely showers. Experts say that if rain delays, it will hit farm produce.The dry spell has also adversely hit citrus fruit crops like orange, kinnow and galgal. In the absence of rain and continuing drought-like condition, neither the fruit has developed in size, nor has it acquired proper shape so far.However, orange and kinnow fruits are entering the markets but these are not sweet, failing to attract consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dry-spell-delays-crop-sowing-in-lower-kangra-352783
21-12-2021||Dipender Manta||150 cops to manage tourist rush in Kullu-Manali||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 20The police have geared up to maintain law and order during the Christmas and New Year celebrations in Kullu-Manali. Every year, a large number of tourists, including foreigners, throng to Kullu-Manali to celebrate Christmas and New Year.Hospitality sector expects more influxKullu Superintendent of Police Gurdev Chand Sharma has requested the higher authorities to provide additional police force to maintain law and order in the district. The SP said over 150 police personnel and Home Guard jawans would be deployed in Kullu-Manali.After fresh snow in Manali and its nearby places, the tourist footfall has increased considerably these days. A long traffic jam was seen between Manali and Solang valley for hours due to heavy rush of tourist vehicles on Monday.Hoteliers are expecting more influx of tourists in the coming days. They are worried about better management of traffic in the district because long traffic jams irk tourists, which may impact the tourism industry.Anup Thakur, president of the Paryatan Vikas Mandal, Kullu-Manali, said, “We are expecting 100 per cent room occupancy during Christmas and New Year eve. Since the fresh snowfall, the room occupancy in hotels of Manali has recorded an 80 per cent increase.”“The meteorological department has predicted inclement weather from December 23 onwards and we are hopeful that it will be a white Christmas this year. We urge the tourists to visit Kullu-Manali these days because there is sufficient snow available on the ground for their recreation,” he remarked.Since Covid-19 outbreak in the state, the tourism industry of Kullu-Manali has suffered a lot. Now, it is coming back on the track slowly after the state has witnessed a considerable decline in Covid cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/150-cops-to-manage-tourist-rush-in-kullu-manali-352782
21-12-2021||Lalit Mohan||Limited jobs, MBBS passouts face uncertain future in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 20With the increased number of seats in the MBBS course in medical colleges of the state and the limited intake by the Health Department, the passouts are facing an uncertain future.Their concerns and demandsThe students, talking to The Tribune, said the number of seats had more than doubled in the last few years but the employment opportunities for doctors have not increased proportionately. Most jobs for MBBS passouts are in the government sector as there are a few private hospitals in the state.Earlier, there used to be just two medical colleges, the IGMC-Shimla and Tanda medical college in Kangra district. Only 200 MBBS students used to pass out each year and most of them got absorbed in government hospitals or used to join PG courses. Now, Himachal has seven medical colleges and the number of MBBS seats is about 950.The students have written to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur that there are 2,400 cadre posts of medical officer. In 2021-22, 450 MBBS students will pass out from various medical colleges in the state. The number of MBBS passouts from the medical colleges is likely to increase to 950 per annum from next academic year.They have further urged the CM that as per the WHO guidelines, there should be at least one doctor for a population of 1,000. The number of posts of medical officer should be increased to 7,400.They have also suggested him the retirement age of doctors, which is between 62 and 65 years, should be reduced to 58 years.The student’s central association of Tanda medical college has also written to the government regarding their concerns over interviews for the posts of medical officer. In a letter to the CM, they have stated that the interviews took place when the passouts complete the internship. However, this year due to the pandemic, the internships are finishing at different time.The students have urged the government that interviews for recruitment of medical officers should be held the same time when internships of all MBBS passouts are complete.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/limited-jobs-mbbs-passouts-face-uncertain-future-352781
21-12-2021||---||Four Nadaun schoolgirls to compete in state-level fest in Mandi||Our correspondentHamirpur, December 20As many as four girls of Government Girls Senior School, Naduan, will represent the district in the state-level art and culture festival to be held in Mandi. The winners areNikita Raj Kaundal, Rimjhim, Muskan Chaudhary and Akanksha won the first position in folk song, classical song, folk dance, folk instrument playing and 3D artwork events.The schoolgirls won the first position in five out of total eight disciplines in the district-level competition. The team comprising Nikita Raj Kaundal, Rimjhim, Muskan Chaudhary and Akanksha won the first position in folk song, classical song, folk dance, folk instrument playing and 3D artwork events.The team was trained by art teacher Banita kumara and music teacher Narender Thakur. Meena Kumari, principal, said the girls had brought laurels to the school and hoped they would win the state championship too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/four-nadaun-schoolgirls-to-compete-in-state-level-fest-352780
21-12-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||20% elderly face abuse at home, claims study||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 20About 20 per cent of the elderly persons face abuse from their children in Himachal. Sons account for 54 per cent of such cases as compared to daughters-in-law who account for 46 per cent of these cases.Only 3 pc women report casesNo aged male has reported abuse and only 3 per cent aged women have reported it due to the fear of retaliation and ineffective channels of redressal. Dr Rajesh KumarAs per a study by Help Age India in the state, based on 1,000 families, disrespect, neglect and verbal abuse were leading forms of abuse while the lack of adjustment and caregiver stress were leading reasons for abuse. About 42 per cent of respondents experienced neglect, 34 per cent disrespect and 24 per cent faced verbal abuse.As per the study, 97 per cent respondents agreed with the prevalence of abuse against aged in society. However, only 17 per cent had personally experienced abuse, said the state head of Help Age India for Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh Dr Rajesh Kumar.“No aged male has reported abuse due to the fear of retaliation and ineffective channels of redressal and only 3 per cent aged women have reported it ,” he said.He said in India, this kind of abuse is about 25 per cent. There are more than 10 crore elderly persons in the country and 5.50 crore of them are below the poverty line. About 10 to 15 per cent of elderly persons are widows or single women, that too destitute, and 25 per cent of the elderly population have no access to the health care system while 52 per cent have no family support.He said, in 2018, a study of the United Nations categorically reported that “India is no country for elderly persons” as the right to live with dignity has no meaning for them. Dr Rajesh Kumar said in 2018-19, the Supreme Court had asked to start an old age home in each district in the country as the situation was getting worse day by day. However, very little has been done in this regard, he said.“Even after being left out and sent to old age homes, not even one per cent of elderly parents are willing to go against their children. There is a dire need to strengthen generational bonds and sensitise the youth, making them understand that what goes around, comes around and one day they would also grow old,” said chairman of Umang Foundation Prof Ajai Srivastava, adding that social security pension should be increased to at least Rs 2,000 per month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/20-elderly-face-abuse-at-home-claims-study-352779
21-12-2021||---||Solan: No pollution nod from SPCB, unit faces action||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 20GVM Engineers, an industrial unit operating at Oachaghat near here, has been operating without the mandatory consent to operate from the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) since March 2016.Consent expired on March 2016No unit can function without this consent as per the Hazardous Waste Management Rules, 2016, as the unit discharges hazardous waste which requires authorisation from the board.Its consent had expired on March 31, 2016.It was directed to apply for renewal of consent online on the board’s portal in July 2016 and again in March 2020 but they failed to do so in violation of the norms.Notably, officials have failed to initiate any action despite the non-compliance of norms coming to fore in 2016.Despite the fact that the two notices issued by the board failed to fetch any result, officials allowed the unit management to function for more than five and a half years.Waking up from slumber, officials have issued a third notice to the uniton December 16 underthe Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, and the Environment Protection Act, 1986, while granting him a 15-day period to apply for the consent.Regional Officer of the State Pollution Control Board at Parwanoo Pradeep Moudgil, while confirming the news, said a final opportunity had been granted to the management of GVM Engineer, Oachghat, to apply for consent within 15 days or face power disconnection as per the laid provisions.He confirmed that the unit management had failed to respond to their letters for applying for consent in July 2016 and March 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-spcb-nod-unit-faces-action-352778
21-12-2021||---||33 new cases, no death in Himachal||Shimla, December 20A total of 33 new Covid cases were reported today, though no death took place in the past 24 hours.The number of active cases was 454 with the total positive cases till now being 2,28,328. The fatality figure remained at 3,851 with no Covid-related death.The highest number of nine cases was recorded in Kangra and Hamirpur, followed by five in Mandi, four in Shimla, three in Una, two in Kinnaur and one in Bilaspur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/33-new-cases-no-death-352777
21-12-2021||---||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat meets Dalai Lama in McLeodganj||Dharamsala, December 20RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat today met the Dalai Lama at Gaden Phodrang, his residence at McLeodganj.The RSS chief yesterday attended a seminar at Kangra with 60 intellectuals, including Sikyong Penpa Tsering and speaker Khenpo Sonam Tenphel.The RSS chief, who is on a five-day tour to Kangra, was accompanied by Indresh Kumar, senior leader of the RSS. After meeting the Dalai Lama, the RSS leaders also met by the Sikyong, Kalons of the 16th Kashag (cabinet of the Tibetan government-in-exile) and the speaker. The Tibetan leaders expressed their gratitude to the government and people of India for their hospitality and support to the Dalai Lama and the Tibetans.Speaking to reporters following the meeting, Sikyong said: “it’s natural that when Bhagwat is in Dharamsala, he should meet the Dalai Lama. It’s also natural that the Dalai Lama meets a prominent leader representing a large number of Indians,” said the Sikyong.“Mohan Bhagwat’s visit came after the Dalai Lama has started granting in-person meetings since December 15, the first of which was offered to the Sikyong, making the Dalai Lama’s second in-person meeting after the emergence of the ongoing pandemic,” he added.Although the conversation between the Dalai Lama and the RSS leaders are not disclosed, the Sikyong said, “They must have talked about the larger interest of humanity on major issues.”Indresh Kumar, talking to mediapersons, said the Dalai Lama told them that India is the model of religious harmony and India should make it known to the world. He added that RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat also expressed India’s solemn support to Tibetans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bhagwat-meets-dalai-lama-352776
21-12-2021||Ambika Sharma||129 posts vacant at Nahan hospital||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 20As many as 129 posts under different categories, including 10 medical officer (MO), are lying vacant in the Nahan-based Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College.Key officials not appointedDr YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan, has only 11 medical officers against 21 sanctioned posts. It awaits recruitment of 42 senior lab technicians, six blood bank technicians, 19 lab assistants, three ophthalmic officers, 12 operation theatre assistants and six radiographers.Out of the 21 sanctioned posts, only 11 MOs are there in the college. Several other key positions, like 42 senior lab technician, six blood bank technician, 19 lab assistant and as many pharmacist, three ophthalmic officer, 12 operation theatre assistant and 4 radiographer, are lying vacant for months.Employees have been hired on outsource and contractual basis as well as through the Rogi Kalyan Samiti funds. A few staffers are regular appointees. “The absence of regular staff is a hindrance in delivering quality medical services as those deputed on outsource and contractual basis face job uncertainty,” said a section of outsourced employees.The absence of adequate staff, especially lab technician, hinder the process of diagnosis and further treatment of patients. Critical patients continue to be referred to the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) in Shimla or the PGI in Chandigarh, rued Rakesh, a local resident.Shillai MLA Harshwardhan Chauhan, who had raised the issue in the recent Vidhan Sabha session, said, “The purpose of providing specialty health services to the residents has been defeated as 129 posts are lying vacant.”He said patients were being asked to wait for months for major surgeries with key machines awaiting repair for months. Residents also rue that despite spending crores of rupees on providing residence to doctors, several of them commuted from Chandigarh and its nearby areas.The All India Janwadi Mahila Samiti, too, has written to the Chief Minister, requesting him to address various issues, including filling the vacant posts. Samiti members also say that the wages of the outsourced employees and cleanliness staff be enhanced.They have made a representation to the college principal, listing various issues which have been causing hardship to patients.The college was established in 2016 after upgrading the regional hospital. In July this year, it was granted recognition by the National Medical Council for the MBBS degree awarded by Himachal Pradesh University to its 100 students admitted during 2016-17. This was the first batch that had passed out.The college was in the news when the patients had protested against mismanagement during the CM’s visit here amid the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/129-posts-vacant-at-nahan-hospital-352775
21-12-2021||---||PM Modi to lay Renuka project stone on Dec 27||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 20Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate and lay foundation stone of four hydropower projects, including the Renuka Dam, during his visit to Himachal on December 27, the fourth anniversary of the BJP regime.Morale-boosterDiscussions heldI extended him an invitation for the Mandi rally. I held discussion on several issues which are crucial for the development of the state. — Jai Ram Thakur, CMChief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today met the PM in Delhi to extend a formal invitation to him for the December 27 rally at Mandi, which will mark the completion of four years of the BJP rule.“I had a detailed discussion with the PM and extended him an invitation for the Mandi rally. I also had discussion on several issues and projects which are crucial for the development of the state,” said Thakur on his return from Delhi.The PM’s visit is being considered politically significant as the BJP has suffered defeat in all four bypolls last month. The PM’s visit could help infuse new energy in the faction-ridden party. With infighting and sabotage being attributed one of the major factors for the BJP’s bypoll debacle, the PM’s visit could get senior leaders sink their differences ahead of the Assembly polls due next year.Thakur said it was on his special request that the PM ensured that the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) at its last meeting gave nod to the much-delayed Renuka project.“The PM will lay foundation stone of the Renuka project, estimated to cost about Rs 6,700 crore,” he said. The PM would also lay stone of Luhri-I and Dhaula Sidh projects and inaugurate the Sawra Kuddu hydro project.He said the ground-breaking ceremony, the second after the Rising Himachal Global Investors Meet held at Dharamsala in November 2019, would be held on December 27. “We are hoping to hold the ground-breaking ceremony for investment up to Rs 20,000 crore,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pm-modi-to-lay-renuka-project-stone-on-dec-27-352774
21-12-2021||---||Revised pay scales for Himachal government staff from Jan||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 20The Himachal Government today gave approval to the revised pay scales for about two lakh employees as per the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission, which will put an additional burden of Rs 4,000 crore on the exchequer.Other major decisions The decision was taken by the Cabinet at its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here. The employees will get salary of January payable in February 2022 as per the revised pay scale. The government has already provided interim relief of about Rs 5,000 crore to the employees as part of arrears.The government will have to spend Rs 260 crore as its contribution to the new pension scheme. A decision was also taken to enhance the salary of contract employees.The Cabinet also approved the promulgation of the Himachal Pradesh Swarn Jayanti (Legacy Cases Resolution) Scheme, 2021 for settlement of arrears of tax, fee, interest, penalty, etc, which are pending for recovery. This will help in redressal of over 1.68 lakh cases and release the pending taxes under the Himachal Pradesh Land Revenue Act, 1954.The Cabinet also accorded approval to the creation of new subdivision (Civil) at Kupvi in Chopal of Shimla district. It was also decided to upgrade the Ayurvedic Health Centre at Bassi in Shri Naina Devi in Bilaspur to 15-bedded Ayurvedic Hospital.It will also issue a Letter of Intent to Mayur Industries for setting up a fruit-based wine and cider factory at Neri village in Sundernagar tehsil of Mandi district .The Cabinet gave its consent to the draft of ‘Swarn Jayanti Gram Swarojgar (Parivahan) Yojana to allow the unemployed youth to ply 18-seater vehicles on the routes at concessional tax rates. The scheme will provide mobility to rural areas and also provide employment to them.Government Senior Secondary School, Halahn in Shillai of Sirmaur district will be renamed as Shaheed Kalyan Singh Government Senior Secondary School.It also provided in-principle approval to establish a Drone Flying Training School at Government ITI Shahpur in Kangra district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/revised-pay-scales-for-staff-from-jan-352773
21-12-2021||New Delhi||IMD: Cold wave expected to continue for next two days in northwest India||Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in northwest India over the next two days and abate thereafter, the IMD said today. Cold wave conditions will continue over central and east India for the next three days and relief is likely thereafter, it said.“Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours and cold wave conditions are very likely at isolated pockets for the subsequent 24 hours,” the weather office said.Cold wave conditions are likely over parts of Uttarakhand, UP, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkhand till Wednesday and over Jammu, Kashmir-Ladakh-Gilgit-Baltistan-Muzaffarabad, HP and Gangetic West Bengal till Tuesday afternoon.Meanwhile under the influence of two western disturbances in quick succession, light to moderate rainfall and snowfall is likely over western Himalayan region from December 22 to 25. Light isolated rainfall is also likely over Punjab on December 24. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/imd-cold-wave-expected-to-continue-for-next-two-days-352668
