23-12-2021||Hamirpur||Nadaun SHO suspended||The Nadaun SHO, who gave vigilance officials the slip and allegedly fled away with bribe money yesterday, was suspended today.In a complaint, the vigilance department stated that Neeraj Rana, SHO, tried to run over his car on the officials when they tried to apprehend him.The department had received a complaint from Shiv Singh from Mandi that the officer had been demanding Rs 25,000 bribe to get some work done.Based on this complaint, the department laid a trap and asked the complainant to hand Rana the money so they could catch him red-handed.Lal Man Sharma, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Vigilance, alleged that Rana collected the money but managed to flee in his car. Sharma said the SHO even tried to ram his car into the vigilance officials when they tried to stop him.The car has been recovered from a cricket stadium nearby, the DSP said. The police are yet to trace him. An inquiry has also been ordered against Rana, he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nadaun-sho-suspended-353567
23-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Chess Championship||Kullu, December 22HPSCA president Arun Kamboj said the state-level chess championship for boys and girls of Under-16 and Under-20 categories would be organised in Jwalamukhi on December 29 and 30. Two boys and two girls each would be selected from Under-16 and Under-20 categories for the national championship. The players who wanted to participate in the championship could register before December 25 by depositing the entry fee in the bank account of the association. He said that interested players could contact on 8219216928 for further information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chess-championship-353566
23-12-2021||Shimla||Mathematician Ramanujan remembered||A mural of Srinivasa Ramanujan was unveiled to mark National Mathematics Day at Himachal Pradesh University on Wednesday. A mural gallery was also inaugurated on the occasion.The Vice-Chancellor, Prof Sikander Kumar, released the first newsletter and the first magazine of the departments of mathematics and statistics on the occasion of the 134th birth anniversary of Srinivasa Ramanujan, the great mathematician.He said the announcement of starting the Centre for Vedic Mathematics on National Mathematics Day last year had become a reality and the department had started two courses — PG Diploma in Ancient Indian Mathematics and Certificate Course in Vedic Mathematics.Chairman, Department of Mathematics, Prof PL Sharma said Ramanujan was not only a genius but also a tremendous hardworker. Ramanujan had no formal degree of graduation but the conjectures he gave were the topics for many PhD thesis.He informed Rs 15 lakh grant given by the VC was spent on engraving 12 murals of eminent mathematicians and infrastructural development of the department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mathematician-ramanujan-remembered-353565
23-12-2021||There's a heap of garbage right outside a locality in the New Shimla area of the city. Garbage bags have been thrown on the roadside||Garbage disposed of along road||Haphazard parkingThe approach road to Jhanjheri village in lower Khalini gets clogged with vehicles in the evening. People start parking their vehicles along the road after sunset, leaving very little space for other vehicles coming into the village late in the evening. The police should ensure that there is enough space left for vehicles to pass by. — Rahul, KhaliniWhat Our Readers SayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something that you feel needs to be highlighted?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/garbage-disposed-of-along-road-353564
23-12-2021||Shimla||7-day food fest from tomorrow||Hotel Holiday Home, Shimla, will organise a week-long Kashmiri and Himachali food festival from December 24 to 31.Eight to 10 dishes, including rogan josh, goshtaba, paneer chaman, haak nadru kofta, dum olav, yakahni, kabharga and kahva will be served along with a variety of Himachali dishes, said deputy general manager Nand Lal Sharma, adding that a gala night would also be organised on December 31.The HPTDC has released videos giving a glimpse of natural beauty, unexplored destinations and rich culture of the state. The idea is to create awareness about the scenic virgin areas in the state, eco tourism, national parks, flora and fauna, besides promoting outdoor adventure activities and crafts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/7-day-food-fest-from-tomorrow-353563
23-12-2021||Ravinder Sood||Gadar 2 crew 'damage' property, Kangra man files complaint||Palampur, December 22The sequel to the super-hit movie Gadar, the shooting for which is currently underway, has raked up a controversy.The owner of a property at Bhalehar village, 10 km from Palampur, where some of its scenes were filmed alleged that his dues were not cleared by the producer. He has appealed to Prasoon Joshi, Chairman, Central Board of Film Certification, to cut the part of the movie, Gadar 2, filmed at his property.The shooting was conducted earlier this month. The film unit had hired the property where a huge set was erected. Its owner Yadunandan Sharma alleged large-scale damage was caused to his property, which comprised residential houses and land.“The shape of many rooms was totally changed and the walls were damaged. I was not compensated by the film unit,” he claimed.He said it was agreed that Rs 11,000 would be paid as rent of the building plus the cost of the damages caused to the property. “I had given the producers a detailed bill of Rs 56 lakh. But I only got Rs 11,000 as advance,” he alleged.Sharma said executive producer and director of the film Anil Sharma had promised to clear the dues before closing the shooting. He had filed a complaint with the Kangra DC and SP for action against the producer.He said he had also decided to return Rs 11,000 given to him in advance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gadar-2-crew-damage-property-kangra-man-files-complaint-353562
23-12-2021||Solan||Janani Express serves 3 lakh beneficiaries||The 102 Janani Express Service, which transports women after delivery from hospital to home, achieved a milestone by handling 3,00,028 such cases in the state.This comprises 2,49,013 drop offs of pregnant women, 8,225 of infants, 13,799 related to neonates and 14,911 sterilisation patients to their homes from hospitals.Run under the public-private partnership mode by the state government and GVK EMRI , the service has proved beneficial to women after delivery, sick neonates and infants for quick transportation from home to hospital and back.The 124 ambulances under this service are available across the state, including the remote areas through the toll-free number 102.Its response centre at Dharampur receives 1,275 calls per day on an average and they are responded back within four seconds. The Response Officer collects the information and arranges a 102 Janani Express ambulance at the earliest to complete the process within 91 seconds.The Janani Express was also engaged in collecting Covid samples and dropping recovered patients. As many as 2,89,303 samples were collected while 5,891 beneficiaries were provided drop offs after recovery from Covid-19.State Head, GVK EMRI 108 and 102 ambulance services, Mehul Sukumaran, said “The entire team of GVK EMRI Himachal Pradesh has worked tirelessly to achieve this milestone.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/janani-express-serves-3-lakh-beneficiaries-353561
23-12-2021||---||Himachal to send 5 lakh trout eggs to Sikkim for rearing||Shimla, December 22The state is all set to send the first consignment of 5-lakh trout eggs to Sikkim. The eggs would be collected from Barahat and Hamni hatcheries in Kullu district, Agriculture and Rural Development Minister Varinder Kanwar today said. The farming of trout, the high-altitude cold water fish, has been gradually picking up pace in the state.The Animal Husbandry Department is producing 17-lakh eggs of trout fish at Patlikul, Barahat, Masndal, Holi, Barot, Sangla and Dhammari hatcheries, he said. The department stocks 80,000 to 1-lakh eggs of brown trout seed at cold water reservoirs and efforts are on to encourage farmers to adopt trout farming in a big way, he said.32 hatcheries in totalThe history of trout farming in Himachal dates back to 1909 when a decision was taken to give preference of trout fish as it is considered healthy and delicious.The Indo-Norwegian trout farming project was started in the state for commercial production of trout and pilot projects were launched in high altitude areas. To encourage the private sector, incentives are being given due to which 15 trout hatcheries were set up by private players in 2017-18 and 12 in 2018-19. As many as 32 hatcheries have been established in the state. These include nine each in Mandi and Kullu districts, five in Chamba, three in Kinnaur and two each in Shimla, Kangra and Sirmaur.These hatcheries were set up at the cost of Rs 8.75 crore and a target has been set to establish five new hatcheries in Sirmaur, Chamba, Kinnaur and Mandi districts during the current financial year at the cost of Rs 2.50 crore and subsidy component of Rs 1.40 crore, the minister said. A target to produce 632 metric tonne of trout fish has been fixed for the current year.Trout fish farming is emerging as a lucrative business in high altitude areas. As many as 600 trout farmers have set up 1,200 units generating employment for around 1,000 persons. The total commercial business has been pegged at Rs 30-crore.Angling huts have been constructed to attract anglers from foreign countries. About 10,000 anglers have participated in the competitions organised by the government in the past three years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-to-send-5-lakh-trout-eggs-to-sikkim-for-rearing-353560
23-12-2021||---||PM to lay stone of Rs 11K cr projects in Mandi||Our CorrespondentKULLU, DECEMBER 22Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said that 11,000 BJP members from Kullu district will attend the function on the occasion of completion of four years of the state government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be the key attraction at the function at Paddal Maidan in Mandi on December 27.While addressing the meeting of the district BJP working committee at Dev Sadan here today, the Chief Minister urged the office bearers and members to make this function a success. The Chief Minister said that the PM will address the gathering and inaugurate and lay foundation stones for projects and schemes worth Rs 11,500 crores.Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur explained the preparations in detail about all the four divisions of the district. He said that more than targeted 11,000 members from Kullu district will participate in traditional dresses in the rally of Prime Minister.The presidents of all four divisions stated that the workers up to the booth level have been informed about this rally. The arrangements for transportation have been made.Earlier, the Chief Minister launched the ‘Eat Right’ fair organized under ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ at Dhalpur. He said that the motive of the fair was to spread a message amongst the masses to consume healthy food. There was a need to consume nutritious food to prevent diseases and lead a healthy life. He also inaugurated the exhibition and various food stalls during the festival. Cultural programmes were also presented on the occasion.Earlier, the Education Minister also flagged off a ‘walkathon’ in which around 250 persons participated in three different categories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pm-to-lay-stone-of-11k-cr-projects-in-mandi-353559
23-12-2021||The NSS unit of St Bede's College organised 'Sharing of Christmas' with Dhanaan village under Dhalli panchayat||St Bede's unit celebrates with village||Research on medicinal plantsThe Government Pharmacy College, Seraj, and Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, Solan, signed a memorandum of understanding today to take up research and development in cultivating medicinal plants and medicinally important herbal products. The Government Pharmacy College, Seraj, and Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, will work jointly in the product development of medicinal and aromatic plants in the Seraj valley. Staff members of Government Pharmacy College, Seraj, expressed gratitude to the Nauni university authorities.50 principals take part in conclavePrincipals from over 50 schools attended a conclave organised by the Shoolini University at Mandi to discuss various aspects of education. Among others, principals of Cambridge International School, DAV Centenary School, Mahavir Public School, St. Francis Convent, Sai Star Senior Secondary School participated in the conclave. Ashish Khosla, Founder of Shoolini University, and Dr Ashoo Khosla, Director of Learning at Shoolini University, were present at the event to discuss the new-age careers and the New Education Policy with school leaders.SFI holds protest at hpuThe SFI held a protest in the Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, on Tuesday to highlight the issues they have been raising over the last several months. Claiming that the saffronisation of the university and commercialisation of education was going on unchecked, the SFI alleged that ABVP activists attacked the SFI members as when they raised matters related to students' welfare on the campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/st-bedes-unit-celebrates-with-village-353558
23-12-2021||Shimla||Floor for elderly in library opposed||The Democratic Youth Federation of India have submitted a memorandum to the Municipal Commissioner demanding that the plan to reserve one floor of the state library building for elderly people be shelved. “We want that the library should stay as it is. Anyone can come and read in the library, including the senior citizens. So, where’s the need to reserve a complete floor for just one category?” asked Chanderkant Verma, state secretary of DYFI.He said the MC wanted to covert the library into a book café. “After opposition from the library members, they are trying to reserve a floor for the elderly people. Even this is not acceptable to us,” said Verma.He said the Commissioner had assured them to bring up the matter in the House. “We will meet all councillors and persuade them to keep the library as it is,” he said. “The MC can renovate it, but nothing else should be done,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/floor-for-elderly-in-library-opposed-353557
23-12-2021||---||Safety features of Atal Tunnel reviewed||Our CorrespondentKULLU, DECEMBER 22Deputy Commissioner Lahaul-Spiti Neeraj Kumar held a meeting with the officials of the BRO regarding the safety features inside the Atal Tunnel. The Deputy Commissioner stressed on the need that the tourists as well as local people should be aware of these features and arrangements so that they are able to defend themselves in the case of any exigency.The officials of the BRO gave information about various aspects of disaster and security in the strategically important double-lane 9.02-km-long Atal Tunnel completed at a cost of Rs 3,200 crore. BRO Chief Engineer VK Singh said that Atal Tunnel and the roads leading to its portals were completely safe. The tunnel was an unmatched example of engineering and it waswell equipped to deal with any disaster. He added that the BRO was also working on some other plans which will give new dimensions to this important tunnel inthe times to come.Lt Col Sunny said that the emergency egress doors that automatically open at every 150 meter distance had been installed inside the tunnel. Any person can open this door and quickly communicate with the control room with one touch button.With the help of the state-of-the-art cameras, the control room can see and hear the rescuers through both audio and video medium. On the basis of this the patrolling team will respond for help. This system which is based on radio communication and the network works round the clock. It will continue to work even in the event of a mobile network failure.The emergency egress door also opens the way for the escape tunnel, which is built just below the main tunnel, he said. In case of damage to the main tunnel, the escape tunnel has been made as an alternate means of evacuating the trapped people. One end of the tunnel opens in the north and the other at the south portal.Boards showing the distance of both ends have been installed in the escape tunnel under each emergency egress door. Automated equipment also maintains ventilation and air quality monitoring facilities are present after every one km.Sunny said that a state-of-art facility had also been added for firefighting at the time of disaster in the main tunnel. Due to automatic pressure in the firefighting system, a person can put out the fire himself in the event of fire in the vehicle. Surveillance is maintained by CCTV cameras. Apart from this, digital boards showing the speed limit at various places warn the drivers to keep the speed under control.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/safety-features-of-atal-tunnel-reviewed-353556
23-12-2021||Shimla||Work unitedly to ensure Cong win: Rathore to workers||The HPCC today urged partymen to work unitedly to take on the BJP in the Assembly elections next year.Addressing party office-bearers and workers at the four-day state-level training camp being held at Trilokpur in Sirmour district, Rathore said the people had already made up their mind to oust the BJP. “The results of the four bypoll clearly reflect that the people are fed up with BJP rule and as such Congress party workers must work kin close coordination to ensure victory,” he said.The Congress chief said ground level party workers were the backbone of any party and as such it was imperative to maintain close contact with them. “While the BJP is known to create communal divide in a bid to polarize votes, the Congress has always believed in secularism to ensure harmony and peace,” he remarked. He said the Congress has to fight against all anti-national forces whose policies are a threat to national integrity.Rathore lauded the role of each and every party worker in whichever capacity he\/she is working. “It is the hard work and close coordination with which the Congress workers will prepare for the Assembly polls that will give rich dividends,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-unitedly-to-ensure-cong-win-rathore-to-workers-353555
23-12-2021||---||Himachal minister Mahender Singh Thakur faints, referred to Mandi hospital||Mandi, December 22Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur was rushed to zonal hospital Mandi after he fainted at rest house, Bijani, today. After providing medical treatment at zonal hospital, now he has been referred to medical college at Nerchowk.He arrived here today at the rest house Bijani to hold a meeting with party office-bearers and the officials of Jal Shakti Department regarding the preparations for the proposed visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 27.According to Dr DS Verma, Medical Superintendent of zonal hospital, Mahender Singh was admitted in the hospital for treatment. His condition is stable and he is feeling better though the minister has been referred to medical college at Nerchowk for better medical care.Dr Verma said, “The Minister was feeling dizziness. There are no symptoms of cardiac arrest in preliminary medical examination. The reports of ECG and few other medical tests are normal.” He said overexertion might be the cause of dizziness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-faints-referred-to-mandi-hospital-353554
23-12-2021||Shimla||65 new cases in Shimla||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/65-new-cases-in-shimla-353553
23-12-2021||Una||271 foreign returnees in Una test negative||All 271 persons, who returned to Una from foreign countries between November 27 and December 21, have been found Covid negative, said DC Raghav Sharma here today.Addressing mediapersons after presiding over a Covid review meeting, the DC said 17 new samples had been sent to Tanda Medical College on December 21. All of those who returned from abroad were being quarantined for 15 days.Sharma said that as per the protocol, if an overseas traveller reports Covid positive, new sample would be taken to check whether or not the virus variant is Omicron.The DC called upon the foreign returnees to inform about their arrival in Una to the concerned panchayat pradhan or MC.An RTPCR Covid testing lab was being set up at the Covid care hospital in Palkwah village, which would be ready by January 5.— OC2 tests being conductedHealth officials are conducting two Covid tests on those returning from abroad. The first test is performed on arrival and the second one eight days later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/271-foreign-returnees-in-una-test-negative-353552
23-12-2021||---||Five Covid cases detected, Baddi dental college shut||Solan, December 22SDM, Nalagarh, today ordered the closure of Bhojia Dental College near Baddi for five days till December 26 after five Covid cases were reported in the college.The premises will be sanitised and contact tracing will be undertaken to prevent its further spread. Two teachers had tested positive at Mohali two days ago and they are under home quarantine. Three students tested positive today in the Rapid Antigen Tests conducted by the health staff here, informed health officials.Keeping in view the advisory of the Centre to monitor hotspots, the local administration has begun rigorous surveillance of international travellers in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh hub. With several multinational companies operating in this hub, international travellers often visit the place. This could pose a threat to the residents if not monitored.SDM Mahendra Pal directed the Deputy Director, Industries, to inform industrial establishments for mandatory surveillance of international passengers and their quarantine.Block Medical officer, Nalagarh, has been directed to coordinate with the panchayat pradhans, up pradhans, panchayat secretaries as well as the executive officers of civic bodies at Nalagarh and Baddi for their RT-PCR testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-covid-cases-detected-baddi-dental-college-shut-353551
23-12-2021||---||Can't enter temples, face exploitation: Dalit women||Shimla, December 22Debarred from entering temples, not allowed to sit with those from upper castes for a meal during weddings or any other functions, sexual advances from upper caste men… These issues, either one or all, found mention in the personal stories shared by Dalit women during the seminar of the All-India Democratic Women Association here last week.“Having listened to these women, one feels untouchability and harassment of Dalit women is quite common in Himachal, especially in the districts of Shimla, Sirmaur and even Kullu,” said association president Subhashini Ali.As one by one, women shared personal experiences about untouchability, it became clear that the social evil was well-entrenched even after 75 years of Independence. “There was a temple near our school. As Scheduled Caste children, we were constantly told by the upper caste people to not walk upright while crossing the temple so that our shadow did not fall on the temple,” said a woman from Sirmaur.“There have been many occasions when upper caste men have looked at me with wrong intentions. One of them even tried to rape me, but I managed to escape. Ironically, I was held responsible for it,” she claimed.A woman from Theog said they were not allowed to enter the village temples. “We can’t go inside the temples. We have to pay obeisance from the staircase leading to the temple,” she said.Another woman from Baldeyan near Shimla narrated an incident from her schooldays to highlight the evil of untouchability. “I had a friend who belonged to an upper caste. We would sit together in the school and even share our food. Once we happened to attend a wedding together. She sat down with me to have food, but her parents did not let her sit with me,” she recalled. Even today, Dalits are served food only after upper caste guests have finished eating during a wedding or any other function in many parts of Shimla district.“Women in general face exploitation. The Dalit women, however, are the worst-affected. The idea of the seminar was to get them to speak about the harassment they face. They will get the courage to fight against it only when they speak about it,” said Subhashini Ali.SHARE experience about untouchabilityAs one by one women shared personal experiences about untouchability, it became clear that the social evil was well-entrenched even after 75 years of Independence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cant-enter-temples-face-exploitation-dalit-women-353550
23-12-2021||Shimla||Notify transport tribunal within month: HC to govt||The High Court has directed the state government to notify the constitution of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal within one month.The court directed it to provide the paraphernalia, including building, necessary staff and other infrastructure, as per the workload available.Provide paraphernaliaPassing this order last week, the court observed, “It is surprising that the government, despite specific orders repeatedly passed by this court, has failed to send the proposal for setting up independent tribunal. In subsequent orders, this court has taken note of the fact that the government has not so far taken any decision to set up an independent State Transport Appellate Tribunal and has been dilly-dallying the matter for the past four years.”The court further said, “This court, in its earlier orders, observed that the Law Secretary cannot discharge the quasi judicial functions of the tribunal and rightly so because for him to preside over the tribunal while simultaneously working as Law Secretary of the state could give rise to a conflict of interest because he may have to in that capacity deal with matter involving the interest of the state.”The court passed the order on a petition highlighting the issue of non-constitution of the tribunal.The court also clarified in its order, “When the tribunal is constituted, it has to be given all paraphernalia, including building and necessary staff. As to who should be posted as Presiding Officer in the tribunal and whether one presiding officer of the tribunal should be given additional charge of another tribunal, would be a matter to be decided by the High Court on administrative side once the regular tribunal is constituted by the government in consultation with the High Court.”The court listed the matter for compliance of its order on February 25. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/notify-transport-tribunal-within-month-hc-to-govt-353549
23-12-2021||Subhash Rajta||State sets sights on hydrogen as fuel||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 22Exploring the possibility of generating and using green hydrogen as fuel and promoting power storage projects like pump storage and battery energy storage system are the key features in the draft of the New Power Policy of the state. The policy, which is likely to be revealed soon, will replace the Hydro Power Policy that was notified way back in 2006.“Green hydrogen is at an early stage of entering the energy sector in India. It’s good that the state government is keen on exploring the possibilities of using hydrogen as fuel in power sector and energy storage projects. All stakeholders in power sector will be happy with this initiative,” said a power sector expert. The draft of the New Power Policy was distributed among various stakeholders on November 6, and they were asked to revert with suggestions by November 30.“Hydrogen is emerging as an important source of energy since it has zero carbon footprints. Given the abundant availability of water, the state is in an advantageous position as far as the generation of green hydrogen is concerned,” said the expert.“Also, hydro power projects with storage are assets of immense value. The storage hydro projects will give higher revenue to the state and will help balance renewable power,” he said.As per the draft, the state aims to divert its surplus energy during summer and monsoon for the generation of green hydrogen. To incentivise the hydrogen generating companies, the government may take measures like offering surplus energy for hydrogen generation through electrolysis near hydro plants or industrial areas. Intra-state transmission charges for power required for green hydrogen generation plants may be exempted and hydrogen generation plants may be exempted from electricity duty etc.Also, there’s a lot of thrust on promoting and enhancing solar power. The state has set a target of generating 1995 MW energy through solar projects by 2030. The other key objectives put forth in the draft include harnessing and commissioning 10,000 MW of hydro energy by 2030 and have an operation capacity of 20,948 MW, expediting development of hydro-electric projects, promoting and establishing a power trading entity in the state, to protect the rights of local inhabitants for irrigation and drinking water, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/state-sets-sights-on-hydrogen-as-fuel-353548
23-12-2021||Dipender Manta||Tourists allowed beyond Sissu||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 22After the opposition by former MLA of Lahaul-Spiti Ravi Thakur, the Lahaul and Spiti administration today allowed the movement of tourists to the Lahaul valley beyond Sissu from Manali.In the wake of snowfall, the police were not allowing tourists beyond Sissu towards Keylong from Manali in view of public safety. It was affecting the business of tourism stakeholders at Keylong and Udaipur.BUT WITH RIDERSFormer MLA had objected to it and urged the administration to allow tourists to move to Lahaul. He had threatened to lead a protest if the authorities failed to pay heed to his demand.“The district administration should allow movement of tourists beyond Sissu towards Keylong, Udaipur and Darcha via Atal Tunnel from Manali, which will play a crucial role in promoting winter tourism in the valley. The youths of the valley are associated with the tourism industry. They are engaged in snow sports activities for tourists. Many of them are providing home stay facilities to the tourists,” he had said.In view of the large influx of tourists in the Lahaul valley, the district administration had issued orders under Section 115 of the Motor Vehicles Act 1988. There are certain conditions for the vehicles entering the valley.Neeraj Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti, said any tourist vehicle (except two wheelers) can enter the valley from 10 am to 3 pm through Atal Tunnel. Only those tourists will be allowed who have booked accommodation. The conditions will not apply to the local people of Lahaul and Pangi.The DC said on Christmas and New Year, there was a possibility of surge in the number of tourists. Instructions had also been given to drivers to take all precautions while driving in view of the winter conditions.He stated that the order could also be modified depending on weather alerts.The HRTC has also resumed its bus service between Kullu and Keylong, which was suspended after recent snowfall in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-allowed-beyond-sissu-353547
23-12-2021||Dipender Manta||Himachal minister Mahender Thakur faints in Mandi, admitted to Hospital||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 22Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur was rushed to zonal hospital at Mandi after he fainted at circuit house on Wednesday.According to Dr D.S. Verma, Medical Superintendent of zonal hospital, Mahender Singh has been admitted in the hospital for treatment. His condition is stable and now he is feeling better.Dr Verma said, “The Minister was feeling dizziness. He ruled out any symptoms of cardiac arrest in preliminary medical examination. The reports of ECG and few other medical tests are normal.”“We have kept him under medical observation and better medical treatment is being provided to the minister. It seems that over exertion might be the cause of dizziness,” he said.Jal Shakti Minister had come here ahead of the proposed visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 27 to see the arrangements.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur is already in Mandi since yesterday to review the preparations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-minister-mahender-thakur-faints-in-mandi-admitted-to-mandi-353302
