24-12-2021||New Delhi||Himachal to receive snow from December 26 to 29: IMD||The minimum temperatures have risen to 4-6 degrees Celsius over northwest India and central India during past four days with some stations such as Amritsar, Churu and Sikar witnessing almost 8-12 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department said on Friday."Night/minimum temperatures are in the range of 6-10 degrees Celsius over most parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and some parts of north Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand & Bihar," it said.Also, the minimum temperatures over Rajasthan and the remaining parts of the above regions hovered between 9-16 degrees Celsius.At Churu and Amritsar, the minimum temperatures were recorded at 9 and 6.7 degrees respectively.Earlier on Thursday, while issuing the extended range forecast for next two weeks (December 23, till Jan 5, 2022), the IMD had predicted a Western Disturbance as a cyclonic circulation over north Pakistan and adjoining Jammu & Kashmir and an induced cyclonic circulation over Northwest Rajasthan at lower tropospheric levels. "Because of which, isolated to scattered rainfall/snowfall very likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh till December 25.Isolated rainfall is very likely over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh till December 25.Another fresh intense Western Disturbance and its induced cyclonic circulation is very likely to influence northwest India from December 26 and central India from December 27. "Under their influence, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall /snowfall is very likely over Western Himalayan Region from December 26 to 28 and isolated to scattered on December 29," IMD said, adding, "Isolated heavy rainfall/snowfall is expected over Jammu & Kashmir on December 26 and 27 and Himachal Pradesh on December 27," the IMD said.Isolated hailstorms also likely over Jammu division, lower Himachal Pradesh, northern parts of Punjab & Haryana on December 26 and over Uttarakhand & northwest Uttar Pradesh on December 26 and 27.Light isolated rainfall/snowfall is very likely over Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh and light rainfall over rest parts of northeastern states till the weekend while light isolated rainfall is likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Vidarbha early next week.Due to likely influence of Western Disturbances, minimum temperatures likely to be above normal by 2-4 degrees Celsius over most parts northwest, central, east and northeast India and near normal over south Peninsular India, the IMD said. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/himachal-to-receive-snowfall-from-december-26-to-29-imd-353985
24-12-2021||UNA||Power Minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary inaugurates sports meet in Una||Power Minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary today inaugurated ‘Khel Mahakumbh’ at Bathu village of Haroli subdivision here. About 1 lakh players are participating in the state-level games being organised in different parts of HP. The participants will compete in cricket, kabaddi, basketball, football, volleyball, wrestling and athletics.Union Minister Anurag Singh Thakur is the key organiser of the games. Chaudhary said the ‘Khel Mahakumbh’ would give the rural youth an opportunity to showcase their talent in sports. He said the tournament would help spread the message of physical fitness among the youth. The state government was making efforts to strengthen the sports infrastructure at the rural level, said the minister. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-minister-sukh-ram-chaudhary-inaugurates-sports-meet-in-una-353756
24-12-2021||---||Training session conducted on 'eco literacy' in Nauni University||Solan, December 23Department of Environmental Science, Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, in collaboration with the Department of Science and Technology, organised a five-day training session on ‘Eco literacy for building resilience of mountain ecoscapes’.The training aimed at emphasising the significance of ecosystem. Twenty progressive farmers and rural youth from different districts were trained as ‘eco-risk managers’ to further educate the society. Environmental challenges such as ecosystem degradation, depletion of natural resources and climate change were discussed during the training.Coordinator-cum-head of the department, Professor SK Bhardwaj said eco-literacy was the need of the hour to comprehend the interconnected natural systems that allowed life to thrive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/training-session-conducted-on-eco-literacy-353757
24-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Parents of Dehra Navy man heave sigh of relief||Nurpur, December 23After spending sleepless nights for six days, the parents of Keshav Upadhyaya of Bangoli village of Dehra subdivision in Kangra heaved a sigh of relief this morning after getting a communique of their son’s well-being from the Indian Navy, Visakhapatnam.Keshav, who serves in the submarine wing, after spending his leave with his parents, had left for the base camp on December 13 and had communicated to his parents about his safe arrival there on December 16.However, his parents panicked after losing contact with their son the next day. After failed attempts to contact their son on his mobile phone, which was switched off since November 17, Keshav’s father Anand Upadhyaya lodged a missing report at the Haripur police station on December 19.Meanwhile, a video clip of the father seeking intervention of the Prime Minister, Defence Minister, Union Minister Anurag Thakur and the Chief Minister went viral on social media platforms yesterday. Kehsav's father Anand Upadhyaya told The Tribune that he had received communication from the Indian Navy this morning and also had a telephonic conversation with his son. “The Indian Navy authorities are supposed to conduct an inquiry in this connection,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parents-of-navy-man-heave-sigh-of-relief-353758
24-12-2021||Lalit Mohan||Delay in vaccination blamed for spread of foot & mouth disease in Kangra, Una||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 23Shepherds in Kangra and Una districts are reporting significant mortality among their animals due to foot and mouth disease. Besides, amid the outbreak, people in plains are not allowing traditional Gaddi shepherds to camp in their vicinity.Orders placedOrders have already been placed by the Department of Animal Husbandry at state and district levels for the vaccine for foot and mouth disease. Dr Sandeep Mishra, Assistant director, Cattle production, PalampurRaju, a shepherd, said, “Farmers in Una district did not allow us to camp in grasslands, fearing that their cattle would catch foot and mouth disease from our goats. I have lost four sheep to the disease.”Samriti, another shepherd who is migrating with her herd of sheep and goats from higher hills to plains in Kangra district, said her family had lost six sheep to foot and mouth disease. “The loss is huge for our family. The mortality was more in adult sheep,” she said.Sources said the state government had failed to vaccinate smaller animals like sheep and goat in time this year, due to which there was an outbreak of foot and mouth disease among herds of traditional ‘’gaddi’’ shepherds. They said the Union Government used to supply vaccine against foot and mouth disease for all animals in the state. However, the availability of vaccine is linked to data to be uploaded for cattle. While the Animal Husbandry Department of the state has uploaded data for bigger animals like cattle, data for smaller animals like goats and sheep is yet to be uploaded.Sources said most of the cows and buffaloes had been tagged in the state and their data was available with the department. The tagging of sheep and goat was difficult due the practice of migration by shepherds. Since the department failed to upload data for sheep and goat, the vaccine for foot and mouth disease for them was not made available by the Union Government, sources revealed.Assistant director, cattle production, Palampur, Dr Sandeep Mishra said the state government had ample supply of vaccine for bigger animals. Since there was a delay in the availability of vaccine for smaller animals from the Centre, the CM has directed officials of the Animal Husbandry Department to purchase the same vaccine on its own, he said. The shepherds, however, allege that due to the delay, they had already suffered losses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/delay-in-vaccination-blamed-for-spread-of-foot-mouth-disease-353759
24-12-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Spiti's Kibber village claims rights under FRA||Kullu, December 23The campaign to implement the Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006, in the tribal Spiti region received a massive push as the people of Kibber village became the first to submit their claims to the sub-divisional level committee, chaired by the SDM at Kaza in Spiti today.The delay in registering our claims took place due to no proper information on Forest Rights Act-2006 and no timely training to forest rights committees. Kaljung Phunsok, chairman, Kibber forest rights committeeWe have laid claim to1 lakh hectares of land. For centuries, our ancestors have been living in the harsh conditions of Spiti, using these forest resources. Tsering Dorje, Secretary, Kibber forest rights committeeKibber Forest Rights’ Committee Chairman Kaljung Phunsok said apart from 53 individual forest right claims, the village had also filed for community use and conservation of forest land and management rights under the FRA. He said, “It took us so many years to register our claims because neither clear information regarding the Act was provided by the government, nor forest right committees got timely training.”Kibber village, known across the world for snow leopards, has a large chunk of land classified as a wildlife sanctuary by the Forest Department. Kibber Forest Rights’ Committee Secretary Tsering Dorje says, “We have claimed community use, management and conservation rights over about 1 lakh hectares of land. For hundreds of years, even before the Forest Department came into existence, our ancestors have been living in the harsh conditions of Spiti, using and managing these forest resources.”BDC president and Forest Rights Committee member Dolkar Dolma said, “We are the indigenous to this region and we have conserved and built a relationship with the wildlife and biodiversity here. Generations have been earning their livelihood from this area, which we have claimed community rights on, used for grazing yaks, horses and other animals and as a trade route with Ladakh. This right is very important for the tribal community, as many rare herbs are found in this region, which are used as medicines. To save and nurture our traditional relationship, we are making our claim on the land of our ancestors, under the Forest Rights Act.”Tenzin Takpa and Sonam Targay of Spiti Civil Society, who have been training and supporting forest rights’ committees of Spiti region for the past several years, said, “We are confident that the sub-divisional level committee (SDLC) and the district level committee (DLC) will be prompt and just in verifying Kibber’s claims for their rights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/spitis-kibber-village-claims-rights-under-fra-353760
24-12-2021||Ambika Sharma||Himachal: Excise Department floats legacy scheme to settle VAT cases||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 23In a bid to settle 1.68 lakh pending cases under Value Added Tax (VAT) and Central Sales Tax (CST), the State Taxes and Excise Department has approved Himachal Pradesh Swarn Jayanti (Legacy Cases Resolution) Scheme, 2021.Various stakeholders and dealers, who have been awaiting this scheme, will immensely benefit as it will help in resolving old pending cases. There are 13,705 cases in Solan, 20,108 in Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh, 11,615 in Sirmaur and 9,869 in Una, among other districts.Commissioner State Taxes and Excise Yunus said that the scheme would help resolve 1.68 lakh pending VAT and CST cases and fetch sizable revenue to the department. The scheme will be valid for four months and will have two phases. The settlement fee will be more in the second phase, informed officials.It has been specially launched to help pre-GST taxpayers to resolve tax liability and disputes. Under this scheme taxpayers can pay outstanding tax amount and be free from any other liability under the law. Taxpayers will get substantial relief in the form of full waivers of interests and penalties. Problems like compiling documents, collecting pending statutory forms and preparing reconciliations to complete VAT assessments have become a Herculean task for the taxpayers. Though the Goods and Service Tax (GST) was introduced years ago, companies, industries, dealers are left with disputes of earlier regime.This scheme will provide an opportunity to settle old liabilities so that taxpayers can focus on GST compliance. The state government could also get one-time revenue lift with this scheme. It is important for the government to clean up the past legacy dispute at the earliest and ensure GST compliance in the new setup, said officials.As per the World Bank guidelines and directions, if the state government manages to resolve all legacy cases by March 31, it will create a conducive financial environment for the trade and industry in the state. This will benefit the state in securing soft finances and is also significant under the ease of doing business initiatives. It will also lead to better GST compliance as per World Bank directions.Will resolve 1.68 lakh cases in all||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/excise-department-floats-legacy-scheme-to-settle-vat-cases-353761
24-12-2021||Solan||Sirmaur DC RK Gautam issues orders for upkeep of roads||To improve the condition of roads and give impetus to tourism, Sirmaur DC RK Gautam recently convened a meeting of officials of the Public Works and Tourism Departments at Nahan. He said the focus should be on ensuring that roads were in good condition. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/orders-issued-for-upkeep-of-roads-353762
24-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something that you feel needs to be highlighted?||Bus stop causing traffic jam in Vikas Nagar||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Bus stop causing traffic jamThe bus stop at Vikas Nagar, from where a road diverts to Kasumpti in Shimla, is a major traffic bottleneck. The narrow three-way stoppage holds up traffic most of the time because the private buses stop longer than the required time while waiting for passengers. As a result, vehicles line up on all three roads, leading to congestion. The authorities concerned should take note of the situation and find some solution to the problem. — Raman, New ShimlaFacilities missing at Rampur hospital People are facing inconvenience at the civil hospital, Rampur, as facilities such as ambulance and X-ray machine are not available. With the X-ray machine at the hospital being out of order, people are forced to go to private clinics and spend heavily. Also, the ambulance is not available at the hospital. — Umesh, Rampur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bus-stop-causing-traffic-jam-353763
24-12-2021||Students of Government College||Dharamsala college wins badminton championship||Parents told about e-Samvad appA two-day state-level training was organised under the Samagra Shiksha, Himachal Pradesh, to ensure effective use of the features of e-Samwad app. The aim of the event was to improve the learning level of students. The training was organised at the State Project Office, Samagra Shiksha, Shimla. The e-Samvad app was launched by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to update parents about their children's education. The app was later extended to add features enabling students' attendance and assessment data collection.MCM college hosts basketball meetThe Himachal Pradesh University Inter-College Basketball Championship (women) began at MCM DAV College, Kangra. Inaugurating the championship, Jyoti Prakash Sharma, Dean, College Development Council, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, said education without sports was incomplete. Holistic development of students were possible when they were physically fit and emotionally balanced, which could be achieved through sports, Sharma said. Sports helped students learn the importance of discipline, self-confidence and sacrifice, the Dean said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-college-wins-badminton-championship-353764
24-12-2021||Shimla||Theog MLA Rakesh Singha protests water woes||Rakesh Singha, a CPM MLA from Theog, sat on a dharna outside the Jal Shakti Vibhag office here today, demanding resolution of water problems being faced by Theog residents for the past many months.Having a population of over 10,000, including floating population, the town has been enduring irregular water supply on account of old and leaking pipes from the Giri Khud.“I have been assured by the officials that the problem would be fixed within a week by replacing the old pipes. In case the issue is not resolved within the given time, we will sit on a dharna with people from the affected area,” Singha said.Meanwhile, Theog Municipal Council chairman Vivek Thapar said that they too have met the Jal Shakti Vibhag officials over the long-standing problem and have been assured of quick resolution.“We have urged the officials to replace the pipes wherever required, and the work has already started. Also, we have asked them to replace the worn out filters at the pump stations so that people get clean drinking water” said Thapar. Due to the old and leaking pipes, residents have been getting erratic water supply, sometimes even after a week.The MC also urged the Jal Shakti Vibhag officials to expedite the work on laying sewerage pipes. The project has been hanging fire for the last 13 years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rakesh-singha-protests-water-woes-353765
24-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Shimla's Neha Rikta crowned Most Vivacious Miss Himachal||Hamirpur, December 23Neha Rikta, a 22-year-old student of Jubbal in Shimla district, won the coveted Most Vivacious Miss Himachal crown in the three-day contest that concluded here last night.Kritika Thakur, who had won the title in 2020, crowned the winner on the occasion. As many as 17 girls out of total 47 participants were selected for the grand finale. Arzoo of Nerwa in Shimla was adjudged the first runner-up and Aditi of Solan was the second runner-up.Neha said the crown had come along with responsibilities. Three days of the event helped her explore her strengths.Neha said, “The night spent at a dense forest on the camp site during the event was a memorable experience. We learnt to defeat our fears and face challenges courageously.”For 18-year-old Arzoo, rafting was the most thrilling activity of the event and it helped conquer her water phobia.Aditi, 20-year-old contestant, said the event helped her changed her outlook towards other contests. She said activities, including the morning yoga session and sports were amazing. “It was fun and enriching to have participated in the contest,” she added.The judges’ panel comprised film producer Rajender Rajan, fashion designer Poonam Patil and software engineer Omja Thakur, among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimlas-neha-rikta-crowned-most-vivacious-miss-himachal-353766
24-12-2021||Subhash Rajta||Private operators likely to offer buses for Mandi event||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 23The threat of private bus operators to not provide buses for state government’s Mandi celebration on December 27, which will be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, appears to have worked.In a meeting with Secretary Transport here today, the private bus operators have been assured that their demands will be accepted and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur will make the announcement tomorrow in Mandi.“We have been given to understand that our demand for 100 per cent exemption of special road tax and token tax till November 2021 will be accepted. We have been given time to meet theChief Minister tomorrow in Mandi. Hopefully, the announcement in this regard will come tomorrow,” said Ramesh Kamal, secretary of the private bus operators’ union.Kamal further said that they are pressing for 50 per cent exemption in tax till from December 2021 to March 2022 as well.The bus operators had put the government in a fix with their announcement to not provide their buses for the function being held to celebrate government’s four years in office. Without the availability of private buses, it would be difficult to ferry people for the celebrations. “If our major demands are met, we have promised to provide at least 1,000 buses for the function,” said Kamal.The private bus operators, who have a fleet of around 3,500 buses in the state, had been demanding tax exemption and other assistance for long without success. This time, however, they seem quite confident of success, especially with the state government looking to bring over 50,000 people for the function from different parts of the state.Taking a leaf out of private bus operators’ book, the taxi operators, too, have refused to provide their service for the Mandi function.They, too, have been demanding tax exemption and extension in permit by two years. “We will not provide our services during the function. Also, we will wear black badges during the celebrations,” said a taxi operators’ union here today.Had put govt in a fix||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/private-operators-likely-to-offer-buses-for-mandi-event-353767
24-12-2021||---||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur calls meeting to review preparedness for PM Modi's Mandi visit||Mandi, December 23Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today presided over a meeting of senior officers of the state government to review the preparedness for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Mandi on December 27.Also read: Kullu-Manali hoteliers have high hopes from PM Modi's visitHe directed officers to ensure that all possible arrangements are made to make the event “historic”. The Chief Minister said adequate arrangements should be made for transportation of beneficiaries of various schemes to the event. He said arrangements should also be made for their food and drinking water.He said the district police should also ensure smooth plying of vehicles, parking of buses and other vehicles.The Chief Minister asked officers to ensure that general public does not face any inconvenience due to the event. He also said every bus carrying people must be accompanied by a liaison officer and they should reach the venue well in time.Transport Minister Bikram Singh, while attending the meeting virtually, assured the Chief Minister that proper arrangements would be ensured for transportation of supporters. Political Advisor to Chief Minister Trilok Jamwal, OSD to Chief Minister Mahinder Dharmani, Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh, DGP Sanjay Kundu, Mandi Deputy Commissioner Arindam Chaudhary, Superintendent of Police Shalini Agnihotri, Director, Information and Public Relations, Harbans Singh Brascon attended the meeting at Mandi whereas HRTC Managing Director Sandeep Kumar and Deputy Commissioners of various districts attended the meeting virtually.Directs officers to check arrangements||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jai-ram-thakur-calls-review-meeting-353768
24-12-2021||Hamirpur||Modi to lay foundation of Dhaula Sidh hydel power project||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of 66 Mega Watt Dhaula Sidh hydel power project on December 27. It is learnt that the PM will lay the foundation through virtual mode while he would come to Mandi on completion of four years of the Jai Ram government in the state.Also read: Kullu-Manali hoteliers have high hopes from PM Modi's visitHimachal CM Jai Ram Thakur calls meeting to review preparedness for PM Modi's Mandi visitSignificantly, the project would be constructed on Beas river and the work on the approach roads and 253 m long diversion tunnel of 10.20 m diameter has been completed by the executing agency Satluj Jal Vidhut Vikas Nigam Limited (SJVNL).Dhaula Sidh Hydroelectric Project will be a run-of-the-river power project to harness the hydel potential of the Beas. It will have a storage of 6.87 million cusec meter water to utilize it during lean season. Rajesh Chandel, project head, said here that the main dam would be 69.75 m high and 195.14 m long concrete gravity dam would be constructed with two 62 m long pen stokes of 4.3 m diameter to produce the electric power.The dam was envisioned during the regime of former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal in 2001. It was after intervention of Union minister Anurag Thakur that the power project was taken on priority. The centre had accorded investment approval for Rs 687.97 crore. This would be first hydel project in the district.Chandel said over 3,500 kanal out of 4,800 kanal had been acquired and mutated in favour of the SJVN. He said the diversion tunnel had been bored and the internal concrete lining would be completed within a fortnight. The water of the river would be diverted within a month to make way for the construction of main dam. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/modi-to-lay-foundation-of-dhaula-sidh-project-353769
24-12-2021||Dipender Manta||Kullu-Manali hoteliers have  high hopes from PM Modi's visit||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 23The expectations of tourism stakeholders are high from the proposed visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Mandi on December 27.Also read: Modi to lay foundation of Dhaula Sidh hydel power projectThe stakeholders in Mandi, Kullu and Lahaul Spiti districts are hopeful that the PM will announce a financial package for the Covid-hit tourism industry. The poor air connectivity is the main issue, which is a major hindrance to attract high-end tourists to Mandi, Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti.42-seater aircraft for airport soughtWe are expecting that the PM will announce a 42-seater aircraft for Bhuntar airport to attract the high-end tourists. The frequency of flights will be enhanced from Delhi and Chandigarh so that the airfare pn the route is reduced. Nakul Khullar, resort ownerThey are hopeful that during his visit, Modi will announce that the air connectivity will be strengthened at the Bhuntar airport in Kullu and the expansion work of the airstrip be executed.Nakul Khullar, MD of Baragarh Resort, Manali, said, “Our expectations are high from the proposed visit of the Prime Minister. We are expecting that the PM will announce a 42-seater aircraft for Bhuntar airport to attract the high-end tourists. The frequency of flights will be enhanced from Delhi and Chandigarh so that the airfare on the route is reduced.”He said, “An international airport is proposed at Mandi, which is the dream project of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. We are hopeful that the PM will make a special announcement to execute the project on priority. It will prove to be a boon for the tourism industry.”After the opening of Atal Tunnel, tourism stakeholders of the Lahaul valley are urging the state and Central government to provide adequate infrastructure to promote winter tourism in the valley.Tashi Barongpa, secretary of the Hoteliers’ Association, Lahaul, said “The valley has vast potential for skiing. There is need to provide skiing lifts to reach slopes. We are hopeful that the PM will do something.”Munish Sood, president of the Hoteliers’ Association, Mandi, said “Covid had hit the tourism industry. There is need to provide a financial package to the industry to bring it back on the track. We are hopeful that the PM will announce a special package.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-manali-hoteliers-have-high-hopes-from-pms-visit-353770
24-12-2021||Solan||Alert sounded in BBN, Paonta Sahib after Ludhiana blast||An alert has been sounded in the border areas of the state such as Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) and Paonta Sahib after the blast at Ludhiana. Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur said keeping in view the alert sounded by the Punjab Police, vehicles of people entering the borders are being checked at various places in the Paonta Sahib subdivision. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/alert-sounded-in-border-areas-353772
24-12-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: 34 new cases in Himachal||A total of 34 new Covid cases were reported today. No Covid-related death has taken place in the state in the last 24 hours.The number of active cases today was 420. The fatality figure remained at 3,854.Fourteen cases were recorded in Kangra, six in Solan, five in Hamirpur, three in Una and two each in Bilaspur, Shimla and Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-34-new-cases-in-himachal-353771
24-12-2021||Palampur||Karnataka tourist killed, 11 hurt in Bir Billing mishap||A boy was killed and 11 others injured when a jeep carrying tourists from Karnataka fell into a 100-foot deep gorge near Bir Billing last evening.According to information, the vehicle was carrying 15 passengers against its capacity of seven. The jeep was being driven reportedly at high speed due to which the driver failed to negotiate a sharp turn, resulting in the mishap that left an 11-year-old boy, Aadavik, dead. Eleven others sustained severe injuries.Local residents say the Bir Billing road witnesses a heavy volume of traffic and overcrowding in vehicles adds to the mishap risk.A group of local residents — Munish Dixit, Jaswant Singh and Suresh Kumar — said the matter had been brought to the notice of local authorities and the police but to no avail. Baijnath SDM said necessary action was being taken against erring drivers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/karnataka-tourist-killed-11-hurt-in-bir-billing-mishap-353773
24-12-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Tourists allowed up to Gulaba on Rohtang road||KULLU, DECEMBER 23After the tourism stakeholders firmly took up the issue of allowing tourist vehicles up to Gulaba, the administration today issued an order allowing the movement of vehicles beyond Kothi from 10 am to 4 pm up to Gulaba towards Rohtang, provided the weather is clear.The movement of vehicles was barred beyond Kothi towards Rohtang in the wake of adverse weather since November 22. However, Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur recently held a meeting with tourism stakeholders and directed the Manali SDM to constitute sub-committees for the purpose of keeping the tourism activities going up to Atal Tunnel and Gulaba.The minister said that due to extreme cold, icing of the road occurs towards Gulaba and near Atal Tunnel, due to which the risk of vehicle accidents increases. He said that vehicles cannot be allowed up to these places during adverse weather and heavy snowfall. However, if the weather remains clear and there is no problem of icing on the roads then the movement can be allowed to these destinations. He has asked the SDM and the police to take a decision in this regard only after assessing the condition of the roads in coordination with the officials of the Border Roads Organisation.Kullu Deputy Commissioner Ashutosh Garg said that the order has been issued on the recommendation of Manali SDM. He said that the Manali SDM had received the proposals of the office bearers of various panchayats and local people after which a joint inspection was done from Kothi to Gulaba by SDM and Manali Deputy Superintendent of Police and it was found that in certain situations, vehicles can be allowed till Gulaba.The DC said adequate police force would be deployed between Kothi and Gulaba to ensure compliance of orders. He said there would be a ban on the movement of vehicles beyond Kothi between 4 pm and 10 am.The tourism stakeholders, especially taxi operators, are elated on allowing tourists to visit Gulaba.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-allowed-up-to-gulaba-on-rohtang-road-353774
24-12-2021||Mandi||Sundernagar ignored during Congress regime: Himachal CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated a 500-LPM pressure swing adsorption plant (PSA) at the Civil Hospital, Sundernagar, in Mandi district today. The plant has been installed at the cost of over Rs 1.50 crore.The CM said the state government, in the past four years, had laid special emphasis on the development of Sundernagar Assembly constituency area. He said the previous “Congress government made only tall claims regarding development of the area and did nothing.”“The state government had ensured effective management to check the spread of Covid-19 and achieved the target of Covid vaccination in stipulated time. The Opposition leaders should refrain from politicising this sensitive issue as the people well understand the nefarious design of the Congress leaders,” he said.The CM congratulated the farmers on the occasion of the National Farmers’ Day. He said the state government was committed to ensure welfare of the farming community. He also announced a veterinary dispensary at Bari.Later, he inaugurated the 266th branch of HP Gramin Bank at Pungh, near Sundernagar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sundernagar-ignored-during-cong-regime-himachal-cm-353775
24-12-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal Congress MLAs seek responsibility for Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, meet state in-charge||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 23The tussle for supremacy within the Congress seems to be intensifying with about 10 legislators impressing upon the high command to bring about a change in the state leadership and entrusting important responsibility to former state president Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu.Notwithstanding the impressive performance of the Congress, which won all the four by-polls, including the Mandi Lok Sabha seat, new regrouping is emerging within the Congress ahead of the Assembly elections due next year. In the latest development, 10 legislators met Congress Working Committee (CWC) member and in-charge of Himachal Congress Rajeev Shukla in New Delhi yesterday.Sources said the MLAs demanded that Sukhu being a grass root leader should either be made the state president or given the post of Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader. Sukhu has had a long stint of almost six years as Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief from 2013 to January 2019. He has intensified lobbying to get any of the two posts before the Assembly elections due in December 2022.The MLAs, who are learnt to have met Shukla include Jagat Singh Negi, Rohit Thakur, Lakhwinder Rana, Satpal Raizada, Anirudh Singh, Pawan Kajal, Sunder Thakur and Sanjay Awasthy. Three other MLAs too have impressed upon the high command, demanding change in the state Congress presidentship.Sukhu, who has been in Delhi for the last almost a month owing to health reasons, is keen to get any one of the two posts — either the HPCC chief or the CLP Leader. Mukesh Agnihotri is presently the CLP Leader but with Sukhu managing to garner the support of almost 10 MLAs, there will be pressure on the high command to take note of their demand.Though there had been a lot of speculation prior to the by-polls about a possible change of HPCC president but post the Congress victory, the possibility of state president Kuldeep Rathore being changed seems unlikely. Rathore is basically a leader with an organisational background but has no experience of electoral politics. However, he is now keen to contest the Assembly polls from Theog, his home constituency.Rajiv Shukla and AICC Secretary Sanjay Dutt have on several occasions taken the individual feedback on all the MLAs regarding change in leadership. Now it remains to be seen whether the party would make any change. A section of the state leadership is, however, of the opinion that the high command will tread very cautiously and would not like to make any decision which could intensify factionalism and bickering in the Congress party just like Punjab.Those who met Rajiv Shukla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-mlas-seek-responsibility-for-sukhwinder-singh-sukhu-meet-state-in-charge-353776
24-12-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal DGP Sanjay Kundu: Will remove black sheep in police force||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 23Himachal DGP Sanjay Kundu today said the black sheep in the police force would be identified and postings would be done strictly on merit and not on any political considerations.360-degree reviewThe police chief’s remarks come in the wake of the suspension of Nadaun SHO, who attempted to run over the Vigilance team that had laid a trap for him in a bribery case on December 21.The DGP said a 360-degree review on working and integrity of officials would be evaluated before posting them at key positions. “Identify the black sheep in the force and carry out the drug test of officials of doubtful integrity, especially those posted in narcotics-prone areas,” said the DGP, while chairing a video-conference today with the IGs, SPs and SHOs. “I am deeply disturbed as such incidents cast a shadow on the working of the police and wash away the good deeds done by the force,” said the DGP.The SP, Hamirpur, has been told to constitute an SIT to nab the SHO, who has been absconding since the Vigilance tried to catch him while accepting a bribe of Rs 25,000 on the complaint of one Shiv Singh of Mandi.The private car (HP 80 -6618) abandoned by the accused was traced near the cricket stadium and “chitta” was recovered from it. The case details will be sent to the ED for exemplary action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-top-cop-will-remove-black-sheep-353809
