27-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something that you feel needs to be highlighted?||Check haphazard parking in Shimla||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com Check haphazard parking  Tourists go berserk when it snows in Shimla and beyond. They park their vehicles haphazardly, leading to traffic jams. It has already started snowing in tourist spots such as Kufri and Narkanda, and the tourists are thronging these places. The police should ensure tourists park their vehicles properly, so that locals do not face inconvenience. — Shyam Verma, TheogHRTC Colony without powerResidents of HRTC Colony, in Bilaspur, have been forced to stay without lights, as the HPSEBL authorities have not repaired the poles that had fallen a few days back. The transmission wires were also lying on the road, adding to the woes of commuters. The poles collapsed after a tree was lopped. The delay in the repair of poles is causing problems to the residents. — Sandeep Sankhyan, Bilaspur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/check-haphazard-parking-354936
27-12-2021||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur released a special issue of ‘Shikhar Samyik’||Himachal CM releases research journal||Education trust holds health campThe Sunil Upadhyay Education Trust and the Health Department held a health camp at Government Senior Secondary School, Shoghi. Covid warriors were also honoured. Health Minister Rajiv Saizal was the chief guest on the occasion. Saizal appreciated the work being done by the organisation. People from the nearby panchayats also got themselves examined at the camp, free of cost.Need to promote geography: HPUHimachal Pradesh (GSHP). The participants included members of GSHP, office-bearers and research scholars. BR Thakur, associate professor and chairperson, department of geography, HPU, Shimla, talked about the objectives of GSHP. All dignitaries emphasised the need to promote geography in state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-releases-research-journal-354934
27-12-2021||Subhash Rajta||Himachal Pradesh cricketers lift Vijay Hazare Trophy||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 26Himachal Pradesh are no longer minnows in domestic cricket. The team shed the tag it had been carrying for decades in style, thumping Tamil Nadu, arguably the country’s best limited-overs team currently, to win Vijay Hazare Trophy and become the 50-over national champion.No longer minnowsIt’s not easy to beat a team like Tamil Nadu which has several India and IPL stars. In comparison, there’s not a single player from this team in the IPL. — Rajeev Nayyar, Former CaptainHP shocked TN in the final of the country’s premier 50-over tournament in Jaipur on Sunday, with Shubham Arora leading the way with an unbeaten 136. “It’s a massive achievement, can’t be described in words,” said Shakti Singh, a former HP pace bowler. “A huge mental barrier has been broken. Never again will players from the state think they can’t win big games and trophies. The players will now come with a different approach and attitude.”To the casual observer, the victory may appear a stroke of luck. For those who know HP cricket inside out, it is a reflection of serious efforts being made at the grassroots level to produce good cricketers.“A lot of work has been done in terms of providing world-class facilities, good coaches, physios, etc., to the players. Those efforts have started yielding results now,” said Virender Sharma, a former Himachal Pradesh skipper and an international umpire.Shakti Singh couldn’t agree more. “The cricket association upgraded facilities at small grounds across the state. Every district has at least one academy where talented players can get admission. It has hired qualified coaches at all levels,” he pointed out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-cricketers-lift-hazare-trophy-354905
27-12-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur hints at reshuffle as govt completes 4 years||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 26With the BJP government in Himachal completing four years in power, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has stressed the need for changes both in the government and party set-up to improve functioning.Working towards ‘mission repeat’The defeat in the recent byelections came as an eye-opener ahead of the Vidhan Sabha elections. We will work more aggressively to achieve ‘mission repeat’. — Jai Ram Thakur, Himachal Chief MinisterThakur’s reply came when questioned on the BJP’s 0-4 loss to the Opposition Congress in the recent bypolls to one Lok Sabha and three Assembly seats. “Several factors, including sympathy wave after the death of former CM Virbhadra Singh, were to blame. But I do admit the need for change in the government as well as the BJP’s organisational set-up. The high command has been apprised and it will act at an opportune time,” the CM said in an interview with The Tribune.Asked whether he was satisfied with the performance of his Cabinet colleagues, Thakur said, “I am more or less happy with the performance of my ministers, but there is always a scope for improvement. Any decision on reshuffle will be taken by the central leadership.”On how he and his party took the bypoll debacle and what would be the BJP’s strategy to reverse the trend in the 2022 Assembly elections, he said, “Whatever the reasons, it’s the victory that matters in the end. The bypoll defeat came as an eye-opener ahead of the Vidhan Sabha elections. We will work more aggressively to achieve ‘mission repeat’.” He claimed that for the “faction-ridden” Congress, putting up a united fight would be an uphill task. Thakur maintained that bridging the regional divide, ending vendetta politics and catering to all sections of society were his biggest achievements. “We have tried to provide succour to the common man by launching several health, housing and social welfare schemes,” he said.About his government’s targets in last year of rule before next elections, he said the aim was to boost tourism and industrialisation by improving aerial, rail and road connectivity. “We are aggressively working towards a bulk drug park, which will attract major investments. We want to expedite tourism projects sanctioned by the Asian Development Bank, especially for new and lesser-known destinations under the ‘Nai Raahein–Nai Manzilen’ project. Creating tourism infrastructure at both ends of Rohtang Atal Tunnel will remain a priority,” the CM said.On his plans to improve the state’s financial health, Thakur said this certainly was an issue of grave concern. “Himachal’s debt burden has touched Rs 62,000 crore. We are making efforts to generate additional revenue and will also seek central assistance. But we won’t let paucity of funds derail the pace of development,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-chief-minister-hints-at-reshuffle-as-govt-completes-4-years-354899
27-12-2021||UNA||Curtains on three-day state youth festival in Una||The three-day 37th state-level youth festival concluded at the Indira Gandhi Stadium here today. A total of 512 youth from 10 districts of the state participated in the fair, which included competitions such as folk dances, folk songs and playing of traditional musical instruments.Youth Affairs and Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania, who was the chief guest at the closing ceremony, said the festival not only provided an opportunity for the youth to showcase their talent, but also helped in the exchange of the rich cultural heritage among the youth who came from different regions. State Finance Commission chairman Satpal Singh Satti was also present at the function.Pathania urged the youth to come forward to preserve and propagate art, language and culture. He expressed the need to conserve folk music, folk dances and folklore. He said cultural exchange programmes also instilled a sense of patriotism and nationality among youth. Solan district was adjudged the overall winner, while Chamba and Kullu were the joint runners-up at the festival. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/curtains-on-three-day-state-youth-festival-354933
27-12-2021||Palampur||NHAI nod to Palampur ropeway project||Locals today hailed the Centre’s move to execute the Rs 605 crore Palampur-Thathri-Chunja Glacier Ropeway Project through the NHAI.On Saturday, Union Surface and Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari in a tweet conveyed to the state that the NHAI had approved the much-awaited 13.5-km-long ropeway project, which had been hanging fire since 1990.The ropeway will connect Palampur with Chunja Glacier in the Dhauladhar hills at the height of 12,000-ft above sea level. Tourists will reach the snow-covered peaks within 31 minutes. The state had prepared its project report in 2019 and was seeking investors. But because of the high project cost, the involvement of reserve forest and difficulties in getting the clearances, none turned up.A day before Modi’s visit to the state, the PMO cleared all pending ropeway projects.A state government official said the CMO had received an approval letter from the Ministry of Surface Transport in this regard on Saturday.Meanwhile, Palampur MLA Ashish Butail said it was a major achievement for the town and the installation of a ropeway would definitely boost tourism. He said the project had already been delayed and now the government should immediately grant environment clearances and take up its construction at earliest. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nhai-nod-to-palampur-ropeway-project-354931
27-12-2021||KULLU||Kullu's Lug valley to be tourism hotspot||The government had included the Lug valley under the “Nai Rahein, Nai Manzilein” scheme to develop untouched tourism spots in the region, said DC Ashutosh Garg.Presiding over a meeting regarding the infrastructural facilities to be created under the scheme, he said there were many untouched places in the valley that could be developed as a centre of attraction for the tourists.He said Mathasaur was a beautiful place where tourists could be attracted and asked the department to prepare a proposal for ropeway for this site from Bhalyani. The DC said brown trouts were found in the valley’s natural springs and streams and there was a need to publicise it. “Efforts will be made to bring the valley on the tourism map by creating basic facilities for the tourists.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lug-valley-to-be-tourism-hotspot-354930
27-12-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Additional forces to manage New Year rush in Himachal Pradesh||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 26With over 30,000 vehicles expected to enter Shimla till New Year, four additional reserve forces have been deployed in the district, especially in crowded and congested areas, to ensure the smooth traffic movement.“We have received four reserve battalions for winter. Shimla has been divided in five zones and an additional police force with patrolling vehicles, headed by DSP or ASP, is in place,” said Monika Bhutungru, SP, Shimla.The forces have been deployed at Kufri and Narkanda, The Mall, The Ridge, the Shoghi barrier, Tawi More, the bus stand and other busy locations. Restricted roads in the vicinity of AG Chowk, Kennedy Chowk, Chaura Maidan and Navbahar Chowk will be opened for parking on New Year.The MeT office has predicted snowfall and tourists are advised to come in 4X4 vehicles with experienced drivers. For safety reasons, the tourists should travel after receiving both vaccine doses, she said, adding that they were welcomed and advised to follow Covid norms.“The occupancy in our properties in Shimla was between 80% and 85% this weekend, which is expected to go up on New Year,” said Amit Kashyap, Director of Tourism and Civil Aviation-cum-MD of the Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC).“The police diverted the traffic coming from Shoghi and Tutikandi, near the bypass, yesterday due to heavy vehicular inflow in the town,” said Tourism Industry Stakeholders’ Association president MK Seth, adding that even locals were not allowed to enter Shimla through the main road, and the residents and tourists were a harassed lot.Advisory for tourists||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/additional-forces-to-manage-new-year-rush-354929
27-12-2021||---||Snowflakes bring cheer to Shimla tourists||Shimla, December 26Higher reaches and mountain passes received another spell of moderate snow and key tourist destinations of Kufri and Chharabra had light snowfall while Shimla received snowflakes, bringing cheer to tourists.A large number of tourists thronged Shimla and adjoining areas and danced in ecstasy as snowflakes dropped. However, they were deprived of the fascinating view of “the queen of hills” donning a white mantle as snowflakes melted away soon. Some enthusiastic tourists rushed to Kufri and Chharabra.“It was amazing to see snow but our happiness was limited to a few minutes as it stopped,” said Ashish and Avantika, a couple from Delhi. Scattered light rain occurred at some places in mid and lower hills.The sky remained heavily overcast and strong velocity icy winds swept the region. Tourists and locals were hopeful about more spells of snowfall. The Rohtang Pass and higher reaches in Kullu, Lahaul and Spiti, Mandi, Kinnaur and Shimla were receiving intermittent snow and rain, creating intense cold wave conditions in the adjoining valleys.Apple growers are happy as snow is considered as white manure for the crop and low temperature provides adequate cooling period for good crop.The maximum temperature plummeted and stayed three to nine degree below normal after rain and snow at some places and Keylong was the coldest during the day with a high of minus 0.8 degree while Kalpa and Dalhousie recorded maximum temperature at 3.2 degree and 4.1 degree, followed by Shimla 7.2 degree and Manali 8 degree C.The minimum temperature also stayed below normal and Keylong was the coldest with minus 7.2 degree C followed by Kalpa minus 3.4 degree while Kufri, Manali, Dalhousie, Shimla and Dharamsala recorded a low of minus 1 degree, minus 0.2 degree, 2.4 degree, 3 degree and 7.2 degree C.As many as 34 roads are closed due to snow, including 32 in Lahaul and Spiti and one each in Chamba and Kullu. The local MeT office has predicted rain or snow at isolated places in mid and higher hills tomorrow and dry weather in the region on December 28 and 29.Rain to aid of farmersDharamsala: Rain lashed the Kangra valley on Sunday. About 80% Kangra farmers are dependent on rain for irrigation. Kamal Kishore, a farmer, said, “Rain has come to our rescue. We had sown our fields in Nov. Had there been any delay, our crop would have gotten damaged,” TNS100 tourists stranded in Mandi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snowflakes-bring-cheer-to-shimla-tourists-354927
27-12-2021||Una||Una: NGO gives aid to women, students||The Himotkarsh Parishad today organised its 48th annual function at Government College in Kotla Khurd village near the city. Rural Development Minister Virender Kanwar, who was the chief guest, distributed provisions and blankets to 51 women amounting to Rs 76,500 and Rs 33,250 to two girl students for higher studies. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngo-gives-aid-to-women-students-354925
27-12-2021||KULLU||Press Club-Kullu defeat DC XI T20||The fabulous knock of 50 runs off 17 balls by Pradeep Singh of the Press Club, Kullu, led his team to win in the thrilling inaugural cricket match of the Press Club Trophy with DC-XI at Dhalpur here today. The trophy is organised every year.Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg inaugurated the tourney. He commended the efforts of the Press Club for organising a trophy. The DC-XI scored 176 runs in 20 overs by losing 8 wickets while batting first after winning the toss. Yograj played a brilliant innings of 58 runs off 26 balls. The Press Club team chased the target of 177 runs in 19.4 overs by losing 4 wickets to register a victory in a nail-biting finish. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/press-club-kullu-defeat-dc-xi-t20-354924
27-12-2021||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has apparently succeeded in convincing the party high command by attributing defeat in four byelections||Himachal Diary: When development plank failed||Litmus test for NaddaThe speculations regarding a change in the leadership and major reshuffle in the Cabinet as the fallout of the defeat in the byelections have been put to rest after BJP national president JP Nadda backed Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while virtually addressing the state working committee of the party, but sword is still hanging over some ministers. Nadda has also much to explain as Himachal is his home state and the big question is that when he could not ensure victory of the party in his own state, how he will steer the party to victory in five poll-bound states. The Assembly poll is a litmus test for Nadda and if the party fails to put up an impressive show, he would have lots of questions to answer, say insiders in the party.Govt jobs not easyGovernment jobs are not as easy as one thinks, especially when the Prime Minister is visiting. Almost every official concerned, right up to the top bureaucrats, spent considerable time in brainstorming over whether the name of the Prime Minister should by preceded by ‘Shri’, ‘Honourable’ or ‘Mananiya’ on the plaque of the project he will lay the foundation stone. And, believe it or not, after all this brainstorming, the final decision in this regard is taken by the PMO.Contributed by Contributed by Bhanu P Lohumi and Subhash Rajta||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/when-development-plank-failed-354923
27-12-2021||Dipender Manta||50,000 expected to attend PM Modi’s rally in Mandi today||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 26Stage is set for the rally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Paddal ground in Mandi district tomorrow. In the wake of rain and snow warning, the entire sitting place of audience is covered with dome.The state government is organising a grand function in Mandi to mark the four-years regime in the state. Apart from this, a ground-breaking ceremony will also be held. Today, rehearsals were conducted by the Special Protection Group, which guards the PM, and a police team between helipad and the venue of the rally to check the transportation arrangements for the PM.On the pretext of Modi’s rally, the BJP will try to show its political strength in which over 50,000 people are expected to attend the rally. The arrangements have been made for the transportation of supporters from different parts to Mandi for the success of the rally. However, the arrival of the PM will depend on the weather conditions. Weather turned up inclement in Mandi, Kullu and Lahaul Spiti. The lower parts of the districts received mild rain, while the higher reaches of districts had fresh snowfall.The PM will dedicate and lay foundation stone of development projects worth Rs.11,300 crore. These projects will include dedication of 111 MW Sawra-Kuddu Hydro Electric Project (HEP) on the Pabbar in Shimla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/50-000-expected-to-attend-pm-modis-rally-in-mandi-today-354919
27-12-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Cap on private school fee a distant dream in Himachal Pradesh||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 25The Covid-19 pandemic cast its shadow on the education sector as plans of the government to open educational institutions were thwarted by the second wave which forced frequent lockdowns.Meanwhile, the long wait of university and college teachers did not end as the revised UGC scales were not released even after a delay of six years. The government passed an Act to establish another university at Mandi even though the six existing state universities are reeling under severe financial constraints.Parents of the children studying in private schools continued their agitation as the government dithered on the issue of bringing a legislation to regulate the fee structure.The issue of alleged irregularities in appointments at the Himachal Pradesh University was frequently raised by the Opposition. Besides, the decision of the executive council to give admission to the wards of teachers in PhD courses without any entrance test queered the pitch for the Vice-Chancellor.The cluster university set up under Rashtriya Ucchtar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) received a jolt as the government decided to transfer the infrastructure and assets along with staff to the new Sardar Patel University.The Education Department set up 1,023 clusters for middle, senior secondary and high levels under the New Education Policy for the optimal use of available infrastructure and manpower. Online teaching under “Har Ghar Pathshala” was a big success.The investigations into the multi-crore fake degree scam in Manav Bharti University (MBU) did not make any significant progress.The Himachal Pradesh Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission tightened its noose on private universities and a committee set up to scrutinise the eligibility of faculty members as per UGC norms found that 10 to 15 per cent of the faculty was ineligible in private universities. Qualifications and experience of newly appointed Vice Chancellors of eight private universities in the state are also under the scrutiny of the HPPERC.The distribution of laptops to meritorious students continued to hang fire as the government failed to take decisions on procurement of laptops and the beneficiaries did not get the laptops during 2021.NOOSE TIGHTENED AROUND VARSITIES||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cap-on-private-school-fee-a-distant-dream-354918
27-12-2021||December 26||Jab to all shot in arm for Himachal Health Department||It’s been a mixed year for the state on the health front. While the second wave of Covid-19 that peaked in April-May stretched the health infrastructure to its limit, the state did well to vaccinate the targeted population with both doses ahead of any other state in the country. Also, the inauguration of OPDs at AIIMS, Bilaspur, is another milestone achieved in the health sector.When the second wave peaked in April-May, the entire health set-up appeared crumbling under the weight of the sharp increase in the number of cases and deaths. There was a shortage of oxygen cylinders and beds. There were not enough Class IV employees at hospitals to take care of the patients. The struggle of the health set-up to cope with the situation was understandable to a certain extent because the second wave was much more severe and fatal than the first one. Compared to 980 deaths during the first wave, more than 2,400 had lost their lives till mid-June in the second wave. Overall, more than 3,850 people have died of Covid so far.Once the second wave subsided, the state ramped up the infrastructure further. The number of PSA oxygen plants has gone up to around 35 from five or six in April-May, the number of oxygen beds has risen to 2,275 and ICU beds to 264. “We are well prepared in case there’s a third wave,” said an official from the Health Department.As for non-Covid areas, the National Family Health Survey-5 reported that 30 per cent of children under five years of age were stunted and 25 per cent were underweight. Also, the state has the third lowest sex ratio at birth in the country. Also, as per a pan-India ICMR study, the prevalence of diabetes and hypertension is growing at an alarming rate in the state. As for positives, the state was ranked No. 1 in the National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme. It’s also among the leading states in the universal immunisation programme. HighsLows||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jab-to-all-shot-in-arm-for-health-department-354917
27-12-2021||Ambika Sharma||Himachal industry struggles to keep up pace despite infra boost||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 26Infrastructure development for the industrial sector in Himachal received a major boost this year with several projects, including Rs 5,000 crore medical device park, having been sanctioned by the Centre.The industrial production too managed to catch pace after a sluggish start, owing to the Covid-induced restrictions in various clusters.Meanwhile, the state government’s thrust on infrastructure development saw some positive outcomes with the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation setting up a grain-based ethanol plant in Una district worth Rs 400 crore for which the land has been allotted. A tool room worth Rs 17 crore has received an in-principal approval from the Union Ministry of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and is being set up in the Tahliwal industrial area. It is the first such cluster development project in the state.A competitive proposal for setting up a bulk drug park in Una district was also submitted before the Centre though its approval is awaited.Also, the state government signed Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) for 279 projects worth Rs 20,786 crore. This includes 130 MoUs of the Industries Department, which will fetch an investment of Rs 11,503 crore. The ground-breaking ceremony will be held on Monday after which the investors will take effective steps to launch their projects.As many as 39 new projects worth Rs 7,563.71 crore and 33 worth Rs 1,851.47 crore comprising the expansion of the existing industries have been cleared in the five state single-window meetings held in the current fiscal. This will generate employment for 16,669 persons. It, however, remains to be seen how many projects will begin production. Since there were no Central incentives available, a few new units opted for registration with the Industries Department after commencing the commercial production.Moreover, the much-awaited four-laning of the Pinjore-Nalagarh highway, which will decongest the state’s industrial hub of Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh, kick-started.The state’s pharmaceutical industry, on the other hand, remained the front-runner in fight against Covid with drugs like remdesivir, favipiravir among others and vaccines such as Sputnik V being manufactured here. 33,226 small-scale units356 large and medium units279 MoUs signedRs 20,786 cr proposed investmentSTATE RANKINGS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/industry-struggles-to-keep-up-pace-despite-infra-boost-354916
27-12-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||4 years of BJP Govt in Himachal: 'Mission Repeat' an uphill task for Jai Ram Thakur||Shimla, December 26With less than a year for the Assembly poll, the political setback in the four byelections couldn’t have come at a more inappropriate time for Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur.The defeat in the byelections and more so in the Mandi parliamentary bypoll, the home turf of the CM, has certainly weakened his position. Even as he puts up a brave front while admitting that the defeat was a “timely alert”, there is no doubt that he faces an onerous task of leading the saffron party to victory in the Assembly poll. The challenges he faces, both in government and party, are multifarious.Jai Ram Thakur, CMCong got sympathy votesThe Congress got the benefit of sympathy votes as the people of Himachal got swayed by emotions, but this will not happen each time.The fact that Covid has adversely impacted the economy and slowed down the pace of development over the last two years does not make his task any easier as his regime completes four years on December 27. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be present at a rally in Mandi to mark the fourth anniversary of the government but the expectations from the CM are high.Even as the CM credited the Congress victory in Mandi Lok Sabha and three Assembly bypolls in Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal Kotkhai to sympathy factor, the fact that internal sabotage and bickering within the BJP proved to be detrimental cannot be ignored. With the impending overhaul in the Cabinet as well as party organisation yet to happen, the disastrous performance is only adding to uncertainty and simmering discontent in the party cadres.“The Congress got benefit of sympathy votes as the people of Himachal got swayed by emotions, but this will not happen each time,” asserts Thakur. He says his regime has been sympathetic towards the poor and downtrodden as reflected in several social welfare schemes, which will help the party bounce back to repeat the government.The “Mission Repeat” of the BJP seems to be an uphill task considering the political scenario and the debacle in the bypoll has only added to the woes of the party. The high command will have high expectations from Thakur who till now has survived to remain in the saddle despite speculation of the leadership change.The fact that the cash-strapped economy has not much hope of generating additional resources makes the task even tougher. The debt stands at Rs 65,000 crore and the economy is not really looking up. Catering to the demands of the much-pampered contingent of over two lakh employees, besides pensioners, and granting them financial benefits has only added to the financial woes of the government.Rift in partyEven as the CM credited the Congress victory in the bypoll to sympathy factor, the fact that internal sabotage and bickering within the BJP proved to be detrimental cannot be ignored.Debt at Rs 65,000 crThe fact that the cash-strapped economy has not much hope of generating additional resources makes the task even tougher. The debt stands at Rs65,000 crore and the economy is not really looking up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-years-of-bjp-govt-mission-repeat-an-uphill-task-for-jai-ram-thakur-354911
27-12-2021||Palampur||Illegal private buses plying from Kangra district eat into state revenue||Contract carriage buses plying illegally from different towns of Kangra district to New Delhi, Chandigarh and other parts are resulting in a huge loss to the state exchequer.At present, over 40 to 50 buses are plying illegally from various towns of Kangra and their number is increasing day by day.These buses have the permit of contract carriage and as per rules, these have to pick passengers from one station to another and cannot pick them en route. However, these are operating on a daily basis like state buses picking passengers from Baijnath, Paprola, Palampur, Una, etc. These are liable to pay the state road tax that is charged from passengers per ticket. However, the owners do not pay the tax.A senior officer of the HRTC said the RTO, Dharamsala, was the only authority to take action against the buses. He said these buses had contract carriage permits but plied illegally, causing a heavy loss to the state exchequer. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-private-buses-eat-into-state-revenue-354904
27-12-2021||NURPUR||Two held for drug peddling||A narcotic cell team of the Kangra police has arrested two peddlers from Nurpur during the past two days.During patrolling at the Jabbar khud near Chatrolli, the team suspected the movement of a woman and during search 277-gram charas (cannabis) seized from her possession on Saturday. The woman Bimla Devi (42) of sansi mohalla, Kapurthala (Punjab), was arrested.In another case, the team seized 154-gram charas from the possession of Ajay Kumar of Chamba at Manoura village near Simbli bridge near here today. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-held-for-drug-peddling-354902
27-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Himachal Pradesh Veopar Mandal opposes market fee on 128 additional items||NURPUR, DECEMBER 26The Himachal Pradesh Veopar Mandal has taken a strong exception to the recent government notification on the addition of 128 new consumer items to the existing list of 132 items for paying market committee fee.Sumesh Sharma, the president of the mandal, said here today that the traders who were paying market fee on 132 items would now pay the same on 259 consumer items, including raw material and finished consumable items, which would ultimately lead to price rise and corruption, besides harassment to the trading community.He said the government had sought objections on the revised market fee items’ list but the state veopar mandal sought revocation of this notification in the larger interest of consumers and traders.The mandal president said the traders are paying one to five per cent market fees on the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Board (APMCB) barriers in the state. Sharma pleaded that in Punjab and Haryana, the APMCB was collecting market committee fee only on a few selected agricultural products in local mandis and market yards. However, the HP Government has declared the whole state as a market yard and the APMCB has opened its barriers on the inter-state borders in the state which have virtually become “dens of corruption”, he alleged.“As per rule, the market committee fee is collected for providing basic amenities to the farmers, sellers and buyers in the mandi or market yard but in Himachal, the basic purpose is not being fulfilled,” he lamented."Earlier, traders who have borne the brunt of the pandemic were also experiencing a drastic fall in their annual turnover due to the rising trend of online shopping, trade fairs and opening of shopping malls across the state but now they shall face the heat of the revised market committee fee structure," he lamented.He alleged that this fee was also being charged forcibly even on those items that were not included in the AMPCB’s list but the Agriculture Department authorities didn’t bother even after complaints were lodged several times by traders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traders-oppose-market-fee-on-128-additional-items-354900
27-12-2021||Lalit Mohan||5,100 PDS shops in Himachal to be grocery stores||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 26About 5,100 Public Distribution Supply (PDS) shops in the state will be converted into grocery shops. The shops that were earlier selling just food grain and edible oils would soon be selling all grocery items at discounted prices.Old model was not profitableThe PDS shops were not earning much profit. The Food and Civil Supplies Corporation will now centrally procure grocery items and supply them at discounted prices to the allottees of PDS shops. Lalit Jain, Firector, Food and Civil Supplies CorpnThe Director of Himachal Pradesh Food and Civil Supplies Corporation, Lalit Jain said the old model of PDS shops was not earning much profit for the people running them and the corporation. The corporation has now decided to transform these shops into proper grocery shops. The Food and Civil Supplies Corporation of the state will be centrally procuring the grocery items and further supplying these at discounted prices to the allottees of PDS shops, he said.Jain said the look of the PDS shops would also be changed and they would be branded as any other modern grocery store. The initial idea was that the corporation would sell all grocery items in rural areas at 10 per cent discount from maximum selling prices. The idea behind opening grocery shops was that the consumers in urban areas are now getting all grocery items at discounted prices from big stores like Reliance or Big Bazaar. However, consumers in rural areas are bereft of the benefit. The PDS shops will now bridge that gap, he said.Jain said the model would benefit rural consumers, allottees of PDS shops and the Food and Civil Supplies Corporation. The Food and Civil Supplies Corporation has been earning a profit of about Rs 1 crore per annum from the existing model. However, many allottees of the PDS shops were not earning much profit.Under the revamped model, the corporation aims to increase its profit to Rs 15 crore per annum. Besides, the profit of those running the PDS shops would also increase as they would be selling a wide variety of goods at discounted prices, he said.The director said in future, the corporation might also think of branding its products being sold through PDS shops. Since PDS shops have a wide customer base in rural areas, the products being sold to them can also be used for advertisingas it could earn moreprofit for the corporation, Jain said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-100-pds-shops-to-be-grocery-stores-354898
27-12-2021||Shimla||12 new Covid cases, no death in Himachal||A total of 12 new Covid cases were reported in the state in 24 hours, while no death was recorded. The number of active cases was 346 with the total positive cases till now being 2,28,549.The highest number of three cases each was reported in Kangra and Mandi followed by Solan and Hamirpur (two each) and Bilaspur and Una (one each) while no case was reported in Chamba, Kullu, Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti, Shimla and Sirmaur districts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/12-new-covid-cases-no-death-in-himachal-354896
27-12-2021||---||Mandi woman Himachal’s first Omicron case||Mandi, December 26The state on Sunday reported its first case of Omicron, a 45-year-old woman from Mandi district. She, however, tested negative on Saturday.Confirming the development, National Health Mission (NHM) Director Hemraj Bairwa said: “The first Omicron patient is a 45-year-old woman from Mandi district. She’s fully vaccinated but has a travel history to Canada. She arrived in Shimla on December 3. Her RT-PCR test was done on the eighth day on December 11 and the sample was sent for whole genome sequencing to Delhi. A positive report was received from the laboratory on Sunday.”“However, her RT-PCR test was done again on December 24 and she tested negative for Omicron,” he added.In a press statement, a government spokesperson said: “As many as 2,167 foreign passengers have arrived in the state as per the list shared by the Centre from November 20 to till now. Of these, 1,747 passengers were eligible for the RT-PCR testing…”“So far, the RT-PCR tests of 942 persons have been conducted and 10 samples have been found positive. Of these, seven samples were sent for whole genome sequencing to Delhi and one tested positive of Omicron. The rest of the three samples are in the process of being sent to the Delhi,” he added.“Meanwhile, three primary contacts of the patients have been traced so far and they have tested negative. All of them are fully vaccinated,” the spokesperson added.Scare may cast shadow on PM’s rally||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-woman-himachals-first-omicron-case-354894
