28-12-2021||Dipender Manta||Modi recalls special connect with Himachal Pradesh||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 27Striking an emotional chord with the people of the state, especially Mandi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi today said he had a special connect with Himachal, which had had a very positive impact in shaping his life.Striking emotional chordKashi in mindYou (PM) are familiar with every nook and corner of the state and know a majority of party leaders and workers by name. Mandi is known as ‘Chhoti Kashi’ while you represent Kashi, which now stands transformed. — Jai Ram Thakur, CMGroundbreaking ceremonyAdorning the traditional Kullu cap and Kinnauri muffler, Modi started his address in the local Mandiyali dialect much to the delight of the public. He said he was blessed to be in Chhoti Kashi.“I share a very special emotional bond with Himachal which has had a great impact in shaping and giving direction to my life,” said the PM.He added that he still relished the taste of Mandyali cuisine, including sepu vadi and meetha, which he savoured when he was in-charge of party affairs in the state.He heaped praises on Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur for steering the state on the path of development amid Covid.“Four hydro projects worth Rs 11,581 crore will not only help generate energy, but also create jobs,” he added, HP would earn Rs 125 crore from the Sawra Kuddu project while the major portion of the income from the Renuka project would be utilised on improving facilities in the area.The PM said it was essential to protect the environment while setting up projects. The state had set an example through organic farming. It had immense potential for pharma, food processing and agriculture, which must be developed.Modi said the state was the land of anushsan (discipline) and of valiant soldiers. His regime had given one rank, one pension to serving and retired defence personnel. HP had immense potential for religious tourism which must be tapped. Himachal had emerged as a model hill state which had been ranked among the top in several sectors. He assured HP of all help in its march on the path of development.Addressing the rally, Jai Ram Thakur said Himachal is blessed to have always received special love, affection and help from Modi, who considers HP his home.“You are familiar with every nook and corner of the state and know the majority of party leaders and workers by name. Mandi is known as “Chhoti Kashi” while you represent Kashi, which now stands transformed,” said the CM.“We are implementing the Shiv Dham project here to promote religious tourism,” he said.The CM said the Renuka project would meet the water requirements of Delhi. He said his regime had given medical benefits to 2.20 lakh people under the HIMCARE scheme and provided LPG connections to 3.23 lakh people under the Mukhya Mantri Ujjwala Yojana.“You ensured that Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s dream of constructing all-weather Atal Tunnel became a reality,” said the CM. He thanked the PM for providing AIIMS at Bilaspur, besides four medical colleges to the state.The CM said every possible effort would be made to ensure that the BJP would repeat the government in 2022.Addressing the gathering, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur said Modi had given approval to the much-delayed 40 MW Renuka project. Anurag said it was Modi who had made possible the completion of Atal Tunnel and construction of roads and rail network in Himachal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/modi-recalls-special-connect-with-state-355300
28-12-2021||---||3 decades on, Renukaji project stone laid||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 27After a delay running into decades and cost escalation into thousands of crores, Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually laid the foundation stone of the Renukaji Dam project from Mandi today.Essentially a water supply and storage scheme for the Delhi NCR, the Rs 6,946 crore project will supply 23 cumec water to the beneficiary. Besides, it will also generate 200 million units of energy in a surface powerhouse with 40 MW installed capacity, which will be utilized by the state.Being built on the Giri, the tributary of the Yamuna, in Sirmaur district, the project envisages the construction of a 14-metre-high rock fill dam. It will store monsoon discharges which otherwise go unused, leading to the formation of a 24-km long reservoir. The storage capacity of the dam will be 498 cubic metres.“When the project is completed, a large area will be directly benefited by it. Whatever income is generated by it, a large part of it will be spent on the development here,” said the Prime Minister.According to power officials, active work on the project had started way back in 1993. However, it took almost three decades since then to lay the foundation stone of the project. “There were several cumbersome issues like land acquisition and forest clearances that added to the delay,” said a power official.The project finally took off when an inter-state agreement was signed among six beneficiary states, Delhi, Haryana, UP, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh in January 2019. According to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, the DPR was accepted by the Ministry of Jal Shakti on December 9, 2019, at Rs 6,946.99 crore after the signing of the agreement. As per the agreement, 90 per cent of the of the cost of irrigation or drinking water component will be provided by central government, while the remaining 10 per cent will be borne by rest of the basin states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-decades-on-renukaji-project-stone-laid-355301
28-12-2021||Subhash Rajta||Street vendor complex in Shimla soon||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 27Street vendors will soon have a dedicated shopping complex in the city. They will be shifted to a multi-storey building, equipped with amenities like lifts, parking lot and washrooms, on Cart Road near the Lift, one of the prime locations of the city.A WELCOME MOVEWe’ve spent decades doing business from makeshift shops. Being in the open, we face a lot of problems during monsoon and winter. It will be good to finally have a shop indoors. Vendor at the Tibetan market“The Ajivika Bhawan is almost complete, only the finishing touches are remaining,” said Municipal Corporation (MC) Commissioner Ashish Kohli.Mayor Satya Kaundal said the six-storey building could be the only facility of its kind for street vendors in the country. “I don’t think you will see such a wonderful facility built for street vendors anywhere else in the country,” the Mayor added.“The Prime Minister has been focusing a lot on the welfare of street vendors. The Shimla MC has taken a big step in that direction by providing a state-of-the-art commercial space to the vendors,” she said.The idea, though, was conceived and put into motion by the previous MC, which was headed by CPM’s Sanjay Chauhan and Tikender Panwar, in 2015. “This was our dream project. We wanted to build a world-class facility for street vendors. We brought a budget of Rs 3.5 crore from the Centre. It was supposed to come up by March 2017, but got delayed. However, I am glad that our dream project is almost ready now,” said former Mayor Sanjay Chauhan.The MC plans to shift the vending zone on the Ridge-Rivoli-Lakkar Bazaar stretch, which includes the famous Tibetan market, to the new complex. “The complex will have around 220 shops. We have identified over 160 vendors who will be relocated to the Ajivika Bhawan. Of these, 76 are Tibetans and the rest are Indians,” the MC commissioner said.Given the prime location of the complex and the facilities, the shops can fetch high rentals for the MC. “The rent will be fixed by the House. Of course, we can get high rentals from these shops, but we will go for a reasonable amount,” Kohli added.The MC Commissioner further said nearly Rs 7 crore had been spent to construct the building. “A part of the funds came from the Centre, some from the MC and the Smart City Mission,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/street-vendor-complex-in-shimla-soon-355302
28-12-2021||---||Winter water supply for Keylong||Abhinav VashishtKullu, December 27Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda has said an anti-freeze water supply system will be implemented to ensure uninterrupted drinking water supply throughout the year, especially in Keylong, the headquarters of Lahaul and Spiti district.Novel techniqueThe decision has been taken after studying the drinking water supply system in the US and European countries. Neeraj Kumar, deputy commissioner, lahaul and spitiHe directed the district administration and the Jal Shakti Department to take up the ambitious scheme in a stipulated time.The minister said in Keylong, situated at an altitude of 3,000 metres, residents face water shortage as it freezes during the winter season. Markanda said the project would be completed at the cost of Rs 13.78 crore and instructions had been given to start the construction work by completing the tender process by March 2022.All necessary steps would be taken to implement the scheme on a priority basis as per the prescribed standards and technology.Atal Tunnel has facilitated the entry to the Lahaul valley and due to this, the number of tourists coming to the valley is also increasing. Keylong is the tourist attraction. Arrangements will be made to provide the facility of anti-freeze water supply system to facilitate tourists and residents. It will also be a big gift for the government employees working in Keylong.Lahaul and Spiti Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said that after studying the system of drinking water supply even in sub-zero temperature during snowfall in American and European countries, it has been decided to streamline drinking water supply using the same technology in Keylong. He added that a preliminary experiment of this scheme was carried out in Keylong hospital and it was successful.Under this technique, the pipe network will be laid at a depth of about 4 feet below the ground besides ensuring other aspects of the technology. He said that the progress of the scheme would be reviewed regularly so that the scheme is completed within the stipulated time.According to the minister, once this action plan comes to fruition, this model can be started in other areas of the valley as well. Tourism in Keylong has also expanded significantly during the last few years. In such a situation, the drinking water supply scheme will prove to be very helpful for the hotel, restaurant and homestay operators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/winter-water-supply-for-keylong-355303
28-12-2021||---||Nurpur gets mining officer||Rajiv MahajanNurpur, December 27The HP Government has filled the post of Mining Officer (MO) at Nurpur that had been lying vacant for the past eight months. It had resulted in blatant illegal mining activities, especially in lower Kangra areas bordering Punjab.The Tribune had carried a story, ‘No officer, mining mafia thrives in Nurpur’ in these columns on December 20. As per the sources, the state government took cognisance of the story and issued transfer order of an MO posted at Solan on December 23.Kulbhushan Sharma, the MO who joined here on Monday, told The Tribune that he would try his best to check illegal mining activities in lower Kangra areas comprising Nurpur, Jawali, Indora and Fatehpur subdivisions bordering Punjab. He said an action plan would be prepared, in coordination with other government departments, including the local administration and the police. The focus would be to encourage legal mining and simultaneously generate revenue for the state exchequer, he said. “Stringent action will be taken against illegal mining being carried out on the riverbeds during night hours,” he said.The post of the MO had been created here in 2016-17 during the previous Virbhadra Singh government after spurt in illegal mining in Chakki, Chhonch and the Beas in the lower Kangra. The MO posted was transferred to Una in April.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpur-gets-mining-officer-355304
28-12-2021||Ambika Sharma||Rise in child stunting in Himachal Pradesh: Study||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 27The stunting ratio has risen from 26 per cent in 2015-16 to 31 per cent in 2019-20, while the wasting ratio has grown from 14 per cent to 17 per cent during this period.The ratio of overweight children has tripled from 2 per cent to 6 per cent from 2015-16 to 2019-20, a study said.The state has 12 districts and only a few have recorded an improvement in these criteria in the past four years. While Hamirpur and Shimla districts have shown an improvement in stunting, the trend in the remaining 10 districts has worsened in the past four years.In wasting criterion, only four districts namely Lahaul-Spiti, Bilaspur, Kinnaur and Sirmaur have shown an improvement. In overweight criterion, only Hamirpur registered improvement. Shimla, Sirmaur and Solan have shown an improvement in underweight criterion, while only Hamirpur showed improvement in overweight parameter.The state has directed the officials of various departments such as Health and Family Welfare, Ayurveda as well as Women and Child Health to coordinate this trend by monitoring the growth of children in the first two years.Anganwari workers will be assisted by the health staff to check malnourishment among children, with focus on controlling diarrhoea and respiratory diseases. Early marriage, especially among the migrant population, also resulted in malnutrition, said health experts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rise-in-child-stunting-study-355305
28-12-2021||Solan||Workshop for farmers at Nauni University||An experience-sharing workshop was organised by the Hill Agriculture and Rural Development Agency (HARP), Shimla, at the Directorate of Extension Education, Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, on Monday.Thirtyfour farmers from Rupi, Chota Kamba and Nathpa gram panchayats of the Nichar block of Kinnaur district participated in it.Dr RS Ratan, HARP chairman, said the programme was organised under the Integrated Tribal Development Project at Rupi, Chhota Kamba and Nathpa gram panchayats. It has been funded by NABARD and is being implemented by HARP.Dr Ratan further said this was a horticulture-based livelihood programme implemented by HARP with the farmers’ participation. Over 76,000 apple saplings have been planted on 435 acres in these three gram panchayats and 607 families have been benefited.Dr Sudhanshu Mishra, GM, NABARD, urged the farmers to make various programmes successful through their support. Meanwhile, an interaction was held between farmers and scientists, in which the technical queries of the participants were addressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/workshop-for-farmers-at-nauni-varsity-355306
28-12-2021||---||Congress memo to Himachal Governor over 'govt failures'||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 27Citing failures in governance, Covid management, finance and other sectors in the past four years, the Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) today submitted a memorandum against the government to the Governor and sought his intervention to check deterioration in all sectors.Poser on 100% vaccinationHimachal Pradesh Congress Committee chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore questioned the claims of 100% Covid vaccination figures and said if the population was already vaccinated, who were the people getting jabs at present.March against rising inflationThe state has a debt of more than Rs 65,000 crore and all sectors, including health, education, transport and tourism, are facing the consequences of poor governance, said HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore, who led a protest march against the failures of the government to Raj Bhawan.Attacking the Centre and BJP leaders for not safeguarding the interests of the state, Rathore said development indicators, economy and employment figures in numerous reports showed a downward trend and increasing transparency had become the need of the hour.A similar protest march was organised throughout the state at district levels and memoranda were submitted to the Governor through Deputy Commissioners. It also referred to the rampant corruption in the past four years and mining, jungle, liquor and tender mafia prevailing in the state.Addressing mediapersons, the president said BJP national president JP Nadda and Union Minister Anurag Thakur had also failed to get any financial package to the state. The BJP leaders were trying to fool the people by inaugurating the schemes and projects started during the Congress regime.He asked the government to issue white paper on investor meet held at Dharamsala and Mandi and said the state had excelled in the pharma industry during the Congress regimes but the growth had come to a halt during the BJP tenure and the firms had started shifting from Himachal due to the non-cooperative attitude of the government.He also questioned the claims of 100 per cent Covid vaccination figures and said if the population was already vaccinated, who were the people getting vaccinated at present. The cost of LPG cylinders had doubled ever since the BJP government came to power at the Centre and the ration cost under PDS had also increased, making life of a common man difficult.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-memo-to-guv-over-govt-failures-355308
28-12-2021||shimla||BJP Govt failed to fulfil promises made to people of Himachal Pradesh: CPM||The CPM slammed the BJP government for “not fulfilling promises” it made to the people of the state after coming to power four years back.At a protest in Shimla to highlight the failures of the BJP government, the CPM said the party failed miserably in reducing inflation, generating employment, ensuring remunerative prices for farm produce and raising wages of labourers. Besides, the CPM alleged, the BJP had promised to restore the old pension scheme and a policy for outsourced, contractual and part-time workers but nothing had been done.The CPM alleged that due to the “wrong policies” of the government, the state was under a debt of Rs 62,000 crore. “Also, the burden on the common man is increasing as the water, power and transport tariffs have increased manifold and healthcare, education and food items have also become very expensive.”The leaders further claimed that the unemployment had gone from bad to worse in the last four years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/promises-not-fulfilled-cpm-355309
28-12-2021||KULLU||Water tanks to help combat fires in remote villages of Kullu||Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg said an estimate had been prepared for the construction of 110 water storage tanks in the far-flung villages of the district which were vulnerable to fires.Many houses were razed and huge amounts of property was damaged in the district, he stated here while presiding over a meeting organised in relation to various works to be done in coordination with various departments under the Panchavati Yojana and MGNREGA in the district.Mentioning the recent fire disasters in Malana and Mazhan villages, he said it was difficult to reach these villages because these were not connected by road. Therefore, the damage to the property was more. There was need to take steps to minimise the damage caused by such incidents. It was decided to instal water storage tanks in sensitive villages.The DC said the tanks would be constructed by the Forest Department in collaboration with the Jal Shakti Department under MGNREGA and other schemes. He directed the Block Development Officers to select such villages where water storage tanks were needed first.Garg said at the time of construction, care should be taken to ensure that the tank was safe. The design and other technical support for constructing the tanks would be prepared by the engineers of Jal Shakti Department. Officials said a steel structure tank had been designed for Mazhan village. Similar tanks would be built in remote areas so that water can be supplied from the tanks at the time of a fire incident. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-tanks-to-help-combat-fires-in-remote-villages-of-kullu-355310
28-12-2021||---||To protest if funds for tribals diverted: NGO Pangwal Ekta Manch, Pangi||Our CorrespondentChamba, December 27The  , an NGO, warned the state government to discontinue diversion of the tribal area development budget to non-tribal areas from the financial year 2022-23, otherwise the people of Pangi would protest against the practice.In a representation made to the Chief Minister, NGO office-bearers urged him to prepare a vision document for the tribal areas, establishing economic infrastructure such as engineering, medical, nursing, dental, polytechnic colleges and industrial centres rather than diverting the tribal sub-plan funds to non-tribal areas on the pretext that the tribal population and students were also stakeholders in development schemes in non-tribal areas.They pointed out that the position was evident from the allocation of the annual tribal area development programme budget for 2021-22 among five integrated tribal development projects which included Pangi, Bharmour, Lahaul, Spiti and Kinnaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-protest-if-funds-for-tribals-diverted-ngo-355311
28-12-2021||Mandi||Developed by IIT-Mandi, landslide monitoring system reviewed||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday reviewed the Landslide Monitoring and Early Warning System developed by the Indian Institute of Technology, Mandi during his visit to Himachal Pradesh.Developed by IIT Mandi’s Associate Professor, School of Computing and Electrical Engineering, Dr Varun Dutt and Assistant Professor, School of Engineering, Dr K.V. Uday, the device is a low-cost alternative to conventionally used monitoring systems and reduces landslides by predicting the soil movement in advance.“The Landslide Monitoring System provides soil movement alerts via hooters and blinkers installed on the road remotely via text message. Additionally, the system sends rainfall alerts in advance if more than 5 mm of rain is predicted. Landslides are predicted 10 minutes before they actually occur by monitoring changes in soil movement. The system also predicts extreme weather events with the help of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning,” said a release from IIT, Mandi.The prototypical device was first deployed in July-August 2017 at an active landslide area on the Gharpa hill near IIT Mandi’s Kamand campus. The first field deployment was at Kotropi Landslide in 2018 with the support from the Mandi district administration.The device’s utility was witnessed on July 27, 2018, when a tragedy was averted at Kotropi along the Mandi-Joginder Nagar national highway due to rains and a flash flood by the system. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/developed-by-iit-landslide-monitoring-system-reviewed-355312
28-12-2021||Solan||Covid -ve report must for BBN staff after five-day leave||Employees of industrial units in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) area will have to furnish a negative RT-PCR test report for resuming duty after availing more than five days of leave.Quarantine advisoryStaff coming from high-viral load states, where Omicron cases have been reported, have also been advised to undergo five-day quarantine, apart from producing an RT-PCR negative test report before rejoining duty.To prevent the spread of highly contagious Omicron variant in the BBN area, Nalagarh SDM Mahendra Pal today issued these orders.This stipulation will, however, be applicable only, for employees undertaking inter-state movement. Staff coming from high viral load states, where Omicron cases have been reported, have also been advised to undergo five-day quarantine apart from producing an RT-PCR negative report before rejoining.Violations will invite strict action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of the IPC against employees as well as the industrial management.The health staff will begin random sampling in industrial units and further gene sequencing in case some positive cases of the new variant are reported.The BBN area had emerged as a major hotspot during the earlier Covid waves due to which the administration has urged the units to cooperate in preventing its spread. “Since the new variant is much more contagious, early detection will help prevent its spread. This will also ensure that no industry is closed and no business has to suffer. Industries have already been directed to maintain a vigil on foreign passengers,” said the SDM.Meanwhile, the administration has kept a 35-bed makeshift hospital with oxygen beds at Nalagarh ready for any eventuality. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-ve-report-must-for-bbn-staff-after-five-day-leave-355313
28-12-2021||Shimla||Himachal reports 31 new Covid cases||A total of 31 new Covid cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours. With this, the number of active cases has mounted to 344.The highest number of 13 cases was reported in Kangra followed by Una, (4) Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Shimla and Solan (3 each), Kullu, and Sirmaur (1 each) while no case was reported from Chamba, Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti and Mandi districts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/punjab-state-reports-31-new-cases-355314
28-12-2021||Shimla||Accused of 'vulgar' talk, Rohru govt college principal suspended||Officiating principal of Government Post Graduate College, Seema, Rohru, was on Monday suspended for indulging in vulgar talk with a girl student and disciplinary proceedings against him are being contemplated by the Education Department.Following a complaint by the girl student and the women cell of the college, an FIR for sexual harassment and stalking was registered against the accused, Brjesh Chauhan, under Sections 354A and 354D of the IPC at the Rohru police station.The incident occurred when the student approached the principal for filling the scholarship form and the latter asked her to call him. When she called the principal, he started vulgar talk and irritated by the behaviour, the girl recorded the conversation and made a complaint to the women cell of the college.Objectionable comments about the staff were also made in the conversation. The department had received verbal complaints about the principal’s behaviour in thepast too, but this time the matter is serious and demanded action, said Education Director Amarjeet Sharma.As per the order of Secretary (Education) Rajeev Sharma, the headquarter of the officiating principal will be at the SCERT, Solan, during the suspension period. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/accused-of-vulgar-talk-rohru-govt-college-principal-suspended-355315
28-12-2021||Solan||Biker killed in accident||A 20-year-old biker was killed after being hit by an unknown vehicle at Malpur village in Baddi this morning.Mukesh Kumar of Jubbar village was found lying on the Malpur road by an onlooker, who took him to the Community Health Centre at Baddi. He, however, succumbed to injuries in the hospital.A case under Sections 279 and 304A of the IPC and Section 187 of the Motor Vehicles Act had been registered and probe was underway, said DSP Navdeep Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/biker-killed-in-accident-355316
28-12-2021||Mandi||Stranded tourists evacuated in Mandi, Kullu||As many as 150 tourists were rescued by the police from the Prashar lake area in Mandi district last night. The were stuck due to a sudden snowfall.SP Shalini Agnihotri said it took almost 12 hours for a police team to evacuate the stranded tourists from the Prashar lake. In Kullu, around 50 tourist vehicles had been stuck near the Hamta Pass due to the fresh snowfall. The stranded tourists were evacuated by the police and the locals.SP Kullu Gurdev Chand Sharma said all tourists were evacuated from the Hamta Pass and taken to safe place near Manali. Similarly, a few tourist vehicles were stuck on the Solang-Manali road. The police had launched a rescue operation and evacuated all stranded people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stranded-tourists-evacuated-in-mandi-kullu-355317
28-12-2021||The Himachal Pradesh University Teachers' Association (HPUTA) has urged the HP Government to implement the seventh pay panel report of UGC immediately||Implement 7th pay panel report: Himachal Pradesh University Teachers' Association||Keep hostel, mess open: ABVPThe ABVP unit of Himachal Pradesh University has demanded that hostels should remain open during the vacation as well. Also, the ABVP said, the hostel mess too should be kept functional. The ABVP said many students were preparing for competitive exams, so the hostel and mess should remain open during the vacation.Capacity-building programmeThe Centre for Human Resource Development of Himachal Pradesh National Law University, Shimla, organised a two-week capacity-building programme on research methodology. Professor Krishna Deva Rao gave the valedictory address and enriched the participants with suggestions on research methodology. The chief guest for the valedictory ceremony was Vice-Chancellor Professor Nishtha Jaswal. She emphasised the essence of ethics in research.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/implement-7th-pay-panel-report-hputa-355318
28-12-2021||Commuting in Shimla has become a nightmare these days because of tourist rush in the city. If one gets stuck in traffic at peak hours||Tourist rush causing traffic jam in Shimla||Buses packed to capacity Private buses are packed to capacity in Shimla. As many HRTC buses have been sent to Mandi for the state government’s function, commuters have to get into already packed buses to reach their destination. At a time when there’s a fear of the resurgence of Covid, it is dangerous and inconvenient.— Devender, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something that you feel needs to be highlighted?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourist-rush-causing-traffic-jam-355319
28-12-2021||Dipender Manta||PM Modi unveils slew of hydel projects in HP||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 27Taking a dig at the Congress for indulging in vote bank politics and self-promotion, Prime Minister Narendra Modi today said the BJP believed in the ideology of ensuring development of the country and welfare of the poor and downtrodden.Addressing a rally here today to mark the completion of four years of the BJP government in Himachal, Modi said the endeavour of the double-engine regimes —- at the Centre and state —-was to ensure “sabka saath, sabka vikas”. The function was attended by Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal, ministers and party legislators. “While the BJP firmly believes in the ideology of ‘sabka vikas’, the other parties are guided by the principle of ‘apna vikas’,” he said in an oblique reference to the Congress.The PM inaugurated the 111-MW Sawra Kuddu hydel project and laid the foundation stones of Renuka (40 MW), Luhri Stage-I (210 MW) and Dhaulasidh (66 MW) hydel projects. The four projects are worth Rs 11,581 crore.He said that while the BJP believed in the ideology of “vikas” (development), the Congress believed in the ideology of “vilamb” (delay) as was evident from the inordinate delay in the completion of the Atal tunnel at Rohtang and the final nod for the Renuka hydel project which will cater to the water requirements of the national capital, Delhi.The PM said Covid vaccination of children in the age group of 15-18 would begin from January 3 while the precaution dose would be administered to healthcare workers and people above the age of 60 with comorbidities from January 10, 2022.He said it was essential to protect environment while setting up developmental projects in Himachal. “It is also the responsibility of tourists coming to HP to not litter plastic on hill slopes and rivers as it is environmentally very degrading,” he asserted, adding that his government’s thrust was on proper plastic waste management with focus on “climate friendly new India”.“We believe in ‘beta, beti ek samman’, which is why we feel marriage age for both boys and girls must be the same so that they can study and be financially independent,” he remarked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pm-unveils-slew-of-hydel-projects-in-hp-355178
28-12-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||PM Modi speaks in local dialect in Himachal's Mandi, says was blessed to be in 'Chhoti Kashi'||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 27Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday attended the ground breaking ceremony for 287 investment projects worth over Rs 28,197 crores in Mandi to mark the fourth anniversary of the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government in the state.Donning a long woollen coat and hand gloves amidst chilly weather, Modi presided over the second groundbreaking ceremony of the Himachal Pradesh Global Investors' Meet that is expected to give a boost to investment in the region through the start of projects worth around Rs 28,000 crore.The first groundbreaking ceremony was held in the state capital in December 2019 amid the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. A total of nearly 100 investors were present on the occasion.Speaking in the local Mandiyali dialect, PM Modi said he was blessed to be in “Chotti Kashi”. “I share a very special emotional bond with Himachal and the state has had a very positive impact in shaping and giving direction to my life,” he said.He added that he still relishes the taste of Mandyali cuisine of “sepu vadi and meetha”.He heaped praises on the chief minister for steering the state on the path of development amidst Covid pandemic.The PM said the four hydro projects would not only help generate energy but create employment opportunities, adding that Himachal would earn a revenue of Rs 125 crore from Sawra Kuddu project while the major portion of the income from the Renuka project would be utilised on improving facilities in the area.The PM said it was essential to protect environment while setting up development projects. “It is also the responsibility of tourists coming to Himachal not to litter the hills and rivers with plastic,” he urged. He said his government’s thrust was on proper plastic waste management. He said Himachal had set an example through organic farming as the state. He said the state has an immense potential in pharma, food processing and agriculture, which must be developed.He said while the BJP regime believed in Sabka Vikas - Sabka Saath while the others parties “in their own development”.“We believe in Beta Beti Ek Samman, which is why we feel marriage age for both boys and girls must be the same so that they can study and be financially independent,” he remarked.The PM said Covid vaccination of children in the age group of 15-18 years would begin from January 3 while precaution dose would be administered to health care workers and people above the age of 60 with comorbidities from January 10, 2022.In an oblique reference to the Congress he said, while they believed in politics of “vilamb” (delay), the BJP believed in politics of “vikas” (development). He cited the example of Atal Rohtang tunnel and Renuka hydro project being delayed.He said the “double engine” BJP regime at the centre and in the states ensured implementation of all projects in the state. Modi said Himachal was land of “anushsan” (discipline) and of valiant soldiers. He said his regime had given one rank one pension to serving and retired army personnel. He said the state had immense potential for religious tourism, which must be tapped. He said Himachal had emerged as a model hill state, which was ranked at the top in several sectors.  He assured HP of all help and assistance in its match on the path of development.Chief Minister Jairam Thakur welcomed the Prime Minister by offering a Himachali cap and a shawl. A traditional artifact of Chamba made on silver was presented to Modi, who was accompanying his Cabinet minister Anurag Thakur, who belongs to the state.Amidst recitation of Sanskrit 'shlokas', the events also marked the completion of the four years of the BJP government.Addressing the gathering, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur said it was the vision of PM Modi who made the completion of Rohtang Atal tunnel and construction of roads and rail network in Himachal Pradesh possible.Jai Ram Thakur said Himachal was blessed to have received special love, affection and help from PM Modi who considers the hill state his home. “You are familiar with not just every nook and corner of the state, but you know majority of the party leaders and workers by name,” said Thakur.Mandi is known as “Chotti Kashi” while you represent Kashi, which now stands transformed. He said that he too was trying to develop Himachal and rest of the state from tourism point of view.“We are implementing Shiv Dham project here in Mandi to promote tourism and rich culture of the state,” he said.The CM said every possible effort will be made to ensure that the BJP wins 2022 Assembly elections.PM Modi inaugurated the 111MW Sawra Kuddu hydel project and laid foundation stones of Renuka (40 MW), Luhri I (210) and Dhaula Sidh (66MW) hydro projects. Himachal will get 12 per cent free power from these projects on commissioning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/modi-considers-himachal-his-home-and-the-hill-state-has-always-received-special-love-affection-from-the-pm-jai-ram-thakur-355090
