29-12-2021||Shimla||52 fresh Covid-19 cases, one more death in Himachal Pradesh||Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday recorded 52 fresh Covid-19 cases that took its tally to 2,28,705, while one more fatality pushed the death toll to 3,857, a health official said.The latest death was reported from Chamba district, he said.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh stands at 403, according to the official.Eighteen more patients recovered from the viral disease, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,24,427, the official said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/52-fresh-covid-19-cases-one-more-death-in-himachal-pradesh-355938
29-12-2021||Vijay Mohan||Punjab remains dry in December, excess downpour in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 29Punjab has remained virtually dry in the month of December while rain received in Haryana is just about half of normal for this period. On the other hand, Himachal Pradesh has experienced surplus rain.Data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) shows that rain has been deficient by 99 percent in Punjab. From December 1 to December 29, the state received 0.1 mm rain as compared to the normal of 11.3 mm.Haryana has recorded a deficiency of 54 per cent for this period, with the actual rain received being 2.5 mm against the normal of 5.3 mm. The hill state of Himachal Pradesh received 69 mm rain against the normal of 39.6 mm, translating to a surplus of 74 per cent.While rain has fared poorly during the year’s last month in Punjab and Haryana, precipitation has been above normal in all three states during the; last quarter of the year. IMD data shows that from October 1 to December 29, the total rainfall was surplus by 45 percent in both Haryana and Himachal Pradesh and by 39 percent in Punjab.Warning of cold wave conditions in isolated pockets over northwest India during next 4-5 days, the IMD has predicted that an intense western disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan Region during 4-7 January 2022, with possibility of isolated heavy falls on January 4-7 over north western India.“A fresh active western disturbance and its induced cyclonic circulation is very likely to cause fairly widespread rainfall or snowfall during 04th to 07th with possibility of isolated heavy falls on 05th and 06th over Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh,” a bulletin issued by IMD today said.“Light or moderate scattered to fairly widespread rainfall over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, north Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh during 05th to 07th is also likely,” the bulletin added.In addition, the weatherman has also forecast cold wave and  severe cold wave conditions in isolated/some parts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh during December 30 to January 3 along with dense fog in isolated pockets during night and morning hours over the next two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-remains-dry-in-december-excess-downpour-in-himachal-355927
29-12-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur thanks Rajnath Singh for five bridges||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday dedicated 27 strategically important projects in four states and two union territories to people, of which five bridges have been built in the state.CM Jai Ram Thakur participated in the programme virtually from Shimla and expressed gratitude towards Rajnath and the Centre for dedicating the projects constructed by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO).He said the five bridges were Kothi-1 bridge, Kothi-II bridge, Commander bridge, Patsio bridge on Manali-Sarchu road and Kashang bridge on Powari-Pooh road.“The country had become stronger than ever under PM Narendra Modi’s leadership and today, our borders are more secure. The connectivity to the border areas has increased and infrastructure is also being strengthened,” the CM added.Thakur further said these bridges on the alternative route to Leh would prove to be of great help to soldiers. “It will also strengthen the socio-economic relations between the people of Keylong and Leh-Ladakh.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-thanks-rajnath-for-five-bridges-355736
29-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something that you feel needs to be highlighted?||Traffic jams cause for concern in Shimla||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Traffic jams cause for concernTraffic jams have become a serious issues these days, especially near the Vidhan Sabha. With a lot of tourists coming into the city for New Year, the roads are getting choked with vehicles. The situation is quiet bad near the Vidhan Sabha. — Amit, ShimlaFloor for elderly in library opposedThe attempts to cut down the seating capacity in the State Library building on the Ridge are unfortunate. When so many youngsters and elderly come and sit in the library, the plan to devote an entire floor to senior citizens does not make any sense. The current set-up should not be altered. — Sahil, Shimla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-jams-cause-for-concern-355735
29-12-2021||The SFI unit of Kotshera College unfurled the flag of independence||SFI unit of Kotshera College celebrates 51st foundation day||HPU VC mulls alumni homeIn an online ‘Kulpati Samwad’, conducted by Neelum Mattu and hosted under the auspices of the HPU Alumni Association, VC Sikander Kumar shared his plan to build an alumni home. He said the HPU would identify the land and the alumni should raise a beautiful structure for their alma mater. The VC also shared his vision of creating an inclusive environment with equal opportunities for women in all activities of the university. He specially mentioned the creation of gyms and libraries in hostels with Wi-Fi connectivity for all students.Health awareness campTo promote the health awareness among the MGNREGA workers, the University Institute of Technology (UIT), HPU, organised a health, hygiene and safety awareness programme under the village adoption programme at Ghanahatti, Shimla, on Tuesday. Around 30 workers participated in it. UIT director Prof PL Sharma appreciated the efforts of Dr Jasmine Kaur, the programme coordinator.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sfi-celebrates-51st-foundation-day-355734
29-12-2021||Mandi||March against rising inflation in Mandi||The district unit of the Akhil Bhartiya Janwadi Mahila Samiti held a protest march here today against the rising prices during the BJP regime in the state and the Centre.Samiti chief Veena Vaidh said under the BJP government, prices were rising rapidly. The prices of petrol, diesel and LPG were very high, which should be reduced considerably, she said.“Inflation has made life difficult for the public. They are finding it difficult to manage their budget.” “We urge the government to reduce these prices considerably. It should roll back the prices of ration in depots too,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/march-against-rising-inflation-in-mandi-355733
29-12-2021||Shimla||To promote natural farming in Himachal, women become messengers||Rural women picked up as ‘Krishi Sakhis’ (community resourse persons) for agriculture-related activities under the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) have become the messengers of natural farming in Himachal.Create awarenessNatural farming reduces costs and improves nutrition and we have to break that psyche and create awareness among farmers to take to non-chemical farming for better results. Chiter Rekha, pradhan, Tundal panchayatThe womenfolk associated with training in natural farming technique, concept seeding at village organisation level, training and promotion of ecological practices, promotion of agri-nutri garden and running seed banks by the Himachal Pradesh Prakritik Khushhal Kisan (PK3Y) Yojana are changing the mindsets, with sustainable agriculture, income, environment and nutrition in focus.Kanta Devi, 58, from Kwara village in Mashobra block in Shimla, who has been doing natural farming in polyhouses and open fields with family members for some years, says, “I was designated as ‘Krishi Sakhi’ a few months ago and since then, I have trained seven self-help groups of women and members of village organisation in my area.“Women are the main workable force in the agriculture fields across the country. So it is always effective if the women are trained and the message about farming is spread through women only,” said Dr Suneel Chandel, Consultant (Trainings) at the State Project Implementing Unit (SPIU), PK3Y.So far, 23 trainings have been conducted for 502 ‘Krishi Sakhis’ in natural farming techniques in 12 districts of Himachal Pradesh. Their exposure visits to the farms are also being conducted. In all, 1.53 lakh farmer families in Himachal Pradesh have adopted natural farming partially or fully on 9,192 hectares. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-promote-natural-farming-women-become-messengers-355731
29-12-2021||KULLU||Amrut scheme: Master plan for Kullu in the pipeline||Education, Arts, Language and Culture Minister Govind Singh Thakur said about 82-km area having width of about 2.5 km from Bhuntar to Kothi in Kullu district had been included in the Amrut scheme to formulate a master plan to meet the basic needs of people by 2041.Presiding over a meeting organised by the Town and Country Planning Department for getting a feedback and suggestions on the draft of the master plan, prepared by the Feedback Infra Consultancy, Gurugram, for the city here today, he said more suggestions would have to be taken before finalising the development plan.The minister said tourism is the backbone of the district. Adventure tourism, religious tourism and deity culture also need to be kept in mind. The consultancy agency had worked hard to prepare the master plan, but still there was a scope for improvement by taking suggestions from stakeholders.He asked the department to organise a workshop to get more suggestions from elected representatives, voluntary organisations and various associations. He also stressed the need for wide publicity.The minister said being a hilly state, there was a shortage of land and in such a situation there was a need to make specific rules for multi-storey buildings. He added that if there was an exemption for hotel construction up to a height of 21 metres, then there should not be any restriction on the number of storeys.Town and Country Planning state architect KC Nanta cleared doubts of the people and gave information about the construction rules and the master plan.Virender Kumar, vice-president, Feedback Infra Consultancy, Gurugram, gave a presentation of the draft of the master plan. He said the draft would be finalised after a deliberation on how the infrastructure facilities should be created for Kullu-Manali keeping in view the population for the next 20 years.He said 41 villages and two cities Kullu and Manali have been included in the scheme. Solid waste management, sewerage, drinking water facility, roads and parking, development of untouched tourist destinations and beautification of cities had been included in the plan. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/amrut-scheme-master-plan-for-kullu-in-the-pipeline-355730
29-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Lahaul traditional products to go online||KULLU, DECEMBER 28Lahaul and Spiti Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said the platforms like Amazon and Flipkart should be utilised to make Lahaul traditional products available to the consumers.During his address after inaugurating exhibitions and sales centre, set up for women self-help groups under the joint aegis of the National Rural Livelihood Mission and State Rural Livelihood Mission in Keylong today, he said traditional handicrafts products and cuisines would be introduced to tourists. It would help preserve the heritage of this distinctive art and cuisine and make self-help groups self-reliant.The Deputy Commissioner said the tribal arts, crafts and cuisine are replete with rich variations. The people, especially the women, have cherished them till date, for which they are worthy of congratulations, he added. He said there is no inflow of tourists to Lahaul throughout the year due to the severe winter conditions. He added that, therefore, steps are being taken to ensure the availability of such outlets outside Lahaul as well.He further said while plans are under way to organise exhibition and sales events at Himachal Bhawan, Delhi and Chandigarh, HPTDC hotels in Manali and Kullu and select private hotels will also have sales outlets of these products. These products are also being put up for sale at Lahaul-Spiti Bhawan in Manali.The Deputy Commissioner said Lahauli socks had got the Geographical Indication (GI) tag and efforts will be made to get GI tag for other products of Lahaul as well. He said the process for GI tagging of the traditional welcome ceremony of Lahaul-Spiti will also be initiated. He appreciated the efforts being made by National Rural Livelihood Mission Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti Project Director and District Mission Manager Neon Dhairya Sharma towards empowerment of self-help groups.More outlets on cards||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-products-to-go-online-355728
29-12-2021||---||Ruckus ends Shimla MC House meeting abruptly||Shimla, December 28The monthly Municipal Corporation House meeting came to an abrupt end after Mayor Satya Kaundal walked out following the “rowdy” behaviour of the councillors.“I am pained to see the unruly behaviour and the language being used in the House,” the Mayor said. “I have been in the MC for decades but such behaviour would not find any parallels in the past,” Kaundal added.The House had barely started when Shardha Chauhan, a councillor from Shanti Vihar, alleged that the files of the works proposed by her were being “thrown into the dustbin” while the tenders for the projects suggested by a nominated councillor was being floated promptly. “The works that I had proposed in 2018 are still buried in the files. But the same works proposed by a nominated councillor this year are being carried out promptly. This is unfair and I won’t allow this,” she said.Within minutes, the issue snowballed into a quarrel and the Congress councillors sat in the well of the House in support of Shardha Chauhan. The BJP members were, however, of the view that the nominated councillor had the same right as the elected ones to carry out developmental works. “Did the Congress councillor follow up on the works she had proposed? The nominated councillor made efforts to get the work done. He should be praised instead of being insulted,” said the BJP councillors. “Also, the Congress councillors too have been nominated in the past. Did they not work then?” asked Deputy Mayor Shalinder Chauhan.Before the House was adjourned, it saw heated exchanges over water distribution and garbage collection. The councillors said water was being supplied on alternate days, and at many places, it was being given at 4 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ruckus-ends-shimla-mc-house-meeting-abruptly-355726
29-12-2021||Lalit Mohan||Water crisis hits Dharamsala||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 28Many areas of upper Dharamsala, including Dharamkot, McLeodganj and Bhagsunag, have been facing an acute shortage of water these days.Talking to The Tribune, Rashpal Pathania, owner of the famous Trek and Dine restaurant in Dharamkot, said the entire area was facing an acute shortage of water for the past few days.TOURISM SECTOR BEARS THE BRUNTWe had to shut the washrooms for tourists as we had very little water in the area. Tourism had just picked up in our area in December after two years of Covid and now, we are facing the acute water shortage issue. Rashpal Pathania, restaurant owner, DharamkotSuresh, who runs a small guest house here, said the area gets water from the stream fed by the Laka glacier in Dhauladhar hills. “We have been told by the Irrigation and Public Health Department (IPH) that the discharge in the river supplying water to our area has reduced considerably due to which there is a shortage. The department should make alternative water arrangement for our area as unpredictable rains were already causing permanent problems,” he added.Meanwhile, sources in the IPH said most of the upper Dharamsala areas were dependant on the water supply from the streams fed by glaciers in the Dhauladhar ranges. Over the past few years, the glaciers in the region are receding because of lesser snowfall and so the discharge in the rivulets flowing from them has been reduced considerably. Due to this, most of the areas of upper Dharamsala are facing water problems in summer and winter.The sources further said in view of the receding glaciers, environment experts had suggested the government to look for alternative arrangements for water supply to the upper Dharamsala region rather than harnessing it directly from the streams. These measures could include the creation of check dams in the higher reaches of mountains that could hold some quantity for potable water supply schemes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-crisis-hits-dharamsala-355724
29-12-2021||Solan||Two killed in accident in Arki||Two people were killed when the truck in which they were travelling fell into a gorge at Hudunala near Jainagar in Arki subdivision this evening.The truck was en route Loharghat-Nahan and was carrying rosin from Nahan to Loharghat. The driver and the person accompanying him were killed in the accident.The victims have been identified as Yashpal (26) and Jeet Ram (27), both from Ramshehar in Nalagarh subdivision. The cause of the accident is yet to be ascertained.Deputy Superintendent of Police, Solan, Ramesh Sharma said it appeared that the loaded truck carrying rosin failed to negotiate the narrow road at the said spot and fell down into the gorge. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-killed-in-accident-355722
29-12-2021||---||Two arrested with pistol, cartridges in Nalagarh||Solan, December 28The Nalagarh police arrested two youths for carrying a country-made pistol and five bullets last night. They were going in a car on the Dhabota-Nalagarh road.“A police team which had laid a naka at the Dhabota inter-state barrier intercepted the car which was coming from Bharatgarh and was being driven recklessly. The youths had no licence or permit,” said Deputy Superintendent of Police, Baddi, Navdeep Singh.Pradeep Chauhan of Manakpur village and Nishant of Majra village had been arrested under Sections 27-54-59 of the Arms Act and Section 34 of the IPC.They were produced before a local court which remanded them to five-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-arrested-with-pistol-cartridges-355720
29-12-2021||---||15 to 18-year-olds to get Covaxin from January 3||Shimla, December 28Anti-Covid vaccination for children aged 15-18 years will start from January 3. The children born in 2007 or earlier will be eligible to take the jab. Also, healthcare and frontline workers and people aged 60 and above with two doses will be given a precautionary third dose from January 10.“The beneficiaries in the 15-18 age group can register themselves on Co-WIN portal. The beneficiaries can self-register online through an existing account on Co-WIN or can also register by creating a new account through a unique mobile number,” said a government spokesperson.He said if online registration is not possible due to poor internet connectivity, etc., they can register onsite. The appointments can be booked online or onsite (walk-in). “For the new beneficiaries, Covaxin will be used, which is the only safe available vaccine for the group,” he said.The spokesperson said the additional dose would be provided to healthcare workers and frontline workers, who have received two doses. The dose will also be given to all persons aged 60 years and above with comorbidities, who have already received two doses, on a doctor’s advice. The precautionary dose would be given to those who had completed 9 months (39 weeks) from the date of administration of the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/15-to18-year-olds-to-get-covaxin-from-january-3-355718
29-12-2021||---||Kangra DC, wife test Covid positive||Dharamsala, December 28Kangra Deputy Commissioner (DC) Nipun Jindal, his wife and daughter have tested corona positive. The Deputy Commissioner was on leave and was staying at his paternal home in Sirmaur.Surces said the DC, who was the Director, Health, during the second wave of coronavirus and played a key role in fight against Covid, had symptoms on December 24.Jindal, who was a doctor, sent his samples for testing at Tanda medical college. He tested positive on December 26. Health officials here said the DC and his family had isolated themselves at their paternal home and their condition was stable.He had received two doses of vaccine.73 new casesA total of 73 new Covid cases have been reported in the past 24 hours. The highest number of 24 cases was reported in Kangra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-dc-wife-test-covid-positive-355716
29-12-2021||Shimla||Himachal Govt issues notification for regular jobs, with rider||Thousands of contract employees, who have completed two-year service, will get regular jobs. Daily wagers and part-time workers will also get relief.The state government today issued two separate notifications for regularisation of contract workers, daily wagers and part-time workers, directing the administrative secretaries, divisional commissioners, heads of departments and DCs to initiate the process of regularisation as per the guidelinesby the government.All eligible contract employees, who have completed two years of service on September 30, 2021, will be regularised but the regularisation will be done against the available posts, strictly on the basis of seniority and eligibility criteria mentioned in the Recruitment and Promotion Rules. The contract employees will be appointed at minimum of the pay scale and liable to be posted anywhere in the state.Daily wagers and contingent paid workers with four years of continuous service and minimum 240-day service in a calendar year are eligible for regularisation. The job will be against the existing posts and no new posts will be created. Similarly, part-time workers completing seven years will be daily wagers.Earlier, the period of regularisation of contractual employees, daily wagers and part time workers was three years, five years and eight years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-issues-notification-for-regular-jobs-with-rider-355715
29-12-2021||---||Mandi rally biggest in state history: BJP||Shimla, December 28Claiming that the BJP’s Mandi event was the biggest ever rally in the history of Himachal, state party chief Suresh Kashyap today said the presence of a huge crowd indicated that the people had endorsed the policy, programmes and performance of the government in the past four years.Hits out at CongThe Congress has nothing to say against the government. It opposes every government action, only to remain in news. Suresh Kashyap, State chief, BJP“The BJP governments at the Centre and the state started several stalled projects and the Congress should thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his benevolence,” Kashyap said while talking to mediapersons at the party office here today.Thanking the people, along with party workers and office-bearers for making the PM’s rally a success, he said Narendra Modi laid foundation stones of projects worth over Rs 11,000 and participated in the second groundbreaking for projects with estimated investment of about Rs 27,000 crore which would greatly benefit the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-rally-biggest-in-state-history-bjp-355714
29-12-2021||Mandi||Himachal CM couldn't even seek funds for his dream project: Kaul Singh Thakur||Senior Congress leader and former minister Kaul Singh Thakur today said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had disappointed people of the state as he did not announce any financial package during his visit to Mandi yesterday.Also read: Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur failed to get financial package from PM, says CongressTargeting Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Kaul Singh said, “The CM could not even ask for budget for his dream project — the proposed international airport in Mandi. He could not even demand the Himalayan regiment.”Kaul Singh said, “The PM lied to the people of Himachal that he had sanctioned four medical colleges for the state. All these colleges had been approved during the tenure of the previous UPA government by then Union Health Minister Ghulam Nabi Azad.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-couldnt-even-seek-funds-for-his-dream-project-355712
29-12-2021||---||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur failed to get financial package from PM, says Congress||Dharamsala, December 28Chief spokesperson for the HPCC Kuldeep Pathania, addressing a press conference here today, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had not given any package to Himachal. He accused Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur of having failed to put up a concrete proposal before the PM to get a package for the state. The present state government lacked vision to conceptualise projects and get grants from the Union Government, he alleged.Also read: Himachal CM couldn't even seek funds for his dream project: Kaul Singh ThakurQuestions expenditure on eventThe state government invites the PM every year. Such events prove to be a drain on the already scarce financial resources. It should inform people how much it has spent on such functions and what benefits it has managed to get. Kuldeep Pathania, spokesperson, HPCCHe said most of the hydro projects announced by Modi for Himachal were long-term investments by the central corporations. These projects would take decades to complete and Himachal would get just 12.5 per cent share in power from them once they become operational. The state government had failed to get any immediate financial help from the PM, Pathania alleged.He said the state government invited the PM to Himachal every year when it completed another year in power. Such events prove to be a drain on the already scarce financial resources, he said. He said the state government should inform the people of the state how much it had spent on such functions since it had come to power and what benefits it had managed to get from the Centre, he said.Pathania alleged that the tourism sector, which was the backbone of economy of Himachal, had been hit severely due to the pandemic. A large number of hotels in the state are facing closure so the CM should have asked for a financial package for the tourism industry, he said.He alleged that the state government was already raising loans to pay salaries and interest of existing loans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jai-ram-thakur-failed-to-get-financial-package-from-pm-says-congress-355711
29-12-2021||Lalit Mohan||Threat to houses, Kangra locals protest mining||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 28Alleging threat to their houses due to illegal mining in the Gaj river, residents of Bhaidara, Baidi and Khaidara villages near Gaggal airport have decided to take on the mining mafia.With the help of the local administration, the locals yesterday blocked temporary path created by tractor-trailer owners to approach the mining site near the Pathankot-Mandi National Highway. Two JCB machines were pressed into service, one was provided by the administration and the other was hired by villagers.Udham Singh of Khaidara said, “Unscrupulous elements are cutting hills for stones, which has posed a grave threat to around 500 houses in the village. On an average, about 50-100 tractor-trailers are being plied under the nose of the authorities. Despite complaints, no action was ever taken.”The matter was finally brought to the notice of Kangra Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal, who directed the authorities to take action, he said. Jindal said illegal mining would not be allowed and a strict action would be taken against those involved in such activities.The villagers alleged local contractors of government departments were resorting to illegal mining for using the material in construction activity. Earlier acting on the directions of the Himachal Pradesh High Court, the PWD had stopped the payment of contractors for the want of “X” forms. The “X” forms are issued by the Mining Department certifying that the material used was mined legally. The contractors had threatened to stop work, alleging that the stone crushers and other suppliers did not issue such forms. The matter was taken up in the Vidhan Sabha by some MLAs.Blame contractors||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/threat-to-houses-kangra-locals-protest-mining-355633
29-12-2021||---||Boost to border infra, new bridges for Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh||New Delhi, December 28Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said the country faced the adversary (China) in the northern sector recently with grit and determination. This could not have been possible without proper infrastructural development, he asserted as he went on to praise the Border Roads Organisation.A strong infrastructure in border areas is essential in today’s uncertain times as it strengthens strategic capabilities, the Defence Minister said, adding that as part of the border infrastructure, India must bolster surveillance systems as well.Rajnath was speaking at a function to dedicate to the nation 24 bridges and three roads built by the BRO.Of the 24 bridges unveiled virtually, nine are in Jammu and Kashmir, five each are located in Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh, three are in Uttarakhand and one each in Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.Also read: Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur thanks Rajnath Singh for five bridgesOf the three roads, two are in Ladakh and one is in West Bengal. Among the key border projects are an indigenous 140-ft double-lane modular bridge, built at a height of 11,000 ft in Flag Hill-Dokala, Sikkim, and the Chisumle-Demchok road that passes through Umling La at over 19,000 feet in Ladakh. It holds the Guinness World Record of world’s highest motorable road.The projects have ensured a significant road network along the northern and eastern borders of the country. Rajnath Singh said the road at Umling La in eastern Ladakh would enable faster movement of the armed forces, boost tourism and ensure socio-economic development of the region.Rajnath Singh defined the construction of roads, highways, tunnels and bridges in border areas as pivotal to building a strong and prosperous nation. It would improve the socio-economic condition of the people in far-flung areas and help the country achieve its security, communication and trade objectives.27 projects unveiled||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/boost-to-border-infra-new-bridges-for-ladakh-hp-355630
