30-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Monkey menace continues in Shimla||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Monkey menace continuesMonkeys are giving a tough time to the tourists and locals alike at The Ridge. Not only do they snatch eatables from people but also vandalise dustbins, throwing filth all over. The authorities concerned should take some action to check the situation. — Vandana, ShimlaSlippery Kufri-fagu road dangerousThe road between Kufri and Fagu has become very dangerous and slippery, especially in the morning and evening due to frost. Frequent head-on collisions of vehicles have been reported. The PWD should ensure that there is abundant sand on the road to provide better grip to the vehicles. — Brijesh, Sanjauli||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/monkey-menace-continues-in-shimla-356138
30-12-2021||Seven disabled sportspersons brought laurels to the Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) by winning 14 medals||Disabled players bring laurels for Himachal Pradesh University||Herbal gardens in schoolsThe Higher Education Department has directed all deputy directors, barring Kullu, Kinnaur and Una, to send details of all schools as well as action taken report to the state medical plant board and the education directorate in regard to setting up of herbal gardens, within two days.Don’t charge continuation fee: ABVPThe ABVP has urged the administration of the Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), Shimla, to not charge hostel continuity fee from students for the Covid period. The student body said the government had assured students that no continuation fee would be charged as hostels were closed during the Covid period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/disabled-players-bring-laurels-for-himachal-pradesh-university-356137
30-12-2021||Chamba||Chowgan in Chamba to close on January 3||The historic Chowgan in Chamba town will be closed for the winter season from January 3 till further orders, District Magistrate DC Rana said here today. Chowgan is closed every year for maintenance and to make it green again. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chowgan-in-chamba-to-close-on-january-3-356136
30-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Two houses gutted||Hamirpur, December 29Two houses were gutted at Gwalpatthar village in Nadaun subdivision of the district on Tuesday evening. The fire was reportedly noticed by a neighbour, who raised the alarm. The blaze was so intense that it engulfed the entire house and reduced it to ashes. However, the families of Satish Kumar and Surjit Kumar were saved due to the early alarm but were rendered homeless.Nadaun SDM Vijay Dhiman has announced an ex-gratia relief of Rs 5,000 each to the affected families. The loss in the incident has been estimated at more than Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-houses-gutted-356132
30-12-2021||Shimla||SJVN to invest Rs 60,000 cr in Arunachal||The Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam (SJVN) would invest around Rs 60,000 crore to harness 5,097 MW hydro power in Arunachal Pradesh, said SJVN chairman Nand Lal Sharma. He said Arunachal Pradesh had accepted the allotment of five hydroelectric projects, for which the MoU would be signed shortly. “These projects are expected to generate about 20,000 million units of clean energy annually. The Detailed Projects Reports (DPRs) of some of these projects have already been prepared, while some projects are under survey and at investigation stage,” he said. Sharma met deputy CM of Arunachal Pradesh to discuss the road map for these projects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sjvn-to-invest-rs-60-000-cr-in-arunachal-356130
30-12-2021||---||Rs 7-cr grant for mobile veterinary units||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 29The Union Government has sanctioned Rs 7.04 crore for 44 mobile veterinary units in the state under the Livestock Health and Disease Control Scheme, said Animal Husbandry and Rural Development Minister Virender Kanwar here today.He expressed his gratitude to the Centre for sanctioning this amount for the state and said these mobile units would help in strengthening veterinary services in far-flung areas. Through these units, people would be able to get diagnosis of diseases and treatment for their livestock near their houses. A provision has been made to spend Rs 16 lakh on the purchase and customisation of each mobile veterinary unit.The Animal Husbandry Minister said the Animal Husbandry Department was contributing towards strengthening the rural economy of the state and had started several schemes for cattle rearers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-7-cr-grant-for-mobile-veterinary-units-356129
30-12-2021||---||After Chandigarh win, AAP sets eyes on Shimla||Shimla, December 29The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has set its sight on the Shimla Municipal Corporation elections following its success in the Chandigarh MC polls, where it emerged the as largest party.“Winning the Chandigarh MC is a massive victory for us. It’s indeed a huge encouragement for us ahead of the Shimla MC poll, where we will put up a similar show,” said AAP state in-charge Ratnesh Gupta.Buoyed by the positive results, AAP has already started making its moves for the elections due in June. “We are in touch with several top local leaders of the BJP and the Congress and many of them are keen on joining us. It’s possible that we will fight the elections under the leadership of the local leaders,” said Gupta. However, the party would not accept tainted leaders. “We will open doors to those who enjoy good reputation and want to work for the people,” he said.Incidentally, AAP had fought the elections for urban local bodies in the state but had failed to impress. “Actually, we did not get enough time to prepare for the elections,” said Gupta. “But we did well in the poll held for panchayati raj institutions. Of the 40 seats we fought, we won 36 seats,” he said.Sounding a warning to the two parties, Gupta said AAP would sweep the Punjab Assembly elections ahead of the Shimla MC poll. “The Punjab election results will indicate that AAP is going to sweep not just the Shimla MC elections, but also the state Assembly poll due next year,” said Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/after-chd-win-aap-sets-eyes-on-shimla-356128
30-12-2021||---||Legal awareness campaign for transgenders||Shimla, December 29The State Legal Services Authority (SLSA) will start an awareness campaign for transgenders as they belong to “extremely marginalised” section of society, said Prem Pal Ranta, member secretary, SLSA.Speaking at the weekly webinar on human rights, organised by Umang Foundation, Ranta appealed to youth to come forward to create legal awareness in society, particularly in rural areas, by joining the SLSA as para legal volunteers.He said SC, ST, women, children, transgenders, prisoners, mentally ill people, drug addicts, calamity-affected people and the elderly having annual income below Rs 3 lakh were eligible to get the SLSA’s free legal support.Ranta said the SLSA had identified 45 orphan and 67 semi-orphan children, who were victims of the pandemic, and ensured all kinds of support to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/legal-awareness-campaign-for-transgenders-356127
30-12-2021||---||Scheme for resolution of legacy cases notified||Shimla, December 29The state government has notified the Himachal Pradesh Swarn Jayanti Legacy Cases Resolution Scheme, 2021 for settling and disposing of all pending cases and recovering arrears in cases under litigation, a spokesperson for the state Taxes and Excise Department said here today.He said that it is an ambitious scheme meant for pre-GST taxpayers to pay their liabilities and resolve their disputes. Under the scheme, the taxpayers could pay outstanding amounts and be free from any consequences under law. The taxpayers would get substantial relief as they have to pay only the settlement fee in lieu of interest and penalties.The taxpayers struggle to compile documents, collect pending statutory forms and prepare reconciliations to complete assessments. Even after the GST roll out, companies, industries and dealers are still facing disputes pertaining to the earlier regime.He said that the scheme would be valid for six months from the date of its publication in the official gazette and would be implemented in two phases. In the first phase of four months, a dealer was required to pay tax along with the settlement fee at 10 per cent. In the second phase of two months, he would have to pay 150 per cent of the settlement fee, as applicable in the first phase, along with the tax.The stakeholders or dealers may apply under the scheme by visiting the circle or district offices of the department. They would have to deposit a settlement fee online in the relevant head of account of the subsumed enactment and no manual fee would be accepted,||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/scheme-for-resolution-of-legacy-cases-notified-356126
30-12-2021||---||Vijay Hazare trophy: Mandi cricketer feted||Mandi, December 29The Mandi Cricket Association today felicitated local boy Rishi Dhawan, who captained the Himachal cricket team to success in the Vijay Hazare trophy. He arrived at his home town last evening, where local residents gave him a warm welcome.The Mandi Cricket Association organised a special function to honour the cricketer. It was the first time that Himachal won the Vijay Hazare trophy by defeating its arch rival Tamil Nadu.Inder Jamwal, secretary of the association, said “It is a matter of pride for the people of the state that our cricket team won the Vijay Hazare trophy for the first time. Rishi Dhawan played a crucial role in the win. We are hopeful that he will be included in the Indian team soon.”Social activist Praveen Sharma said the state cricket team had created history under Dhawan’s leadership.Dhawan said “I am grateful to the people of the state, who always showered love on me. I am also thankful to the Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting and Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports Anurag Thakur, who promoted the game in the state and provided adequate infrastructure for it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-cricketer-feted-356125
30-12-2021||---||Activists protest demolition of Buddha’s statue in Tibet||Dharamsala, December 29Tibetan Youth Congress (TYC) activists took out a candlelight march in McLeodganj last night to protest the demolition of a 99-feet-tall statue of the Buddha by the Chinese government in Tibet.The activists alleged that the Chinese government had demolished the statue at Kham Drakgo in Sichuan Province of Tibet. As many as 45 huge prayer wheels erected near the Drakgo monastery were removed and prayer flags were burnt, the protesters alleged.The bronze statue was built with the contributions of Tibetans in Drakgo which cost around 40,000,000 Yuan (around 6.3 million USD). In 1973, Drakgo had witnessed a massive earthquake that caused widespread damage. The statue was built on October 5, 2015, to ward off natural disasters.Activists said the statue was built after getting requisite permissions. However, in the last two-three years, officials who visited the area criticised the size of the statue. On December 12, the county authorities ordered its demolition after invalidating the documents and claiming that the statue of such a height was prohibited.“Such a reason fails to justify the razing of 45 prayer wheels that costed around 1,800,000 Yuan (around 282,500 USD) and the burning down of prayer flags in the vicinity,” said a TYC activist. They said the act was a direct attack on the traditions of Tibetans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/activists-protest-demolition-of-buddhas-statue-in-tibet-356124
30-12-2021||Ambika Sharma||Kasauli hotels packed, tourists face traffic blues||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 29Tourists are facing traffic congestion on roads leading to Kasauli, where hotels are packed to capacity ahead of New Year.Managing the traffic is a challenging task for policemen deputed for the purpose as these narrow roads slow down the movement of vehicles considerably.Narrow lane a major bottleneckNegotiating the Garkhal junction is a major hassle as the narrow single lane is inadequate to handle the rush of vehicles. Jaspreet, touristParwanoo DSP Yogesh Rolta said the Parwanoo-Barog highway had been divided into various sectors for effective traffic management. An additional reserve force has been deputed to handle traffic at the Garkhal junction, where five roads converge, as well as on other roads leading to Kasauli in view of the high rush of tourists.Traffic policemen faced an onslaught of tourists stuck at the Garkhal junction. “Negotiating this junction is a major hassle as the narrow single lane is inadequate to handle the influx of vehicles. This is the biggest dissuading factor for visiting Kasauli which otherwise is a much sought-after hill station,” quipped Jaspreet, a tourist from Patiala who often visits Kasauli.Despite the phenomenal growth of tourism in the Kasauli Planning Area, comprising Kasauli and its precincts, the key Dharampur-Kasauli road has not been widened in the past several decades.A large number of hotels have come up along this road while several luxury resorts are operating on roads that branch off from this main road. The hoteliers are buoyed with the rush though traffic blues and poor roads emerged as their key concerns after visitors complained.Rocky Chimney, vice-president, Kasauli Residents and Welfare Association, says, “The Kimmughat-Sari road, which houses several luxury hotels, has not been repaired for many years.”A majority of the hotels are packed to capacity as Kasauli is among the preferred destinations of the state. Despite communicating persistently with officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) and even complaining through the Chief Minister’s helpline, hoteliers have failed to get the road repaired.There is a ray of hope as a preliminary project report for the laying of a flyover bypassing the Garkhal junction is being prepared by the PWD staff. Though it will take years for the project to be implemented, it will foster some confidence in hoteliers who are back in business after facing uncertainty due to the two waves of Covid-19.This flyover will also ease local residents, who are exposed to high levels of noise pollution due to frequent honking of vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kasauli-hotels-packed-tourists-face-traffic-blues-356121
30-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Winter Carnival in Manali from January 2||KULLU, DECEMBER 29Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur will inaugurate the Winter Carnival in Manali on January 2. He will offer prayers at Hadimba Mata Temple at 9.30 am before flagging off a tableaux from the Circuit House, Manali.It was stated by Education, Language, Art and Culture Minister Govind Thakur while presiding over a meeting in connection with the preparations for the carnival today. He said ‘Sharadotsav’ would be celebrated from January 2 to January 6.The minister said the Winter Queen competition would be one of the main attractions. A variety of sports competitions had already started. He said Manu Rangshala would be full of activities, including cultural programmes, throughout the day. Tourists would also get the taste of local delicacies at many places.The minister urged tourism stakeholders to ask tourists to follow Covid norms. He directed the police that no person should roam around Mall Road or other tourist destinations without a mask.The minister said the CM would also lay foundation stones and inaugurate the schemes. The CM would inaugurate a bridge constructed at a cost of Rs 1.78 crore at Haripur. He would inaugurate the Marhi-Gadherni road constructed at a cost of Rs 4 crore in Shaleen panchayat and also inaugurate the road from Ramshila to Beasar-Jindaud and Sari-Kothi constructed at a cost of Rs16.93 crore. The CM would also lay the stone of the Fishnapot bridge at a cost of Rs 12 crore and inaugurate vanamahotsav by planting a deodar sapling from Manali and perform bhoomi pujanof the Hamta-Chhika road being constructed by the Forest Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/winter-carnival-in-manali-from-january-2-356120
30-12-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Robots to clear Shimla roads of snow||Tribune news ServiceShimla, December 29Winters in Shimla will now be less harsh as the Shimla Municipal Corporation, the district administration and the Public Works Department (PWD) are embarking on innovative plans to keep roads open for traffic during snowfall.Trial successfulThe use of calcium chloride on the Kufri-Fagu stretch was successful last year. The chemical will be sprayed on the IGMC stretch and, if it works, it can be replicated on other stretches too. Ashish Kohli, commissioner, Shimla MCThree robots purchasedThree robots, one with snow blade and two with blowers, costing about Rs42 lakh each, have been purchased. Amit, Executive EngineerThe PWD has purchased robots with snow blades and blowers attachments for the district. A snow blower is a machine designed to pick up snow from the ground and throw it to the side. It is used for clearing snow from paved and unpaved surfaces such as driveways, sidewalks, and pathways.Three robots, one with snow blade and two with blowers, costing about Rs 42 lakh each, have been purchased, said Executive Engineer Amit.The State Disaster Management Authority had also sanctioned Rs 5 crore for buying bigger snow blowers. About 10-15 vulnerable stretches had been identified and snow blowers would be used to clear snow, said Aditya Negi, DC.Sprinkling of calcium chloride before snowfall to stop the formation of ice sheets on the identified stretches, where snow remains frozen for a long period, making roads slippery and driving hazardous, would also be tested by the MC.The use of calcium chloride on the Kufri-Fagu stretch was successful last year and they will spray the chemical on the IGMC stretch and if it works, it could be replicated in other stretches also, said Commissioner, Shimla MC, Ashish Kohli. However, the accurate prediction by the Meteorological Department would be crucial for the experiment as it would be sprayed ahead of snowfall, he said.The traditional measures like sand and salt stocks and machinery were already in place on vulnerable stretches at Khirki in Chopal, Kharapathar in Rohru, Narkanda, the Kufri-Fagu stretch, the Hiranagar-Totu stretch, the Dhalli-Sanjauli bypass, Shimla Bypass, Navbahar to Chhota Shimla, Victory Tunnel to the Rivoli stretch, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/robots-to-clear-shimla-roads-of-snow-356119
30-12-2021||Shimla||Pawan Hans to cut heli-taxi fares on Shimla-Dharamsala sector soon||Pawan Hans has assured Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur that the fares of the Shimla-Dharamsala heli-taxi services will be reduced to promote tourism in the state.The Chief Minister met Sanjeev Razdan, Managing Director, Pawan Hans Ltd., in New Delhi today and reviewed the government company’s operations in Himachal Pradesh.He asked Razdan to reduce the fare of the Shimla-Dharamsala heli-taxi services and operate direct flights from Shimla to Dharamsala and Shimla to Manali at the earliest.Razdan assured Thakur that the fares of the Shimla-Dharamsala heli-taxi services would be reduced soon. He said that the company would also make sincere efforts to start Shimla-Manali flights. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pawan-hans-to-cut-heli-taxi-fares-soon-356117
30-12-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM launches online RTI portal||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur launched the online RTI portal of the Department of Administrative Reforms here today. HP became the first state among small states and fourth after Maharashtra, Karnataka and UP to launch such a portal.Thakur appreciated the efforts of the department in launching the portal and said that it would facilitate people in applying for information and appeal under the RTI Act 2005 without visiting any public office. He said that the initiative would go a long way in reducing footfall in government offices and ensure timely access to information.Information Technology Minister Ram Lal Markanda, Secretary, Administrative Reforms Sandeep Bhatnagar, Joint Secretary Rajesh Sharma and other senior officers were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-launches-online-rti-portal-356116
30-12-2021||Shimla||Fill posts of Shastri as per norms: Himachal Pradesh High Court||The HP High Court has restrained the Education Department from appointing any candidate on the post of ‘Shastri’, either on batch-wise basis or through the HP Staff Selection Commission, without adhering to the requirements of the National Council for Teachers Education (NCTE).A division bench, comprising of Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua, further directed the state authorities to file specific affidavit as to why, despite the undertaking given by them, the Recruitment and Promotion Rules for the post of Shastri had not been amended so far, in conformity with the norms of the NCTE.The court passed this order yesterday on a batch of petitions filed in this regard. It further directed the state to inform the court by filing an affidavit mentioning therein as to how many candidates without B.Ed degree were appointed from 2012 to September, 23, 2018, even after issuance of notification by the NCTE, whereby it had made B.Ed a mandatory qualification.It further directed the state to also explain whether after 2018, batch-wise appointments to the post of Shastri were/are being made without the candidates possessing the Diploma in Elementary Education/B.Ed degree, an essential qualification as per the notification of the NCTE.While passing this order the court listed the matters for further hearing after four weeks. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fill-posts-of-shastri-as-per-norms-himachal-pradesh-high-court-356115
30-12-2021||Ambika Sharma||No bidders for Paonta Sahib firm’s assets||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 29The State Taxes and Excise Department’s (STED) hopes of recovering dues from Paonta Sahib-based Indian Technomac Company Limited in Sirmaur district received another blow as no bidder came forward to buy its movable and immovable assets in the second auction held here on Tuesday evening. The first auction was held in September 2019.The assets are 189.01 bigha land, part of the factory premises at Jagatpur. Another piece of land at Rampur Majri and Bharapur, measuring 76.13 bighas, was priced at Rs 30.66 crore while the building and sheds were pegged at Rs 41.43 crore.Reserve price of Rs 1.21 crore was fixed for its fleet of vehicles. Though a bidder offered Rs 60 lakh but since it was only a fraction of the reserve price, his offer was not accepted. All immovable assets, like plant and machinery, were priced at Rs 86.71 crore.GD Thakur, Joint Commissioner, STED, said, “No bidder came forward to bid for the movable and immovable assets of ITCL. Though a bidder did elicit interest in buying vehicles at Rs 60 lakh, but since it was much less than the reserve price, his offer could not be accepted.”“The assets would be re-evaluated as the earlier assessment was done in March 2020 and much has changed since then. Owing to the pandemic, the process to auction the company’s assets could not be completed earlier,” he said.“The value of 265 bigha land was assessed at Rs 3,180 per sq m but it has now fallen to Rs 669 per sq m and this failed to fetch buyers,” the Joint Commissioner said.The officials have now begun the process to invite expression of interest where technical and financial bids would be invited and self-evaluation would be undertaken by those filing bids.The assets of the company had been attached by the STED under the HP Land Revenue Act as the firm had failed to pay its pending taxes. The company was involved in a multi-crore embezzlement.The Economic Intelligence Unit of the STED had detected the fraud on February 18, 2014, as a huge mismatch was found in the return filed by the company and the VAT-26-A declarations. The company was manufacturing steel and raw material, ferro alloys and steel ingots and it had become liable to pay tax from January 2008.The department had suffered tax evasion worth Rs 2,175.51 crore, various banks were defaulted to the tune of Rs 2,167 crore and the I-T Department lost Rs 750 crore. Property detailsA reserve price of Rs308.8 crore was fixed for various assets, comprising 189.01 bighas, part of the factory premises at Jagatpur, a piece of land at Rampur Majri and Bharapur, measuring 76.13 bighas, a building and sheds||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-bidders-for-paonta-sahib-firms-assets-356114
30-12-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: 52 new cases, one death in Himachal||As many as 52 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 2,28,705. Besides, one person died in Chamba.As many as 19 cases were reported in Kangra, 13 in Shimla, 10 in Solan, five in Mandi and two each in Kinnaur and Kullu.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-52-new-cases-one-death-in-himachal-356113
30-12-2021||---||4.5 lakh of 15-18 age group to be jabbed in schools in Himachal: Rajiv Saizal||Shimla, December 29Himachal will require just about two weeks to vaccinate all children in the 15-18 age group. “There are around 4.5 lakh children in this category and we are aiming to inoculate all of them by January 15,” said Rajiv Saizal, Minister for Health and Family Welfare. “Children will be vaccinated at schools. We have spoken to the Education Department, and the SOPs are being drafted for the purpose,” he added.January 15 the targetChildren will be vaccinated at schools by January 15. We have spoken to the Education Department and SOPs are being drafted for the purpose — Rajiv Saizal, Health MinisterMeanwhile, the Higher Education Department has directed its deputy directors in all districts to coordinate with the health authorities for the campaign.“The vaccination drive will start on January 3, and the state already has 2.80 lakh doses for the purpose. The children will be administered Covaxin. However, it’s still not clear which vaccine will be used to give the booster dose to people aged 60 and above,” the minister said.“The booster dose will be administered to the elderly, and front line and health workers from January 10. The state has been given Covishield to inoculate all 18 plus beneficiaries. Eligible children can be called to take the vaccine at places where the schools have closed for the winter vacation,” said Saizal.As for the threat posed by the omicron variant, he said that the state was fully prepared to handle any situation. “We are fully prepared to tackle the spread of omicron or the third wave. At present, we have 41 PSA oxygen plants, 1,000 ventilators, and around 10,000 beds. We have adequate equipment, manpower and medicines to deal with the challenge,” he said.While Covid restrictions are gradually being reimposed in neighbouring states, the state government is yet to start discussing re-imposition of curbs. “We have had just one case of omicron so far, and that woman has also turned negative. The number of active cases is going down day by day. So, there’s no reason to hit the panic button. But, yes, if the number of cases rises in future, the government is ready to take whatever measures are required,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-5-lakh-of-15-18-age-group-to-be-jabbed-in-schools-in-himachal-rajiv-saizal-356112
30-12-2021||Lalit Mohan||Himachal Pradesh has immense oil, gas potential: ONGC||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 29Himachal Pradesh has immense potential in oil and natural gas exploration, said ONGC chairman Subhash Kumar in an interview with The Tribune.He said the ONGC was carrying out surveys to look for oil and gas reserves in Kangra, Hamirpur and Sundernagar areas. “The corporation will enter into renewable energy sector in a big way. It is presently generating 726 MW of power and intends to take it to 10 GW. We will also look for investments in Himachal in this sector,” he said. Kumar has worked in the oil and gas industry for about 35 years. In an advice to the Himachal Government, he said it should form an advisory committee of experts from various fields to give a vision to the state for its economic growth.Kumar, who belongs to Kangra district, recalled his journey from a humble beginning to the top post of one of the largest energy companies. “I studied at a government school at Bathu Tipri near my paternal village Ujhe. My father was a teacher and an avid reader of The Tribune. I too caught the habit of reading it daily,” he said.He said he particularly remembered the time when his Class IX results were declared and the main source to check the results was The Tribune. “I figured among the best students in the state with 81% marks. My happiest moment till date was when the school headmaster announced my name in the assembly the next day,” he said. Kumar then studied at DAV College and PU in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-has-immense-oil-gas-potential-ongc-356081
