31-12-2021||---||Raise import duty on apple to 100%, Himachal CM urges Centre||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 30Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today urged the Central Government to increase import duty on apple from 50 per cent to 100 per cent to protect Himachal growers and approve the Mandi airport project.He made the request while participating in the meeting for consultations on the Union Budget 2022-23 in New Delhi today. “Apple is the main horticultural crop of the state and a primary source of livelihood for a large population. However, due to a huge arrival of imported apple in the national market, the prices of Himachal apple have fallen sharply, leading to revenue loss to local horticulturists,” he said.Thakur said the import duty on apple should be increased and the crop should be excluded from the list of fruits and other commodities brought under the Open General Licence.He said the Airports Authority of India (AAI) had found the proposed site in Mandi district suitable for the construction of a greenfield airport and had also accorded the final technical go-ahead. “Therefore, the project may be included in the upcoming Union Budget items and be declared a project of national importance, as it has strategic importance, being close to Leh,” he said. The estimated cost of the project is about Rs 300 crore.The Chief Minister also sought additional Rs 600 crore in the form of special assistance, besides the continuation of the Ways and Means Advances limit to compensate for the decrease in revenue of the state due to Covid-19. He thanked the Union Government for according approval to proposals of about Rs 10,620 crore of various externally-aided projects in the state in the past four years.He urged the Centre to extend the GST compensation facility for three more years. “The state was receiving GST compensation and the revenue deficit grant (RDG) as part of the Central assistance. The GST compensation is effective only till June 2022. Moreover, the RDG will also be reduced in the coming years, as per the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission, which will adversely affect the finances of the state government. Therefore, the GST compensation facility should be continued,” he said.The Chief Minister also urged the Centre to extend the Industrial Development Policy-2017 for the next five years in order to boost economic growth in the state. “The Industrial Development Policy being implemented by the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry will be effective till March 31, 2022. It should be extended further so as to promote industrial development,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/raise-import-duty-on-apple-to-100-cm-urges-centre-356457
31-12-2021||---||Lahaul Snow Fest from January 13||Our CorrespondentKullu, December 30The 75-day Snow Festival will begin with prayers at the famous Triloknath temple in the Lahaul valley on January 13, said DC Neeraj Kumar here today.He presided over a meeting with the officials at the auditorium in his office to decide the framework for organising the festival, which would be inaugurated by Minister for Technical Education Ram Lal Markanda.Neeraj Kumar said that the festival would be celebrated according to religious beliefs and traditional customs, and also keeping in mind the calendar fixed by the Lamas (monks) of the valley for various events. The festivals of Udna, Gochi, Halda, Fagli and Yor organised in Gahar, Pattan and Tinan valleys would also be associated with the Snow Festival to make tourists aware about the rich traditions of the region.He said that a craft mela and a tribal dance fair would also be organised.To exhibit ancient artifacts related to the religious and social life of Lahaul, the Snow Craft and Food Festival would also be held, he added.Traditional sports competitions would be organised for women and children.The DC said, “There will be a weaving competition for women and the Snow Queen (Him Sundari) will also be selected during the Snow Festival. A photography competition will also be part of the festival”.The festival was launched in January this year. It is one of the longest festivals celebrated in India and is on a par with the 75-day Bastar Dussehra held in Chhattisgarh. The cultural traditions and ancient festivals have been rejuvenated through this festival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-snow-fest-from-jan-13-356459
31-12-2021||Mandi||Tourists in Manali for New Year revelry||Hotels of Kullu and Manali are packed to capacity due to the arrival of tourists for New Year celebrations. As a result, long traffic jams were witnessed in Manali town and its nearby paces for the past two days.Anup Thakur, president of the Kullu-Manali Paryattan Vikas Mandal, said, “The hotels in Manali are full for New Year celebrations. It is a good sign for the tourism industry, as a sharp decline in tourist arrivals in Kullu and Manali was witnessed after the outbreak of Covid-19. The hotel industry has suffered huge losses due the lockdown and restrictions”.Manu Sharma, secretary of the Hoteliers Association Manali, said, “A majority of hotels in Manali are packed with tourists, who have arrived for New Year celebrations. There is adequate snow available on the ground for tourists at Solang, Gulaba and the Atal Tunnel”.“Due to a heavy rush of tourist vehicles, roads leading to the Hadimba temple and the Solang valley witnessed frequent traffic jams for the past two days. From January 2 to 6, the district administration is organising the Winter Carnival at Manali. We are hopeful that tourists, who have come here to celebrate New Year, will extend their vacation till January 6 to enjoy the Winter Carnival,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-in-manali-for-new-year-revelry-356460
31-12-2021||---||Power board union alleges scam in Atal Tunnel work||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 30Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) Employee Union has alleged a scam in laying of 33kV cable in the Atal Tunnel.The allegationsIn a complaint submitted to Additional Chief Secretary (Power) RD Dhiman, the union has alleged that the rates for the job awarded to the contractor were inflated, around 100 times higher in some items used for the work. It has demanded a committee comprising electrical, civil and accounts personnel to investigate the matter.“The work was awarded to a Kangra-based contractor. The department has cleared a bill of Rs 88.29 lakh for the job, while it should have been much lower given the market rate of the items,” says HL Verma, secretary of the union.“The department, for instance, has cleared Rs 1.25 lakh for a termination kit, while its market price is Rs 18,000. The market rate of stay wire is Rs 75 per kg, while Rs 7,500 per kg as the price has been cleared. The market price of a straight joint is 35,000, but Rs 1.35 lakh had been cleared,” says Verma.HPSEBL MD Pankaj Dadwal says the report has been sought from the field staff. “The payment will be made only for the work the contractor has done. If any irregularity is found in the process, strict action will be taken,” said Dadwal. “However, the kits used in the job are not the regular ones. GIS kits have been used and they are expensive,” the MD adds.The union, however, is sure that irregularities have been committed while awarding the work and in its implementation. It even alleges collusion between department officials and the contractor. “The tender does not mention the distance over which the cable was to be laid. If the distance is not known, how was the cost calculated? It shows connivance between the official and the beneficiary,” alleges Verma.The union alleges that the contractor was paid for the work that the BRO had already done. “The BRO has done diamond cutting on the RCC wall but Rs 8.96 lakh has been paid to the contractor,” says Verma. The department isn’t doing enough to check corruption, he alleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-board-union-alleges-scam-in-atal-tunnel-work-356461
31-12-2021||UNA||Una ambulance staff honoured||Una Deputy Commissioner (DC) Raghav Sharma today honoured four employees of the Emergency Management and Research Institute (EMRI) -108 ambulance service stationed in Una. Emergency medicine technicians Sapna, Jyoti and Vikas Nanda, and ambulance pilot Niranjan Singh were honoured.The DC said, “The 108 service has 210 ambulances in the state. Of these, nine provide service in Una district.” Till date, the ambulance service had responded to 51,112 emergencies in Una district, of which 47,926 were related to health, 2,090 to law and order and 1,096 were fire emergencies, he said.Sharma said the staff had been rendering services to the people in need in Una district. The medical technicians have also successfully conducted emergency deliveries in the ambulances. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-ambulance-staff-honoured-356462
31-12-2021||---||3 years on, Kullu Atal Sadan yet to be made functional||Abhinav VashishtKullu, December 30The Atal Sadan, built at a cost of Rs 24 crore and inaugurated by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur at Dhalpur in December 2018, is yet to be made functional. The building comes under the Language, Arts and Culture Department, due to which there were some issues regarding its operations. There are 18 rooms in the Atal Sadan but, as of now, stay is not allowed there.18 luxurious roomsAtal Sadan has a grand auditorium with a seating capacity of 650 people, a rest house having 18 luxurious rooms, restaurant and parking.foundation Stone laid twiceIt has a grand auditorium, with a seating capacity of 650 people, but it is only used for government functions. Due to the negligence of the government, Atal Sadan has not been able to raise any income for the last three years.The BJP and Congress governments had laid the foundation stone twice for the construction of the building. The first foundation stone was laid on October 12, 2011, by then Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal and it was named Atal Dussehra Sadan in the name of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. After that, during the tenure of the Congress government, then Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh again laid the foundation stone on October 27, 2015. Finally, it was inauguratedby Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on December 25, 2018, on the birth anniversary of Vajpayee.Kullu Deputy Commissioner Ashutosh Garg said the government had framed a society headed by him to look after operations and maintenance of Atal Sadan, Dev Sadan and Kala Kendra. He said the society had started taking initiatives regarding Atal Sadan and soon, a meeting of members would be held and the future course of action would be charted out. He said primarily there was a plan to lease out a portion of the sadan, including some rooms, canteen and parking. He said full operations of Atal Sadan would start within a month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-years-on-kullu-atal-sadan-yet-to-be-made-functional-356465
31-12-2021||Ambika Sharma||Baddi MC halts work on 'illegal road' after protest||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 30In violation of norms, the Baddi Municipal Committee (MC) had initiated work on an approach road in ward number 9 here to provide access to a tiles manufacturer. The work, however, was stopped after residents objected to it and held a protest.A tree also axedThe authorities were trying to benefit a person, who is close to the local BJP MLA, by closing a nullah through which rain water flows. Even a tree has been axed. — Ramkumar Chaudhary, Former Doon MLAThe issue came to light when residents of phase I and II of the HIMUDA colony held a protest.Sunil Sharma, Babita and other residents complained to the SDM that a nullah adjoining the colony was being encroached upon by a tile manufacturer, who was undertaking construction over it.Housing Board Welfare Society chairman Sanjeev Kaushal said that the Baddi MC was constructing an illegal road in the middle of their colony. This was being done to provide access to a tiles manufacturing factory, the owner of which is said to be close to the ruling party.“The path will be used to transport raw material and finished goods and will disturb peace of the colony residents,” added Kaushal.Ward member Surjeet Chawdhary, however, denied that the MC had permitted any such work in the colony.The Assistant Engineer (AE), HIMUDA, who was directed to visit the site by the SDM, said the MC was constructing a culvert to provide access to the tiles manufacturing factory owner. He also wrote to the Executive Officer (EO) to stop the work and first seek permission from HIMUDA as the colony residents were objecting to it.HIMUDA will now construct a boundary wall to ensure that no such access is provided to the manufacturer.SDM Nalagarh Mahendra Pal said, “I visited the site and directed the authorities to stop the work immediately.” Following protest by local residents, EO Ajmer Singh ordered the work to be stopped.Former Doon MLA Ramkumar Chaudhary alleged that the authorities were trying to benefit a person by closing a nullah through which rain water flows. Even a tree had been axed. He alleged that the individual was close to the local BJP MLA and the work was being executed without the MC having passed any resolution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-mc-halts-work-on-illegal-road-after-protest-356468
31-12-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Training of nursing students affected in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 30Several private nursing colleges in the state have tied up with the same hospital for clinical training, which is hampering the quality of training since students do not get requisite time for it. The private nursing colleges that do not have hospitals attach their students with other hospitals for training purposes.Details sought from centresThe problem was pointed out by a three-member committee constituted by Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC) to analyse the documents submitted by the nursing colleges.The analysis of data submitted by 42 out of 48 private nursing colleges in the state also revealed that the faculty-student ratio was not adequate in some colleges and details of hospitals submitted by the private nursing colleges was neither specific nor clear to suffice the norms of the Indian Nursing Council according to which the student-patient ration should be 1:3.As per norms, the hospital should have 100 beds for clinical training, said Chairman, HPPEIRC, Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (Retd). He said notices would be sent to six private nursing colleges who had failed to submit documents to the commission as the date to submit additional required documents was January 10, 2020.The details of community affiliation attached with rural and urban health services were missing and a few institutions have not submitted the latest copy of approval from the governing bodies — Indian Nursing Council (INC), Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), Atal Medical and Research University (AMRU) and Himachal Pradesh Nursing Council (HPNRC).The committee recommended that details of affiliated hospitals should be clearly mentioned with bed strength besides short-term training so that it is not replaced with the training hours.The commission had sought details from the colleges, including a no-objection certificate from the state government, to run nursing college along with essentiality certificate, copy of prospectus, name of hospital where students are going for clinical training, number of seats allotted, number and details of students enrolled and approval to run colleges from the INC and registration from the HPNRC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/training-of-nursing-students-affected-356470
31-12-2021||---||New traffic control system in Chamba||Our CorrespondentChamba, December 30To make traffic control in Chamba town more effective, the Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS)is being installed at a cost of Rs 10 lakh.Kangra Lok Sabha MP Kishan Kapoor said this while presiding over a meeting of the district-level road safety committee here today. He said the ITMS was being set up to make traffic management in Chamba more organised.The command centre would not only improve traffic control, but also help in monitoring the town. For this, tenders would be invited soon, he said.MLAs Vikram Jaryal, Pawan Nayyar and Jia Lal Kapoor, and District Agricultural Produce Market Committee chairman DS Thakur attended the meeting.Kapoor instructed officials that important roads in the district be marked with zebra crossing and traffic signage also be installed. He urged people to follow traffic rules.The MP also directed the SDMs, Deputy Directors (Education) and the Regional Transport Officer to organise programmes to spread awareness on road safety among schoolchildren.Deputy Commissioner DC Rana said officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) and the National Highways Authority of India had been asked to speed up the black spot rectification work.PWD Superintending Engineer Diwakar Pathania said 858 black spots had been identified on various roads of the district, of which 644 had been repaired. The NHAI had repaired 19 black spots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/new-traffic-control-system-in-chamba-356471
31-12-2021||Dipender Manta||Govt urged to set up tourist info centre near Atal Tunnel||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 30Tourism stakeholders of the Lahaul valley have urged the state government to set up a tourist information centre near the Atal Tunnel in Lahaul and Spiti.After the opening of the Atal Tunnel, tourists travel to the Lahaul valley from the Manali side. The tourism stakeholders feel that the state government needs to make efforts to promote the industry in a planned way. Sachin Mirupa, a stakeholder in Lahaul, says, “There is an acute shortage of staff in the Tourism Department in this tribal district. The charge of District Tourism Development Officer (DTDO) has been given to the SDM, Keylong”.“We urge the government to constitute tourism councils at the village level. Tourists visit the Atal Tunnel round the year. We urge the government to set up a tourist information centre near the tunnel for the convenience of visitors,” he said.Tashi Barongpa, secretary of the Hoteliers’ Association, Lahaul, says, “We have repeatedly urged the state government to set up an independent office of the Tourism Department in Keylong”.“Lahaul and Spiti district is blessed with scenic beauty and has a vast potential to attract tourists. To promote winter tourism, the Lahaul valley can become the epicentre of activities. The opening of theAtal Tunnel has given people an easy access to the valley round the year,” says Rigzin Samphel Heyreppa, president, Lahaul Eco Tourism Society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-urged-to-set-up-tourist-info-centre-near-atal-tunnel-356472
31-12-2021||Mandi||Mandi GVK EMRI workers felicitated||Deputy Commissioner Arindam Chaudhari felicitated employees of GVK EMRI here today for providing better ambulance service to people of Mandi district.GVK EMRI has completed its 11 years of ambulance service in the state.Among the employees are emergency medical technician Vinay and Desh Raj and pilot Nilmani. Programme manager of GVK EMRI Ravi Chauhan and district in-charge Saurav Thakur were also present there. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-gvk-emri-workers-felicitated-356473
31-12-2021||---||Integrated farming to increase growers' income: Himachal minister Virender Kanwar||Our CorrespondentPalampur, December 30Virender Kanwar, Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, has asked scientists to develop integrated farming models to enable farmers adopt any model as per their needs. Kanwar was addressing the gathering at the state-level farm officers’ workshop-cum-farmer scientist interface at CSK HP Agriculture University here.Need for Seed production  The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development says 80% seeds are purchased from outside so there is need to produce seeds of major crops within the state in association with progressive farmers.He said since 80 per cent seeds were purchased from outside, there was need to produce seeds of major crops within the state with involvement of progressive farmers.The minister said efforts were under way to conserve and preserve seeds of traditional crops under the Mukhyamantri Paramparagat Beej Sarankshan Yojana. He advised the farm officers to educate farmers about the proper use of chemicals and fertilisers as pesticide residue was highest in Himachal Pradesh. He said farm chemicals should be available only at registered shops and the seller should be properly trained to help stop the excessive use of chemicals. The minister asked the scientists to suggest crops for mid hill areas and also sought solution to the problem of crop damage by wild animals. The stray cattle problem will end by March as some cow sanctuaries will be made functional, he said.Prof Harinder Kumar Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor, detailed the major achievements of the university. He said Krishi Vigyan Kendras had initiated the work to produce seeds of wheat and mash (urd). As many as 51 programmes have been envisaged to commemorate the statehood golden jubilee and 51 krishi doots have also been selected whose photographs had been displayed in Kisan Deergha, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/integrated-farming-to-increase-growers-income-kanwar-356474
31-12-2021||---||Panchkula man alleges being cheated by Barog realtor||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 30The Dharampur police today registered a case of cheating against a realtor at Barog for failing to provide an agreement to a buyer despite taking more than 90 per cent payment from him.According to complainant Rajpal Singh of Panchkula, he had bought a flat in a housing project, The Woods, at Barog in August 2019. The payment was made to the project owner but he was not provided agreement papers.A buyer agreement was supposed to be provided by the owner of the construction firm — RVK Nirmata Private Limited. Despite making more than 90 per cent of the payment, no such agreement was provided to Singh.He stated in the complaint that he provided all details through an email to realtor Jiten Bhalla but the latter cancelled the buyer agreement on November 12.DSP, Parwanoo, Yogesh Rolta, said, “A case under Section 420 of the IPC has been registered and a probe is under way”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panchkula-man-alleges-being-cheated-by-barog-realtor-356475
31-12-2021||Shimla||65 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 65 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 228,770. Besides, one person died of the virus in Shimla. The highest number of 26 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 21 in Shimla, five in Kullu, four in Solan, three each in Hamirpur and Mandi and one each in Una, Sirmaur and Bilaspur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/65-new-cases-one-death-in-himachal-pradesh-356476
31-12-2021||Shimla||Cabinet to take up sports policy on Jan 5||The new sport policy is likely to be taken up in the Cabinet meeting on January 5. Union Sports Minister Anurag Thakur was to release the policy during the winter session of the Vidhan Sabha in Dharamsala on November 11, but was postponed.“Sports associations wanted to make some suggestions with regard to the new policy. We have had a meeting with them, and their suggestions are being incorporated in the policy. We will try and bring the policy in the Cabinet meeting on January 5,” said Pathania. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cabinet-to-take-up-sports-policy-on-jan-5-356477
31-12-2021||Chamba||Chamba Tae kwon do gold medallist honoured||DC Rana, DC, yesterday honoured national tae kwon do gold medallist Mannat Bayal, a resident of Julakari mohalla in Chamba, with a trophy and a memento on behalf of Prerana-the Inspiration, an NGO.Mannat returned to Chamba after winning the gold medal in the National Tae kwon do Competition held in Uttarakhand recently. Assistant Commissioner Ram Prasad was also present. Rana expressed happiness over Mannat’s success. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tae-kwon-do-gold-medallist-honoured-356478
31-12-2021||Dharamsala||Ex-Union minister's husband, scion of Kangra rulers Aditya Dev Chander Katoch, dies||Aditya Dev Chander Katoch, husband of former Union minister Chanderesh Kumari, passed away here today. He was 78 years old.Katoch was a member of the former royal family of Kangra. He was 488th in the lineage of Kotoch rulers. He was cremated at the Lambagaon crematorium. His son Aishwaryai Dev Katoch lit the pyre.Katoch was born on December 25, 1943. His father Druv Dev Chand Kaotch was the last ruler of Lambagaon state, the centre of Kangra rulers. He was educated at the Doon School, Dehradun. He used to stay in Clouds Villa, the house of the royal family in Dharamsala. A portion of his ancestral house was converted into a hotel.Katoch had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly elections on the Congress ticket in 1990. He was married into the royal family of Jodhpur; his wife Chandresh Kumari is the sister of Gajj Singh, the scion of the former royal family of Jodhpur. Congress leaders from the district expressed condolences on Katoch’s death. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ex-union-ministers-husband-scion-of-kangra-rulers-dies-356479
31-12-2021||Nurpur||Govt neglected Nurpur: Congress||Kangra district Congress president Ajay Mahajan has accused the state government of neglecting the Nurpur area, especially in the field of education. Mahajan, while addressing members of the local unit of NSUI here today, said while postgraduate classes were allowed in a private college at Nurpur, Arya Government College, Nurpur, was neglected. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-neglected-nurpur-congress-356480
31-12-2021||Mandi||Mandi MC gets tough with shops sublet||To check the malpractice of subletting shops, the Mandi Municipal Corporation today threatened to cancel the licences of those who have sublet their shops. The MC has provided shops to roadside vendors near the Seri Channi complex in Mandi until the permanent vendor market is constructed in the town. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-mc-gets-tough-with-shops-sublet-356481
31-12-2021||Solan||Fake currency seized in Kasauli||The Kasauli police recovered 16 counterfeit notes of Rs 100 denomination from a villager in Kasauli tehsil today.Deputy Superintendent of Police, Parwanoo, Yogesh Rolta said, Durga Dutt (37), a resident of Kot village, purchased grocery from a shop in his village and gave counterfeit currency to the shopkeeper today afternoon.On receiving information, the Kasauli SHO inquired into the matter and found that such counterfeit currency was used at a tea shop and a wine shop by the same person.“Total 16 currency notes of Rs 100 each have been recovered and after verification from the State Bank of India’s Kasauli branch, the entire currency was found to be counterfeit,” Rolta added.A case under Section 489-B and C of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at Kasauli and the accused has been detained. Spot investigation was underway. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fake-currency-seized-in-kasauli-356482
31-12-2021||---||Nauni University launches 8 skill development programmes||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 30Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry (UHF), Nauni, yesterday launched eight skill development programmes in collaboration with Himachal Pradesh Kaushal Vikas Nigam (HPKVN).A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was also signed between the two institutes to facilitate this collaboration. Dr Harish Sharma, Programme Coordinator, said trainings would help in human resource development through intensive practical training. The dissemination of technologies to the farming community through region-specific transfer of technology modules will be facilitated.The seven-day skill development programmes cover fields like food processing and value addition, commercial cultivation of mushrooms, commercial beekeeping, production and processing of medicinal and aromatic plants, commercial floriculture and value addition, canopy management of temperate fruit crops, propagation and nursery management of temperate fruit crops and nursery management of subtropical fruit crops.Dr Anju Dhiman, Dean, College of Horticulture, said 45 basic-level training workshops and 16 masters’’ level training workshops would be conducted, which would benefit 1,220 farmers from the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nauni-varsity-launches-8-skill-development-programmes-356484
31-12-2021||Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar released a book titled 'Malana Cream' at Raj Bhavan. The book has been authored by Dr Devkanya Thakur. The Governor appreciated the efforts of the author and said that subjects such as drug addiction should be brought forward through books||Himachal Governor calls for books on drug menace||Online counselling for BEdThe online counseling for the final mop-up round of BEd programme for colleges affiliated to HPU has started from December 30. It will continue till January 5. On January 4 and 5, original documents will be verified at the college level and fee can be submitted online.School Shiksha Samvad todayThe School Shiksha Samvad will be organised on December 31, under the aegis of the Education Department and the Samagra Shiksha programme in all government schools of the state that are closing for winter break. On this day, exam results will be declared and a general meeting of the school management committee will be held. The report cards will be shared with the parents and suggestions will be sought from them to improve teaching methodology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/guv-calls-for-books-on-drug-menace-356485
31-12-2021||The post of radiologist at the civil hospital||Fill post of radiologist at civil hospital, Tissa||Tourists must wear masksExcited to celebrate New Year in Shimla, many tourists seem to have forgotten the need to wear masks. At Cart Road, a majority of tourists enter the lift without masks, causing stress and inconvenience to those taking precautions to curb the spread of Covid-19.— Rajender Sharma, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something that you feel needs to be highlighted?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fill-post-of-radiologist-356486
31-12-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal sends dossier to J&K over Padri Jot in Chamba||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 30A boundary dispute has once again erupted between Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir over the Padri Jot area bordering Chamba and Doda. Himachal has sent a dossier in support of its claim over the area falling in Salooni subdivision of Chamba district.The issue will now be raised at the inter-state council meeting as the Jammu and Kashmir has reportedly encroached upon around 8-9 km into Himachal’s territory.The Chamba district administration has reportedly sent a dossier in this regard to the Deputy Commissioner, Doda.Boundary rowWith the boundary dispute remaining unresolved for the past many years, Himachal might take it up with the Centre to help work out a permanent solution. “There is no question of Himachal staking a false claim to J&K land, but we want a fair settlement to the issue as we will not part with our legitimate right over the land,” said a senior official.The issue was discussed at a meeting between Deputy Commissioners of Chamba and Doda at Khundi Maral on December 10. The Jammu and Kashmir authorities have assured that they would respond to the claims of the Chamba administration after verifying its records.Residents of the Bhaderwah area had staged a protest against the Chamba administration on the Padroi-Chamba road against the claim of Himachal Pradesh on the Padri Jot area.The dossier is reportedly accompanied by relevant revenue documents showing that the Padri Jot area is part of Salooni subdivision in Chamba. “We are awaiting a response from the Doda administration, following which we will initiate the next course of action,” said a senior official.The issue arose between the two states in 2016 when the Doda authorities started constructing a road in the area to which Himachal had objected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-sends-dossier-to-jk-over-padri-jot-in-chamba-356448
