01-02-2021||Karam Prakash||Rights panel seeks report from DC, Social Justice Dept||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 31Taking cognisance of a report of The Tribune, the State Human Rights Commission has sought a report from the Social Justice Department and the Patiala Deputy Commissioner over the use of “Harijan” as a suffix in the name of a government school in Patiala.The use of the word, ‘Harijan’, is unconstitutional. Therefore, legal action should be initiated against the government officials concerned for their negligence. I think a case should be filed under the SC/SC Act. - Dr Jatinder Mattu, State President, Dr Ambedkar Employees FederationThe Tribune , in its report published in these columns in August last year, had highlighted that many government schools in the home district of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh have used the word, “Harijan” as a suffix or prefix in their names.The use of ‘Harijan’ in this way violates the Supreme Court’s order and the Central Government’s directions, say experts.In 2017, the Supreme Court, in a landmark judgement, had said: “Calling a person ‘Harijan’ and ‘dhobi’ is offensive. It is being basically used, nowadays, to intentionally insult and humiliate someone.”The Human Rights Commission, in its orders to the Patiala DC and the Social Justice Department, has said they had considered the contents of the complaints in this regard. “It calls for a report from those concerned before the next date of hearing which has been scheduled for March 10.”The commission has also sent a copy of the orders to the DGP, Punjab, and other departments for compliance.A teachers’ union had also made a request to the DC in this regard last year. The request was forwarded to the Education Department. However, nothing was done in this regard.Meanwhile, Dr Jatinder Mattu, state president of Dr Ambedkar Employees Federation, said: “The use of the word, ‘Harijan’, is unconstitutional, therefore legal action should be initiated against the government officials concerned for their negligence. I think a case should be filed under the SC/SC Act.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rights-panel-seeks-report-from-dc-social-justice-dept-206185
01-02-2021||---||Over 1 lakh kids given polio drops in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 31On the first day of the three-day Pulse Polio campaign, teams of the Health Department administered polio drops to more than 1 lakh children today. The drive was launched by the Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, by administering polio drops to children at the CHC, Tripuri, and at the PRTC bus stand.Dr Satinder Singh said the department had set a target of administering polio drops to 1, 90, 944 children up to the age of five years.The Deputy Director, Dr Bhupinder Kaur, from the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare, was also present. She visited polio booths and monitored the ongoing activities.Dr Satinder Singh said 923 polio booths and 33 transit points had been established to achieve the target. Besides, 27 mobile teams have been formed. He said: “We have covered about 58 per cent target on the first day. Our mobile teams will cover the remaining children in the next two days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/over-1-lakh-kids-given-polio-drops-in-patiala-206186
01-02-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University Class A officials want  admn posts||Non-teaching Class A officials of Punjabi University now want allocation of senior administrative posts amongst them. This is while a number of non-teaching administrative posts of the university have been allocated to teaching officials.Gurinderpal Singh Sidhu (Babbi), president, A-Class officer’s Association (non-teaching) of the university, said they had written to the authorities demanding allocation of various non-teaching posts, but their demand was not fulfilled.Showing the university’s reply to an RTI application provided on January 27, another non-teaching Class A officer said the university had stated that as many as 15 non-teaching posts on the campus were allocated to teaching officials. These include the post of university registrar, director (Monitoring and planning), Director (Youth welfare), Director (Public relations), DSW, Provost, finance officer and others. The university had as many as 89 non-teaching posts, including senior technical assistants, wardens, security officer and others, he added.Gurinderpal said,“The university has not filled the post of registrar through proper advertisement process in over 10 years. Earlier, Class A officers were less in number. Now, there are over 300 Class A officers at the university, which has been making stop-gap arrangements by allocating the charge to teaching officials.” There was no response from the university in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-class-a-officials-want-admn-posts-206189
