03-02-2021||Karam Prakash||Only 12% turn up for vaccine shot at Govt Rajindra Hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 2During the first phase of Covid vaccination that was meant for frontline healthcare personnel, the response of health workers of Government Rajindra Hospital and Medical College has been very poor. Only 12 per cent frontline health workers of the hospital have come forward for vaccination so far.According to the data provided by the district Health Department, of 3,200 designated beneficiaries, only 409 frontline workers of the hospital got the vaccine shot.The hospital authorities said they got very poor response, especially, from the paramedical staff, class IV employees and interns.The authorities said though frontline workers didn’t admit, vaccine hesitancy was evidently there among them.The hospital has the biggest Covid isolation facility in the state with more than 600 beds.Dr Rajan Singla, principal of Government Medical College, said: “The response from the staff has not been very satisfactory. I think they should realise that it is for their benefit only.”Meanwhile, a doctors of the hospital told The Tribune that they would get the vaccination shot in the second phase.It was learnt that many doctors were apprehensive of the side effects of the vaccine.Meantime, the Health Department would start vaccination of frontline workers of other departments tomorrow. The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said frontline worker of the Police Department, Revenue Department and the Municipal Corporation would be vaccinated tomorrow. Of 13,000 frontline health workers in the district, only 3,957 have been vaccinated so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/only-12-turn-up-for-vaccine-shot-at-govt-rajindra-hospital-207118
03-02-2021||---||Work begins on Patiala canal water project||Patiala, February 2After the issuance of work order for the canal-based clean drinking water project for the city in October last year, the coordination committee for the project, led by Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, held its first review meeting here today.Officials said the hiccups in the way of the project were being removed. The government aims at completing the project worth Rs342 crore in 36 months, by October 2023.Officials of the Water Supply and Sewerage Board, PSPCL, Drainage Department, PWD, Irrigation Department, Forest, Larsen and Toubro attended the meeting. They said 21 underground service reservoirs of over 40,000-gallon capacity will be built at Lakkar Mandi, Tej Bagh Colony and other places under the project. The project will also include overhead service reservoirs to be built across the city.“The construction of a boundary wall for the project has been started. The directions for the removal of 220-kW electricity line at the project site have also been given to the PSPCL and L&T,” an official said.A water-treatment plant of a capacity of 115 million litre per day will come up at Ablowal village in 18 months along with 312-km water supply lines across the city. A survey of households, number of people and their requirement of clean drinking water is also part of the project. The officials said according to their survey, one person needs 135 litre of water daily.The project, which had been hanging fire for years, was announced by the present Congress regime after coming to power in 2017. In November 2018, the district administration set up a team to look into the implementation of the project. Tenders were first floated in October, 2019, which were cancelled twice. The work order was given in October, 2020.The Mayor said: “Work has been started for the establishment of the boundary wall for the project. All hiccups in its establishment are being removed in coordination with officials of all departments concerned.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/work-begins-on-patiala-canal-water-project-207122
03-02-2021||Patiala||Rajpreet shines at shooting meet||Around 100 shooters participated in the 16th District Rifle Shooting Championship, Fatehgarh Sahib, which concluded at Marksmen Shooting Academy here. Rajpreet Singh shot a perfect 600/600 in the 10mt Air Rifle ISSF senior category. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rajpreet-shines-at-shooting-meet-207215
