11-02-2021||---||Amritsar, Patiala book semis berth||AMRITSAR, FEBRUARY 10Hosts Amritsar along with Patiala booked their semifinals berth on the fifth day of the AGA Gold Cup U-19 cricket tournament on Wednesday.After winning the toss at the Gandhi Ground, Majha Heroes chose to bat first. However, the team caved in earlier than expected as they were bowled out in 26.5 overs for 85. In reply, Patiala made got the job done by scoring 87 runs in 22.1 over’s for the loss of three wickets. Patiala’s Aryaman was adjudged the ‘Man of the Match” for his five scalps in seven overs.The 10th match of the tournament was played at the Amandeep Cricket Ground between Amritsar and Malwa Heroes. Winning the toss, hosts decided to go with the bat and scored an impressive 285 giving away six wickets in 40 overs.Chasing the target, Malwa Heroes faded out at 156 in 33.5 overs. Amritsar’s Manroop, who scalped six in 6.5 overs, was declared the ‘Man of the Match’ as hosts won by 129 runs.Sports Day in memory of Balbir Singh Sr laudedSports lovers and enthusiasts are happy for declaring forthcoming National Sports Day in memory of late hockey legend Balbir Singh Senior. Gurinder Singh Mattoo, president, Sarhad-e-Punjab Sports Club, which has been promoting various sports in the district for the last 18 years, said representative hockey matches will be held in every district of the state.He claimed that the government took the decision after members of the club, led by chief patron Harmanbir Singh Gill, had forwarded a letter in this regard to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Director Sports on June 10, demanding that hockey Olympian Balbir Singh Sr (Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee), who passed away on May 25 last year, should be remembered for posterity. Mattoo said the government accepted the demand and the National Sports Day on August 29 will be observed in memory of Balbir Singh Sr.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/amritsar-patiala-book-semis-berth-210699
11-02-2021||Aman Sood||PSPCL faces losses as farmers ‘refuse’ to pay bills||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 10Already suffering financially, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is now facing a huge challenge with the increased incidents of theft and a large number of rural residents refusing to pay their bills “under the garb of the farmers’ protest”.Despite power worth over Rs 1,500 crore being lost due to theft, transmission and distribution losses, the PSPCL staff are being heckled and held hostage. The police are also hesitant, fearing backlash from farm unions.Senior PSPCL officials said recently, their teams were attacked in villages of Sangrur, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Ferozepur and Mansa and a majority of them were now reluctant to carry out raids against power theft and defaulters. “Many farmers own cars and are even holding functions but refuse to pay the power bills, claiming that they are busy with the agitation in Delhi. If our teams go to check their connections, they attack us,” said a PSPCL official.Moreover, with the state government too going easy against the defaulters, the PSPCL is now being pushed towards bankruptcy. “The polls are approaching in many villages and farmers warn us of dire consequences if we accompany the local power officials. If the PSPCL officials want security, there needs to be clear directions in writing from our department,” claimed a DSP-level officer.“The PSPCL has failed to plug loopholes in divisions, causing 60-70% loss against 12-15% in areas, including Bhikiwind, Patti, West Amritsar, Bhagta Bhai Ka and Bhagapurana. What is making matters worse is that the losses have started increasing in recent years. Huge losses result in increased tariffs and financial loss to the PSPCL,” said Bhupinder Singh, retired deputy chief engineer, PSPCL.“Power theft is estimated to cause a revenue loss of Rs 1,500 crore annually, which if saved can reduce the average tariff by 35-40 paisa per unit in the state,” reads a petition submitted by Bhupinder Singh to the PSERC, highlighting discrepancy between the audited power and the revenue account of the PSPCL.PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Prasad confirmed that the collection had declined due to the farmers’ agitation and increased power theft incidents. “We are educating farmers as paying bills is mandatory to meet our expenditure. There were instances when even the local police didn’t cooperate with us. But after the intervention of senior officials of the police and the PSPCL, security is being provided to our teams checking power theft,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pspcl-faces-losses-as-farmers-refuse-to-pay-bills-210645
11-02-2021||Aman Sood and||Patiala Mayor rides on the wrong side of law||Ravneet SinghTribune News ServicePatiala, February 10Two days after Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu was caught driving a two-wheeler without a registration number and without wearing a helmet, the city traffic wing has failed to take action against him.So far, no challan has been issued to the Mayor for violating the traffic rules — riding a two-wheeler without a helmet and a registration number plate.“The police should lead by example. Rules are the same for everyone,” said a resident. In photographs that have gone viral, the Mayor is seen going around the city to oversee development works on February 8.The Mayor visited the Top Khana Gate, Kashmiri Toba, Kachha Patiala and Purana Lal Bagh areas among others. Though he reportedly pulled up the municipal engineering team and questioned lapses and delay in executing the works, he himself forgot to obey the traffic rules. He and another corporation official riding pillion did not wear a helmet.The two-wheeler also did not have a registration number plate. The incident has taken place at a time when the traffic police are observing road safety month. The police have been organising events and distributing pamphlets regarding traffic rules among residents.Meanwhile, the Mayor said: “I was caught in the traffic because of which I had to ride a two-wheeler. Also, roads in the city have been dug up for various works.” He said he had to commute for more than 15 km on foot to reach various sites in the city.City traffic in-charge Yugraj Singh said he did not receive any information regarding the traffic violation. “I am not in the city. I will return tomorrow.”Achru Ram, DSP (Traffic), Patiala, said he was not even aware of the matter. “I will look into it,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mayor-rides-on-the-wrong-side-of-law-210712
11-02-2021||---||Honorary doctorate for FDCI chief||Patiala, February 10A fashion industry businessman, Sunil Sethi, president of Fashion Design Council of India (FDCI), was today conferred an honorary doctorate, Doctor of Literature (DLitt) Honoris Causa, by Chitkara University. Seth is known for bringing Indian fashion to the global stage.The university has presented Sethi with the doctorate in honour of his contribution to ‘humanity, world peace and education’.Seth has worked as senior vice-president with Li and Fung Group, a multinational company. He set up Alliance Merchandising, a sourcing and buying company in 1988.“My work in the space of fashion and product design has always been passionate, as it drives me towards excellence”, he said at the felicitation ceremony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/honorary-doctorate-for-fdci-chief-210732
