16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Re-poll at 3 booths in Patiala district today||The State Election Commission, Punjab, today ordered re-poll at three polling booths of Patran and Samana municipal councils in Patiala district. The re-polling will be held from 8 am to 4 pm tomorrow, while the counting of votes will take place on February 17.1 in Patran, 2 SamanaThe Patran Returning Officer (RO) had reported to the commission that an EVM was damaged at booth number 11 of ward number 8. The Samana Returning Officer had reported similar incidents at booth numbers 22 and 23 of ward number 11.Three cases have been registered against 18 persons in Muktsar while over 20 workers of the Congress and SAD have been booked in connection with a clash at Ropar that left nine persons injured yesterday. PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, meanwhile, said the polling yesterday was largely peaceful as compared to the civic body polls during the Akali regime. “High voting percentage of 71.39 is indicative of people’s verdict in favour of the state government. The trend will continue during the 2022 Assembly elections,” he claimed.SAD and AAP leaders, on the other hand, attributed the high poll percentage to the alleged misuse of official machinery by the Congress government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/re-poll-at-3-booths-in-patiala-district-today-212972
16-02-2021||Patiala||Cases registered for MC poll violence at Patran, Samana||The police have registered cases regarding violence during the Municipal Council (MC) elections at polling booths in Patran and Samana yesterday. The cases have beenregistered against unidentified persons.A case, under Section 171-F (Undue influence or im0personation at an election), 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (Obstructing public servant and 427 (Mischief) of the IPC, and various sections of the Representation of People Act, has been registered at the Samana police station in this connection.The police said they received information from the returning officer-cum-SDM, Samana, that some people were creating a ruckus at booth No. 22 and 23 of Ward No. 11 where voting machines were also broken. After receiving information a case was registered, the police added.Another case was registered for assault or criminal force and undue influence during the MC election at Patran, the police said.Some unidentified persons came to a polling station with covered faces and ransacked the place with rods and sticks the police added. According to Yashpal, presiding officer at Ward No. 8, booth No. 11, miscreants also took away the control unit of the EVM and tore some documents.Meanwhile, the State Election Commission (SEC), Punjab, has ordered re-poll in all three polling booths of Patran and Samana Municipal Councils. The re-polling will be held on February 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/cases-registered-for-mc-poll-violence-at-patran-samana-212964
16-02-2021||Patiala||Patiala MC to develop parking lot at Div No. 2||During a meeting the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Municipal Corporation (MC) decided to construct a parking for vehicles at Division No. 2 of the internal city adjacent to the residence of Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma.The F&CC also decided to install CCTV cameras and traffic signals with help of the PWD (B&R) and cleared a number of other projects for the development of the city.Only two days ago, the MC had shifted vendors of the vegetable market to the new place near Sanauri Adda. Corporation officials said vendors from other locations were yet to be shifted to designated places.Meanwhile, development of the Division No. 2 area has already started. According to corporation officials, a 58 to 70 feet wide stretch of the 1234 feet area faces parking issues. The MC report states that 150 cars can be parked in middle of the road, which will benefit residents.Meanwhile, the MC has decided to insure its 13 vehicles. The F&CC today cleared Rs1.44 lakh for purchasing insurance of vehicles.The MC also decided to purchase equipment for cleaning sewer in the city. MC Joint Commissioner Lal Vishwas said, “The MC wants to purchase vacuum suction and water-jet machines along with safety equipment, including personal protective gear, stairs to go down drains, helmets, oxygen cylinders and other things, for its cleaning staff at an estimated cost of Rs63.60 lakh. The civic body has decided to call tenders for the purpose.”Meanwhile, corporation officials said the new-age advanced technology traffic light systems and CCTV cameras would be purchased and installed in the city with help of the PWD (B&R).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mc-to-develop-parking-lot-at-div-no-2-212965
16-02-2021||---||Seven staffers test +ve for Covid, Patiala school shut||Patiala, February 15The district Health Department today ordered shutting of a government school in Sanaur block after seven staff members tested positive for Covid-19. The Government Senior Secondary School, Bhankar, will remain closed for the next 48 hours.Contact-tracing of the infected teachers, including hundreds of schoolchildren, is under way. Of the 32 tested, results of nine staff members were yet to come, said the Health Department. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said they had directed the school head and District Educational Officer (DEO) to shut the school and report symptomatic students for testing.“Teams have already conducted tests of the staff. To stave off the spread, the school has been shut for the next two days,” he said.Sources in the Health Department said a schoolteacher tested positive last Tuesday and continued to attend school with other staff members instead of going into self-isolation.The sources said staff members who came in contact with the teacher also attended the school, thereby infecting others.Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said they had asked the principal to provide information related to the positive staff members. “Students are surely at risk, but we have started contact-tracing of the staff members who had tested positive,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/seven-staffers-test-ve-for-covid-patiala-school-shut-212870
16-02-2021||Patiala||Back ‘rail roko’, Patiala residents urged||Intensifying their struggle against the three farm laws, farmer unions in the district have announced a ‘rail roko’ protest on February 18 as part of nationwide agitation.Members of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), after a meeting, said they would stop trains at the Patiala railway station from 12 noon to 4 pm on February 18. The union members urged residents to come out in support of the “rail rook” protest.Surinder Singh Khalsa, morcha member, said the Modi government was trying to disrupt the farmers’ movement. “The government is arresting innocent farmers in the name of the Republic Day incident. People must come out and protest such actions.”Another leader, Davinder Punia, said the Centre was not just arresting farmers, but also people who were supporting them. “The attempts to end the agitation will not work,” he added.Meanwhile, union members said they would celebrate the birth anniversary of late farmer leader Chhotu Ram at the Dhareri Jattan toll plaza on the Patiala-Chandigarh Highway on the day of protest. — TNSMazdoor sabha pledges supportBathinda: The Dehati Mazdoor Sabha Punjab has pledged support to the ‘rail roko’ call. Mithu Singh Ghudda, president of the district unit, said: “We have also decided to gherao ministers and MLAs of the state in the first week of March.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/back-rail-roko-patiala-residents-urged-212865
