18-02-2021||Patiala||Patiala man held on charge of spreading hate||The police have nabbed a member of the Rashtriya Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Seva Dal for allegedly spreading religious hatred. The suspect has been identified as Sachin Goyal of Mathura Colony.Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal said he was posting photos of various Hindu leaders and police officers, including the Punjab DGP, with a cross mark implying physical elimination. The caption of the photos was ‘Khalistan Zindabad’ so as to create an impression that posts were uploaded by some Khalistani sympathisers, the SSP added.The process was meant to disturb peace and harmony in Punjab, said the police. A case as registered against Sachin Goyal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-man-held-on-charge-of-spreading-hate-214083
18-02-2021||---||Rajindra Hospital staff oppose bifurcation of common cadre||Patiala, February 17Clerical, para-medical and Class IV employees of Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital held a protest against the state government here today.The employees were protesting the proposed move by the state government to bifurcate the ‘common cadre’ of the Medical Education and State Health Departments entirely.Currently, both the Medical Education and State Health Departments share a common cadre. The government is mulling to separate the common cadre of the two departments. The government has planned to dismantle the common cadre and, therefore, asked the employees of the common cadre to choose from either of the departments and submit their option.However, the protesters said that if the said proposal was materialised, the Department of Research and Medical Education (DRME) seekers would be at a loss because it had already abolished several posts, thereby, no avenues for promotions.One of the protesters said: “If the government wants to bifurcate the common cadre, they, should not abolish the sanctioned posts in the DRME so as to keep promotion avenues intact.”The protesters staged a dharna outside the office of Medical Superintendent (MS) of Government Rajindra Hospital for hours. Thereafter, protesters held a protest rally from the MS office to the principal’s office. The protesters called off the protest after submitting a memorandum to the principal. Meanwhile, the protesters announced that they would block the Patiala-Bathinda highway on Thursday.Govt proposalAt present, the Medical Education and Health departments share a common cadre. The government is mulling separating the common cadre of the two departments. The government has planned to dismantle the common cadre and, therefore, asked the employees of the common cadre to choose from either of the departments and submit their option.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rajindra-hospital-staff-oppose-bifurcation-of-common-cadre-214081
18-02-2021||Patiala||In Patiala, Congress wins 66 of 92 seats||The Congress grabbed most seats in the Rajpura and Samana council poll and registered considerable win in Patran and Nabha, in the CM’s home bastion of Patiala.While AAP and SAD star campaigners failed to make a difference, the BJP, too, registered losses due to the farmers’ protest. Of the 92 seats in the four councils, Congress won 66, SAD 11 and AAP and BJP two each. Independent candidates emerged victorious in 11 wards.Congress’ Preneet Kaur said: “People voted for Congress due to the government’s development works.”The AAP’s campaign, led by Bhagwant Mann and Jarnail Singh, failed to make a difference. Mann held roadshows in Rajpura and Nabha, while Jarnail went to Samana and Patran and managed just one seat each in Rajpura and Patran.Meanwhile, the BJP suffered losses due to farmers’ stir. The party managed only two seats in Rajpura MC and failed to open account in the other three councils. Campaigns led by senior SAD leaders Surjit Rakhra and MP Prem Singh Chandumajra also failed to turn tables for the party candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/in-patiala-congress-wins-66-of-92-seats-213847
18-02-2021||Karam Prakash||Poor response to Covid vaccine drive in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 16The vaccination drive in the district garnered a poor response among health workers as only 30 per cent of the beneficiaries received the vaccine in the first phase.The Health Department has already started administering the second dose to health workers. Meanwhile, the Patiala Civil Surgeon received the second jab on Monday.In the first phase, which had started on January 16, only 4,637 frontline health workers received the vaccine shot. The number of targeted health workers was 14,500. Of the 4,367 vaccinated, 3,207 are government employees and 1,430 are from the private sector.The Health Department said they had extended the vaccination deadline for health workers from February 12 to 19. Thereafter, no frontline health workers would be given the vaccine shot.Reportedly, health workers are still hesitant to get themselves vaccinated despite an extension in the deadline. As per the Health Department, only 104 health workers received the vaccine in the past five days.Source said both private and government sectors exhibited poor response, despite repeated appeals by the Patiala Civil Surgeon.Dr Satinder Singh, Civil Surgeon, said: “I tried a lot to motivate health workers. However, results are disappointing. I was first one to get the shot during first phase to infuse confidence in workers. I have now also received the dose.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/poor-response-to-covid-vaccine-drive-in-patiala-213497
