24-02-2021||Patiala||10,000 chickens burnt alive in Patiala||In a major fire incident, around 10,000 chickens were burnt alive at a poultry farm at Nial village in Patran block of Patiala district today. The fire broke out at Narain Poultry Farm around 6 am.Though the exact cause of the fire is still unknown, the poultry farm owner said it broke out after a portion of the roof fell on a small kiln.Jagtar Singh, owner of the poultry farm, claimed that the fire engine reached almost three hours after the fire broke out. He said, “There is no fire engine at Patran block. It was brought from Samana block.”In the absence of a fire engine, villagers tried to douse the flames using water pumps and buckets. However, their efforts went in vain.Jagtar Singh said he suffered a loss of around Rs10-12 lakh as all chickens died in the fire incident. He said, “I had taken a loan to run the poultry farm. The incident has left me in debt.”Residents have been facing problems due to lack of fire engines in Patran. Naman Marken, SDM, Samana, who holds the additional charge of Patran, said, “I am unaware of the incident. I will check with the officials concerned regarding availability of fire engines at Patran.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/10-000-chickens-burnt-alive-in-patiala-216574
24-02-2021||Patiala||Safai workers at loggerheads with Punjabi varsity||Cleanliness workers (employed on a daily wage basis) of Punjabi University littered the campus with garbage for the second consecutive day today to mark their protest against the university authorities. The protesting workers dumped garbage at the administrative blocks, the Vice-Chancellor’s (VC) office and at the gates of the campus.The workers are protesting changes in the contractual rules of service. In fact, The university is giving a compulsory five-day break after the end of every contract period of the employees, which is said to be the reason for the protest.The university officials today reportedly tried to clean the campus with their regular cleanliness workers, but the contractual workers opposed it and a face-off ensued. The police had to be called in to defuse the situation.Jatinder Singh, president of the workers’ union, said earlier, the university renewed their contract after every 68 days with a one-day break, but now, as per the new orders, the contract would be renewed after 63 days with a break of five days, thereby, leaving them without pay for many days. He said: “The change will render us without payment for many days at a stretch, given Sunday a holiday. In February, for instance, we will be left without work for nine days.”He alleged that the decision of the university authorities was a mental harassment, which might force them to leave the job. They added: “We will hold a regular protest on the campus if the authorities don’t agree to our demands.” The police threatened them with cases against them, said the protesters.Meanwhile, officials of the university said they were in talks with the protesters and the situation would be resolved soon.Later in the evening, students held a protest on the campus against the university administration for allowing police officials inside the campus. The students said police officials threatened the protesting employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/safai-workers-at-loggerheads-with-punjabi-varsity-216597
