27-02-2021||---||Health Department locks govt school in Rajpura for 48 hours||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 26After four staff members tested Covid positive, a government school was shut in Rajpura.The Health Department said four teachers tested Covid positive today during random sampling at Government School, Nalas, Rajpura. Following detection of the coronavirus cases, the Health Department passed orders to shut school for the next 48 hours.We have started contact tracing of the positive patients and ordered sanitisation ofthe school. — Dr Satinder Singh, Civil Surgeon, PatialaThe Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said they had started contact tracing of the positive patients and ordered sanitisation of the school.Besides, a teacher at Government Senior Secondary School, Tripuri, also tested positive for the coronavirus. Notably, around 65 teachers and dozen students have tested Covid positive this month in Patiala alone.Meanwhile, 45 Covid positive cases were reported in Patiala today, thereby, taking the total count to 17, 003. Of the 45 cases, nine are contacts of positive patients. Besides, 36 people with flu-like symptoms also tested positive for the disease.Dr Satinder Singh said many school teachers had tested positive for the disease. Therefore, they had issued directions to all schools to follow Covid norms, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-department-locks-govt-school-in-rajpura-for-48-hours-218023
27-02-2021||Patiala||Beautification of Chhoti, Bari Nadi begins in Patiala||The drainage, water supply and the PDA departments along with the Municipal Corporation today started the project for the beautification of the ‘Chhoti’ and ‘Bari Nadi’ in the city. The departments will lay 17 km sewer line along with construction of the 26 MLD sewage treatment plant (STP) as part of the project.Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma said, “An amount of Rs208 crore will be spent on the whole project of which work of Rs164 crore has been started. The departments will construct two sewage treatment plants as part of the project. A 26 MLD capacity plant will come up near Sunny Enclave while another 15 MLD capacity plant will be constructed at Daulatpur village. Besides, walls of both ‘nadis’ will be strengthened.”“The PDA and drainage and water supply departments aim to complete the project by the end of 2022. All sewer water currently discharged into the two water bodies will be channelised to the STPs and drained into the ‘nadis’ after cleaning,” said officials. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/beautification-of-chhoti-bari-nadi-begins-in-patiala-218053
