01-09-2021||Other||With increase in basmati prices, paddy arrival begins in Haryana mandis||Arrival of paddy in the mandis of the northern districts of Haryana has begun with harvesting of the early varieties has started.Prices of Basmati’s largely-sown early variety, Pusa Basmati 1509, is being procured between ₹2,500 and ₹2,650 per quintal with the traders showing interest in procurement following a surge in demand of long-grained rice in the international market.According to farmers, this year, the prices have improved as compared to last year but ₹2,500 per quintal is still not enough because they are getting around ₹10,000 less per acre as the yield was sold over ₹3,000 per quintal in 2019.“I sold my produce of two acre at ₹2,575 per quintal against ₹2,100 of last year. This is an improvement than last year but the prices are still not remunerative and they should be above ₹3,000 as the input cost has also increased due rise in diesel prices and labour cost,” said farmer Madan Lal at Ladwa grain market in Kurukshetra.“As of now, the moisture content is higher and most crop is harvested by combine harvesters. We think the prices will easily increase to over ₹3,000 when the crop will be harvested manually,” said commission agent Naresh Kumar, at Ladwa grain market.Most of the paddy is coming in from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh as harvesting in Haryana has just started. “There are no restrictions on early transplantation in UP so the farmers there grow early varieties to empty their fields for vegetables. But this may create problems for Haryana farmers as those from UP won’t hesitate to sell their produce at any available price with there being no mandis in their state,” said another commission agent Praveen Kumar, of Niolkheri.The Haryana government has announced to advance procurement of Parmal varieties to September 25 from October 1. This will help farmers who have grown early varieties.As per the figures of the All India Rice Exporters Association, the country’s export of basmati rice has improved to 46,31,531 MT in 2020-21 from 44,54,656 MT in 2019-20.However, traders are expecting that the prices of basmati varieties to remain good this year and varieties such as Pusa 1121, CSR 30, Sharbati and Moochal may get more than ₹3,000 per quintal. It will help farmers get some relief as last year they were forced to sell Pusa 1509 and Pusa 1121 at around ₹2,000 per quintal.As per the figures of the state agriculture department, this year, the area under paddy cultivation is around 12.50 lakh hectare which is around 18% less than last year’s 15.27 lakh hectare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-increase-in-basmati-prices-paddy-arrival-begins-in-haryana-mandis-101630520947313.html
01-09-2021||Noida||Farmers begin agitation against Noida authority||Demanding a hike in compensation for land acquired for development and a settlement on the Abadi land issue, farmers from several villages in Noida attempted to begin an indefinite protest in front of the Noida Authority main administrative building in Sector 6 on Wednesday. Although the police thwarted, stopping around 300 protesters in Harola village while on their way to Sector 6 at around noon, the farmers said they will resume their protest from Thursday.The land acquisition had begun in 1990 and farmers now say they want enhanced compensation and at least 10% of the acquired land returned as residential plots. Apart from this, they also demanded a park in each village, roads and better civic amenities, among others. Abadi lands are habitation areas in villages. But what is termed habitation area by farmers is referred to as encroachment by the authority that wants to acquire it for development. According to guidelines brought out by the government, if the habitation has been around before 2011, then the authority will not acquire it and leave it for farmers’ use. In July, the Noida Authority started a process to resolve the longstanding issue.Sukhbir Khalifa, who is leading the agitation, announced that the agitation will continue till all demands are accepted. On Wednesday, while stopping the farmers, police detained Khalifa and others who were later. “We will garner support and restart our agitation on Thursday no matter police high handedness or the Noida authority that has ruined the livelihood of farmers,” said Ashok Chauhan, a farmer of Nagli Wazidpur.Noida Authority officer on special duty Avinash Tripathi said that the farmers’ demands will be dealt with in accordance to the rules.Police said they will act against protesters for violating the prohibitory orders that is in force in the district due to the pandemic. They said the protesters was cleared in under an hour without the use of force.“We knew about the protest and prepared for it by putting up barricades and managing traffic. Special units of the Rapid Action Force were deployed along with the local police to manage the situation. The protest was scheduled for the Noida Authority office but as soon as the group reached the barricading, they started arguing with law enforcement officials following which they were detained and taken to police lines,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (zone 1) Kumar Ranvijay Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-begin-agitation-against-noida-authority-101630520583331.html
01-09-2021||Noida||Primary schools reopen in GB Nagar but with 20% attendance||Primary schools in Gautam Budh Nagar resumed in-person classes on Wednesday but with just 20% of the students in attendance, said district officials. In August, the Uttar Pradesh government had cleared classes from 1 to 5 to resume in-person sessions after nearly four months following the second wave of Covid-19 infections. According to the state’s guidelines, schools are expected to scan children for fever at the gate and operate in two shifts - the first from 8am to 11am and the second from 11.30am till 2.30am. The schools are also required to get the written consent from the student’s parents or guardians allowing their wards to attend in-person classes. The other measures, such as physical distancing, masks and sanitisations too are required to be adhered to. Schools had resumed in-person classes for grades 9 to 12 from August 16, and classes 6 to 8 from August 23, following the same protocols. According to Gautam Budh Nagar basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) D K Singh, 577 government schools in the district resumed classes on Wednesday. “The attendance was thin, around 20%. This could be because of the heavy rain on the first day. We hope that the strength increases in the coming days. In the meantime, online classes as well as in-person classes are going on in the schools,” said Singh. He said there are around 300 private primary schools in the district. “About 90% of the private schools in the district have not reopened for primary classes because they did not have enough parents’ consent,” he said. Grads International School principal and president of the Gautam Budh Nagar chapter of the All India Principals’ Association Aditi Basu Roy said barely four to five children attended in-person classes at he private schools from grades 1 to 5. “Private schools are operating in hybrid mode by holding online as well as in-person classes. On Wednesday, less than 10% schools resumed in-person classes. Attendance in most schools was below 10%. Parents are still not confident about sending their children to school not just because of fear of Covid-19 but also of the viral fever that is being reported from nearby districts,” she said.Parents of students in private schools agreed to this view and said they were more comfortable with online classes till a vaccine is approved and made available for their children.“Most parents have refused to send their children to schools because of the fear of a Covid-19 third wave. Moreover, students of class 1-5 are too young to be disciplined enough to follow Covid protocols religiously without high supervision. Parents are of the opinion that government should first vaccinate the children against Covid-19 and only then reopen the schools,” said Manoj Kataria, President of GB Nagar Parents Welfare Society. “If the parents do not want to send their children to school, they can refuse and have full say in the same. The government has only ordered for reopening the schools so that those who want to go for in-person classes, have the option,” said BSA Singh. However, he said that if the trend seen in higher classes followed in primary schools, the strength is likely to increase in the coming days.“Initially for classes 9 and upwards, we had very few students attending in-person classes but now the strength has steadily grown to around 40% in many schools,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/primary-schools-reopen-in-gb-nagar-but-with-20-attendance-101630520584083.html
01-09-2021||Noida||Covid vaccination: Ghaziabad, Noida gear up to identify vulnerable sections||Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts are gearing up for a 10-day special drive, on the directions of the Uttar Pradesh government, to find out the susceptible population that is likely to be affected more in the wake of a third wave of Covid-19. The health officials of both the districts will focus on beneficiaries in the 45+ age group who have not taken the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, people having fever or Covid-like symptoms, those suffering from tuberculosis, and children left out of the routine immunisation. Officials of the health department said as part of the drive, teams will conduct door-to-door survey from September 7 to September 16. The mega drive is being taken up so that those who haven’t been vaccinated or taken the doses under the routine immunization get maximum protection in case resources are diverted in the wake of a third wave of Covid-19. “The government has directed to prepare a list of the beneficiaries under the five categories and a report will be submitted once the survey is complete. We will form teams for rural and urban areas for the purpose. As regards those who have still not taken the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, around 62% of those in the 45+ age group have been inoculated with the first dose while efforts are on to bring more such beneficiaries to the vaccination centres,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad district. “Likewise, children who are left out of routine immunisation will also be traced, besides people having fever or suffering from tuberculosis. The idea behind the drive is to ensure that all types of beneficiaries get proper and prior healthcare in case resources get diverted during the third wave of Covid-19,” he said. According to official records, Ghaziabad has set a target of vaccinating 878,250 beneficiaries in the 45+ age group, of whom 536,629 have so far taken the first dose. The coverage is about 61.1% till August 31. “We have an annual target of vaccinating 97,200 children, who have to be administered seven types of vaccines under routine immunisation (RI). During the drive, we will try to find out children who have been left out of the routine immunization. Some children may have been left out as they may migrated to the district with their families. These children will also be covered,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for vaccination. In Gautam Budh Nagar, the targeted population in the 45+ age group for Covid vaccination is about 356,345 beneficiaries, while the district has completed administering first doses to 434,840 beneficiaries till August 31. The coverage is about 122.03%. “The first dose coverage for the 45+ age group is more than the target population as people from outside GB Nagar also get inoculated here. During the 10-day drive, we will try to find out the beneficiaries in this age group who have still not taken the vaccine. For this, a meeting with district officials is scheduled in the coming days and a strategy will be formed,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer of GB Nagar district. During the drive, teams have been directed to carry out door-to-door survey and also find out people suffering from influenza-like illness or severe acute respiratory infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-vaccination-ghaziabad-noida-gear-up-to-identify-vulnerable-sections-101630520465826.html
01-09-2021||Other||Haryana schools reopen for Class 4, 5 students||Schools in Haryana have reopened for Classes 4 and 5 on Wednesday with 26% attendance.As many as 59,563 students of Class 4 and 5 of total 4.66 lakh visited 8,628 schools across state on the first day; and 525 students were barred from attending offline classes due to high body temperature.As per data provided by the school education department, the highest of 61% attendance was reported in Yamunanagar and Kaithal districts, followed by 52% in Kurukshetra, 47% in Ambala, 45% in Jind, 43% in Panchkula,34% in Fatehabad, 32% in Mahendergarh, 29% each in Sirsa and Rewari, 26% in Hisar, 25% in Karnal, 25% in Panipat, 21% in Jhajjar, 15% in Charkhi Dadri, 13% each in Rohtak and Bhiwani, 11% in Sonepat, 9% each in Faridabad and Gurugarm, 7% in Palwal, and 3% in Nuh.Poor attendance was reported on the first day due to rainfall and some hesitancy due to Covid-19. Students and teachers reached schools while adhering to the Covid protocol.Earlier the state government had resumed offline classes for students of Classes 9 to 12 from July 16 and Classes 6 to 8 from July 23.Rajbir Siwach, headmaster of Girls High School in Isharwal in Bhiwani, said two girls from Classes 4 and 5 of total 26 students attended the school on the first day of reopening of schools.Rajesh Payal, head of the primary wing at Boys Government School in Isharwal, said 30 students studying in Classes 4 and 5 of 50 attended school.“The seating arrangement was changed to maintain social distance and low attendance was reported due to rainfall. All the students came to school after taking consent from their parents,” he added.Ashish Kumar, a student of Class 4 at a government school in Rohtak’s Bohar, said he was jubilant to meet his friends after long.“We faced many problems in online classes and missed our friends. Teachers asked us not to sit on the same bench,” he added.Rambir Singh, a parent from Rohtak, said he will think of sending his son to school after seeing that precautions are taken by the teachers.“It is worrisome to send children to schools as there were reports that the third wave of Covid may affect kids,” he added.Students were seen in a cheerful mood in Ambala and Yamunanagar districts as schools reopened for Classes 4 and 5 almost after one-and-a-half years.Department officials said there was comparatively less attendance due to bad weather conditions. Also, a few students failed to get their parents’ consent.Jatin, a Class 4 student at a government school in Ambala, said he is hopeful that studies will be better than online classes at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-schools-reopen-for-class-4-5-students-101630520465326.html
01-09-2021||Delhi||Sharjeel Imam tried to create anarchy, Delhi Police tells court||New Delhi: The Delhi Police on Wednesday told a city court that Jawaharlal Nehru University student Sharjeel Imam gave provocative, divisive speeches and called for road blockades in an attempt to “create anarchy”.Imam made the alleged inflammatory speeches at Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13, 2019, and at Aligarh Muslim University on December 16, 2019. He has been in judicial custody since January 2020 after he was slapped with the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and sedition, among other charges.Special public prosecutor (SPP) Amit Prasad told the additional sessions judge, Amitabh Rawat, that Imam is a great orator who knows five languages.Prasad read out a January 16 speech by the JNU student in Aligarh and said, “He (Imam) begins this speech by saying “As-salamu alaykum”, which shows that it is only subjected to one community”.“The people called upon to take action were also from one community. The speech was definitely divisive. It was not made for the general public at large but a specific community. He is attempting to create complete anarchy,” he further argued.Reading out the part of the speech given at AMU, Prasad said, “These are very crucial words because we must keep in mind that this accused is somebody who has done his thesis on rioting and, therefore, has knowledge as to how a critical mass can come together and how things can be done from them.”The matter would be heard on Thursday.Imam is accused of offenses relating to sedition, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, imputations prejudicial to national integration, and public mischief under the Indian Penal Code, and indulging in unlawful activities under the UAPA.Delhi Police had filed a charge sheet against Imam in the case, in which it alleged that he allegedly gave speeches inciting hatred, contempt, and disaffection towards the Central Government and instigated the people which led to the violence in December 2019.“In the garb of CAA, he (Imam) exhorted people of a particular community to block highways leading to major cities and resort to “chakka jam”. Also, in the name of opposing CAA, he openly threatened to cut off Assam and other Northeastern states from the rest of the country,” the charge sheet had claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sharjeel-imam-tried-to-create-anarchy-delhi-police-tells-court-101630520463960.html
01-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath pays rich tributes to Kalyan Singh||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday paid rich tributes to former chief minister Kalyan Singh, praising the BJP stalwart as a strong leader who made sacrifices and always discharged his duties with full honesty and dedication.Adityanath was addressing a gathering at Atrauli town in Aligarh district of western Uttar Pradesh to mark the “terahvin” (13th day rituals) of Singh who died in Lucknow on August 21 at the age of 89 years after a prolonged illness.Singh, who headed the first Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in UP, was also a former governor of Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh.Adityanath announced that a statue of Kalyan Singh will be installed at the Super Specialty Cancer Institute in Lucknow and reiterated that the institute would be named after Singh in addition to an upcoming state medical college in Bulandshahr.He also said Kalyan Singh displayed devotion and made sacrifices to realise the dreams of thousands of years, adding that he was in the frontline of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement.“He resigned from his post in 1992 after the demolition of the disputed structure (Babri Mosque) and took moral responsibility so that no action was initiated against any government official. While making Uttar Pradesh fear-free and a corruption-free state, Babuji (Kalyan Singh) never hesitated to send the message home that he was a strong leader,” Yogi Adityanath said.Kalyan Singh was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh when the Babri Mosque was demolished by kar sevaks on December 6, 1992. The 13th day ritual was organised at KMV Inter College ground in Atrauli tehsil where Kalyan Singh’s ancestral village Madholi is located.Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra, Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya and Uttar Pradesh deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma also attended the ceremony.“Babuji fulfilled the pledge he had taken to dedicate himself to the society and the country. And, whenever he got responsibilities, be it from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the Bharatiya Jan Sangh or the Bharatiya Janata Party, he discharged them with full commitment, honesty, dedication and firmness,” Yogi Adityanath said.“He will always remain in our memories. He will be known for his strong conviction as administrator and left his mark both as health minister and chief minister of Uttar Pradesh and then as governor of Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh,” he added.“His popularity among his supporters can be judged by their huge turnout at his demise,” the chief minister said.Kalyan Singh’s son Rajveer Singh, who is the Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Etah in western Uttar Pradesh, and grandson Sandeep Singh, who is a minister of state in UP and MLA from Atrauli in Aligarh district, were also present. PTI adds: The main rituals were held under a decorated waterproof pandal (tent) to protect against rain. It also provided shelter to about 1,400 cooks called in to prepare meals for those attending the ceremony. Security personnel were posted all along the road from the air strip to the main site.Kalyan Singh’s mortal remains were consigned to flames at Bansi Ghat on the banks of the Ganga in Narora town of Bulandshahr district in western Uttar Pradesh on August 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-pays-rich-tributes-to-kalyan-singh-101630520343211.html
01-09-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Restaurant owner shot dead after fight over delivery delay, three arrested||A 38-year-old restaurant owner was shot dead at his outlet in Greater Noida late on Tuesday night, allegedly after a fight that broke out because a delivery order was taking longer than expected, police said.The victim Sunil Agarwal, a resident of Dadri, ran a restaurant, Zam Zam, at Mitra Enclave in Greater Noida. He was trying to resolve an argument with some food delivery agents when three men, all drunk and apparently unconnected with the restaurant or the delivery agents, opened fire and killed him. Three suspects have been arrested for the crime.According to additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, Vishal Pandey, 10 delivery agents were collecting 15 food orders at the restaurant at around 12:15am on Wednesday, when they had a disagreement with one of the restaurant’s workers , Narayan, setting off a chain of events that led to the Agarwal’s death.“A Swiggy delivery boy was engaged in a heated argument with restaurant staff, Narayan, over a delay in food. When the restaurant owner Sunil Agarwal reached there to intervene, someone opened fire from outside the restaurantand the bullet hit Agarwal in the head,” Pandey said.Ashwani Goel, a friend on the victim, said he was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him dead. Pandey said police quizzed the delivery agents who were present at the spot but were yet to find any evidence of their involvement in the murder. A case was registered against unknown persons under Section 302 (murder) of IPC. “We questioned some eyewitnesses and restaurant staff to get an idea of suspects. We also scanned CCTV footage from neighbouring areas and identified a Hero Splendor motorcycle on which three suspects were seen fleeing from the spot,” he said.News of the incident went viral on social media, where the incident was originally passed off as a killing caused by delayed order. Over the past several weeks, social media has been abuzz over the treatment of delivery agents by food delivery companies, and also unrealistic demands some place on the time it takes to make deliveries. Abhishek, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said police launched a search and intercepted the three suspects near Zero Point on Yamuna Expressway on Wednesday afternoon. The suspects – Vikas Chaudhury, 26, Devendra, 24, and Sunil, 23, all residents of Anupshahr in Bulandshahr, were arrested.Police suspect it was Chaudhury — who works as a contractor — who fired a shot from a pistol that killed Agarwal. Abhishek said that the suspects said they had no connection with the restaurant owner or the delivery agents. “The three persons were heavily drunk at the time of the incident. One suspect, Sunil, has previously worked as a food delivery agent. The suspects live in a rented accommodation in Swarn Nagri, about 1km from the restaurant. At night, they had left home on a motorcycle and they were roaming around. On the way, they stopped near the restaurant where the delivery boys were standing,” he said.Hearing the heated argument, the suspects inquired about the matter between the delivery agents and the staff. When the restaurant owner reached there, it appears that Chaudhury took out a gun and shot at the owner,” the DCP said.The suspects returned to their room, and were planning to escape to Bulandshahr when they were arrested. Police have recovered a pistol, two countrymade guns, two live cartridges, and a motorcycle. Police said that charges under the Gangster Act will also be pressed in this case.“What has been reported is very concerning,” a Swiggy spokesperson said. “All delivery partners on Swiggy are on-boarded for providing delivery services after a background verification which includes checking for any court cases or criminal antecedents, and are not disincentivised for any delays.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-restaurant-owner-shot-dead-after-fight-over-delivery-delay-three-arrested-101630520102504.html
01-09-2021||Other||Flood-like situation in Gorakhpur districts as Rapti, Rohini continue to swell||Gorakhpur : People in many parts of Gorakhpur district were forced to use boats to move from one place to another as water from Rapti and Rohini rivers inundated many parts of the district on Wednesday. Experts said if the rivers continued to rise, people could face a flood like situation as was the case in 1998. On Tuesday DM Vijay Kiran Anand inspected the flood affected areas and told the villagers that while river Rohini was stable, but nothing could be predicted about Rapti. Jal Shakti minister Dr Mahendra Singh inspected the embankments in Gorakhpur and said that the Yogi government would help the flood-hit and compensate their losses. “This time it has rained thrice more than it did in previous years and that is why many rivers have crossed the danger mark. He said the embankments were safe despite the pressure of water,” the minister said. Keeping in view the situation, administration has set up a flood control room. River Rapti has already started breaching the embankment from the regulator at Mahewa from Habbort embankment from the last three days. Flood-like situation is also developing at Maniram, Kudria, Banrahan extension near Bhuteli, Pipiganj Makhnahan embankment, Rampur, Nayagaon and in Belipar area, locals said. On Tuesday late night the Ilahigabh regulator also started leaking. In 1998, the highest level of River Rapti was recorded at 77.54 meter. On Tuesday evening the Rapti was flowing at 76.95, which is only 59 cm below the mark that was recorded in 1998. In 2001, River Rohini’s highest level was recorded as 85.43 meter which had caused heavy flooding in the region. After 20 years on Tuesday evening, River Rohini was flowing at 84.97 meter which is only 46 cm below the mark recorded in 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/floodlike-situation-in-gorakhpur-districts-as-rapti-rohini-continue-to-swell-101630519803390.html
01-09-2021||Other||Two IIIT-Allahabad students bag jobs at annual salary of ₹61.65 lakh||Covid-19 outbreak and its fallout on Indian and the global economy notwithstanding, 92% of Indian Institute of Information Technology-Allahabad (IIIT-A) students have bagged job offers from top multi-national companies at impressive salaries this year. Two BTech final year students have bagged jobs at an annual package of ₹61.65 lakh per annum while the average annual package of students remained at ₹21.85 lakh. Over 150 firms conducted placement drives at the institute in the 2020-21 session, said Vineet Tiwari, IIIT-A’s faculty in-charge, training and placements. “The highest package has been bagged by two girls, including one of BTech (electronics and communication engineering) and the other of BTech (IT)-MTech (IT) dual degree programme. The duo has got the job offer from multinational technology giant Apple,” he said. Tiwari said among the firms that took part in the placement drive, included Google, Goldman Sachs, Amazon, Flipkart, Zomato, IBM, Accenture, Aakash, HCL and Adobe among others. In the current session, a total of 280 students had registered for placement process and 92% of them bagged job offers, he added. Five students of BTech (IT) bagged job offers with a package of ₹51 lakh per annum from Atlassian firm. In 2019-20 session also, over 96% of the institute students had got placed with an average package of ₹20.83 lakh per annum with the highest package being around ₹43 lakh per annum. Over 120 companies had taken part in the placement drive last time too, Tiwari said. IIIT-A director prof P Nagabhushan said: “This year was a challenging one in all respects owing to Covid-19 that hit business and the economy hard. However, on the strength of their skills and knowledge, our students have bagged good placements. I am confident that the coming times the students would do even better.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-iiit-a-students-bag-jobs-at-annual-salary-of-rs-61-65-lakh-101630519326937.html
01-09-2021||Gurugram||Smart signals to come up in city; to lower wait time, enable faster commute||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will install smart traffic signals across the city to streamline vehicular movement on roads, officials said on Wednesday. These signals will lower wait times for commuters and enable faster commute as they operate based on the traffic volume.The development was shared by GMDA officials during the district road safety meeting held on Tuesday evening.“GMDA CEO [chief executive officer] Sudhir Rajpal has already given administrative approval to this project. According to the representatives of GMDA, old and defective traffic signals in the city will be replaced and smart traffic signals will be installed in their place. Tenders are being prepared for this (project) and it is expected to be floated within this month. Smart traffic signals will solve the problem of traffic management to a great extent across the city,” an official spokesperson of the district administration said.In a smart traffic signal system, cameras and sensors can detect the volume of traffic on each side. The stretch with the highest traffic density would automatically get a green signal for a longer period while the one with the least will get the shortest period.This way, traffic congestion can be minimised and vehicular movement streamlined, said officials. The project is expected to cost around ₹16.10 crore.In March, GMDA had announced that they were working towards converting all of the city’s 130 traffic signals into a smart one.It is not the first time that smart traffic signals will be installed in the city. In February 2019, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) installed four smart signals between Huda City Centre and Subhash Chowk, along the Netaji Subhash Marg.The district road safety meeting on Tuesday was presided over by additional deputy commissioner Vishram Kumar Meena. During the meeting, Meena formed a four-member committee of officials from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Raahgiri Foundation, and Gurugram traffic police to make congested junctions such as Shankar Chowk, Iffco Chowk, Signature Towers, Rajiv Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk safer for pedestrians.The committee was directed to visit these spots and create zebra crossings and tackle other pedestrian-related issues.Gurugram traffic police officials also disclosed in the meeting that so far, this year, they have issued 52,746 challans for wrong-side driving, 1,979 for driving in incorrect lanes, 484 for speeding, 4,184 for driving without seat belts, 13,867 for driving without helmet and 107 for overloading vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/smart-signals-to-come-up-in-city-to-lower-wait-time-enable-faster-commute-101630519325809.html
01-09-2021||Gurugram||Burglary in Suncity residence, locked house targeted again||A residence in Suncity of Sector 53 was burgled of ₹5 lakh and jewellery worth ₹30 lakh over the weekend while the residents were away in Jaipur, the police said.The incident was reported on Sunday night, when the residents could not open the door of the first-floor apartment and a quick response team (QRT) of the residents’ welfare association (RWA) found the door broken, after climbing in through the balcony.The residents said that the burglars also took the videotapes of the CCTV cameras. However, the police were able to get footage from a nearby residence, in which a burglar can be seen climbing into the apartment through the balcony. A case was registered at the Sector 53 police station against four persons suspected to be involved in the crime.The burglary victim, Anita Aryani, who had gone to Jaipur on Friday with her husband, said that they have been living for almost 14 years in E block of Suncity and due to rising crimes, they had installed night vision cameras at their house. “On Sunday night, when we retuned to our house, the doors were locked from inside. We got alarmed and called the QRT from RWA. A person climbed the balcony and found that one of the doors was broken. Inside, the main bedroom, which had a heavy lock, was ransacked,” she said.The Suncity RWA, meanwhile, said that several robberies have taken place in the colony in the past six months, with locked houses targeted in most cases.Aryani said that the robbers took ₹5 lakh, gold jewellery worth ₹25 lakh, expensive watches and 1.5kg of silver. “They did not touch watches of local brands. They took the DVR of the CCTV cameras and also the set up box,” she said.VMK Singh, an RWA member, said that people are afraid to leave their houses unattended. “A resident who was walking his dog in the evening also saw this robber. We want the police to take action curb these robberies,” said Singh.He said that around 30 similar robberies have taken place in the colony over the past two years.The police said that they are investigating the burglary. “We are checking feeds from CCTV cameras installed in the area. The police presence has been increased,” said Sanjeev Balhara, an assistant commissioner of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/burglary-in-suncity-residence-locked-house-targeted-again-101630519324575.html
01-09-2021||Gurugram||Rainfall of 100.8mm drowns Gurugram, key roads waterlogged, gridlocked||Rainfall of about 100.8mm, between 1am and 5.30pm Wednesday, left most areas of the city heavily inundated, with the Narsinghpur stretch on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and areas below the Iffco Chowk Metro station remaining waterlogged till late evening. According to the weather department officials, the city started receiving rain a little after midnight and it continued till noon on Wednesday, post which it fizzled to a drizzle till evening.Such was the extent of waterlogging across the city that the traffic police issued alerts over social media cautioning commuters about the high amount of accumulated rainwater on Sheetla Mata Road, CH Bakhtawar Singh Road, Iffco Chowk, sector 21/22 crossing, near Kherki Daula toll, Nathupur, Bilaspur Chowk, Signature Tower, Sector 12 Chowk, Iffco Chowk, near Mayfield Gardens traffic signal, near Good Earth Mall, below Guru Dronacharya Metro station, Mini Secretariat, Hamilton Court Road, Basai Road, Z-chowk near Huda City Centre, Narsinghpur, and Ram Chowk. Commuters and motorists were advised to avoid these stretches and plan their travel accordingly.The worst affected stretch was the service lanes of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, between Khandsa and Kherki Daula toll.The service lanes towards Manesar were heavily inundated and commuters had to rely on the main carriageway, but even there, the situation was not better — two lanes of the main carriageway were also underwater, traffic officials said.Pedestrians could be seen wading their way through the knee-deep water on the stretch. Two-wheeler riders and cyclists were unable to spot the potholes and several of them lost their balance and fell into the murky water.With the service completely inundated and only the main carriageway of the expressway (NH-48) carrying traffic, the 3km stretch from Khandsa to Kherki Daula also witnessed severe congestion.“It took me over 20 minutes to cross the stretch. The service lanes were inaccessible and a few lanes of the main carriageway were also heavily waterlogged. Traffic police officials diverted traffic through the unaffected parts and cleared vehicles from the limited road space available,” said Kuldeep Rana, a resident of Sector 49.Traffic police officials said the Narsinghpur stretch along with Signature Towers, and Basai Chowk were the worst hit in terms of traffic snarls.“Over 1,100 traffic police officials were deputed on ground to manage traffic and other waterlogging related issues. The three stretches were the worst affected areas with regard to traffic movement. We deployed additional staff to divert vehicles and assist the stranded, while cranes were also placed at these spots to tow away broken down vehicles,” said Ravinder Singh Tomar, DCP, Gurugram traffic police.Tomar said at Signature Towers, the stretches below the flyover were inundated and that triggered snarls while at Basai Chowk, ongoing construction work, coupled with rain, led to jams. Tomar, however, said no underpass in the city had to be shut this time on account of waterlogging.Even arterial stretches such as Iffco Chowk and Hamilton Court Road did not fare any better.At Hamilton Court Road, opposite Galleria Market, such was the extent of waterlogging that two vehicles were submerged and had to be towed away with the help of cranes.The stretch leading towards the camera museum was unserviceable. Officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) could be seen using motor pumps to channel rainwater towards the nearest drainage outlet.“Such was the extent of waterlogging on the Hamilton Court Road that I could not turn into Sushant Lok-1 and had to take a 3km detour to access it from the MG Road side,” said Ravish Singh, a resident of Sushant Lok-1.Previously, heavy rainfall was recorded in the city on August 19 and 20 of 2020, when over 196mm of rainfall inundated the seven-kilometre Golf Course Road, with rainwater accumulation as high as 0.5 metres above the surface level at several points. On July 28, 2016, Gurugram received just 55mm of rain. While that was not much when compared to other rain days — like the 19th of July when the city received 185mm of rain — it was enough to bring Gurugram to its knees; enough to overwhelm a skeletal drainage network; enough to cause the infamous “Gurujam” when commuters were stuck on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway for nearly two days; enough to flood all arterial roads, enough to inundate houses, and enough to wash away the moniker of “Millennium City”.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) media bulletin, Gurugram recorded a maximum temperature of 26.2 degrees Celsius (­°C), eight degrees below normal, and a minimum of 23°C, two degrees below normal on Wednesday. According to the IMD’s seven-day forecast, the city is expected to have spells of rain till Saturday and the weather is expected to clear on Sunday. Pardeep Kumar, chief engineer, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, said barring the Narsinghpur and Iffco Chowk areas, rainwater was cleared from most parts of the city by 4pm.“The city received rainfall in three digits. Despite that, waterlogging in most areas was managed to a significant extent. In most parts, rainwater was cleared by 3pm while in low-lying areas, it was cleared by 4pm. At Narsinghpur and Iffco Chowk, rainwater was cleared by 6pm,” said Kumar.Kumar attributed the extensive waterlogging at Iffco Chowk to an incomplete drainage project of the GMDA, which he said will be completed post-monsoon. At Narsinghpur, he said the intensity of rain was far more than in other parts of the city, due to which there was extensive waterlogging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rainfall-of-100-8mm-drowns-gurugram-key-roads-waterlogged-gridlocked-101630519323364.html
01-09-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 work from home survey: Majority of working professionals prefer flexible working hours||Over 90% of 3,300 working professionals, who were surveyed by a real estate consultancy regarding a change in work modes due to the Covid-19 pandemic, said that they prefer flexible working hours and remote working, but also that they miss social interactions that an office space facilitates, a report of the survey stated.The report, released by JLL, is based on questionnaires shared with over 3,300 respondents across three surveys conducted in March 2020, October 2020 and March 2021. All respondents are working professionals employed by companies that have at least 100 employees. Over 90% of those surveyed were employed with private companies, with big corporates comprising 70% of these and small and medium enterprises (SMEs) forming the rest.The report, released on Wednesday, stated that almost 40% of workers wanted offline interactions and 30% missed change of scenery. Also, 21% did not prefer to work from home (WFH). Also, 75% of the workers said they would like to work from the office at least once a week, an increase from 52% reported in October 2020 survey.City-based human resource experts and real estate developers who operate commercial office spaces concurred with the findings of the survey and said that a mix of office and remote working would be the trend in the near future. They said that with the Covid-19 situation easing, there would be mixed working options that will favour the offices more. Employees in the private sector have been largely working from home since the Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020, resulting in employers giving up office space or reducing it accordingly.“The offices of the future will have to be more human-centric, putting health and well-being at the forefront. Almost 60% of those surveyed believe that a workplace that promotes a healthy lifestyle and safety is a key priority,” Radha Dhir, the chief executive officer and country head for India, JLL, said.According to the survey, a majority of workers preferred to work three days from the office and two working from home.Mamta Yadav, practice leader, IRIS Corp, a human resources expert, said that working from offices would res barring a few sectors, as it is the normal mode for employees to operate. “There is need for people to connect with each other, have a change of scenery and learn on the job. There are only a few sectors where only WFH will suffice. In other places, a flexible work culture will evolve. Only working from home has led to health and psychological issues among a large workforce, particularly in the IT sector. Productivity also gets hit. So, returning to offices in a graded manner is likely to happen,” she said.Meanwhile, real estate developers in the city said that many companies have resumed operating from their office spaces, especially after the vaccination drives took place. “Our own office is working at full attendance with high degree of safety measures. Many tenants have returned to office and though WFH has saved us during the pandemic, if we want to grow the business, there is a need to stick to offices with may be a day or two dedicated to working remotely ,” Kamaljeet Singh, the vice-president of Bestech, a city-based developer, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-work-from-home-survey-majority-of-working-professionals-prefer-flexible-working-hours-101630519265989.html
01-09-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccinations: Gurugram exceeds first dose target, coverage at 104%||Gurugram has become the first district in Haryana to administer the first dose of the vaccine against coronavirus infection to 100% of its eligible population above 18 years, according to the data shared by the Gurugram health department. The district has exceeded its target, achieving coverage of almost 104% due to an influx of migratory population from neighbouring states, officials said.Based on the state health department’s estimates, 1,632,456 people were to be covered under the vaccination programme, but data shows that over 1,703,642 people have taken at least their first shot, with about 43% of them also having taken the second shot. “Considering the migratory population, the district has exceeded its expected eligible population. More people in the district have to be inoculated with the first dose, which includes another three lakh (300,000) people. Currently, the focus is on increasing the second dose coverage, to take the existing coverage of 43% to nearly 60%,” Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said. According to the data, the maximum coverage has been in the 18-45 years age group. As per the Census 2011, 974,208 people aged 18-45 years are eligible for vaccination in the district, with 1,120,339 having taken the shot, taking the coverage to 115% in the age group. Also, 28% (272,778) of the beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group have taken the second vaccine shot. Officials said that this is the highest coverage among the 22 districts in the state, despite the uneven pace of vaccination from May 1, when slots were opened for people in the 18-45 age group. In the 45-60 age group, vaccinations for whom started in April, the health department set a target to cover 394,949 people, with 304,111 having taken the shot, taking the coverage to 77%. Also, 48% (189,576) of the beneficiaries in the 45-60 age group have completed their vaccinations by taking the second shot. Among the prioritised population of above 60 years, the district targeted over 263,299 people, with 198,208 having taken the first shot, taking the coverage to 73%. Also, 55%(144,814) of the senior citizens have taken both doses. In the past three months, the district health department adopted multiple measures to reach out to different strata of the society by starting special vaccination mobile vans in slums, dedicated camps for people with physical disabilities and transgenders, and multiple drive-through camps in malls across the city. On Wednesday, 22,623 people were vaccinated across 97 session sites. In May, private hospitals and states were directed to procure the vaccine stock directly from the manufacturer, leading to a slump in vaccination as states and private hospitals faced a shortage of vaccines. On June 21, the policy was revised and the Central government started procuring 75% of all vaccine doses for states. The remaining 25% is procured by private hospitals, for which they have to submit details with to the health department. Officials said that the policy change led to an increase in vaccination in August, with more than 500,000 doses administered in a month, an increase of around 200,000 vaccinations from July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccinations-gurugram-exceeds-first-dose-target-coverage-at-104-101630519264585.html
01-09-2021||Mumbai||BJP MLA’s remarks on Lord Ram causes stir||Jaykumar Gore, Bharatiya Janata Party’s MLA from Maan in Satara district, has kicked off a controversy through his remarks against Lord Ram. The legislator in his recent speech in his constituency said that Lord Rama’s “intention was bad” and he won the battle against Ravan because of the latter’s brother Bibhishana. However, within seconds, Gore corrected his remarks and said that he meant Ravan’s intention was bad. While the BJP said it was just a slip of tongue and the MLA himself corrected it immediately, the Congress pointed out that Union minister Narayan Rane had made an issue of a slip of tongue by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray while delivering his speech on Independence Day. Gore, who joined the BJP ahead of 2019-Assembly polls by defecting from Congress, was speaking in a public meeting on Tuesday. “After his defeat, Ravan asked Ram why did he face the defeat even after having mammoth force and everything in his favour? Rama said that he could win because Bibhishana was by his side. Ram had bad intention…” he said. When people from the gathering corrected him, he said, “I meant Ravan had bad intention.” Gore had been facing political rivalry from his brother Shekhar in the constituency. The two brothers fought the polls against each other in 2019. Gore linked the reference from Ramayana to his family clashes in his speech and said, “My brother did not stand by me, but my intention had no fault,” he said. The MLA is facing criminal cases, including allegations of sexual harassment. “This indicates how the BJP’s intention about Ram is bad. The party has been supporting mob lynching in the name of Hindutva. We want to ask what action the party will take against Gore for his derogatory remarks against Lord Ram, who is worshipped by Hindus and in whose name the BJP has been doing its politics,” said Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant. BJP leader Ashish Shelar said, “It was a slip of tongue. He realised it immediately after speaking out in the flow of the speech. He has apologised for it and has corrected his statement. His statement is selectively made public on social media and the opposition is capitalising on it. The part of his apology has been deleted from the video which has gone viral.” Sawant said, “Rane attacked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for seeking information on the year of independence. It was not even a slip of tongue. Why is the BJP now justifying its MLA for his more serious mistake?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-mla-s-remarks-on-lord-ram-causes-stir-101630518722803.html
01-09-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: HC reserves order on plea by eight accused||The Bombay high court reserved its orders in the petition filed by the eight Elgar Parishad accused who challenged the cognizance taken by the sessions judge of the charge sheet filed by Pune Police in November 2018. The counsel for the accused argued that as the sessions judge had passed orders and not the special NIA court or a magistrate court as stipulated by the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) under which the accused were booked, the orders passed by the sessions judge were not valid and they were eligible for default bail. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing the petition of Sudhir Dhavale and the other seven accused was informed by advocate Sudeep Pasbola that the petition was challenging the orders passed by the additional sessions judge which authorized the charge sheet filed by the Pune police and all other orders related to default bail applications in November and December 2018. The accused in their petition have submitted that the sessions judge was not the competent court to hear their applications as they had been booked under a scheduled offence and the provisions of the NIA Act which mentioned judicial procedure for offences under UAPA were to be presided over by a special NIA court only or a magistrate court. However, the sessions judge had presided over the cases and passed orders which were illegal and hence they were eligible for default bail. Similar arguments had been canvassed by advocate Yug Choudhry in the petition filed by Sudha Bharadwaj seeking similar reliefs. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for Pune police and state however argued that the Pune police had filed the charge sheet within the stipulated period and hence the prayer for quashing of the order was not valid and the petition should be dismissed. Additional Solicitor general Anil Singh for the NIA submitted that the NIA Act provided a hearing of trial by a special court and not before that and as the authorization of the charge sheet was a pre-trial stage procedure and hence the there was nothing averse in the sessions judge taking cognizance of the charge sheet. However, Pasbola objected stating that neither the state nor the NIA had addressed the issue raised by the petitioners about the competence of the sessions judge to hear cases registered under scheduled offences. After hearing the submissions the court said it had concluded the hearing and would pass orders in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-hc-reserves-order-on-plea-by-eight-accused-101630518062634.html
01-09-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Rona Wilson seeks temporary bail following father’s death||Activist Rona Wilson has moved the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court seeking temporary bail to visit his native place in Kerala following his father’s death.Wilson’s father died on August 18 and his last rites were performed on 19th August 2021, in Neendakara in Kerala.The activist said through his counsel that if he is given liberty to meet his family and participate in the mass, he could get some solace. Wilson, according to his plea, had last met his father, Wilson Jacob, 84, in April 2018 in Alappuzha. Hence, he has sought temporary bail on humane grounds from September 13. Wilson was arrested on June 6, 2018, in the Elgar Parishad case by Pune Police.Wilson has said that as per customs a function is organised on the 30th-day, which falls on September 16. Wilson has also annexed a letter from the St Sebastian Church about the function.The plea has been moved on Wednesday through his counsel Satyanarayan Iyer. The court has asked the NIA to reply to it by September 6.Wilson’s plea filed before the Bombay high court, citing a US-based digital consultant ‘Arsenal Consulting’ which had stated that incriminating evidence was planted on his electronic device two years prior to his arrest, is pending.Last year the special court had rejected co-accused Surendra Gadling’s plea for an interim bail for the funeral of his mother after it was opposed by NIA citing the seriousness of the offence. However, Gadling had recently managed to get interim bail to perform final last rites on his mother’s first death anniversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-rona-wilson-seeks-temporary-bail-following-father-s-death-101630517402813.html
01-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 1 month after being opened up, Ghatkopar-Mankhurd flyover shut for work||One month after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray gave green light to the Ghatkopar-Mankhurd flyover, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to undertake maintenance work, owing to which, traffic is expected to be disrupted. The BMC has also decided to install CCTV cameras, additional speed bumps and rumblers and making the surface rough.This comes after an uproar over several accidents on the flyover including the death of a 34-year-old biker Yusuf Khan, who slipped and lost his life on Monday. In the absence of this flyover, those heading to Navi Mumbai and further along with those heading to south Mumbai and eastern suburbs will have to use the Ghatkopar Mankhurd Link Road, which will result in traffic jams.The flyover was inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on August 1. Following this, on August 4, BJP corporator wrote a letter to mayor Kishori Pednekar and municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, pointing at the poor quality of construction work by the contractor. Thackeray on the day of the inauguration had also asked the BMC officials to make the surface of the flyover smooth.On Wednesday, however, the BMC started the maintenance work of making the surface smooth by keeping one lane between Ghatkopar and Mankhurd shut. According to BMC officials, they will install CCTV cameras, speed bumpers on both sides of the road, undertake milling works of the road will be carried out in a bid to make the flyover surface rough along with rumbler strips also being placed.The Mumbai Traffic Police maintained that maintenance work will be carried out by the BMC for 10 days. Kishore Shinde, senior inspector of the Mankhurd traffic police division said, ‘The plan is to carry out work for five days each on one side at a time. Currently, it is being carried out on Ghatkopar to the Mankhurd stretch. After five days, it will be carried out on the Mankhurd to Ghatkopar stretch.”However, the BMC did not clarify what will be the timings of keeping the flyover shut for repairs. P Velrasu, Additional Municipal Commissioner of the BMC said, “The plan is to undertake work in non-peak hours.”The BMC further said that though the movement of light vehicles is allowed, the flyover after maintenance will continue to remain shut for heavy vehicles due to the presence of high-tension cables overhead. The BMC expects that these cables will be shifted in the coming months’ post which movement of heavy vehicles will also be allowed.Meanwhile, the 2.9-km flyover, constructed for ₹713 crore by the BMC, was opened on August 1, three years after its deadline. The flyover has helped cut travel time for motorists heading towards Navi Mumbai from Ghatkopar as the link road has heavy traffic on the entire stretch, especially at Baiganwadi Junction in Shivaji Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-1-month-after-being-opened-up-ghatkopar-mankhurd-flyover-shut-for-work-101630517102830.html
01-09-2021||Mumbai||Defamation case: HC reserves order on Ranaut’s plea against Javed Akhtar’s complaint||The Bombay high court (HC) reserved its orders in the appeal filed by actor Kangana Ranaut against the criminal proceedings initiated by the Andheri magistrate court based on the defamation complaint by lyricist Javed Akhtar. The actor’s counsel argued that the magistrate had not followed proper procedure and had initiated the proceedings based solely on Akhtar’s complaint and the police report without hearing her. However Akhtars counsel argued that the magistrate had three options to initiate criminal proceedings and after viewing the interview in which the actor had made the defamatory comments had rightly initiated the proceedings. The single-judge bench of justice Revati Mohite-Dere while hearing Ranaut’s appeal was informed by advocate Rizwan Siddiquee that the appeal sought setting aside of the criminal proceedings ordered by the magistrate as well as the complaint by Akhtar.Akhtar has approached the magistrate court last year alleging that Ranaut’s defamatory comments against him on national television had maligned his character and tarnished his reputation which he had painstakingly garnered over 50 years of his career in Bollywood. The magistrate court at Andheri initiated proceedings against Ranaut in February and issued a bailable warrant in March after Ranaut did not attend the summons issued by the magistrate. The actor had then appeared and applied for bail, which was granted by the magistrate. In her appeal in HC, Ranaut challenged the proceeding initiated by the magistrate and said that the magistrate had not followed the procedure as laid down under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). She alleged that rather than conducting the examination of Akhtar and witnesses himself the magistrate had only directed the Juhu police to conduct an inquiry. She had added that if such a practice was allowed it would set a wrong precedent for other magistrates and also affect the rights and liberties of other accused.Pending a hearing of her appeal in HC, Ranaut sought a stay on the magistrate court proceedings and a declaration to term as illegal the signed statements of witnesses collected by the police.Akhtar had however filed an affidavit seeking dismissal of Ranaut’s appeal on the grounds that the magistrate had followed due process of law and only after viewing the July 19, 2020 interview of Ranaut and going through the statement of witnesses that the magistrate initiated the proceedings against her. Akhtar had also alleged in the affidavit that the appeal was filed with the sole intent to delay the proceedings.On Wednesday, Siddiquee submitted that the magistrate had passed orders mechanically without application of mind. “No material evidence was brought on record by the complainant (Akhtar) and the material was brought by a third party and the same was not examined on oath. However, the magistrate relied on it. He was duty-bound to determine the veracity of the complaint,” argued Siddiquee terming the investigation as one-sided as it was not done as per the stipulation of section 2020 of CrPC. While countering the arguments by Ranaut, advocate Jay Bharadwaj for Akhtar said that due procedure was followed by the magistrate and in order to conduct an impartial inquiry, all people involved were summoned by him, however, Ranaut did not attend the court, hence the bailable warrant was issued against her. After hearing both sides the court concluded the hearing and reserved its order on the appeal. Meanwhile, the Andheri Magistrate adjourned hearing of the defamation suit filed by Akhtar to September 14 and granted Ranaut one last chance to appear before it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/defamation-case-hc-reserves-order-on-ranaut-s-plea-against-javed-akhtar-s-complaint-101630516562673.html
01-09-2021||Mumbai||Cases filed against Maha BJP chief among others for flouting Covid-19 norms||Police registered a case against Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil, Pune city mayor Murlidhar Mohol, BJP's Pune president Jagdish Mulik among several other party workers on Wednesday for allegedly violating guidelines in place to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The BJP had on Tuesday staged protests across the state to demand reopening of temples and religious places. The Maharashtra government has imposed restrictions on the entry of people at places of worship, among others, to check the spread of Covid-19.However, the BJP threatened the Uddhav Thackeray government that it would "forcefully open" the temples and other religious places if the state administration doesn't reopen them.This is despite the Union health ministry advising the Maharashtra government to restrict religious activities and put curbs on celebrations during the ongoing festival season as the threat of a potential third wave of Covid-19 looms large.Former Maharashtra finance minister and BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar questioned the decision of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to prevent the people from entering the places of worship even thiugh it allowed bars, liquor shops and malls to reopen and fully vaccinated commuters to board trains.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Tuesday that his government is not anti-religion or against any festivals, but only against Covid-19 outbreak.On Monday, the state government prohibited all sorts of public gatherings, including human pyramids, for the Dahi Handi festival, which was observed on Tuesday.However, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena defied the ban and held the ceremony at many places, including Thane, Kalachowki, Dadar, Mulund and Mankhurd. Mumbai police booked at least four MNS workers in Worli for flouting Covid-19 norms.Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 4,456 cases of Covid-19 infection and 183 related deaths in the previous 24 hours, taking the overall caseload to 64,69,332. The state now has 51,078 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cases-filed-against-maha-bjp-chief-among-others-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-101630513650595.html
01-09-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati: Poverty has increased due to wrong policies of BJP govt||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said on Wednesday the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) grabbed power at centre and in the state due to the wrong policies and deeds of the Congress party.She also said the BJP government was busy implementing the narrow agenda of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) instead of fulfilling its Constitutional duties. “Due to the wrong policies and working of the BJP government, poverty has increased, the prices of the essential commodities are skyrocketing, unemployment has increased, tension prevails in the society and there is spurt in the crime cases. The people are a harassed lot and want freedom from the misrule of the BJP,” she said.“The death of large number of children due to dengue in various districts after the second wave of the Covid 19 pandemic has added to the pain of the people. Large areas in several districts are inundated due to floods. The state government should assist the people by launching relief and rescue work. The increase in the crime in the districts of West UP should be checked,” she said.Mayawati reviewed the working of the party organization in 10 divisions of the state in a meeting with the senior leaders and office bearers in the party state unit office. She directed the party leaders to constitute the committees till booth level at war footing. The BSP chief slammed the central government over increase in the cooking gas prices. Terming it anti-poor, she said the increase in the prices of the petroleum products has added to the burden on the common people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-poverty-has-increased-due-to-wrong-policies-of-bjp-govt-101630515723137.html
01-09-2021||Jaipur||Rain lashes parts of Rajasthan||Several parts of Rajasthan, received on rainfall on Wednesday.Churu recorded maximum of 41.4 mm rainfall, followed by Alwar at 37.2 mm, Chittorgarh 36.0 mm, Sikar 28 mm, Dabok 11.8 mm and Bhilwara 9.4 mm.Many areas, including Sawai Madhopur, Dholpur, Jodhpur and Barmer, received light rainfall.Jaipur recorded 11.8 mm of rain.The Meteorological Department has issued a warning of heavy rain in Sirohi, Jalore, Pali and Barmer districts on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rains-lash-parts-of-rajasthan-101630514965422.html
01-09-2021||Pune||Trees trimmed during rush hours in Pune’s Camp area cause inconvenience to commuters||The tree cutting work undertaken by the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) in the Camp area caused multiple traffic snarls as it was ongoing during peak traffic hours of the morning on Wednesday.A crane was set up and the heavy branches fell on the electricity lines running above the street.Jayant Kangane of PCB, said, “If you say 7:30 am is busy, someone else will say 8:30 am 9 am is busy, now you are saying 11 am is busy.”When suggested about cutting trees at night, Kangane said, “There is less visibility in the night. The risk of trees hitting wires and damaging them is also higher at night. And who will pay for the night allowance?”While most of the heavy branches were taken off the road, when asked about the ones left on the footpath, Kangane said, “Those will be picked up tomorrow (on Thursday). We don’t have such big resources to cover everything in one day.”However, residents of the buildings nearby claimed that the trees cut in the past few days, on the opposite side of the road where the work was ongoing on Wednesday, has helped them.A man who parks his car on the opposite side of the road regularly, without sharing his name, said, “Those trees had overgrown and the nuts falling from the trees used to bang against the windshield of my car. The trees had also become a passageway for pigeons into the houses whose windows the leaves were touching. The leaves that fell from the trees used to get accumulated in the corners and then road due to the rainwater making a breeding ground for rats which had damaged the wiring is in my car.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/trees-trimmed-during-rush-hours-in-pune-s-camp-area-cause-inconvenience-to-commuters-101630515181473.html
01-09-2021||Other||Elected DSGMC members to induct nine others on Sept 9||Chandigarh Forty-six newly elected members of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) will meet on September 9 to nominate former president Manjinder Singh Sirsa as a member and co-opt eight others into the general House of the gurdwara management body. The Shiromani Akali Dal won 27 of 46 seats and is ready to form the committee for the third consecutive term.Sirsa’s nomination, a candidate of the SAD, is necessitated as he had lost to SAD (Delhi) candidate Harvinder Singh Sarna from Punjabi Bagh segment in the polls held on August 22; the results were declared on August 25. The elected members will co-opt two members from among the Singh Sabha Gurdwara in New Delhi, and other two members will also be taken in, on the collective will of those elected, even though they might hold different political affiliation. Members from Singh Sabhas are inducted by a lottery system.“We hope that this time again it would be a consensus; one member will come from the Badal-led SAD, and other from Sarnas’ led SAD (Delhi),” said a member, not wanting to be named. Head priests of the four takhts (temporal seats), the Akal Takht, Keshgarh Sahib, Patna Sahib and Hazoor Sahib are also co-opted making the total number of members in general house to 55. The temporal heads, however, do not have the right to vote, while the other 51 can vote under the DSGMC Act of 1971. Elected members have zeroed in on Bikram Singh of Rohini as a nominated member, as he vacated his seat for Sarabjit Singh to contest as SAD candidate. The other member has not been identified yet.  Sarnas led SAD (Delhi) had won on total 14 seats, former DSGMC president Manjit Singh GK, who fielded candidates representing newly formed Jago party, shrunk to three seats. Independents won two seats. GK himself won his home seat of Greater Kailash. After the co-option of members, director, gurdwara election, Delhi government, will announce a meeting schedule for general body within 15 days. The general body would elect the office-bearers, who would take the oath to run the DSGMC affairs for four years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elected-dsgmc-members-to-induct-nine-others-on-sept-9-101630514882246.html
01-09-2021||Other||Issue of patwaris resolved, says Punjab revenue commissioner||Chandigarh Punjab additional chief secretary-cum-financial commissioner, revenue, Ravneet Kaur, said on Wednesday that the issues of patwaris and kanungos had been resolved, and that they will resume work in the additional Patwar Circles with immediate effect. Kaur added that after rounds of meetings of representatives of Revenue Patwar Union with revenue minister GS Kangar the issues had been resolved. She added that Punjab Revenue Patwaris Class 3, Service Rules 1966, provided for a training period of one-and-a-half years for patwari candidates and a probation period of three years for patwaris. “It has been decided to amend the Rules to reduce the period of training to one year and the probation period to two years, so that the total period of training and probation is three years as against the current requirement of four-and-a-half years.” Currently, 890 patwaris are on probation; the department of revenue would proactively take up this matter with the finance department for reduction of their probation period to two years. It was also decided that vacant posts of patwaris would be filled up expeditiously for which requisition will be sent to the Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board. It was pointed out that some of the Patwari Work Stations and Patwarkhanas provided to revenue patwaris were in urgent need of repairs and lack critical amenities. The revenue department has agreed to form committees at the district level with one representative of revenue patwaris for maintenance and repairs and provision of amenities. These district committees will submit their report to the department within a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/issue-of-patwaris-resolved-says-punjab-revenue-commissioner-101630514522095.html
01-09-2021||Other||Punjab vigilance writes to DGP for taking over ₹2.5-crore Phagwara wheat scam||Jalandhar Punjab vigilance bureau has written to the state director general of police (DGP) seeking orders to take over investigation into ₹2.5-crore Phagwara wheat scam that first came to light in July 2020. In this case, 12,000 quintal wheat was found to be missing from PUNSUP godowns in Phagwara and Bholath areas of Kapurthala district. Kapurthala vigilance bureau has conducted a probe and submitted a report to PUNSUP. “The vigilance bureau indicted five officials of PUNSUP, including its Kapurthala district manager, Daljit Singh, Jaswinder Singh, Gagandeep Singh, Iqbal Singh, all inspectors, and Rajiv Sehgal, senior auditor, as being involved in the scam. We had recommended an FIR against all of them,” said a local vigilance official. In May 2021, Kapurthala police booked two inspectors, Jaswinder Singh and Iqbal, for siphoning off wheat, valued at ₹ 2.5 crore in Phagwara. The case was registered against the inspectors, on the complaint of Daljit Singh, district manager, PUNSUP. This FIR says that PUNSUP district manager, Daljeet Singh, along with other officials conducted physical verification of Bholath and Phagwara godowns and found nearly 19,000 bags of wheat (roughly 12,000 quintal) missing from stock. Daljit sent a report to the department and a criminal case was registered against the two officials. Since then Daljit has maintained that he had filed a recovery suit against the two officials and flatly denied all vigilance bureau findings against him. “If PUNSUP has registered two FIRs, then we will take over these from it,” vigilance official said. Senior officials with the Kapurthala Police said, “The vigilance bureau needs to probe corruption cases, as it is specially mandated to do so.”The accused have been booked under Sections 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) and under 13 (2) Section of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, at the Sadar Phagwara police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-vigilance-writes-to-dgp-for-taking-over-2-5-crore-phagwara-wheat-scam-101630514222152.html
01-09-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC orders CBI probe in cop's death case||The Jharkhand High Court on Wednesday ordered for Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the death of Rupa Tirkey, who was a sub-inspector with Jharkhand Police.Tirkey had died allegedly by suicide in early May at her government accommodation at Sahebganj.While handing over the case to CBI, the High Court observed that this is the rarest of the rare case.According to Advocate Rajeev Kumar, there are few things that made the ground for the CBI probe."The viscera report was not preserved by the police when it was clearly mentioned in the writ petition that she was murdered. The postmortem report revealed that there were external injuries on her body. Her feet were touching the ground," petitioner's advocate Rajeev Kumar said."The court has also initiated the process of criminal contempt against Jharkhand Advocate General Rajiv Ranjan and Additional Advocate General Sachin Kumar and the court has asked them to submit their reply by October 5," Kumar added."The matter of contempt against the two top law officers of the state arose during the hearing of Rupa Tirkey's case. "When Ranjan stated that the matter should be posted before the bench comprising of Chief Justice as on the previous date, he heard the counsel for petitioner stating that '200% the matter is going to be allowed to CBI. In petition, it is stated that despite the Court's strict observations directing the Advocate General to file an affidavit, he stated that his oral submissions are sufficient. Furthermore, the Additional Advocate General Sachin Kumar vehemently argued in a language not appropriate to be used before the Court. This was termed by the petitioner as conduct against the dignity of the court," Kumar added."It was then the contempt petition that stated that after the submissions made by the Advocate General, the Additional AG Sachin Kumar vehemently argued in a language not appropriate to be used before the Court,"he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-hc-orders-cbi-probe-in-cop-s-death-case-101630513136455.html
01-09-2021||Lucknow||AAP to go solo in Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, says Sanjay Singh||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is fighting elections for the first time in Uttar Pradesh, will go solo in all 403 assembly constituencies of the state, the party’s UP in-charge Sanjay Singh said on Wednesday.“We have made it clear that the AAP will fight elections on all 403 assembly seats in UP and not form an alliance with any other party,” Singh said, while addressing a press conference on the sidelines of AAP’s ‘Tiranga Sankalp Yatra’ in Noida. His statement came amid speculations that the AAP could tie up with regional parties in order to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh.The AAP, which is currently the ruling government in Delhi, is serious about expanding its base in states such as Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, which will witness polling next year. One of the promises the AAP has made in all these states is to provide free electricity to residents if it comes into power.In Uttar Pradesh too, the AAP said it will provide free electricity if it wins next year. Other benefits include provision of water and health care to residents for free. “Three hundred units of power supply will be made free for the poor, water supply would be free, free health care, employment would be ensured for the youth and if they don’t get jobs then they will be given unemployment allowance,” Sanjay Singh told reporters.The AAP also hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government over alleged corruption and said it will get the state rid of it, provide quality education to students, ensure safety of girls and women and also ensure adequate return to farmers for their produce.Meanwhile, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who was a part of Wednesday’s press briefing, told reporters the objective of AAP’s Tiranga Yatra is to ensure the ‘aan, baan, shaan’ (pride, honour and glory) of the tricolour on the 75th year of India’s Independence and added that politics of Uttar Pradesh dented this pride and glory of the flag.“We will reach out to all people in the state irrespective of caste and community and appeal to them to elect a party that works with an objective to achieve the dreams of BR Ambedkar,” Sisodia said.Launching an attack at the BJP, Sisodia said the saffron party spoke of nationalism but when it comes to providing education to children of the nation, they (BJP) are the ones who usurp the midday meal funds meant for their education by the people in power.”The Delhi deputy CM also alleged the lack of health infrastructure in Uttar Pradesh and cited the death of a woman in Firozabad due to alleged unavailability of hospital beds. “The youth are jobless, the farmers do not get adequate return for their produce and people in cities face corruption for getting even the smallest of works done,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aapto-go-solo-in-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-says-sanjay-singh-101630513360094.html
01-09-2021||Other||10 days after farm loan waiver event, 17,000 in Moga yet to get cheques||Moga Over 17,000 landless farmers and farm labourers have been waiting loan waiver cheques for over ten days, as MLAs and halqa in-charges, supposed to hand over these to farmers, have not found the time. Sources said that Congress leaders are hesitant to organise public events for distribution of cheques, fearing resentment and anger of people. According to the Moga administration, debt of around ₹17 crore is to be waived of 17,416 farmers. Of these, only four have received cheques and that too on August 20, when chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had virtually launched the disbursal of cheques.Rajinder Dhillon, district manager, Moga Central Cooperative Bank, said, “The cheques are ready and Congress MLAs and halqa in-charges are to hand these over to the beneficiaries. They, however, have not been able to find time due to their bust schedules. As soon as Congress leaders distribute these cheques to beneficiaries, the debt will be cleared in the same event.” On August 20, the administration had announced that the state government had waived the loan of 1,225 beneficiaries of Dharamkot constituency, 3,448 of Baghapurana constituency, 2,646 of Moga constituency and 10,067 of Nihal Singh wala constituency.When questioned on the delay, Moga MLA Dr Harjot Kamal said, “I do not know the reason for the delay in distribution of cheques. I have not received either the cheques or any directions in this regard. I will hand over cheques to beneficiaries whenever I receive these.”Congress district president Maheshinder Singh said, “I will write to MLAs and other leaders to handover cheques to beneficiaries as soon as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-days-after-farm-loan-waiver-event-17-000-in-moga-yet-to-get-cheques-101630513562436.html
01-09-2021||Other||Rift in Congress over choosing of state’s executive committee||PUNE The Congress party in Maharashtra is at war… with itself. On Wednesday, news that names put forward to the national leadership in Delhi for the state’s executive committee were chosen “exclusively” by H K Patil, who holds the post of party observer in Maharashtra, created a rift in the party. The Congress’ state unit president, Nana Patole, is not at all happy, given that not a single name he suggested has been included in the list. Party spokesperson in Pune, Gopal Tiwari, claims he has already written a letter to national Congress chief, Rahul Gandhi, on the same. A Congress party source, speaking anonymously, confirmed, “A rift has emerged between party observer H K Patil and state unit president Patole. The members chosen for the state-level committee are from the Patil camp, while Patole has been left out in the cold.” Another state-level Congress leader confirmed that Patole was unhappy over nominations to the state committee. “He has had a word with Patil,” is all the leader was willing to say, however, adding, “Some Congress leaders have approached the national leadership over the appointments and filed complaints against Patil.” Another Congress party functionary added, “Some leaders had asked Patil for an appointment, but he avoided dialoguing with them.” Another Congress worker from Pune said, “As the state unit president is unhappy with the committee, there are chances that the party will make some changes. Leaders are also hoping the party considers the appointment of a new president for the city unit Congress.” Ramesh Bagwe was recently retained as city Congress chief. However, with municipal elections in February 2022, the rank and file of the Congress in Pune believe a change in leadership is necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rift-in-congress-over-choosing-of-state-s-executive-committee-101630513081016.html
01-09-2021||Pune||Case registered against BJP’s Chandrakant Patil, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol for flouting Covid norms||PUNE A case was registered by Pune police against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Chandrakant Patil, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and other party leaders who were present for the protest demanding the opening of temples in the city.The protest was held near Kasba Ganapati temple around 9:30am on Tuesday.The case was registered for protesting without permission even as the threat of another wave of Covid-19 infection is looming on Pune.“A case has been registered in the incident under relevant laws for flouting Covid-19 norms,” said Priyanka Narnavare, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1 of Pune police.The others booked in the case include Prasad Kondhare, Jagdish Mulik, Rajendra Pande, Swarda Baat, Deepak Pote, Rajendra Mankar, Rajesh Yenpure, Hemant Rasne, Ganesh Bidkar, Sanjay Deshmukh, Bapu Naik, Nilesh Kadam, RajuPardeshi, and Punit Joshi, according to the police.The group had applied for permission to protest which was denied and a notice under Section 149 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was issued to them.A case is registered at Faraskhana police station under Sections 188, 261, 270 of Indian Penal Code, Section 51(b) of NAtional disaster management act, 2005, and Sections 37(1), 37(3), and 135 of Maharashtra Police Act against the two and others present at the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-registered-against-bjp-s-chandrakant-patil-pune-mayor-murlidhar-mohol-for-flouting-covid-norms-101630512960912.html
01-09-2021||Pune||Actress Payal Rohatgi booked for comments against Mahatma Gandhi, Nehru; lawyer says video is from 2019||PUNE Actress Payal Rohatgi was booked by Pune police on Wednesday for sharing objectionable videos against Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi. Her lawyer, however, has claimed that the videos may be from 2019 for which she is already facing a case.Rohatgi was booked for defamation as well as making comments promoting enmity.The case has been registered after a complaint was lodged by a city leader of the Indian National Congress, Sangita Tiwari.“The actress has made such ’distasteful’ remarks against our first Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and freedom fighter Mahatma Gandhi. She has uploaded such videos earlier and was arrested also. I have written letters to the chief minister as well as the home minister of the state and demanded her immediate arrest. We will call for a protest if the police fail to arrest her,” said Tewari.“News reports have been circulating about the case against my client Rohatgi since this morning (Wednesday). However, we have received no notice about any such case being registered. The video referred to in the complaint may be from 2019. A case against that video is at the trial stage in Boondi court. For the past year, my client has had no activity on either Twitter or Facebook as her accounts are inactive. Since that case was registered, she has neither made nor posted any such controversial video. All the allegations against my client are baseless,” said advocate Manoj Saboo, representing Rohatgi, in a video.The accused woman’s Twitter account has been suspended on multiple occasions over her videos. In June 2020, her Twitter account was first suspended for sharing similar videos. It was again suspended in July 2020.Assistant police inspector Uttam Mane of Shivajinagar police station, who is investigating the case, said, “We received a complaint through the cyber cell and we have registered a case. We will investigate the technical details about the video referred to by the complainant to check whether it is a new video or the old one.”A case under sections 153-A (promoting enmity between two groups), 500 (defamation), 505 (2), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the actress at Shivajinagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/actress-payal-rohatgi-booked-for-comments-against-mahatma-gandhi-nehru-lawyer-says-video-is-from-2019-101630512840889.html
01-09-2021||Other||FYJC admissions: 80K seats vacant after first round||PUNE After the completion of the first regular round of admissions for class 11 (first year junior college - FYJC) admissions a total of 80,469 seats are vacant in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. In the first round, of a total of 82,880 students registered for the online centralised admission process, only 30,816 students have been admitted. From September 1 onwards, the second regular round of admissions begins and students who have not yet registered can register themselves. Of the total 30,816 students admitted the most students have been admitted to the Science stream, which is 15,365. After that, 11,793 students have been admitted for Commerce followed by 2,994 students for Arts and 617 students for vocational courses. In this first regular round, a total of 86,482 seats were available, for which 56,767 students applied and 38,858 students were allotted a college. Of the 38,858 students who gained admission, 22,665 students were given the college of their first preference, 6,147 students were given a college of their second preference and 3,401 students were given a college of their third preference. “Fresh student registrations will continue for the next round. For such students who have confirmed their admission, the admission process is completed. Junior colleges will be permitted to surrender the vacant minority and in-house quota seats after Round 3. While on September 6, the junior colleges will upload status of admitted students on the website and display of quota-wise vacancy,” said said Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fyjc-admissions-80k-seats-vacant-after-first-round-101630512000948.html
01-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to build seven hospitals in six months using precast construction technology||New Delhi: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that the government will build seven new hospitals in the Capital in six months using precast building technique.The hospitals, which will come up in Sarita Vihar, Shalimar Bagh, Sultanpuri, Kirari, Raghubir Nagar, GTB Hospital Campus and Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya, will be constructed by the Public Works Department. “All the seven new hospitals will be built with precast building materials. Such building materials are strong and save a lot of time. All steel structures will be manufactured in the factories and will be brought to the construction site for assembling, just like precast concrete material, and will be completely modular. This will increase the pace of construction. Thereby, finishing the work on time,” said Jain.Precast building technology uses reusable moulds to mass produce the building blocks in factories from where they are transported to the construction site for assembling.The Delhi government will create over 6,800 new intensive care unit (ICU) beds -- 1,430 beds at Shalimar Bagh, 458 at Kirari, 1,912 at GTB Hospital, 1,565 in Raghubir Nagar, 610 in Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya, and 525 beds at the Sultanpuri facility -- at these seven facilities. Currently, there are 10,000 ICU beds across Delhi government hospitals.Meanwhile, Jain also directed officials to make green sewage treatment plants (STPs) in the hospitals.“These STPs will be devoid of any foul odour and will consume very little power. All the seven new hospitals will have in-house STPs with zero liquid discharge (ZLD). All the hospitals will use five-star electric appliances that will be energy efficient. These hospitals will also have a provision of the camera connected with individual beds of patients,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-build-seven-hospitals-in-six-months-using-precast-construction-technology-101630511821567.html
01-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,099 new Covid cases, 56 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 1,099 new Covid-19 cases and 56 deaths in 24 hours on Wednesday. This took the progressive count to 1.120 million of which 1.086 million have recovered, 19,616 deaths and 14,091 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 40,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 608 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 346,028 and with 13 more deaths reported the death toll went up to 6,663. Pune city reported 324 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 511,718 and 32 more deaths reported, the death toll went up to 9,122. PCMC reported 167 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 262,347 and with 11 more deaths the toll stood at 3,482. Pune also saw 40,041 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Wednesday and totally 8,200,596 vaccines have been administered including 5,979,482 first dose and 2,221,114 are second dose. A total of 351 sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 103 are government and 248 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-099-new-covid-cases-56-deaths-101630511520727.html
01-09-2021||Lucknow||High court reserves order on Gyanvapi issue||PRAYAGRAJ The Allahabad high court on Tuesday reserved its order on petitions challenging a Varanasi court’s order directing the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to “conduct a comprehensive physical survey” of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple-Gyanvapi mosque complex in order to find out whether a temple was demolished to build the mosque that stands adjacent to the temple.The court will pronounce the order at 2pm on September 9, 2021. The petitioners - UP Sunni Central Waqf Board and Anjuman Intezamia Masjid, Varanasi had challenged the Varanasi court’s order dated April 8. Justice Prakash Padia reserved the order after hearing the counsel for the petitioners, counsel for the central government, the state government and others. The petitioners’ contention was that the suit in which the order of the civil judge (senior division), fast-track court (FTC) of Varanasi (dated April 8, 2021) was passed, is itself not maintainable as per Section 4 of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, which bars filing of suit or any other legal proceedings. Hence, no claim can be made regarding a religious place that existed on August 15, 1947. As per the Act of 1991, no relief can be sought for changing the status of any religious place as it existed on August 15, 1947, contended the petitioner’s counsel.The argument of the petitioner’s counsel was that when the high court had already reserved its judgment on the issue of maintainability of the aforesaid suit, the court below should not have passed any order in the suit till the issue of maintainability of the suit was decided by the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/high-court-reserves-order-on-gyanvapi-issue-101630511281503.html
01-09-2021||Ranchi||Rupa Tirkey death case: J’khand HC orders CBI probe; contempt proceedings against AG||The Jharkhand high court (HC) on Wednesday ordered a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the death of Sahibganj police officer Rupa Tirkey in May this year, besides directing to initiate proceeding for contempt of court against advocate general Rajiv Ranjan and additional advocate general Sachin Kumar for a remark made during the case hearing.Tirkey, 26, who was officer in-charge of Sahibganj women’s police station, was found hanging at her official residence on May 3. According to state police investigation, Tirkey’s friend and colleague, sub-inspector Shiv Kumar Kanaujia, allegedly harassed her, which led to her suicide. Kanaujia was subsequently arrested in the case.However, Tirkey’s father Devanand Oraon alleged his daughter was murdered. In June, he filed a petition in the HC for a CBI probe. He alleged his daughter was harassed by some colleagues at the instance of Pankaj Mishra, assembly representative of chief minister Hemant Soren, and another person named Dahu Yadav. Since her daughter went against Mishra’s wishes to manage some of the cases she was investigating, she was murdered, the father alleged.Following an outcry over her death by tribal rights groups and opposition BJP, the Hemant Soren government set up a one-member judicial commission headed by a former HC justice to probe the allegations. Tirkey’s father had challenged the government’s decision in the HC.“The bench of Justice SK Dwivedi on Wednesday directed a CBI probe. We had been highlighting that it was a rare case, wherein police started projecting it as a suicide from the very next day after her body was found in mysterious conditions,” said Rajiv Kumar, Oraon’s counsel.Contempt proceedings against AG, AAGIn a related matter, the bench of justice Dwivedi also ordered to initiate criminal contempt of court proceedings against advocate general Rajiv Ranjan and additional advocate general Sachin Kumar for one of their remarks during hearing in the case.During one of the virtual hearings, the microphone of the petitioner’ counsel was left on even after the day’s proceedings got over. The counsel was heard telling those sitting around him that he was “200% sure that the court would order a CBI probe in the case”.The AG and the AAG raised it before the bench next day, to which justice Dwivedi asked if they were willing to give their submission through an affidavit. They refused and prayed that their verbal submission was enough. Justice Dwivedi then announced to recuse himself from the hearing and directed the petition to be put up before the chief justice for further direction.Chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan then directed to continue the hearing in the court of justice Dwivedi.The petitioner then filed an interlocutory petition (IA), seeking contempt proceedings against the AG and the AAG. Though the court rejected the IA as it was not maintainable, it took suo motu cognisance and served notices. Senior lawyer Kapil Sibal appeared on behalf of the AG and AAG on Tuesday and defended the two lawyers. “The court, however, reserved its order on Tuesday. On Wednesday, it ordered criminal contempt proceedings,” said a lawyer involved in court proceedings in the matter. Case so farMay 3: Sahibganj police officer Rupa Tirkey found hanging at her official residence. May 9: Tirkey’s friend and SI Shiv Kumar Kanaujia held for “abetment of suicide” In June, Tirkey’s father filed petition in J’khand HC to direct CBI probe, claimed it to be a murder caseFollowing demands by her family, tribal groups and the Opposition, the state govt set up a one-member judicial commission; Tirkey’s father challenges the decisionSept 1: The J’khand HC directs CBI probe into the case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/rupa-tirkey-death-case-j-khand-hc-orders-cbi-probe-contempt-proceedings-against-ag-101630509841000.html
01-09-2021||Patna||Body of Sushil Modi’s ex-driver found in pond||Body of a 40-year-old man, who used to work as a driver for Bihar’s former deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi till a few days ago, was found from a pond in a village near Fatuha in Patna on Wednesday, police said. Police sources said locals saw the body floating in a pond at Macharia village and informed the police station. “A police team from Fatuha arrived with a diver and fished out the body from the pond,“ they said.According to police, one of the villagers, Gaurakh Chouhdary, identified the body as of his son-in-law Rajesh Kumar Choudhary alias Guddu (40), a resident of Kankarbagh in Patna. He told the police that Guddu came to their house on Monday but disappeared the same day. “We searched for him everywhere but failed to trace him. We were still searching for him and so did not lodge a missing case,” he said.Manoj Kumar Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Fatuha police station, said, “It seems he drowned as there is no mark of injuries on his body. The actual cause of death will be clear only after the autopsy.” “The man had left his job with former deputy chief minister a few days back,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/body-of-sushil-modi-s-ex-driver-found-in-pond-101630509660899.html
01-09-2021||Patna||Covid effect: 37% of MBBS students in Bihar fail first varsity exam||Around 37% of first-year MBBS students of nine medical colleges in Bihar have failed their first university examinations conducted during the coronavirus pandemic, the results for which were declared on August 30, according to officials at the Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU), under which their colleges function.These students of 2019 batch staged a protest on Wednesday on the office campus of the university in Patna, demanding that they be promoted on the basis of their internal marks. “Around 37% of students have failed the exam,” said AKU controller of examinations Rajeev Ranjan. This is the worst performance by students since the inception of the AKU in 2010, university officials said. “A delegation of students met AKU vice-chancellor Prof Surendra Pratap Singh, demanding that the failed students be promoted on the basis of their internal marks. Since the National Medical Commission (NMC) does not allow it, we asked them to appear for the second (supplementary) exam that begins from September 27,” said Ranjan. Around 250 students from the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), both in Patna, Bhagalpur’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital (JLNMCH), Gaya’s Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH), Muzaffarpur’s Sri Krishna Medical College Hospital (SKMCH), and the Vardhaman Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) at Pawapuri, gathered on the AKU to press for their demands. “We are seeking re-evaluation of answer sheets because some of us who topped the college tests have failed the university exam. The AKU has not heeded our request either for re-evaluation or re-totalling of marks,” said an aggrieved students who did not wish to be identified. “Our classes were conducted online and exams held offline. Not to speak of the quality of teaching through online mode during the pandemic, the AKU changed the pattern of exams at the eleventh hour. We had to attempt 18-20 questions this time, instead of six earlier. The number of multiple choice questions was also less this time as compared to the previous exams. Against this backdrop, the marking has been very stringent,” said one of the students. The AKU controller of exams, however, disputed their contention. “Mixing and scanning of answer sheets is computerised. Name and roll code of students is removed and only answer sheets containing barcode are sent to the examiner. We leave no scope of any bias, which may otherwise reflect in the examiner,” said Ranjan. He said there was no scope in the AKU statute for re-evaluation of a single or a handful of answer sheets. “If at all re-evaluation has to be done, it will for the whole batch. Already 63% students have passed the exam,” said Ranjan. On Tuesday, the student body of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) had also demanded re-evaluation of answer sheets. In a letter to the Bihar governor, who is also chancellor of AKU, the IMA student body claimed that 38% (447 of 1,172) medicos across nine medical colleges in Bihar flunked the examination. Giving a break-up of the number of failures, the IMA student unit said that 69% students (104 of the 150) failed the examination at the Madhubani Medical College, a private medical college in Madhubani. The results in the remaining eight government medical colleges of Bihar were, however, not as bad. The IMA student body claimed that 13.88% medicos (25 of 180) failed at the PMCH, the oldest institution in the state established in 1925. Similarly, as many as 28.33% (34 out of 120) at the ANMMCH, 30% (36 out of 120) at the SKMCH, 37.50% (45 out of 120) medicos at the NMCH; 38.33% (46 out of 120) at the JLNMCH, 41.66% (50 out of 120) at the Darbhanga Medical College Hospital (DMCH); 41.80% (51 out of 122) at the VIMS, and 46.66% (56 out of 120) medicos at the Government Medical College (GMC), Bettiah, were unsuccessful, it claimed. The said examination, the first university examination for the 2019 batch of MBBS students, was supposed to have been completed in December last year, but was delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic and culminated on March 26, just before the peak of the second wave of coronavirus in Bihar. The AKU took five months to declare the results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid-effect-37-of-mbbs-students-in-bihar-fail-first-varsity-exam-101630509360850.html
01-09-2021||Pune||Parts of Maharashtra likely to receive above-normal rainfall in September: IMD||As per India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast Konkan, Goa and adjoining parts of central Maharashtra may receive normal to above-normal rainfall in September. Officials also noted that withdrawal of monsoon may be delayed this time.If monsoon picks up pace during September, many parts of Pune district may receive good rainfall, said, officials.Between June 1 and September 1, the district has reported 705.4 mm rainfall which is one per cent less than normal.In August alone, Pune district has reported the fourth-lowest rainfall since 1995. Pune district reported 83.3 mm in August.M Mohapatra, director-general, IMD, said that parts of Central Maharashtra that are adjoining Konkan and Goa may receive normal to above-normal rainfall in September.“However, as per forecast so far by different models, interior central Maharashtra may receive below normal rainfall,” said Mohapatra.With three monsoon breaks so far, central Maharashtra has reported five per cent excess rainfall with actual rainfall of 628.8 mm between June 1 till September 1.During the same time, Konkan and Goa have reported 12 per cent excess rainfall with 2845.1 mm rainfall. Vidarbha however has reported 14 per cent less than normal rainfall and Marathwada has reported 20 per cent excess rainfall in the given period.Speaking about the monsoon withdrawal, Mohapatra added that southwest monsoon withdrawal may be delayed this time.“The withdrawal of monsoon as per new dates is during the third week of September. However, as per the extended range forecast, we are expecting a delay in withdrawal of southwest monsoon,” said Mohapatra.Not just Maharashtra and Pune city, India as a whole has reported less rainfall in August.Mohapatra added that the rainfall averaged over the country as a whole during September 2021 is most likely to be above normal.“The rainfall in September will be more than 110 per cent of the long-period average (LPA)). The LPA of rainfall during September based on the data of 1961-2010 is about 170 mm. Considering the expected above normal rainfall activity during September 2021, the current deficiency of nine per cent in seasonal rainfall during June to August is likely to reduce and accumulated seasonal rainfall from June 1 to September 30, 2021, is likely to be around the lower end of the normal,” said Mohapatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parts-of-maharashtra-likely-to-receive-above-normal-rainfall-in-september-imd-101630508882259.html
01-09-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh got 58 new flight services in 53 days: Union minister Scindia||Madhya Pradesh got 58 new flight services over the last 53 days, said Minister of Civil Aviation (MoCA) Jyotiraditya Scindia on Wednesday."Fifty-eight new flights to Madhya Pradesh started in the last 53 days since I took charge of this ministry, that means 1-2 flights every day. For this, I want to thank Air India, IndiGo and SpiceJet from the bottom of my heart," Jyotiraditya Scindia said at an event to mark the inauguration of direct flight between Gwalior and Indore.The minister virtually flagged off two flights strengthening the international and domestic aerial connectivity of Madhya Pradesh.Scindia took charge as the Minister of Civil Aviation in July and is a Member of Parliament in the Rajya Sabha representing the state of Madhya Pradesh.Hailing the air connectivity between Gwalior, Indore and New Delhi, Scindia said the launch of flights between the two major towns of Madhya Pradesh and the national capital will promote trade and tourism in the sector."Indore- Gwalior- Delhi route aligns with the objectives of the 'Sab Uden, Sab Juden' initiative of the Government of India. New opportunities will get a boost in sectors of trade and tourism," he said.Scindia further informed that with 314 newer air traffic, the number of aircraft movements has increased from 424 to 738 in the state.Indore which was earlier connected to 8 cities, has now been connected to 13 cities. In a similar way, aerial connectivity of Gwalior has expanded from 4 to 6 cities.In addition, the Aviation Minister indicated that a flight from Khajuraho various cities would also start in the coming month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-got-58-new-flight-services-in-53-days-union-minister-scindia-101630506640569.html
01-09-2021||Pune||Pune man duped of Rs28 lakh in online fraud||A 39-year-old man has been duped for ₹28 lakh in online fraud by a group of people who pretended to be officials of a Japanese pharmaceutical company.The complainant works at a private company in Pimpri.Through a social media application, one of the accused, who identified himself as Dr Toichi Takino, approached him with a job offer as a procurement official in India for a Japanese pharmaceutical company.The accused offered a job as a researcher and the executive director for discovery and research at the pharmaceutical company that he claimed was based in Osaka, Japan. The complainant accepted the job offer and sent an email to the address provided by the accused.Once the complainant agreed to work for the accused, the man asked the complainant to mediate a trade with an Indian company based in Shillong, Meghalaya to procure a mineral called xanthoconite.According to the complainant, the accused told him that the pharma company planned to do business worth $40.5 million with the Meghalaya-based company.Under the guise of various charges and with the promise of seven per cent returns, the complainant was asked to invest ₹27,99,636 for three weeks in June this year.Between June 3 and June 23 the man was contacted through message by the first accused, one female, and one person who identified himself as a British national. Among the two banks to which he transferred the money one is a nationalised bank while one is a private bank.A case under sections 419 (personation), 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention), and 507 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66, 66 (C), 66 (D) of the information technology act was registered at Pimpri police station.Police inspector B Naikawade is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-man-duped-of-rs28-lakh-in-online-fraud-101630505940417.html
01-09-2021||Mumbai||Rane to launch news channel before Mumbai civic body polls to counter Sena||In what may intensify the ongoing war of words between the Shiv Sena and its favourite bugbear, Union minister Narayan Rane is planning to launch a Marathi news channel before the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections due early next year.“Preliminary preparations have begun. Things are yet to be finalised. We will try and launch it before the BMC elections,” said Rane’s younger son Nitesh, who is a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) from Kankavali in Sindhudurg district. On being asked about the name, editorial leadership and other details, Nitesh said “The branding is yet to be decided.”In 2008, Rane had launched a newspaper Prahar (Blow) to put forth his point of view, and take on the Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece, Saamana. Prahar has editions in Mumbai, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg.Rane’s aides said the decision is spurred by the unceasing attacks made by the Shiv Sena on the Ranes through their mouthpiece Saamana. The channel, about which Rane senior has referred to in an interview to the electronic media, will also serve as a propaganda vehicle for the BJP and Rane in the battle for the cash-rich BMC, which is one of the richest civic bodies in Asia.One of the reasons for Rane’s induction in the BJP and later into the Narendra Modi-led cabinet was the need for an aggressive face to take on the Shiv Sena, especially in the Mumbai civic body elections. As a former Shiv Sainik and ex-chief minister of the state, who began his electoral career as a corporator in the Mumbai civic body, Rane knows several chinks in the armour of his former party.When contacted, Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande said this channel could be “one more platform to attack Thackeray and Shiv Sena.”Incidentally, the Shiv Sena, to which Rane originally belonged, has its genesis in a cartoon weekly Marmik that was launched by cartoonists Bal Thackeray and his younger brother Shrikant on August 13, 1960. The Thackerays upheld the “jobs for sons-of-soil” cause in the weekly and spurred on by his father, the social reformer-journalist ‘Prabodhankar’ Keshav Sitaram Thackeray, Bal Thackeray formed the Shiv Sena in 1966.Thackeray also launched the Marathi newspaper Saamana in 1989 and the Hindi tabloid Dopahar Ka Saamana in 1993. The party’s line is spelt out in Saamana, which has Sena hawk and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut as the executive editor and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s wife Rashmi as the chief editor. Uddhav held the position of editor till he became the chief minister in November 2019.Several other politicians in Maharashtra also control newspapers and media groups. This includes the Dardas (Lokmat) and Peasants and Workers Party (PWP) leader Jayant Patil, who publishes the Krishival newspaper from Alibag in Raigad. Former chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh also founded the Marathi daily Ekmat, headquartered in Latur.Incidentally, the Shiv Sena also experimented with a still-born plan to launch a Marathi news channel in 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rane-to-launch-news-channel-before-mumbai-civic-body-polls-to-counter-sena-101630503120042.html
01-09-2021||Kolkata||Bengal mulls inoculating children to brace for Covid 3rd wave: CM Mamata||In view of the third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) which is likely to affect children the most, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday that her government is considering whether the children would be required to be vaccinated against viral disease. She said that the state government could start a programme similar to the pulse polio drive to inoculate children against Covid-19.“Keeping the third wave in mind, we are now thinking whether children will be required to be vaccinated or not. If required, the government will launch an inoculation programme similar to the pulse polio drive,” Banerjee said at the foundation laying ceremony of Dhunseri Poly Films plant in Panagarh.Banerjee once again highlighted the shortage of vaccines in the state and urged the Centre to supply more doses. “We have achieved the vaccination target for Covid-19 and are at number one. We have given till yesterday (Tuesday) what we got from the Centre. We completed the vaccination of 4.1 crore people in Bengal till Tuesday. My state’s requirement is that of 14 crore more doses, looking at the possibility of a third wave where children are at risk,” the chief minister further said.Banerjee also assured the people of the state that no one will be left behind in the vaccination drive and urged them to not rush to the inoculation centres based on rumours. “I just request the people not to rush to the vaccination centres and wait for the authorities to notify about the timings,” she said. Her comment came in the backdrop of a stampede reported at a vaccination Centre in the state’s Jalpaiguri district after scores of local residents tried entering the premises. At least 25 people have been injured in the incident.Till now, West Bengal has administered 4,10,99,468 vaccines to eligible beneficiaries of which 2,95,43,733 have been inoculated with the first dose and the remaining 1,15,55,735 with both doses. On Tuesday, over 1.21 million beneficiaries got the jab.A total of 1,521,342 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the state so far which include 18,447 deaths, 15,21,342 recoveries and 8,815 active cases. As many as 640 were detected Covid-19 positive on Tuesday while 13 patients succumbed to the viral disease.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-mulls-inoculating-children-to-brace-for-covid-3rd-wave-cm-mamata-101630501818050.html
01-09-2021||Pune||Additional local train to run on Pune-Lonavla route||The Pune railway division has increased the frequency of local train service between Pune and Lonavla route from September 1 due to the rise in passenger demand.Earlier four local trains were running on the route and now one more train has been added to the fleet.Train no. 01493 will depart from Lonavla at 6.30 am and reach Pune railway station at 7.55 am daily.Whereas on the return journey (train no. 01494) will leave from Pune railway station at 8 pm and reach Lonavala at 9.30 pm.“This will reduce the rush of passengers during office hours in the morning and evening time,” said officials.Revised schedule of Pune-Lonavla local trains Local No. 01486 Departure from Pune 06.30 am Arrival at Lonavla 07.50 amLocal No. 01482Departure from Pune 08.05 am Arrival at Lonavla 9.25 amLocal No. 01488Departure from Pune 4.25 pm Arrival at Lonavla 5.45 pmLocal No. 01484 Departure from Pune 6.02 pm Arrival at Lonavla 7.27 pmLocal No. 01494Departure from Pune 8 pm Arrival at Lonavla 9.30 pmRevised schedule of Lonavla - Pune local trains Local No. 01493 Departure from Lonavla 06.30 am Arrival at Pune 07.55 amLocal No. 01481 Departure from Lonavla 8.20 am Arrival at Pune 9.45 amLocal No. 01485Departure from Lonavla 10.05 am Arrival at Pune 11.25 amLocal No. 01483Departure from Lonavla 6.20 pm Arrival at Pune 7.45 pmLocal No. 01487 Departure from Lonavla 7.35 pm Arrival at Pune 8.55 pm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/additional-local-train-to-run-on-pune-lonavla-route-101630501619903.html
01-09-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand villager killed leopard with sickle to save own life||A 39-year-old goat grazer from Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district managed to kill a female leopard with a sickle when attacked by the wild cat while grazing goats in the village.“If I hadn’t hit it with the sickle to protect myself, I wouldn’t be alive today,” said Naresh Singh Saun of Naini-Saini village.“The leopard emerged from the bushes and pounced on one of the goats. I tried to drive it away by making noise. But the leopard left the goat and suddenly jumped towards me. I was initially petrified. But then I realised that if I didn’t act, I would be dead,” said Saun.Saun said he hit it with the sickle he was carrying and it worked. “The injured leopard fled but fell unconscious some distance away. The head wound from the sickle led to its death,” he said.Saun said this was the first time that he came across a leopard while grazing goats since his childhood.“People claim that leopards run away if an alarm is raised, but in my case, instead of running away, it attacked me. In such a situation, I had no other option but to hit it back.”He said forest officials were later informed and they arrived at the spot immediately.“We took the body of the leopard into our possession. It was a female leopard and we cremated it after post-mortem,” said Dinesh Joshi, ranger Pithoragarh range of forest.The forest department were told that Saun killed the leopard in self-defence.“Villagers revealed that if Saun hadn’t resisted with a sickle in self-defence, the leopard would have killed him. Wildlife Protection Act 1972 gives some relief in such cases where no option is left for a man for his own protection from wild animals,” said Joshi, the ranger.Saun said he was surprised that the attack took place in the village and not in a forest. “It was never my intention to kill the leopard but it happened suddenly as I was trying to save my life,” said Saun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-villager-killed-leopard-with-a-sickle-to-save-own-life-101630497719463.html
01-09-2021||Other||When my son’s school taught his father a lesson||Going down memory lane, I’m reminded of an incident when my son was studying in Class 6 of a local convent school. His English teacher complained to me about him during a parent-teacher meeting saying, “He needs special attention or tuition from a competent teacher.” I asked her to suggest a good teacher and humbly requested if she could spare some time to teach him as she was living in a sector near our residence. Accepting my request, she asked me to meet the principal for his permission. The next day, I went to meet the principal and sent a slip briefly mentioning my name and the purpose of my visit. The principal sent a message through the peon to wait for a while as he was in the middle of an important meeting. Soon, the principal, known for his administrative capabilities and being a strict disciplinarian, called me in his office. Handing over an application after greeting him, I urged him to allow my son to take tuition from his class teacher. He asked me, “Who teaches him English at home?” I promptly said, “My wife and me. I’m an information officer in the Punjab government and my wife a lecturer in Government College.” Seeing the application he asked, “Have you written this application?” I replied in the affirmative. He returned the letter to me after encircling the word ‘tution’ with a red sketch pen, as erroneously misspelt by me. Giving a blank white paper with the word ‘tuition’ written on the top, he signalled me to sit on a sofa in the corner of his office and asked me to write it 25 times. Embarrassed, I hesitatingly handed back the paper to him after completing the most awkward task. He meticulously checked it as often diligently done by the teacher in a classroom and advised me never to venture to teach my ward as “a little knowledge is a dangerous thing”. After a word of caution, he called the English teacher and allowed my son to take tuition from her. After expressing gratitude, I quietly walked out of the principal’s office, feeling dejected. Finally, I realised that the English language, which I had always taken pride in and considered my forte being an editor of an English departmental magazine for over a decade, had let me down and broken my illusion about having mastered the language. Immediately, I set out for my office and remained perturbed the entire day till I reached home in the evening. My wife curiously asked, “Did you meet the principal today for Babloo’s tuition? What did he say?” I related the entire incident to her and told her not to ask me to visit Babloo’s school in future either for the parent teacher meet or any other purpose. The ‘holy sermon’ delivered by the principal almost three decades ago still reverberates at the back of my mind and from that day onwards I never dared to teach my son English as a wise father. opinder.lamba@gmail.com The writer is additional director (press) to the Punjab chief minister||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/when-my-son-s-school-taught-his-father-a-lesson-101630497600965.html
01-09-2021||Mumbai||Pipeline burst near Dombivli, water supply disrupted in Thane, Navi Mumbai||A water pipeline burst at Shil road near Dombivli in Maharashtra’s Thane district on Wednesday, resulting in water supply disruption in several parts of Thane, Navi Mumbai, Mira Bhayandar and Dombivli, an official said.The pipeline burst was reported around 8 am in the morning and the supply had not resumed till late afternoon as the repair work was under progress, they added.“The repair work is underway while it might take four more hours to resume the supply,” said an officer of Dombivli Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), who didn’t wish to be quoted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pipeline-burst-near-dombivli-water-supply-disrupted-in-thane-navi-mumbai-101630495799392.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Jalandhar sub inspector booked for abetting gaushala manager’s suicide||The Jalandhar rural police on Wednesday booked crime investigation agency (CIA) wing in-charge and sub inspector Pushp Bali for abetting the suicide of gaushala manager Dharamvir Bakshi. Police have not taken any action against Kartarpur Congress MLA Surinder Singh, who was also named by Bakshi on Facebook Live. Also read: ‘Highest in 19 years’: Heavy rainfall in Delhi makes new September recordThe police action against Bali came after Bakshi’s family refused to cremate the body. Bakshi, 40, managed the gaushala at Lambra village in Jalandhar district. He consumed poison on Monday and accused Surinder Singh, Bali and three others of harassing him. He died during treatment on Tuesday. Bakshi claimed threat to gaushala, temple The police booked Sanjeev Kala, Gautam Mohan and Sriram Mohan for abetment to suicide but didn’t name the Congress MLA and the police official as accused in the FIR. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sukhpal Singh said, “We have registered a case as per the statement of victim’s son, who didn’t blame the MLA and the cop.” On those named by the victim in the Facebook Live, he said their role will be probed. The victim claimed that the politician and police officer were threatening to raze down the gaushala and a temple. Talking to mediapersons, the Congress MLA said that the victim’s son was demanding ₹4.5 lakh from a family in his constituency to settle a police case. “He called me up on Sunday night and said the police are going to register a case against his son and sought my help. The allegations were made to malign my image,” the MLA said. Bali said the police were probing charges of extortion against the victim’s son. In March 2020, Bali, who was posted as Kartarpur station house officer (SHO), was shifted to the police lines for thrashing local residents for the violation of curfew amid the pandemic. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta had ordered the transfer after three videos of him and his team thrashing people out to buy essentials were shared on social media. BJP leaders visit victim’s family BJP vice-president Rakesh Rathore was among the leaders who visited the victim’s family and demanded action against Congress MLA Surinder Singh. They alleged that police have not been acting against the MLA under political pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jalandhar-sub-inspector-booked-for-abetting-gaushala-manager-s-suicide-101630495560539.html
01-09-2021||Delhi||'Highest in 19 years': Heavy rainfall in Delhi makes new September record||Heavy rainfall in Delhi continued for the second day on Wednesday, leading to severe waterlogging in many parts of the national capital. Delhi received 112.1mm rainfall between 8.30am on Tuesday and 8.30am on Wednesday, according to Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) rainfall data.RK Jenamani, a senior scientist at the IMD, said that Delhi has already witnessed two to three spells of heavy rains since Tuesday, particularly in Safdarjung and Lodhi road areas. Jenamani told news agency ANI that Delhi on Wednesday witnessed the highest rainfall in a day in September in the last 19 years.“There has been heavy rainfall in Delhi. It started yesterday and we already have 2-3 spells. It was around 11.2 cm rain, particularly in Safdarjung & Lodhi road area. In 19 years, it is the highest rain in September,” ANI quoted Jenamani as saying.In pics: Delhi receives highest rain in September in 19 years, waterlogging in several partsIndia’s weather forecasting agency has predicted thunderstorms and moderate to heavy rains in the parts of the National Capital Region. "Thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of most places of Delhi (Lodi road, IGI airport ), NCR ( Gurugram, Manesar, Faridabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Indirapuram, Loni Dehat, Hindon AF, Ghaziabad )...during next 2 hours," IMD posted on Twitter.Jenamani said that it is the fifth-highest rainfall in 24 hours in Delhi as the national capital received about 19-20 cm of rain. “Surely, it is a record rainfall. We've issued an orange alert for today,” he added.Heavy rains and waterlogging prompted Delhi traffic police to issue an advisory against traffic obstruction at the Azad Market Subway going towards Pratap Nagar. “Traffic has been diverted from Connaught Place to Barakhamba while traffic coming from Kamla Market has been diverted to Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Marg,” the Delhi traffic police tweeted.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/highest-in-19-years-heavy-rainfall-in-delhi-makes-new-september-record-101630494334281.html
01-09-2021||Jaipur||SMS Hospital’s top surgeon says blockage in Gehlot’s artery not due to Covid||A senior doctor at Jaipur’s famous Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital has questioned the claim that Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s artery blockage that forced him to undergo an angioplasty procedure at the hospital last Friday was the result of post-Covid complications.On August 27, CM Gehlot underwent angioplasty during which a stent was placed in one of his three main arteries that had “90% blockage” following “severe” chest pain since Thursday. The blockage was discovered on Friday and the angioplasty was conducted hours later the same day, according to the chief minister and the hospital authorities.Gehlot’s tweets on Friday and Saturday suggested he was told by doctor(s) that the artery blockage was a “post-Covid” development.“This happened due to post-Covid effect, therefore, I request you all to take care and stay healthy, follow Covid protocols and get vaccinated on time. I thank you all again,” he tweeted on August 30, three days after undergoing the angioplasty process.Responding to one of CM’s tweets, the head of department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery at SMS Hospital, Dr Rajkumar Yadav tweeted, “On behalf of cardiothoracic and vascular surgery [department at] SMS Jaipur, I congratulate you for successful and timely angioplasty.”He continued, “Since the beginning of your pain [in the] chest it was [due to] the blockage only which was wrongly attributed to Covid.”Dr Yadav, didn’t specify who was responsible for the “wrong attribution” or diagnosis.When approached for clarity on the events, Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma said a medical team was monitoring Gehlot’s treatment at the SMS Hospital after he complained of chest pain and it was formed in the presence of state chief secretary, principal secretary to the CM, secretary health, and Sudhir Bhandari, principal SMS medical college.“If there was any lacuna, I will get it examined,” Sharma said referring to the suggestion made by Dr Yadav.SMS medical college principal Bhandari said the CM had “acute symptoms” and was taken for cardiac intervention on Friday. “A team led by HoD of cardiology attended to him and he felt better. All the faculty of cardiology and cardiothoracic and vascular surgery were present there,” he said. As mentioned earlier, Dr Yadav is the head of department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery at SMS Hospital.Dr Bhandari added that after Gehlot recovered following angioplasty, a board of cardiology was constituted for any follow up.He said the CM had diabetes and blood pressure, risk factors in Covid. “The CM pre-Covid had no cardiac issues, and so it is a presumption,” he added. Dr Bhandari is aware of Gehlot’s recent medical history.Cardiologist Dr Nikhil Choudhary at Narayana Multispeciality Hospital in Jaipur, said that during acute Covid, the heart beats can increase or decrease; the heart can become weak; and clotting can happen in arteries to an extent that it can cause heart attack.He said it was too early to talk about long-term complications post Covid-19, but the use of steroids [in its treatment] was leading to diabetes and heart blockages. Choudhary added that clotting can develop during Covid or a month after it, but such cases aren’t seen after 3-4 months. Gehlot contracted the infection on April 29 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/sms-hospital-s-top-surgeon-says-blockage-in-gehlot-s-artery-not-due-to-covid-101630494359055.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rohtak family murder: Son admits to killing parents, sister, grandma||In a shocking twist, Abhishek Malik, the 20-year-old son of a property dealer, was arrested on Wednesday for the murder of four members of his family in Rohtak on August 23. Property dealer Pradeep Malik, his wife Babli Devi and mother Roshni Devi were shot dead at their house in Vijay Nagar in Rohtak, while his 17-year-old daughter succumbed to bullet wounds at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences on Sunday. Also read: Haryana Police seize 35 country-made pistols, arrest 4 in a fortnightSuperintendent of police Rahul Sharma told reporters that Abhishek had admitted to killing his parents, sister and grandmother over a property dispute. “The accused had stayed in a hotel before and after executing the crime. We can’t rule out the possibility of the involvement of other people. The accused has confessed to committing the crime due to property and family disputes. We will ascertain the reasons during his remand,” the SP said. A senior police official, who is privy to the investigation, said Abhishek had informed his maternal uncle, who lives nearby, that door of his house was locked and nobody was answering the bell. The uncle had asked him to break open the door. “Next, he told his maternal uncle that some miscreants had shot at his family members and that he was rushing his sister to PGIMS. We got suspicious about his role as he was changing his statements continuously,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rohtak-family-murder-son-admits-to-killing-parents-sister-grandma-101630493762345.html
01-09-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand launches incentive for milk producers selling to state-owned dairy||Jharkhand agriculture department is giving ₹1/ litre as incentive to milk producers supplying to Medha Dairy, run by the Jharkhand Milk Federation (JMF). Two and a half crore rupees have already been disbursed under the scheme to incentivise growth in the animal husbandry sector and increase milk supply to current and future dairy plants in the state, officials said.Medha Dairy has three functional plants in the state that together procure 130,000 litres of milk every day. Three more milk processing plants are set to become operational by the end of this year, resulting in greater demand for milk.“Around 40,000 milk producers currently registered with the federation will benefit from the scheme. Currently, the federation pays up to ₹34 per litre to the suppliers, depending on their milk quality. The government will now provide Re 1 per litre as incentive. The fund is to be transferred to the federation, which will further transfer it to the beneficiaries,” said Shashi Prakash Jha, director, animal husbandry and dairy development, Jharkhand.Jha said the scheme was being implemented retrospectively since April this year and incentives will soon be transferred to the beneficiaries. The scheme was announced in the state budget and was launched symbolically by agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, who handed over cheques to a few registered milk producers on Monday.“Payment against milk is done within a week. We have already transferred ₹2.5 crore to the federation for payment under the scheme for April, May and June. Payment for subsequent months would also be done soon. Initially, ₹4 crore was provided for it in the budget. But we expect the procurement to increase soon, so we will have to increase the budget,” said Jha.The officer added that there was zero possibility of any pilferage as the incentives will be transferred to bank accounts of milk producers registered with the federation.“We have their details including bank accounts. We have farmers who are selling as little as five litres of milk everyday and also those who are supplying hundreds of litres daily,” said Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-launches-incentive-for-milk-producers-selling-to-state-owned-dairy-101630493759253.html
01-09-2021||Delhi||Wanted: Non-saaya wedding dates||Picking a wedding date is about choosing an auspicious date, in consultation with a priest or pandit. But now, with the fear of a third Covid-19 wave looming large, couples are thinking beyond auspicious time periods, moving towards non-saaya dates. According to data put together by WeddingWire India, a wedding technology platform, there has been a 76% surge in demand for non-saaya dates, or dates that aren’t conventionally considered auspicious. And, this trend is being welcomed as a refreshing change. “Given how rooted Indians are in their culture and customs, the surge in demand for non-saaya weddings is a favourable change for the wedding industry. This radical change which was envisioned 2-3 years down the lane has been fast-tracked by the pandemic. If the trend continues to strike a chord with the consumers, it will drive new revenue opportunities for professionals in a $50 billion Indian wedding industry,” says Anam Zubair, associate director of marketing at WeddingWire India.Echoing similar views, Mehak Sagar, co-founder, WedMeGood also feels that Covid-19 further ensured that this trend gains steam. She says, “There are a lot of reasons why this is happening. With the uncertainty around, couples are planning with shorter timelines when cases are low, combined with the fact that they often get off season benefits for the same. It just makes a lot of sense to pick a date that’s convenient, where the weather is good and falls on a weekend.”Other wedding vendors including photographers, decorators and planners are also of the view that convenience and unpredictability are stimulating the trend. Megha Israni, founder of Israni Photography, which recently shot the Disha Parmar-Rahul Vaidya wedding, says, “We don’t know when the next Covid-19 wave is going to hit us. Couples don’t want to plan too many things for the future and are hence, comfortable in opting for non-saaya dates.”Aashna Saran of Aash Studio, which was in charge of décor at actor Dia Mirza’s wedding, feels off season opens up a pool of options for couples to choose from, while photographer Ankita Asthana, co-founder of WeddingNama, believes this trend has turned weddings into a year-long business, rather than a seasonal affair. The changes is also benefitting wedding vendors in getting more bookings. Another photographer, Shrey Bhagat, co-founder, Knotting Bells has been witnessing a drastic change in weddings taking place in off-season months. “We have witnessed a rise in off-season weddings, as we have several weddings lined up during September-October. Couples have started looking at monetary perks, as wedding vendors during a non-saaya days, charge a low package,” he says.Some also feel safety has taken precedence over deciding a date. “The new order of priority is checking government rules on number of guests, safety, availability of venue, budget and then the date,” says wedding planner Namha Malhotra, founder, Castles & Coasters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wanted-non-saaya-wedding-dates-101630492277636.html
01-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Schools reopen for classes 9-12 following Covid-19 norms||Government and private schools were reopened for classes 9 to 12 in Rajasthan on Wednesday, after being shut for over four months following a spike in cases in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The turnout, however, was not high on the first day as online classes are also being held simultaneously.According to guidelines issued by the education department, classes with only 50 per cent strength are allowed at a time with a strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols.Many students came to schools accompanied by their parents, some of whom were seen enquiring about the arrangements for safety of their children.“The number of students who came on the first day was almost half of the permissible number, but those who came were cheerful and excited. We have asked them to not be overexcited and follow all protocols in view of their own safety,” Sumita Minhas, Principal of Podar World School, Jaipur, told PTI.She said parents were apprised of protocols on sanitisation, seating arrangements, and other guidelines in advance, and their written consent was taken.Also Read| Back to school: List of states where offline classes will resume from Sept 1Hemraj Sharma, a government school sanskrit teacher in Thikariya, Ajmer Road, said that all preparations were made before the school was opened.“We have already received written consent from parents of more than half of the students of class 9 and 10. All classrooms have been sanitised and seating arrangements done according to government guidelines,” he said.Another teacher of the school, Sheetal Kumari, said online classes will continue even though schools are opened. Yoga activities for a few minutes have been planned in classrooms for students, she added.Also Read| 'Will take 30 minutes to close': Delhi deputy CM on reopening of schoolsAccording to the standard operating procedure issued last week, the department has kept separate timings for arrival and departure of students of different classes so that there is no large gathering at one time.School syllabus has also been cut by 30 per cent."Due to the Covid-19 infection in the last three months, classes in schools could not start due to which studies of the students have been disrupted. Also, there is a need to reduce the curriculum by 30 per cent in all the schools of the state. The decision has been made," School Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasra said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-schools-reopen-for-classes-9-12-following-covid-19-norms-101630490989869.html
01-09-2021||Kolkata||Coal smuggling case: Abhishek Banerjee’s wife asks ED to question her in Kolkata||Trinamool Congress (TMC) national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rujira Banerjee on Wednesday did not visit the office of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Delhi where she was summoned for questioning in the coal smuggling case. Citing the risk of travelling during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, she wrote to the agency and said it would be convenient for her if ED officers questioned her at her Kolkata residence. “I am a mother of two infants and travelling to New Delhi physically alone in the midst of the pandemic will put my and the lives of my children at grave risk. It would be convenient for me if you consider asking me to appear in Kolkata at my residence since your organisation has its office in Kolkata and I reside in Kolkata too. Besides, as per my understanding, the alleged cause of action of the subject matter of your inquiry too arises out of West Bengal,” her letter, which HT has seen, said. Also Read | ED summons Mamata’s nephew, his wife over money laundering caseThe letter, which was leaked to the media on Wednesday afternoon, was dated August 31. The summons were dated August 18. ED officials did not comment on Rujira Banerjee’s letter. Rujira Banerjee was questioned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in February in connection with the same coal smuggling case. The CBI team had visited Abhishek Banerjee’s residence. In March, the CBI also questioned Rujira’s sister Maneka Gambhir and the latter’s husband Ankush Arora and father-in-law Pawan Arora. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee reacted sharply in February when a CBI team visited the south Kolkata residence of her nephew Abhishek Banerjee and served a notice to his wife. “A tiger cub is not scared of fighting cats and rats. Muscle flexing or threats of jail sentence cannot scare us. We have stood before guns in the past. I will not surrender as long as I am alive,” the chief minister said at a public event. The CBI registered a case regarding the issue on November 27 last year. It alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, was sold in the black market over several years in the western parts of West Bengal where Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines. Among the prime suspects is former TMC youth front general secretary and businessman Vinay Mishra, who renounced his Indian citizenship in December last year and became a citizen of Vanuatu, a small island country in the South Pacific Ocean. Abhishek Banerjee was earlier president of the TMC’s youth wing. He appointed 15 general secretaries, including Mishra, on July 20 last year. Last month, the Calcutta high court dismissed Mishra’s appeal for relief from the CBI probe and did not extend his bail. The ED summoned Abhishek Banerjee to its Delhi office on September 6. Three Indian Police Service officers, Shyam Singh, Gyanwant Singh and S Selvamurugan, have also been summoned to Delhi on September 8, 9 and 10 respectively in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/coal-smuggling-case-abhishek-banerjee-s-wife-asks-ed-to-question-her-in-kolkata-101630491419813.html
01-09-2021||Delhi||'Will take 30 minutes to close': Sisodia on reopening of Delhi schools amid fear of Covid spread||Amid concern over the reopening of schools, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday assured that any school found to be at risk of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spread will be close within 30 minutes. Schools in Delhi reopened for classes 9 to 12 from today as the national capital continued witnessing a significant decline in new Covid-19 cases.Sisodia, who also serves as Delhi’s education minister, told news agency ANI that the schools have been reopened after consulting experts and parents. He reiterated the attending physical classes will be completely optional, while emphasising that online classes, however, can “never substitute” offline classes.“If there is any risk of Covid-19 spread in any school, it will take 30 minutes to close it. School will be shut immediately,” Sisodia added.On Monday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) notified the guidelines regarding the reopening of schools, allowing classrooms to function at 50% of their capacity. Other requirements include mandatory thermal screening, staggered lunch breaks, alternate seating arrangements and avoiding routine guest visits.Also Read | Right time to take ‘calculated’ risk: IMA on reopening of schools amid Covid-19According to the DDMA guidelines, no one from the Covid-19 containment zones will be allowed to physically attend the classes or enter the school premises. The vaccination centres and ration distribution activities currently underway in many schools will continue in areas separate from the academic activities.The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has also supported the decision to reopen schools, saying it is the “right time” for governments to take a “calculated risk” and resume classes. On Tuesday, IMA president Dr JA Jayalal told ANI that the risk Covid-19 spread is “quite negligible” in the present scenario.“Considering [the] possibility of spread, the risk is quite negligible at this moment unless something catastrophic takes place. It’s the right time when [the] government should come forward and take a calculated risk and open the schools in an appropriate way,” ANI quoted Jayalal as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-take-30-minutes-to-close-sisodia-on-reopening-of-delhi-schools-amid-fear-of-covid-spread-101630487154612.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab in poll mode: Shiromani Akali Dal announces six candidates||First off the block for the 2022 elections to the 117-member Punjab assembly, the Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday announced the names of six more candidates, taking the total number of nominees announced to 22 so far.Also read: Panj Pyare row: AICC Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat apologisesAnnouncing the names of the candidates on behalf of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema tweeted that Jagmeet Singh Brar will be the party’s candidate from Maur; Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu from Talwandi Sabo; Suba Singh from Jaitu; Mantar Singh Brar from Kotkapura; Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi from Muktsar; and Parambans Singh Romana from Faridkot.Two days ago, on a visit to Samrala, Sukhbir had announced the name of Paramjit Singh Dhillon as the SAD candidate from the assembly segment.Regional party with centralised command starts early“It’s good to take a headstart because the candidates get time to prepare to reach out to each and every section in the constituency they are contesting,” Cheema said.On August 18, Sukhbir launched a mass contact programme across Punjab with a plan to touch 100 constituencies in 100 days. He announces the name of the candidate on visiting the constituencies.The SAD being a regional party with a centralised chain of command is known for making early start before the elections.After snapping ties with the BJP over the three farm laws being opposed by the farmers, the SAD has tied up with the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party and given 20 seats to it in a prepoll arrangement.There are five to six months for the elections to take place in Punjab and other political parties, including the Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party and the Bharatiya Janata Party, are yet to announce names of candidates. These parties have decision making at the central leadership level, so the poll process is a lengthy one, particularly the announcement of candidates.Names of 12 halqa heads announcedCheema said that Punjab is already in election mode and candidates who want to contest have started working in their constituencies and the announcement is a mere formality.There are 12 halqa (area) heads announced by the party keeping in view the polls. They are expected to eventually become the party nominees.Earlier, the names of the following 16 candidates has been announced: Sukhbir Singh Badal from Jalalabad, Virsa Singh Valtoha from Khemkaran, Gulzar Singh Ranike from Attari-SC, Amarpal Singh Bonny from Ajnala, NK Sharma from Dera Bassi, Janmeja Singh Sekhon from Zira; Anil Joshi from Amritsar–North, Raj Kumar Gupta from Sujanpur, Vardev Singh Mann from Guru Har Sahai, Harpreet Singh Kothai from Malout-SC, Hardeep Singh Dimpi from Gidderbaha, Teerath Singh Malha from Baghapurana, Sikandar Singh Maluka from Rampura Phul, Parkash Singh Bhatti from Bathinda Rural-SC and Darshan Singh Kotfatta from Bhucho-SC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-in-poll-mode-shiromani-akali-dal-announces-six-candidates-101630481157974.html
01-09-2021||Patna||One-fourth pending cases in Bihar courts related to excise, shows HC data||It is ironic that one of the largest chunks of pending litigation in the dry state of Bihar is made up of excise-related cases such as recovery of banned liquor, arrests of liquor smugglers and hooch tragedies, data shows.In the last three and a half years since 2018, the percentage of excise cases among total civil and criminal cases pending before the Patna high court has been around 19%, as per HC records. This rose to 21.75% in 2020, when the courts heard limited cases due to the pandemic.The impact on subordinate courts is greater with their share of pending excise cases being around 25%, as per official figures. It was 25.42% during 2020. The total number of civil cases pending in Bihar’s subordinate courts stands at a staggering 3.337 million, including over 2.878 million criminal cases.57,159 excise cases have been filed in Patna HC between 2018 and May 31, 2021. This includes 32,909 cases for regular bail, 23,495 for anticipatory bail and 314 for quashing besides others. The highest number of 26,270 cases was filed in 2019, up from 20,548 in 2018, though it dropped to 12,763 in 2020 and 8,070 in the first five months of 2021, largely due to the impact of the pandemic.In the subordinate courts, 217,000 excise cases piled up in the last three years, besides, the 230,000 bail cases related to prohibition.It was interesting to note that the border district of Kishanganj saw the lowest number of excise and prohibition-related bail cases in the last three years, while Bhojpur, Rohtas, Saran, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur, East Champaran and West Champaran reported the highest number of such cases during the period.In 2019, alarmed by the growing pendency, the Patna high court asked the state for a plan to dispose of these excise-related cases. Though special courts were mandated for trial of liquor prohibition related cases, they did not exist then and have not become functional even till today, despite cabinet’s nod.A senior official said on condition of anonymity that the government wanted at least one court in every district to exclusively hear excise cases and more than one court in bigger districts.“The government requested the HC for appointing judges. However, the HC authorised courts of additional district judges (ADJ) in each district to also hear excise cases in addition to other cases,” he added.While the litigations are growing, the number of judges in the HC has reached an all-time low with 35 vacancies (including the one to be created in September) against the sanctioned strength of 53.Last month, the Patna high court directed that all proceedings related to confiscation of property under the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016 must positively be initiated/concluded within a period of 90 days from the date of appearance of the parties concerned and the appeal/revision, if any, be also decided within a period of 30 days from the date of initiation, failing which, the “things” (vehicle/property/ etc.) shall be deemed to have been released in terms of several orders passed by this court in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/onefourth-pending-cases-in-bihar-courts-related-to-excise-shows-hc-data-101630480917935.html
01-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi receives highest August rainfall in 12 years, leads to waterlogging||Delhi has received 112.1mm rainfall over the past 24 hours -- the highest single day rainfall received in the month in 12 years, as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) records. The continuous spell of rainfall led to massive waterlogging on key stretches, residential colonies and low-lying areas. IMD rainfall data shows that the Safdarjung observatory, considered representative of Delhi’s weather, received 112.1mm rainfall between 8.30am on Tuesday and 8.30am on Wednesday. According to Delhi Traffic Police data, the Minto Bridge (both carriageways) was shut for traffic movement because of heavy waterlogging. “Traffic has been diverted from Connaught Place to Barakhamba while traffic coming from Kamla Market has been diverted to Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Marg,” the traffic police Twitter handle posted. Also Read | Delhi Rains: Twitter flooded with videos and images of downpourOther stretches affected are Dhaula Kuan, Zakhira underpass, Azad Market subway, Lajpat Nagar metro station, Aurobindo Marg near AIIMS flyover, Jangpura metro station, from AIIMS to Moolchand, Ring Road (Moolchand bear Red Light). Delhi’s earlier record of a heavy spell during this month was on September 10, 2009, when it received 98.3 mm rainfall. On Tuesday, the city recieved 84.1mm rainfall over six hours. “The monsoon trough has shifted back southwards and is close to Delhi. Also, easterly winds had come back to the northwest region hence the rainfall. Scattered light to moderate showers are likely to continue till September 3,” said an IMD official. Delhi has been receiving short and intense spells of rainfall instead of it being more uniformly distributed this season, which, weather experts say, adversely affects the ecology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-receives-highest-august-rainfall-in-12-years-leads-to-waterlogging-101630477737612.html
01-09-2021||Patna||Former Sasaram EE Kumari Himani arrested in ₹60 lakh embezzlement case||The executive officer (EE) of Bodh Gaya municipal council was arrested on Tuesday in a case of embezzlement or ₹60 lakhs when posted at Sasaram municipal council. After her arrest from Sherghati in Gaya district, she was brought to Sasaram, to be produced before a court on Wednesday, superintendent of police (SP) Ashish Bharti said.Himani was EE of Sasaram municipal council till 2020 and was booked in criminal cases after a probe by district authorities found her involved in gross irregularities and embezzlement of ₹60 lakhs assigned for urban development.The probe found that Himani and other officials complicit in the alleged fraud had withdrawn the fund against forged master rolls of schemes that had already been completed years ago using MLA local area development fund.Following the findings, Sasaram’s current EE Abhishek Anand registered two cases against Kumari Himani, junior engineers (JE) Arun Kumar Singh and Mahant Pandey and chairperson Kanchan Devi accusing them of forgery, cheating, criminal breach of trust, criminal conspiracy in furtherance of common intention under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471, 120 B and 406/34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Himani was arrested from her husband and block development officer (BDO) Prashant Kumar Prasun’s residence at Sherghati. Municipal council chairperson (chief councilor) Kanchan Devi was arrested earlier on June 18 but the two accused JEs were at large.The urban development department last week suspended former Bhabua EE Anubhuti Shrivastava for alleged embezzlement of crores of rupees. Shrivastava was posted as EE at Hajipur when suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/former-sasaram-ee-kumari-himani-arrested-in-rs-60-lakh-embezzlement-case-101630477137556.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panj Pyare row: AICC Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat apologises||Under fire, All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat on Wednesday apologised for his Panj Pyare remark, stating that he had no intention of hurting Sikh sentiments. Also read: Harish Rawat meets Navjot Singh Sidhu amid Punjab tussleRawat, who is in Chandigarh to mediate between the warring factions of the Punjab Congress for unity in the party, said that “sometimes while expressing respect you use such words that are objectionable. I too made the mistake of using the expression Panj Pyare yesterday to refer to our (Punjab Congress) president and working presidents. I am a student of history of the country and the leadership position of Panj Pyare (five beloved ones) cannot be compared with anyone else. I have made this mistake, and I apologise for hurting people’s sentiments,” he posted in Hindi on Facebook. The former Uttarakhand chief minister also said that as atonement, he will clean a gurdwara in his home state with a broom. Met Sidhu, Pargat on Tuesday Rawat had met Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, state general secretary Pargat Singh and two other party leaders on Tuesday at the state unit office in Chandigarh. After coming out of the meeting, the Punjab affairs in-charge told mediapersons that he had met the Panj Pyare and all issues had been sorted out. Shiromani Akali Dal demanded apology His remark drew flak from Shiromani Akali Dal spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema who asked him to withdraw his “irresponsible” statement and tender an apology. “The Congress leader has no right to equate his partymen, who are ‘patits’ and have no knowledge about the Sikh religion with Panj Pyare. The Panj Pyare are respected and honoured in the Sikh community,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panj-pyare-row-aicc-punjab-affairs-in-charge-harish-rawat-apologises-101630476657461.html
01-09-2021||Kolkata||Fake vaccine jabs, black marketing of remdesivir: ED conducts raids in Kolkata||Officers of the Enforcement Directorate conducted raids in at least 10 locations in and around Kolkata on Wednesday in connection with the fake Covid vaccine jab racket busted by the Kolkata Police earlier this year. The agency is also looking into the allegations of illegal sale of oxygen cylinders and remdesivir, a medicine used in treating Covid-19 patients. ED officials divided into ten teams to search as many places. In June this year, Kolkata Police busted a racket allegedly run by Debanjan Deb, a 28-year-old masquerading as a bureaucrat. More than 800 people, including TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty, were duped into taking the fake vaccines. Police arrested eight persons, including Deb. Also Read | Aishe Ghosh, SFI leads stir at Visva Bharati against expulsion of studentsED officials started a probe into the money laundering aspect of the alleged fake vaccine scam in July. The racket triggered a political slugfest between the TMC and the BJP. While the BJP alleged that the mastermind had links with senior TMC leaders, the latter rubbished the charges. The TMC later released a picture in which Deb’s security guard could be seen standing behind the West Bengal governor. The Centre asked the West Bengal government to file a report in connection with the racket, even as the Calcutta high court directed the state to file an affidavit. “Raids were conducted in multiple places including Deb’s residence, a medicine shop, some offices and godowns,” said a senior police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/fake-vaccine-jabs-black-marketing-of-remdesivir-ed-conducts-raids-in-kolkata-101630476597393.html
01-09-2021||Patna||Repository of Kosi, Mithila heritage, Saharsa Museum reopens after almost 3yrs||After almost three years, the government museum in Saharsa reopened for public viewing on Monday.The museum was set up in 2004 near the ancient Matsyagandha lake at Saharsa to conserve the heritage and antiquities discovered during explorations and excavations in Kosi area. Its collections include images of Lord Buddha, Goddess Tara and of the Sun God carved in black stone.But all these had not been available for public viewing as the doors of the museum remained closed following the retirement of its curator in February 2019.On August 30, Dr Alok Ranjan, Bihar’s culture minister got its doors reopened for viewers.“The Saharsa museum, which is known as the Karu Khirhar Museum, has been the 26th in the list. It was created to conserve and display the antiquities discovered in this area, but since 2019, it’s been closed due to shortage of hands in the directorate of museums. But to revive it, the directorate has appointed some employees now,” he said. There are 27 government museums in the state including five in state capital Patna.Besides, the culture department has planned development of this museum to make it an effective institution for the conservation of antiquities. It will showcase the heritage of the Kosi and of the Mithila regions, the minister said.“We are planning for a better and bigger building for the museum. The district administration has provided land for this purpose in the Naya Bazaar area at Saharsa,” he said. The culture department will now get a detailed project report prepared for the Museum building, he added.Another official from the culture department, who did not want to be quoted, said Karu Khirhar Museum at Saharsa has been the most recent among the museums in the state. “It was set up to retain the antiquities and other archaeological findings of the region at the local level. There’s been a trend to take all the archaeological findings and discoveries from districts to the state capital,” the official said.Some of the Kosi region’s archaeological findings, which are now at the Saharsa Museum, were in the state capital earlier. In a bid to return them to their land, this Museum was created in 2004, the official added. “But security has been a big issue at this Museum. Also, there has also been a shortage of employees here. It remained closed earlier also due to the shortage of employees and was reopened in 2015 after a long gap of six years,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/repository-of-kosi-mithila-heritage-saharsa-museum-reopens-after-almost-3yrs-101630471436860.html
01-09-2021||Mumbai||Vaccine 'Gateway' to safer 'India': Mumbai Police uses city's landmark to give message on Covid-19||The Mumbai Police on Wednesday used a creative way to remind people to follow Covid-19 protocols, get vaccinated and carry a face mask. The police strung together the names of Mumbai's major landmarks on Twitter to give the message.Also Read: Mumbai Police shares what makes ‘immunity unbreakable’ in mask-related advisory"Mumbai please take 'Khar', always 'Currey' mask while on 'Road'. Let’s keep safety ‘Antop’ of our priority list," the Mumbai Police said on Twitter. This was a reference to Khar, Currey Road stations on Mumbai local, and Antop Hill which is east of the Harbour railway line.Mumbai please take 'Khar', always 'Currey' mask while on 'Road'. Let’s keep safety ‘Antop’ of our priority list. #LinkingRoadToSafety #TakingOnCorona pic.twitter.com/qmyvm7U5ADA collage of photos posted along with the tweet had text like "Do you 'sea' the 'link' between vaccine and immunity" and "Vaccine 'Gateway' to a safer 'India'" - a reference to famous landmarks Gateway of India and Bandra-Worli Sea Link.Apart from handling the situation on the ground, the Mumbai Police keeps spreading such messages on social media from time to time to check the spread of Covid-19.A few months ago, when the country was battling the deadly second wave of the pandemic, the Mumbai Police put out some funny takes on Bollywood actors and their movie names in order to convey the seriousness of the situation.Starting from late actor Rajesh Khanna to Ayushmann Khurrana, the Mumbai Police used the names and move titles in a creative manner.Khanna got featured in one of the tweets, where the police urged people to order ‘Khanna’ (a pun on ‘Khaana’ - the Hindi word for food) at home in order to avoid risking going out amid the Covid-19 lockdown. A popular dialogue from Khanna's movie was also used in the tweet.Mumbai please take 'Khar', always 'Currey' mask while on 'Road'. Let’s keep safety ‘Antop’ of our priority list. #LinkingRoadToSafety #TakingOnCorona pic.twitter.com/qmyvm7U5ADUsing actor Amitabh Bachchan's name, they also asked people to wear their masks properly. In one of the tweets, the Mumbai Police said it's a “‘Big B’ lunder" (pun with blunder) to keep the facemask below your nose.As per a statement released by the Public Health Department on Tuesday, Mumbai reported 323 fresh Covid-19 cases, 272 recoveries and one death a span of 24 hours.The city has 3,106 active Covid-19 cases. The cumulative recoveries rose up to 7,22,621 and the death toll stood at 15,977.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-uses-city-s-landmark-to-give-message-on-covid19-101630470111303.html
01-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court refuses bail to police constable who posed as RAW officer||Mumbai sessions court on Tuesday rejected the bail application of a police constable who allegedly posed as an officer of the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) and was arrested for cheating a city businessman with the promise of securing post-graduate medical seats for his two sons. Additional sessions judge RJ Katariya rejected bail plea of constable Nagesh Pawar on the grounds that the cheating amount was huge, the constable’s wife was yet to be arrested and the investigation was yet to be completed.Thirty-year-old Pawar, a Pune resident, was arrested by the Tilak Nagar police in Mumbai for allegedly cheating businessman Vasudeo Khetnani. Khetnani’s sons wanted to pursue post-graduate medical courses and the businessman met one Mahendra Kahar in connection with their admission. Kahar introduced him to Dinesh Kawa in June 2015, and the latter demanded ₹ 1.60 crore for securing admission for both the sons.Also Read | At 158,880, August Covid infections in Maharashtra 33% less than JulyKhetnani reportedly paid Kawa ₹ 55 lakh and drew a demand draft in the name of a college on his request. Later, he was asked to arrange ₹75 lakh.Thereafter, police said, Kawa, and Khetnani’s son met Pawar and his wife Roshani in Navi Mumbai and allegedly paid them ₹ 75 lakh. At the time Roshani allegedly boasted about her contacts with politicians and management of various medical colleges. Pawar was also introduced as a RAW agent. Khetnani’s sons did not get admission and the four accused return some amount to the businessman. Roshani executed a document acknowledging the receipt of money from Khetnani and undertaking to repay the amount.In February 2019, Khetnani registered a case of cheating at the Tilak Nagar police station.Seeking bail for the constable, Pawar’s counsel VS Tiwari claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case. The court rejected Pawar’s plea. Considering his role and the nature of the crime, he was not entitled to get bail at this stage, said the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-refuses-bail-to-police-constable-who-posed-as-raw-officer-101630467656942.html
01-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi rains: Waterlogging slows traffic in parts of city; IMD issues orange alert||Heavy rains lashed Delhi on Wednesday, leading to severe waterlogging in the city which in turn created traffic snarl in several parts of the city since the morning. The Delhi traffic police issued an advisory against traffic obstruction at the Azad Market Subway going towards Pratap Nagar due to the heavy waterlogging at the road.Zakhira underpass was also closed due to waterlogging and the traffic police advised to take an alternative route from Anand Parbat/Roshanara Road. At Minto Road as well, traffic slowed down due to the rains.The rain has been continuing since the early hours of Wednesday with no signs of any immediate reduction in the rainfall. Earlier on Tuesday, heavy rains lashed several parts of Delhi causing waterlogging and affecting vehicular movement in parts of the city and neighbouring areas. Besides road traffic, railway movement was also affected after a portion of the Delhi-Agra railway track caved in due to the heavy rains on Tuesday. According to a report by ANI, the movement of at least 15 trains was affected after a culvert was washed away causing the formation of a 20 feet deep pit.Meanwhile, in view of the heavy rains, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert for the national capital.Earlier, the weather department predicted thunderstorms and moderate to heavy rains in the parts of the National Capital Region. "Thunderstorms with moderate to heavy intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi, NCR- Gurugram, Manesar, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Tosham, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Narnaul, Mahendargarh, Kosali during next 2 hours," IMD said in Tweet.Rainfall remains on the forecast from September 1-4 for Delhi. In the month of August, the national capital has recorded 144.7 mm of rainfall till August 30. This is around 31 per cent below the normal of 209.4 mm for the month, according to the IMD's rainfall statistics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-rains-waterlogging-slows-traffic-in-parts-of-city-imd-issues-orange-alert-101630465558594.html
01-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi rains prevail, IMD issues heavy rainfall alert across NCR. Details here||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday, September 1, that thunderstorms with moderate to heavy intensity of rainfall would occur over most places in the national capital Delhi and other adjoining regions in the national capital region (NCR) during the next two hours. The places which might see heavy rainfall later in the day include Lodhi Road and the area surrounding the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport in Delhi, and places of NCR including Gurugram, Ghaziabad, and Noida.Delhi has been experiencing heavy rainfall over the course of this week, as roads in the national capital were flooded yet again on Wednesday after a similar spell a day prior when heavy morning rains brought the city to a halt, with commuters struggling as key stretches were inundated, exposing the pathetic drainage system, the failure to prepare for the monsoon, and the lack of a comprehensive plan to rid the city of the annual waterlogging menace.#WATCH: Rain witnessed in several parts of the National Capital. Visuals from ITO. pic.twitter.com/uwVcpbX89K#WATCH: Early morning showers at Minto Road in Delhi pic.twitter.com/p1CxjLfxbvAlso Read | Rain nightmare for Delhi, once moreThe IMD weather alert for Delhi was issued at 5:40am. The met department issued another alert an hour earlier at 4:43am, where it added a list of places in Delhi-NCR that could see potential rainfall today.Here are the regions in Delhi-NCR where thunderstorms with heavy intensity rainfall are predicted to occur:Delhi: Lodhi Road, IGI airportNCR: Gurugram, Manesar, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Noida, Greater Noida, Indirapuram, Loni Dehat, Hindon airbase, Ghaziabad, and DadriTosham, Meham, Hansi, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mattanhail, Jhajjar, Narnaul, Mahendargarh, Kosali, Farukhnagar, Bawal, Nuh, Sohana, Hodal, Palwal (in Haryana) Barsana, and Nandgaon (in Uttar Prades) are also some of the other regions predicted to receive rainfall on Wednesday. In additional alerts, the IMD included other regions such as Viratnagar, Kotputil, Khairthal, Bhiwari, Laxmangarh, Nadbai, Nagar, Alwar, Tizara, and Deeg (in Rajasthan), Pahasu, Siyana, and Khurja (in Uttar Pradesh) where heavy rainfall is predicted during the next two hours.Dadri) Tosham, Meham, Hansi, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mattanhail, Jhajjar, Narnaul, Mahendargarh, Kosali, Farukhnagar, Bawal, Nuh, Sohana, Hodal, Palwal (Haryana) Barsana, Nandgaon (U.P.)Viratnagar, Kotputli, Khairthal, Bhiwari, Laxmangarh, Nadbai, Nagar, Alwar, Tizara, Deeg (Rajasthan), Pahasu, siyana, Khurja (U.P) during next 2 hours. pic.twitter.com/pJRo8m0XYbAdditionally, these regions are expected to see light to moderate intensity rainfall during the next two hours -- Gohana, Gannaur, Sonipat, Meham (in Haryana), Hapur, and Gulaoti (in Uttar Pradesh).Waterlogging was also seen in residential colonies such as Jangpura Extension, Defence Colony, Maharani Bagh, Malviya Nagar, Garhi village, Sangam Vihar, Vigyan Lok, and Laxmi Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-rains-to-prevail-imd-issues-heavy-rainfall-alert-across-ncr-details-here-101630455690391.html
01-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools reopen today for classes 9 to 12; guidelines here||Schools in the national capital, Delhi, are set to reopen for classes 9 to 12 from today (that is, September 1, Wednesday) with a bunch of special protocols meant to adhere to the government-necessitated coronavirus disease (Covid-19) guidelines. However, the Delhi government has clarified that no student would be forced to physically attend classes, with several schools in the national capital also opting for a 'wait-and-watch' strategy to see how the situation progresses before they call in all their students.Also Read | List of states reopening schools from September 1Delhi schools are reopening on September 1 after a prolonged closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic, like most other educational institutions and coaching centres across India which were shut down following the imposition of the nationwide lockdown. On Friday last week, the Delhi government finally announced that all schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges, and coaching institutions in the national capital would be opening from the first day of September.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday notified the school reopening guidelines, which includes no more than 50 per cent of students per classroom, mandatory thermal screening, staggered lunch breaks, alternate seating arrangement, and avoiding routine guest visits. Moreover, students, teachers, and non-teaching staff who reside in Covid-19 containment zones will not be allowed to physically attend the classes, according to the DDMA guidelines, which added that the vaccination centres and activities ration distribution presently underway in different schools will continue in areas separate from the academic activities.Also Read | Staggered lunch breaks, quarantine room: DDMA guidelines for school reopeningManish Sisodia, the deputy chief minister of Delhi, took to Twitter last week to say that "Team Education" is ready to reopen schools safely. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) had also said this is the “right time” for governments to take a “calculated risk” and resume classes in an appropriate way.Along with Delhi, five other states and/or Union territories such as Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat have given the go-ahead to reopen schools from September 1. In Delhi, while the classes for standards 9 to 12 are resuming from today, those for standards 6 to 8 are slated to resume from September 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-reopen-today-for-classes-9-to-12-guidelines-here-101630453380359.html
01-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi court may admit charge sheet in rape-murder case today||A Delhi court is likely to take cognisance of a charge sheet filed by the city police in the alleged gang rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl at a crematorium in Delhi Cantonment area, on Wednesday.The matter was to be taken up on Tuesday but it was not heard because of some procedural formalities.Earlier, on Saturday, the police filed a charge sheet naming four accused, including a priest, for the sexual assault and subsequent murder of the minor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-may-admit-charge-sheet-in-rape-murder-case-today-101630452845795.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Gurdaspur man rapes 14-year-old ‘online friend’, held||A Gurdaspur resident was arrested for raping a 14-year-old girl whom he had befriended on a social networking site on Tuesday. The victim had invited the accused, Himanshu Bedi, 19, to her home in Jagroan in her parents’ absence on August 29. In her statement, the victim said she had met the accused on a social networking site on February 14 and had started chatting. Bedi had asked the teenaged victim to meet him several times. However, she had always declined until Bedi told her that he was going abroad and wanted to meet her at least once before he left. The victim asked Bedi to meet her at her house, where he sexually assaulted her and fled when her condition started deteriorating. The victim’s parents rushed her to the hospital after they returned. Jagroan station house officer inspector Nidhan Singh said a case had been registered against the accused under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. He added that the arrested accused had confessed and that he was not going abroad but had fabricated the excuse to get her to meet him. 20-year-old labourer rapes teenaged neighbour In another case, a 20-year-old man was arrested for raping his teenaged neighbour at his rented accommodation on Monday. The 15-year-old victim’s parents work as labourers and the girl would stay alone at home while they went to work. The accused, Mintoo Pal of Dhandhari Khurd, has been arrested under Section 376 (rape) of the IPC and under sections of the POCSO Act, said assistant sub-inspector Ajmer Singh, who is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurdaspur-man-rapes-14-year-old-online-friend-held-101630446474410.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana crosses milestone of 20 lakh Covid jabs in 8 months||The Ludhiana health department achieved its target to administer 20 lakh coronavirus jabs on Tuesday. Presiding over an event to mark the milestone at the Civil Hospital, additional deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar and municipal corporation councillor Mamta Ashu congratulated the health workers for the “remarkable feat”. Drawing comparison with other districts, Kumar said the vaccination drive had been the fastest in Ludhiana, which will mitigate the impact of the third wave. “The vaccine will be supplied by the Centre, and whenever the stock arrives, it is exhausted in a single day.” Mamta said more vaccination camps will be held in the district to ensure all eligible beneficiaries are vaccinated. Assistant civil surgeon Dr Vivek Kumar, senior medical officer Dr Amarjeet Kaur, SMO Dr Randhir Singh Chahal, SMO Dr Harinder Singh Sood, paediatrics specialist Dr Harjeet Singh were also present.Three fresh cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the total case count to 87,466. There are 14 active cases in the district at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-crosses-milestone-of-20-lakh-covid-jabs-in-8-months-101630446056504.html
01-09-2021||Kolkata||Aishe Ghosh, SFI leads stir at Visva Bharati against expulsion of students||Kolkata: Aishe Ghosh, the student union president at Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University and other leaders of the Students Federation of India (SFI), the students’ wing of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Tuesday started an agitation at Visva Bharati University in West Bengal in protest against the expulsion of three students on disciplinary ground. The students, who were suspended in January last year, took part in agitations against several actions by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and visits by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders such as Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta in 2020 and Union home minister Amit Shah before the March-April assembly polls.Demanding Chakrabarty’s removal, Ghosh said, “He is acting on behalf of the Rashtriya Shayamsevak Sangh (RSS) that wants to establish control over several universities. They tried the same in JNU.”Students of Kolkata’s Jadavpur University also took part in the protest.Also Read: Visva-Bharati ‘temporarily suspended’ admission process, publication of resultsVisva Bharati students had been agitating outside the V-C’s on-campus residence since August 28 when the university’s executive council passed the expulsion order. The three students were earlier asked to submit their petition in regard to the decision on expulsion. On August 28, the executive council of Visva Bharati held on to its decision to expel the students, a member of the faculty association, who is aware of the development, said on condition of anonymity.“Several teachers are also under suspension. They have challenged the order,” the faculty association member said.Located at Bolpur in Birbhum district, Visva Bharati is Bengal’s only central university, of which the Prime Minister is the chancellor. Rabindranath Tagore founded Visva Bharati in 1921 and it was declared a central university in 1951.The V-C and the university did not make any statements till late Tuesday evening. The authorities have sent an e-mail to the local police, seeking security for the V-C’s quarters. In August last year, the V-C’s decision to cordon the campus led to a stir. A crowd comprising local residents and shopkeepers demolished two gates and damaged construction material kept for building a wall around the ground where an annual fair is held in December.The fair, popularly known as Poush Mela, draws thousands of people and even foreign tourists. For traders, the fair is a major source of income. While the V-C sought deployment of central paramilitary forces on campus following the vandalism, chief minister Mamata Banerjee disapproved of the wall.“When Tagore built Visva Bharati, he wanted students to be in the heart of nature and study in the open. He did not want wood and cement structures,” she said in August last year. In January last year also, there was student unrest when Swapan Dasgupta was invited by the authorities to speak on the Citizenship Amendment Act at a seminar.The following month, Chakrabarty triggered a controversy when he said those who gather at Delhi’s Rajghat donning white caps on Gandhi Jayanti are “the country’s biggest thieves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/aishe-ghosh-sfi-leads-stir-at-visva-bharati-against-expulsion-of-students-101630446055420.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||LIT trashes charges of auctioning prime land at throwaway prices||The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has found itself embroiled in another controversy over the e-auction of around 16,344 square yards of prime land in the Model Town Extension on August 16, with detractors alleging that the land had been sold at very low rates. While the land near the Dugri Canal Bridge has been auctioned for around ₹98.38 crore (including 6% cess), it has been alleged that the market value of the land is around ₹350 crore and the LIT, which being led by chairperson Raman Balasubramaniam, has fixed the reserve price at ₹91.86 crore, to benefit the bidders. BJP leader Bikram Singh Sidhu has submitted a complaint with Union home minister Amit Shah and Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, seeking a CBI inquiry into the alleged fraud and criminal cases against those involved. A copy has also been marked to the local bodies department director Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Demanding cancellation of the auction proceedings, Bikram Singh alleged that the fraud had been committed on the behest of a Cabinet minister to benefit the bidders and the land mafia. “The market rate of the land in that area is at least ₹2 lakh per sq yard and a fraud of around ₹250 crore has been committed.” Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon also accused the LIT chairperson of committing fraud by finalising the reserve price of prime land at a lesser rate in comparison to the market value. “The LIT should focus on providing facilities to the public rather than auctioning properties at lesser rates to benefit bidders. This auction should be cancelled by the local bodies department,” Dhillon said. As per officers in the local bodies department, senior Congress leaders in the city have also brought the matter to the chief minister’s notice. One of the LIT officials, requesting anonymity, said senior officials of the local bodies department also took up the matter with the chairman. Chairperson refutes allegations Meanwhile, chairman Balasubramaniam refuted the allegations during a press conference organised at the LIT’s office on Tuesday saying that the action had been conducted in a transparent manner. “Information regarding the e-auction was published in national newspapers three times before the property was put on auction. Anybody could submit a bid. Four bidders participated in the auction for this property and many other properties were also auctioned by the LIT. All the proceedings were recorded,” he said. “The reserve price was fixed as per the norms and the bidders will be able to cover only 40% of the total space as per the norms and bylaws. However, property will be allotted subject to the approval of the local bodies department, which has been sought. Those claiming that ₹350 crore could be earned from the auction, should submit an offer with the LIT and we will cancel the e-auction and allot the property to their name,” the chairperson said, adding that the successful bidder had also submitted around ₹13 crore with the LIT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lit-trashes-charges-of-auctioning-prime-land-at-throwaway-prices-101630445756012.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Manual scavenging: FIR lodged against unidentified persons||Even as Punjab Safai Karamchari Commission chairperson Geja Ram Valmiki remains at loggerheads with municipal corporation officials over manual scavenging in the Jugiana area, the Sahnewal police have lodged an FIR against unidentified persons for forcing the sewermen to enter the manhole. The FIR has been lodged one-and-a-half months after the complaint was submitted by the commission. Unidentified persons have been booked under Section 7 and 9 of The Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act. Geja Ram had recommended an FIR against the MC executive engineer and sub-divisional officer for allegedly forcing the sewermen to enter manholes to clean the sewer lines without safety kits in Jugiana area on July 16. Subsequently, MC officials including executive engineers, sub-divisional officers and junior engineers locked horns with Geja Ram, during the meeting of the commission convened to discuss the delay in lodging an FIR. The MC officials alleged that the chairperson himself had forced the employees to enter the manhole, to implicate MC staffers. The MC employees union had said that they will go on strike if an FIR was lodged against the MC officials.While the staff of MC’s operations and maintenance (O and M) cell is taking up the matter with the employees’ union, Geja Ram said that the FIR should name the accused officials. Meanwhile, Geja Ram said, “I will take up the matter with the officials at state level and will also move the high court so that appropriate action is taken against the officials who put the lives of sewermen at stake by forcing them to enter the manhole without safety kits.”Sahnewal station house officer (SHO) Balwinder Singh said an FIR has been lodged but no accused has been named in the case so far as it is not clear on whose directions manual scavenging was being done. A few videos of the incident have been submitted by Geja Ram and the MC officials, and in one of the videos Geja Ram can also be seen asking the sewermen to enter the manhole. These videos also need to be investigated before taking any action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manual-scavenging-fir-lodged-against-unidentified-persons-101630445394268.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||8 vehicle-lifting cases reported in a day from Ludhiana||Ludhiana Eight cases of vehicle lifting were reported in the city on Monday, of which one vehicle has been recovered. Three cases were reported in the area of the Division Number 8 police station. Of the eight vehicles stolen, six were bikes and two were scooters.Shemanpal of Anandpura Mohalla has been arrested for stealing a scooter. The FIR was lodged on the statement of Sudhakar Kumar of Kakowal Road. He had parked his scooter outside his factory at Kakowal Road, when he came out, he saw a man dragging the scooter. He caught ahold of the accused and handed him over to the police.Another scooter was stolen from near a gurdwara. The Division number 2 police lodged an FIR following the complaint of Ashok Kumar of Santokh Nagar, who is a factory worker. The scooter belonged to his employer.Meanwhile, the Haibowal police lodged an FIR against unidentified accused for stealing a bike parked in Joshi Nagar of Haibowalon the complaint of Pappu of Urban Estate, Chandigarh road.Rohit Kumar of Partap Colony lodged an FIR against unidentified accused for stealing his bike. Kumar said he had parked the vehicle outside an auto agency on Ferozepur Road. The Division number 5 police have lodged an FIR against unidentified accused.Three vehicles were stolen from Suvidha Center Rakh Bagh, Deep Nagar and Dr Heera Singh Road. The Division number 8 police lodged three separate cases against unidentified accused. Sunil Kumar of Makkar Colony had parked his bike outside the Suvidha Centre, Rafik Miyan of Haidar Enclave had parked his bike in Deep Nagar, while the bike of Bali Yadav of Satjot Nagar was stolen from Dr Heera Singh Road.Bachhu Singh of Hargobind Nagar lodged an FIR against unidentified accused at Moti Nagar police station for stealing his bike from Baba Gajja Jain Colony.Rajan Kumar Jha of Islamganj lodged FIR against unidentified accused at Moti Nagar police station for stealing his bike from Textile Colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/8-vehicle-lifting-cases-reported-in-a-day-from-ludhiana-101630445214124.html
01-09-2021||Jaipur||3 Rajasthan cops suspended over audio clip to kill suspect, not arrest him||JAIPUR: Three police personnel including two station house officers (SHO) have been suspended in Rajasthan after audio clips emerged of their conversation. In this, one of the two police officers is reportedly heard claiming orders from the Nagaur superintendent of police to kill a suspected criminal in an encounter rather than arrest him.Superintendent of police, Nagaur, Abhijeet Singh denied that he gave any such order and initiated an inquiry after the audio clips surfaced on August 24. The inquiry will be conducted by Additional SP Rajesh Meena.HT cannot verify the authenticity of the widely-circulating audio clips.The state government, however, ordered suspension of the three police personnel whose voices allegedly figure in the audio clips.Nagaur’s SHO Sadar police station Anju Kumari and constable Bhawarlal Burdi, and SHO Aklera police station in Jhalawar district Nand Kishore Verma have been placed under suspension following directions of Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, a statement by the government later said. Verma was earlier posted as SHO Sadar.Nagaur SP Abhijeet Singh said four audio clips emerged on 24 August at 10.30pm. In the audio clip of a conversation between SHO Sadar and the constable, Anju Kumari is heard giving a “false” and “irresponsible” statement” that the SP ordered her to kill an alleged smuggler Ganesh rather than let him to brought to the police station.A police officer said the ‘don’t arrest but kill’ order was cited by Anju Kumari on August 24 when Bhanwarlal was bringing Ganesh to surrender to the police station. To be sure, Ganesh was formally placed under arrest.Singh said Ganesh was accused of drugs and arms smuggling and was wanted in two cases. He has been arrested before.The SP said constable Bhanwarlal was suspended on August 25 on suspicion that he was linked to Ganesh.The police officer said SHO Nand Kishore’s role was also found to be suspicious in view of his conversation with Bhanwarlal in one of the audio clips. He did not elaborate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/3-rajasthan-cops-suspended-over-audio-clip-to-kill-suspect-not-arrest-him-101630445153952.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Fire breaks out at cardboard factory in Ludhiana||A major fire broke out at a cardboard factory in Phase 8 of the Focal Point area on Tuesday. Around a dozen labourers were working in the unit when the fire broke out and a large number of LPG cylinders were also kept on the premises. However, the workers were able to exit the factory safely as the cylinders did not explode and the firefighters were able to control the flames. Fire brigade officials say the fire-incident was caused due to a short-circuit around 8:15am. There were no proper fire safety arrangements in the unit.Sub fire officer Navrang Singh said, “A major tragedy was averted as the jumbo cylinders did not explode. As soon as the alert was sounded, seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fire-breaks-out-at-cardboard-factory-in-ludhiana-101630444914000.html
01-09-2021||Other||Former councillor Mehta appointed Ludhiana mayor’s OSD||Mayor Balkar Sandhu appointed Congress leader and former councillor Parminder Mehta as his officer on special duty (OSD). Mehta will not draw a salary from the municipal corporation (MC). After his appointment, Mehta said that he will listen to the grievances of the public at MC offices from 11 am to 1 pm and will work as a bridge between the MC officials and them. He said he will apprise the mayor of the residents’ problems. We will also conduct inspections to keep a check on the quality of development works, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-councillor-mehta-appointed-ludhiana-mayor-s-osd-101630444615150.html
01-09-2021||Other||Allegations of corruption: Ludhiana MC employees’ union asks contractors to submit proof or apologise||After a section of bitumen contractors accused the municipal corporation (MC) officials and mayor Balkar Sandhu of corruption during allotment of road construction contracts, the Municipal Employees’ Sangharsh Committee has asked them to prove their claims or apologise in three days failing which the civic body employees will raise an agitation against them.Slamming the bitumen contractors during a meeting held at MC headquarters (Zone A office) on Tuesday, the members of the employees’ union stated that they are trying to blackmail the MC engineers by levelling baseless allegations.Ashwani Sahota, chairman of the association, stated that Vinod Jain, president of Ludhiana Hotmix Plant Welfare Association, has levelled serious allegations against the MC officials without any proof of the same. He has even accused the MC officials of demanding commission for allotment of contracts and for releasing the payment of completed works.“This is not acceptable as it has put a blot on the image of the MC officials. If Jain fails to submit an apology or a proof of corruption in three days, we will raise an agitation which might also include a strike,” said Sahota.Meanwhile, Jain said that he has proof and will provide it to the MC employees union. He further urged the MC employees to support the contractors in finishing corruption from the MC.Earlier on August 24, 20 bitumen contractors had announced the boycott of development works in the city, citing corruption in the MC. The mayor had said the allegations were baseless.After it was found that Jain was blacklisted last year and was still awarded contracts by the MC officials, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal had marked an inquiry into the matter to MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allegations-of-corruption-ludhiana-mc-employees-union-asks-contractors-to-submit-proof-or-apologise-101630444614182.html
01-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana DC initiates disbursement of doubled social security pension||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma kick-started the process of disbursing the social security pension, which was recently doubled from ₹750 to ₹1,500 to 2,52,459 beneficiaries in the district on Tuesday.Out of the total 2,52,459 eligible beneficiaries, 13,939 are destitute children, 16,335 are handicapped persons, 54,433 are widows and 1,67,577 old-age persons.The DC was accompanied by Punjab Medium Industrial Development Board chairman Amarjeet Singh Tikka; Zila Parishad chairman Yadwinder Singh Jandiali; MC councillor Mamta Ashu; additional deputy commissioner (D) Amit Kumar Panchal; Khanna ADC Sakkatar Singh, and assistant commissioner Dr Harjinder Singh Bedi.He said that the revised social security pension was paid to the beneficiaries on Tuesday.The event was held simultaneously at 31 locations, and cheques were handed over to 5,742 beneficiaries. The remaining beneficiaries will get the pension amount in their bank accounts through the direct benefit transfer system.Avtar Singh, 74, and Paramjeet Kaur, 72, beneficiaries of the old-age pension scheme, thanked the state government for increasing the pension amount and said that it will help them deal with the inflation to some extent.District social security officer Inderpreet Kaur and district programme officer Gulbahar Singh were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-dc-initiates-disbursement-of-doubled-social-security-pension-101630444555177.html
01-09-2021||Other||Lathi charge on farmers: AAP stages protest in Ludhiana, demands FIR against Karnal SDM, cops||Slamming the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) and Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar over the recent incident of lathi charge on protesting farmers in Karnal, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) staged a protest at the mini secretariat on Tuesday.Lambasting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Khattar for allegedly trying to suppress the voice of the farmers who have raised agitation against the farm laws, the AAP leaders also sought FIR against Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha for his ‘break heads’ orders.Amandeep Mohie, AAP in charge of Ludhiana Lok Sabha constituency, said,” Rather than fulfilling the genuine demand of the farmers, the BJP government at the union level and in Haryana are committing atrocities against the farmers. AAP will continue to support the agitation till the farm laws are not repealed by the union government. AAP held protests across the state on Tuesday.” Citing the death of farmer Sushil Kajal during the lathi charge, the leaders also demanded that SDM and the police official who ordered the lathi charge should be dismissed and an FIR should be lodged against them under Section 302 (punishment for murder). While one farmer died, around 10 others were seriously injured.AAP leaders Kulwant Sidhu, Daljit Singh Grewal, among others, said it is the democratic right of the farmers to protest against the government for their demands.The AAP will continue the agitation until an FIR is lodged against him and the police officials, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lathi-charge-on-farmers-aap-stages-protest-in-ludhiana-demands-fir-against-karnal-sdm-cops-101630444554025.html
01-09-2021||Other||PAU holds training course on marketing of agricultural, food products||The Skill Development Centre, Punjab Agricultural University, organised a two-day online training course on effective marketing of agricultural and food products for in-service candidates. A total of 18 agriculture and horticulture officers; scientists from PAU and its Krishi Vigyan Kendras attended the course.Kuldeep Singh, associate director (skill development), informed that an improved and efficient system of agricultural marketing strategy helps the growth of agro-based industries and encourages the overall development process of the economy.Kiran Grover, principal extension scientist (food and nutrition) and course coordinator, urged the extension functionaries to shift focus beyond production and sensitize farmers on various aspects of quality, consumer’s preference, market intelligence, processing and value addition.Khushdeep Dharni, professor, school of business studies and technical coordinator, said the farmers should work in close contact with the consumers as well as the market to produce more relevant products for profit maximization.Ramandeep Singh, expert from school of business studies, shed light on product development and packaging for marketing of food products.LM Kathuria, a professor from the department, told the participants about export promotion of agricultural and food products. He also discussed the government’s initiative of One District One Product (ODOP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pau-holds-training-course-on-marketing-of-agricultural-food-products-101630444494133.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid situation in Punjab gets better, no signs of surge yet||Amid reports of a spike in Covid-19 cases in some parts of the country, Punjab has further improved situation in August which saw nearly 65% decrease in deaths due to the virus infection. An analysis of the health department’s media bulletins reveals that against 241 deaths in July, the state registered 80 deaths in August. On the other hand, the state’s death toll in June was 1,502. Also, fresh cases in the state have dipped by nearly 57%, with 1,472 cases in August against June’s 3,495. The government experts say this is for the first time since June last year that the state has registered the positivity rate as low as 0.1%. “Our positivity rate for August remained one of the lowest in the country. The biggest factor behind this was that the state has not lowered testing. Our average daily testing count is 40,000-45,000,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.The analysis further revealed that the number of active cases further came down to 324 from 534 on July 31. With nearly 50% of the target population vaccinated with the first dose, the state registered a slight improvement in terms of vaccination as 39.5 lakh doses were administered in August. The data from the CoWIN portal reveals that state has administered 1.35 crore doses of vaccine against the target of 2.02 crore. Nearly 1.02 crore people have been inoculated with the first dose whereas 32.46 lakh have been fully vaccinated. “We are expecting 70 lakh doses soon though we have not received the arrival schedule,” said the nodal officer. The state continues to focus more on the first dose even after repeated instructions by the Centre to focus more on the second jab.Even as there are reports about rolling out vaccination strategy for below-18 age group in September, Punjab officials claim there is no such indication in this regard from the Centre as of now. “We have not received any official communication in this regard so far,” a senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-situation-in-punjab-gets-better-no-signs-of-surge-yet-101630441434661.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Jalandhar ADCP’s son, 3 others booked for ₹2.24 crore fraud||The son of an additional deputy commissioner police (ADCP) posted in Jalandhar and three others were booked on Tuesday for allegedly defrauding three city-based businessmen of ₹2.24 crore. The accused were identified as Charanpreet Singh, son of ADCP Harwinder Singh Dalli, his aides Amit Talwar and Manoj Kumar and Jashandeep Singh, a broker who is already in jail in a fraud case. The case was registered under sections 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code at the Division Number 6 police station on the basis of an inquiry conducted by assistant inspector general of police (AIG crime), Jalandhar zone. A complaint was filed by Rachpal Singh Sachdeva and his partners Jaswinder Singh and Mehakpreet Singh, the businessmen, against the accused for the committing fraud on them on the pretext of investment. The probe found that the complainants deposited ₹1.20 crore in the accounts of Neuvo Hospitality Private Limited in 2018 with the accused as the firm’s directors. The complainants came in touch with the accused through Jashandeep Singh, the broker, said the police. The probe found that the three accused transferred ₹42 lakh of ₹1.20 crore in their personnel accounts with an intention of committing fraud. As per the FIR, the complainants purchased 25% share of Neuvo Hospitality worth ₹1.04 crore but the accused sold the 25% shares without the mandatory approval of the complainants and the registrar of companies (ROC). “The accused caused ₹2.24 crore loss to the complainants. Hence an FIR is recommended against the firm directors and the broker Jashandeep Singh,” the probe report concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jalandhar-adcp-s-son-3-others-booked-for-rs-2-24-crore-fraud-101630441433653.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||At show of strength in Batala, Cong MP Bajwa sings Capt’s praises||In a show of strength endorsing chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh amid the ongoing feud in the Congress’ Punjab unit, Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Tuesday staked claim on Congress ticket from Gurdaspur district for the upcoming assembly elections. Addressing a gathering at the Batala grain market in the presence of two party MPs and four MLAs, the former Punjab Congress president said the party is united and will again form government in the state under the leadership of Amarinder Singh. Those from the Amarinder camp present on the occasion were Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa, his Amritsar counterpart Gurjit Singh Aujla, and MLAs Fatehjung Singh Bajwa (Qadian), Balwinder Singh Ladi (Hargobindpur), Santokh Singh Bhalaipur (Baba Bakala) and Joginderpal (Bhoa). Bajwa said, “I have decided to play a proactive role in the state politics. I will contest the upcoming elections and that too from the Gurdaspur district. However, the final decision will be taken by the party leadership comprising Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Amarinder. They will take a call on which seat in the district I will be fielded from.” The district is also a stronghold of two state cabinet ministers—Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa— who have been supporting newly elected state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, the one leading a banner of revolt against the CM.A strong critic of Amarinder not long ago, Bajwa hailed the CM on various fronts such as increasing the old age pension amount from ₹750 to ₹1,500 and hiking the state auured price (SAP) of sugarcane. “We are also taking measures to provide relief to people of the state in terms of electricity bills,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-show-of-strength-in-batala-cong-mp-bajwa-sings-capt-s-praises-101630441197251.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||LPU honours Neeraj Chopra, 12 other Olympic medallist students||Lovely Professional University (LPU), Phagwara, on Tuesday gave ₹1.75 crore in cash awards to 13 of its students, including javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra and 10 members of men’s hockey team, for winning medals at the Tokyo Olympics. The varsity gave ₹50 lakh cash award and a ‘gold javelin’ to Chopra, who won gold, while Indian hockey team captain Manpreet Singh and nine of his team members received ₹85 lakh. The university also announced an award of ₹10 lakh for bronze medal winner Bajrang Punia and ₹25 lakh for Paralympics high jump silver medal winner Nishad Kumar. Both are the students of the university. An 87.58-metre ‘Neeraj Chopra Marg’, a pathway leading to the varsity’s sports complex, was also inaugurated. The distance of the road is same as Neeraj’s gold-winning throw. Niti Aayog chief executive officer (CEO) Amitabh Kant, who was the chief guest at the function, said that the country’s players brought joy and hope to millions of Indians. “Sports is extremely important for an all-round development of an individual. Students who do well in sports fare much better in life compared to those who only focus on studies,” he added. Chopra said, “The university and my teachers supported me in every way possible to help achieve my dream of winning an Olympic gold for India. I am confident that the university will produce many more top-notch sportspersons who will bring laurels for India in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lpu-honours-neeraj-chopra-12-other-olympic-medallist-students-101630441193762.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Jalandhar gaushala manager dies a day after consuming poison||A 40-year-old manager of a gaushala at Lambra village in Jalandhar district, who consumed a poisonous substance on Monday and accused Congress’ Kartarpur MLA Surinder Singh, rural crime investigation agency (CIA) incharge Pushp Bali and three others of harassing him, died during treatment on Tuesday. On those named by the victim in a Facebook live, he said they will probe their role in the matter. In the FB live, the victim claimed that MLA Surinder Singh and the CIA inspector along with three other people threatened to raze down the gaushala and a temple. Talking to mediapersons, the Congress MLA said the victim’s son was demanding ₹4.5 lakh from a family in his constituency to settle a police case. “He called me up on Sunday night and said the police are going to register a case against his son and sought my help. The allegations were made to malign my image,” the MLA said. Inspector Bali said they are probing charges of extortion against the victim’s son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jalandhar-gaushala-manager-dies-a-day-after-consuming-poison-101630441136275.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana police seize 35 country-made pistols, arrest 4 in a fortnight||Haryana Police have busted an inter-state gang of arms smugglers and arrested four men involved in supply of weapons to gangsters in National Capital Region (NCR) and neighbouring states. As many as 35 country-made pistols and 45 magazines were recovered from the accused identified as Mahfooz, alias Fozi, of Saharanpur (UP), currently living in Panipat. Other accused arrested are Hira Lal; Santosh Nigam and Rai Singh (native of district Dhar in Madhya Pradesh), police said in a release. Haryana DGP PK Agrawal applauded SP Panipat Shashank Kumar Sawan and his team for their hard work and effective use of scientific methods of investigation that helped in busting the gang. Police had arrested Mahfooz on August 18 from Panipat and recovered five country-made pistols and 10 magazines. While Hira Lal was apprehended on August 24 and two other accused were arrested on August 30 from Madhya Pradesh. Investigations conducted so far revealed that prime accused Mahfooz was sourcing illegal weapons from his contact Bachchan Singh, alias Bacchi Yadav of Madhya Pradesh for sale in Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan etc. Efforts are underway to arrest Bachahan Singh, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-seize-35-country-made-pistols-arrest-4-in-a-fortnight-101630441135304.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t air differences with CM Amarinder in public: Cong’s Punjab affairs in-charge Rawat to Sidhu camp||Amid the ongoing rift between Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, AICC general secretary and state in-charge Harish Rawat on Tuesday told the Sidhu camp to refrain from airing their differences with the CM publicly as it can dent the party’s poll prospects. Rawat, who arrived in Chandigarh to douse the fire of renewed feud between Captain and Sidhu, held a closed-door meeting with the PPCC chief and his team for nearly three hours.The meeting was attended by PPCC general secretary Pargat Singh and two co-presidents Kuljit Singh Nagra and Pawan Goel.Sources privy to the meeting said Sidhu conveyed his displeasure to Rawat over no action being taken on issues flagged by him. Sidhu maintained that if the key issues of drugs trafficking, cancellation of power purchase agreements (PPAs) with private thermal plants and sacrilege are resolved, no one can stop the party from securing a thumping win in the upcoming assembly polls.Rawat, however, asked Sidhu and his aides to maintain discipline and not do anything that can dent party in the polls. Hours before Rawat’s arrival, Sidhu targeted his own government over its “failure to nab the drug traffickers in its tenure of over four years.” On Monday, Sidhu had upped ante on PPAs and demanded an extended assembly session to scrap them. Rawat kicks up rowAfter emerging out of the meeting, Rawat told mediapersons that he had met Panj Pyaras and all issues had been sorted out. He added that party’s office- bearers will be appointed within 15 days. Rawat’s statement evoked a sharp reaction from SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema who said the Congress leader has no right to equate his partymen, who are patits and have no knowledge about the Sikh religion, with Panj Pyaras (five beloved ones) who have a special place in Sikhism. He asked Rawat to withdraw his “irresponsible” statement and offer apology. “Otherwise, we will file a case against him for hurting religious sentiments,” Cheema said. On being contacted, Rawat’s aides said he will give a statement tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-air-differences-with-cm-amarinder-in-public-cong-s-punjab-affairs-in-charge-rawat-to-sidhu-camp-101630441134000.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Now, Punjab CM questions Haryana counterpart on pro-farmer initiatives||In a sharp response to his Haryana counterpart’s tweets questioning him on farmer welfare measures, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said Manohar Lal Khattar’s claims were nothing but a shoddy defence against the nation-wide criticism of the ‘shameful treatment’ meted out to farmers by the BJP government. “Instead of apologising for the unprovoked attack on farmers in Karnal, Khattar had been brazenly defending the police action,” said Amarinder in a statement. Rebutting Haryana chief minister’s assertions that his government had done more for the farmers than the Punjab government, Amarinder said: “If that is the case, then why are farmers of your own state angry with you and your party?” Claiming that Haryana does not give a single paisa to its farmers in power subsidy, Amarinder said: “In Punjab, power subsidy of ₹7,200 crore is being provided every year for agriculture pump-sets of farmers.”Not only was Punjab leading the country in terms of procurement of key crops like wheat, paddy and cotton at MSP, it was also providing additional assistance to farmers to ensure smooth procurement in the face of the faulty policies of the BJP-led central government, said Captain.What Khattar had saidIn a series of tweets on Monday, Khattar had listed several steps taken by Haryana for farmers, and asked what Amarinder Singh’s government has done in comparison. “Who is anti-farmer, @capt_amarinder ji? Punjab or Haryana?” asked Khattar. “Dear @capt_amarinder ji, Haryana procures 10 crops at MSP—paddy, wheat, mustard, bajra, gram, moong, maize, ground nut, sun flower, cotton and makes the MSP payment directly into the account of the farmer. How many crops does Punjab buy from the farmer at MSP?” Khattar asked his Punjab counterpart. He also said that Haryana provides an incentive of ₹7,000 per acre to every farmer who wants to move away from paddy cultivation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-punjab-cm-questions-haryana-counterpart-on-pro-farmer-initiatives-101630440593600.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Congress approaches NHRC over Karnal lathicharge||A Haryana Congress delegation led by in-charge of party affairs Vivek Bansal and state Congress president Kumari Selja on Tuesday submitted a memorandum to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in New Delhi, seeking suspension of officer who ordered lathi-charge on farmers in Karnal last week.A statement issued by the state Congress said the government should apologise for the act and fulfil the demands of the farmers. Also compensation should be announced for the injured and the dead, the statement said. “Farmers were protesting peacefully and showing black flags was no crime. This government always responds to the black flags with sticks. An officer was giving orders, which have no place in a democracy. This is a violation of the rights of citizens. The government wants to suppress the voice of the farmers, who have been agitating peacefully on the streets for the last nine months,” Selja said. Meanwhile, the student wing of the Congress party, National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) on Tuesday took out a protest march in Karnal against the recent lathi-charge on farmers. Led by the NSUI state president Divyanshu Budhiraja, the activists marched towards the residence of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar at Ram Nagar in Karnal. However, police stopped them midway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-congress-approaches-nhrc-over-karnal-lathicharge-101630440357124.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||After backlash, father of Karnal SHO says they are farmers first||Following protests and a call for social boycott of families of Sikh police officials involved in the Karnal lathicharge, family members of Karnal SHO Harjinder Khaira have said that he was just following the orders of his superiors. In an interaction with mediapersons, Harjinder’s father Buta Singh and uncle Major Singh said they are with the farmers and actively participate in the farmers’ agitation. Buta Singh also shared photos in which he and his other son are sitting with the protesting farmers at Singhu border. Buta Singh, who is associated with the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), said he will continue to support the farmer’s agitation. “As the INLD has demanded an investigation into the lathi-charge episode from Karnal SP, I have decided to leave my post as INLD’s Kurukshetra district president until the investigation is over,” he added. “There is conspiracy to target Harjinder as some people had recorded his video when he was trying to disperse the farmers. Harjinder is an inspector when he is on duty and a farmer when home. We have earned everything from agriculture,” said Major Singh. Some members of Sikh community had held a protest outside the residence of Harjinder, accusing him of beating up Sikh farmers during the lathi-charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-backlash-father-of-karnal-sho-says-they-are-farmers-first-101630440176140.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bail to ex-Punjab DGP: HC judge lets off cop from contempt loop over email casting aspersions on bench||The Punjab and Haryana high court judge, who got an e-mail casting aspersions on him while dealing with petitions on the arrest of former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, has let off a state vigilance officer of contempt of court loop. The HC bench of Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi on Tuesday said “the majesty of the court is preserved and upheld not by initiation of contempt proceedings but by the manner in which it protects fundamental rights of the citizens and extends equal protection of laws and equality before law and justice to all who approach this court”. “...that is with what I would like this matter of initiation of contempt proceedings to end,” observed Justice Tyagi on the last day of his work on Tuesday while dealing with two applications moved by Saini. Saini was arrested by the vigilance bureau on August 18 evening in a September 2020 case. The next day, his wife had approached the HC terming his arrest illegal. The same day, a 2018 plea of Saini was also listed before justice Tyagi in which there were orders against the arrest of the ex-cop from high court. While the hearing was underway on August 19, an e-mail addressed to the chief justice came purportedly from Harvinder Pal Singh, investigating officer, in the September 2020 FIR, in which Saini was arrested. The e-mail, which was also marked to Justice Tyagi, wanted the case transferred from him to other bench casting aspersions on him. In that day’s order, Justice Tyagi observed that the court reserved the right to initiate contempt proceedings against the officer in view of the fact that vigilance as well as government counsels had submitted that he was not authorised for the same. “I am of the considered view that where litigant has a reasonable apprehension of not getting justice from a particular court, he has the remedy of applying for transfer of the case. In case of filing such application in respect of a case pending in this court, the matter lies in the discretion of the chief justice to take a decision,” Justice Tyagi observed, adding the email should not have been sent to the bench presided over by him.“The e-mail seems to have been sent by an over-enthusiastic police officer but the same could not be a matter of his own choice. He seems to have been ill-advised regarding the same by someone from behind the scene. I am not only conscious of the harsh reality that the police officers work under tremendous pressure and even risk their lives in their fight against crime but unfortunately they also have to tow the line of those in power,” he added.On Tuesday, the court was hearing two pleas. Saini had approached the high court for advancing of hearing from September 9 claiming that he feared he could be arrested in some fresh case. Another plea was to bring on record alleged interviews by vigilance department officers in which they were accusing Justice Tyagi of passing order “in a tearing hurry” and not affording any opportunity of hearing to the department. Both the applications were withdrawn by Saini. One more plea filed by Saini alleging contempt of court by vigilance department officers will be taken up by high court on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bail-to-ex-punjab-dgp-hc-judge-lets-off-cop-from-contempt-loop-over-email-casting-aspersions-on-bench-101630440173586.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir’s mass contact programme will continue: SAD’s core committee||The Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD’s) core committee on Tuesday decided to continue with its 100-day mass contact programme in Punjab. Led by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, the constituency-wise campaign had started on August 18 with an eye on 2022 Punjab assembly polls. Party’s top leaders discussed the issue after a section of farmers clashed with Akali workers during one such programme in Samrala on Monday, while there had been sporadic incidents of farmers opposing Sukhbir’s events. The party also announced that there will be no change in the Wednesday’s event scheduled to be held at Sahnewal (close to Samrala) in Ludhiana. “The SAD had voted against the three anti-farmer black laws, quit the Union cabinet and ended alliance with the BJP to register its protest,” said the core committee, urging the farm bodies to support the programmes announced by the party. Party’s top leaders , meanwhile, appreciated the statements of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) against attempts to sabotage activities of ‘farmer-friendly’ political parties. “Statement by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) assumes significance as the SAD is the only party engaged in mass contact programme in the state,” said Sukhbir’s principal adviser Harcharan Singh Bains. BKU Dakounda general secretary Jagmohan Singh said, “Farmers can seek answers from leaders of political parties, but clashes or any attempt to interfere in their matter must be avoided.” Maluka stays awaySAD’s key leader from Malwa and a member of the core committee, Sikandar Singh Maluka, who is considered close to the Badals, stayed away from the Tuesday’s meeting. He is seeking ticket from Rampura Phul segment for his son Gurpreet Singh and wanted to contest on Maur seat where the party intends to make Jagmeet Brar a candidate. Maluka has expressed his resentment in public, but the party leadership maintained silence on the matter. There was no discussion on the issue in Tuesday’s meeting as well. Despite repeated attempts, comments of Maluka could not be elicited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbirs-mass-contact-programme-will-continue-sad-s-core-committee-101630440113855.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||New specifications for paddy procurement irk Punjab farmers, rice millers||PatialaThe new quality specification fixed by the central government for the procurement of paddy has irked rice millers and farmers in Punjab. The rice millers in the state have already threatened to boycott the procurement process, terming the new rules as an indirect attack on farmers, who are protesting against the three farm laws for more than nine months. According to the new specifications in case of rice, stricter quality control measures have been put in place for the millers as broken grain percentage has been reduced to 20% from the earlier 25%. Moreover, the moisture content in rice to be accepted from millers has also been reduced from 15% to 14%. The damaged grain percentage has come down from 3% to 2%, while the red grains, which earlier had the limit of 3%, will not be accepted as per new specifications.In the case of paddy unloaded at grain markets, the central government has reduced the moisture content limit from 17% to 16%, while the permissible limit of foreign matter (organic and inorganic) has been lowered from 2% to 1%. The percentage of discoloured, sprouted and damaged has been reduced to 3% from 5%.Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of BKU (Dakaunda), said the Centre is hell-bent on taking anti-farmer stance. “We were demanding increase in the moisture content, but the government has reduced it in the new specifications. With the new rules, the government is inching forward in implementing its plan to minimise procurement process across the country,” Singh said. President of the Punjab Rice Millers Association Tarsem Saini said the new specifications are neither miller-friendly nor farmer or consumer-friendly. “The central government has ignored major stakeholders while coming up with these norms. Not even a single farmer or a rice miller was part of expert committee which recommended these specifications,” he said.Saini said the state government should take up the matter strongly with Centre as it is not viable to follow new norms on the ground.On August 29, Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Kumar wrote to Union minister for consumer affairs, food and Public distribution Piyush Goyal for his immediate intervention to put these specifications on hold.“These would have adverse effect on the farmers as it is very difficult to deal the with moisture content at the time of harvesting and procurement due to decrease in temperature,” Sharma had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-specifications-for-paddy-procurement-irk-punjab-farmers-rice-millers-101630439875308.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: AAP protesters face water cannons outside MC office||Members of the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) Chandigarh unit staged a protest against ‘rampant corruption’ and hike in taxes by the municipal corporation outside its office here on Tuesday. Chandigarh Police resorted to using water cannons to prevent the agitators from breaking the barricades. AAP’s Chandigarh co-incharge Pradeep Chhabra and party’s city president Prem Garg strongly condemned the police action on ‘peaceful’ protesters. AAP leader Chander Mukhi Sharma has asked the UT administration to take strict action against the cops. Led by Chhabra, Garg and Sharma, the protesters had gathered in front of the MC office in large numbers. They raised slogans against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Chandigarh mayor and UT administration. Chhabra said that corruption in the MC has put a dent on its image. He alleged, “The officials are not doing any work without taking bribe, for which the ruling BJP and mayor are directly responsible.” Sharma said residents of the colonies in Chandigarh were deprived of facilities like potable drinking water and adequate sewerage system. He claimed that poor families were bearing the brunt of increase in water and sewerage bills by the MC. “The corporation has made people financially weaker by putting an extra burden of taxes on them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-aap-protesters-face-water-cannons-outside-mc-office-101630439873906.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Controversial Punjab Police DSP Sekhon dismissed||Punjab Police have dismissed controversial PPS officer Balwinder Singh Sekhon from service just five days before his retirement. According to an order dated August 23 by then additional chief secretary (home) Anurag Aggarwal, the controversial cop was dismissed for remaining absent from his service after his suspension. Sekhon, who was posted as DSP 1st Commando Battalion, Bahadurgarh, was suspended from his services following his unpleasant remarks against the government in November 2019. “You as DSP remained wilfully absent from duty from November 2019 to March 2019. By making an unpleasant remarks against the state government, you failed to stand by the oath taken by you at the time of passing out that you will remain faithful to the government of superiors,” the order reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/controversial-punjab-police-dsp-sekhon-dismissed-101630439753470.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cong MLAs demand judicial probe into Karnal canecharge||Congress MLAs led by former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday met Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya and demanded a judicial probe into the Saturday lathi-charge on farmers in Karnal. Hooda alleged the lathi-charge was planned by the government. “The planning is evident from the video of an officer who is instructing cops to hit the farmers on their heads,’’ Hooda said. Commenting on the completion of 2,500 days of the BJP government, the leader of the opposition said that no new railway or metro line, university, power plant, national-level institute or a big industry was set up in the state during the BJP rule. “Both the terms of the BJP-led government have been full of failures. Then what are the celebrations for? Is the government celebrating the fact that it has made Haryana number one in unemployment, crime, drugs, scams, farmer protests and pollution? Is the government celebrating the fact that it got the farmers thrashed? ” the former chief minister said. Guv asked to return land acquisition amendment bill to assembly The Congress MLAs also submitted a memorandum to the Haryana governor asking him to return a Bill recently passed by the assembly to amend the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, to the legislative assembly for reconsideration. The Haryana amendment bill proposes to exempt certain development projects, rural infrastructure, affordable housing, industrial corridors, health and education and urban metro rail projects from the ambit of social impact assessment study and provision to safeguard food security. “This bill is anti-farmer, anti-poor and undemocratic. The bill was passed hurriedly without detailed discussion in the House,” Hooda said. Addressing a press conference, Hooda said the amendment bill was against the spirit of the Principal Act, 2013 passed by the Parliament and will hurt the interest of farmers who are already agitating against three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-mlas-demand-judicial-probe-into-karnal-canecharge-101630439695485.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU protest: Students lock gates of admin block||Students protesting over reopening of Panjab University (PU) campus and conduct of polls for the registered graduate constituency on Tuesday locked the main entrance of the varsity’s administrative block. As their stir entered 18th day, the agitators said that the university was not taking their demands seriously and the entrance of the administrative block was blocked to mount pressure on the authorities.The students have said that they will block the entrance of the administrative block unless the date of polling of the registered graduate constituency is announced. The protesters said neither any decision has been taken by PU regarding the reopening of campus for students nor any announcement was made regarding the payment of semester fee in instalments.“University should resolve the pending issues of the students on priority. Colleges in the city are reopening in a phased manner and we want that the university should also reopen the campus for students,” said Nikhil Narmeta, PU president of the NSUI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-protest-students-lock-gates-of-admin-block-101630439573599.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Banwarilal Purohit takes oath as Punjab governor||ChandigarhBanwarilal Purohit was on Tuesday sworn in as the governor of Punjab and administrator of Chandigarh, an official statement said.Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana high court Justice Ravi Shanker Jha administered the oath of office to Purohit at Punjab Raj Bhawan here, it said.Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar were present on the stage.Purohit took the oath in English.Earlier, the governor-designate arrived at the special pandal of Punjab Raj Bhawan in a ceremonial procession. He was accompanied by the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana high court.On his arrival at the Punjab Raj Bhawan, Purohit was given guard of honour by the contingent of Punjab Armed Police.He was received by Punjab assembly speaker Rana KP Singh and cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra and Manpreet Singh Badal.Dharam Pal, adviser to the administrator, along with senior officers of Chandigarh administration were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/banwarilal-purohit-takes-oath-as-punjab-governor-101630439393813.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||State reports 21 fresh Covid cases, 2 deaths||Chandigarh Punjab on Tuesday reported 21 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 6,00,614. Two Covid-related fatalities took the death toll to 16,431, according to a medical bulletin. The state’s positivity was 0.1%, the bulletin said. The number of active cases in the state has also come down to 324. Amritsar and Ludhiana reported three cases each. With 52 recoveries, the number of cured persons has reached 5,83,859, the bulletin said. A total of 1,33,83,314 have been collected for testing so far in the state. As many as 269888 doses of the vaccines were administered on Tuesday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/state-reports-21-fresh-covid-cases-2-deaths-101630439273482.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Class-11 admission: Cut-offs go up at govt schools in Chandigarh||The science stream at Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS) at Modern Housing Complex in Manimajra continued to remain the most sought-after course among the UT-run schools this year with a cut-off of 96%, as per the merit list released by the Chandigarh education department on Tuesday. According to the list, Manimajra GMSSS was followed by GMSSS in Sector 16 with 92.8% cut-off and GMSSS, Sector 35, with 91.6%. In commerce stream this year, GMSSS, Modern Housing Complex, is again topping the chart with a cut-off of 93.4% followed by GMSSS-16 (90.2%) and GMSSS-35 (87.4%).Last year too, the Modern Housing Complex school had set the highest cut-off at 94.4% for science stream and 88% for commerce. For humanities courses, GMSSS-16 has the highest cut-off at 90.6% followed by GMSSS-35 at 86.8% and GMSSS-9 at 79%. At 88.6%, the Sector-16 school had the maximum cut-off for humanities stream last year too. Among the vocational courses, information technology, web applications and media has the highest cut-off at 73.8% at GMSSS-22. Second on the list is medical diagnostics and health care course with a cut-off of 63.8% at GMSSS-32 followed by shorthand (English), office procedure and practice and business administration at GMSSS, Modern Housing Complex, whose cut-off is 62.4%.Talking about the increased cut-offs, a senior official of the UT education department said it was a result of students scoring more marks in boards this year due to the offline mode of conducting exams. As per officials, many students have also shifted from private schools to government ones this year due to the pandemic.According to the UT education department, total 17,952 students had applied for 13,555 seats and 13,158 have been given admission in the first round of counselling. Now, students will have to pay the fee by September 2. The session will commence September 4 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/class11-admission-cut-offs-go-up-at-govt-schools-in-chandigarh-101630439159323.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||After Charuni’s sulk, SKM leaders seek Khattar’s resignation, FIR against SDM||A day after Haryana farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni questioned the silence of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) over the repeated police actions against farmers in Haryana, SKM leaders on Tuesday demanded that Haryana chief minister should resign on moral grounds and FIR should be registered against Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha and police personnel involved in lathi-charge.Morcha leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Jagjit Singh Dallewal released video messages, extending their support to the farmers of Haryana. The SKM leaders also said they agreed with the demands raised by farmer union leaders of Haryana at Gharaunda mahapanchayat.“We strongly condemn the police action on farmers in Karnal, in which many farmers were injured. One of the farmers who had participated in the agitation died. We are with Haryana farmers and demand that Khattar should resign immediately and an FIR should be registered against the SDM,” said Rajewal. On Khattar’s questioning his offering a ‘laddoo’ to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh after sugarcane SAP hike, Rajewal said, “We greeted the chief minister for offering the highest sugarcane price in the country. We want to say that if an opponent does a good job we should appreciate it.”Dallewal said the farmers were protesting on the call of SKM. “All farmers of the country are with the farmers of Haryana and they should not think that they are alone in this fight against the BJP-led government in Haryana,” he said. He said morcha leaders will support the protest call of Haryana farmer unions on September 7.Charuni had made an emotional appeal to the SKM leaders and demanded their support for Haryana farmers. Charuni had also said that the farmers of Haryana can continue their fight if the SKM leaders did not extend support.“We are fed-up with the police action on farmers in Haryana. Morcha leaders are not moving a step,” Charuni had said, adding that he will unite all farmer union leaders from Haryana to raise this issue with the SKM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-charuni-s-sulk-skm-leaders-seek-khattar-s-resignation-fir-against-sdm-101630439158210.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||15 years on, Chandigarh woman booked for cheating||A Sector-38 woman has been booked for fraudulently withdrawing ₹1.6 lakh from the account of her namesake after 15 years, police said on Tuesday. In his complaint, Avtar Singh, manager of State Bank of India’s Sector-38 branch accused Anuradha of cheating. He alleged that Anuradha impersonated the original holder of a special term deposit account (STDR), who was her namesake. The account had ₹1.16 lakh. The woman had told the bank that her receipt had got misplaced and got a duplicate STDR issued in her name. The accused then transferred the amount in her savings account on August 24, 2006, by withdrawing the money prematurely. The FIR had been registered on the directions of a court under Section 420 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15-years-on-chandigarh-woman-booked-for-cheating-101630439033620.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Prostitution racket: 3 booked after minor escapes in Mohali||Three persons, including a woman, have been booked on the complaint of a 17-year-old girl, who alleged that she was held captive, raped and forced into prostitution, Balongi police said on Tuesday evening. Superintendent of police (rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said, “The girl was brought to the Balongi police station by two taxi drivers who found her crying on the roadside near a mall.” The victim told the police that she was forced into prostitution by a woman, who had called her from Moga on the pretext of admitting her to a dance troupe. “We have booked the three persons following the statement of the girl. We have also got her medical examination conducted. Further investigations are on,” the SP said, adding that the girl was locked in a flat where she was raped by multiple men. The FIR against the trio has been registered under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prostitution-racket-3-booked-after-minor-escapes-in-mohali-101630438853416.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Govt staff without vax or test report barred from entering offices||Several UT departments on Tuesday barred their employees who couldn’t produce either their vaccination certificate (at least one dose) or a negative RTPCR report (not older than 72 hours) from entering into offices. Among such offices were those of Chandigarh Housing Board, UT estate office and departments at the secretariat. A similar order was enforced for the visitors as well.Covid norms: CTU warns violators of disciplinary actionAfter finding several bus crew members without masks while performing their duties, the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) on Tuesday warned them of disciplinary action. Many staffers were found flouting Covid safety norms through CCTV cameras and conductors were not ensuring that passengers wore masks while boarding and travelling in the buses, CTU general manager observed in his orders. “It is highly uncalled for keeping in view administration’s guidelines in this regard. All crew members are directed to strictly ensure the compliance with safety guidelines by them as well as commuters immediately,” the order stated. A task force has also been constituted to ensure strict adherence to the guidelines and instructions issued by the administration on Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhgovt-staff-without-vax-or-test-report-barred-from-entering-offices-101630438793402.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two snatchers held in Manimajra||Two men who snatched a mobile phone in Manimajra on Sunday have been arrested within two days. They have been identified as Parminder Singh of Dhakoli and Kamal of Churian Wala Mohalla in Manimajra. Both are aged 26. Police said they are unemployed and took to crime to fund their drug addiction. Parminder is also facing theft charges in Ambala and was presently out on bail. The two were on a bike when they targeted a Darshani Baag resident sitting with a friend outside Shivalik Garden in Manimajra. Police have recovered the snatched mobile phone and the motorcycle used in crime. The duo was produced in court on Tuesday and sent to judicial custody. Meanwhile, police have registered another case of snatching against two men who struck in Sector 18 the same night. The complainant, Gagan Deep Gautam of Kishangarh village, told police that a man snatched his mobile phone and fled with his accomplice, who was waiting at a distance on a bike near the Sector 7/8/18/19 roundabout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-two-snatchers-held-in-manimajra-101630438733376.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Fake TTE caught at Ambala Cantt got the idea from Kanpur gang||Almost a week after a Bihar-man, Pankaj Kumar, was arrested by the Government Railway Police (GRP) for allegedly posing as a travelling ticket examiner (TTE), the investigators have established that he was the mastermind of a gang and was inspired by another gang of fake TTEs from Kanpur.The Kanpur gang was busted in June at Kanpur Central Railway Station in Uttar Pradesh, where 16 men were arrested for possessing fake railway ID cards.“Pankaj, too, started working on the idea in June during his stay in Patna. He read about the Kanpur gang online and downloaded apps to prepare designs for fake ID cards,” said sub-inspector Vilayati Ram, station in-charge, GRP Ambala Cantonment.Civil engineer with cyber knowledgeAccording to the police, Pankaj, 23, completed his civil engineering from a college in Patna and to execute his plan, he came to Chandigarh in August.The SHO said, “He has good cyber knowledge. In Chandigarh, he met an old friend, Jyoti Prakash, 22, who works in a private company in Baddi. The duo had taken some coaching together in Bihar.”On August 23, Pankaj was arrested from Ambala Cantt Railway Station with fake ID card and other documents after several passengers of Kalka-Howrah mail express had complained about a group boarding the train from Chandigarh station in full uniform who appeared to be fake.He was sent to seven-day police remand and during interrogation, he revealed about the involvement of Prakash, who was also arrested and sent to judicial custody on August 26. On Tuesday, Pankaj was presented before a railway court and sent to judicial custody.Police claimed that they had also recovered a printer and other documents from a village in Panchkula on the Himachal border.He is a minor: familyMeanwhile, speaking to Hindustan Times, Kumar’s father pleaded his son’s innocence and claimed that he was a minor. Their counsel Kamal Jassi said that his school documents with his date of birth had been submitted before the court. The SHO said the details will be verified from his school as and when received.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fake-tte-caught-at-ambala-cantt-got-the-idea-from-kanpur-gang-101630438673460.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Infant rescued, woman kidnapper held||A woman, who had kidnapped a balloon seller’s 5-month-old baby, was arrested near a government school in Maloya, the police said on Tuesday.The accused, identified as Pooja, does not have a permanent address. She had kidnapped the child from ISBT, Sector 43, and taken it to Ludhiana. When she had returned to the city, she was arrested.Police said that Pooja was already named as an accused in a theft case registered in Sohana, Mohali, and was also arrested once, but later bailed out.The child was rescued and handed over to the parents. Pooja was produced before a court and remanded to two-day police custody.Family stays at ISBTIn her complaint, the baby’s mother, who stays with her husband and three sons at ISBT, said that on the intervening night of August 28/29, Pooja had stayed with them. Next morning, she had gone missing with her youngest son with the intention to sell him, the mother added.A case under Sections 365 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 81 of the Juvenile Justice Act was registered.Accused has no permanent homePolice said that during preliminary questioning it came to fore that accused Pooja is a wanderer with no permanent address. The police said that she was earlier married to one Anil of Tin Colony, Sector 52, who now lived at EWS Colony, Maloya. The couple had a son, but later they had separated. After separation, she had started living with an autorickshaw driver, Prince, of Phase 11, Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-infant-rescued-woman-kidnapper-held-101630438493332.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: At new MC chief’s first House meet, councillors pick holes in working||The first General House meeting under the new commissioner of the municipal corporation (MC), Anindita Mitra, saw councillors listing a host of complaints and grievances against MC officials.From non-responsiveness of the officials to administration not approving resolutions, grievances going back to the period before Mitra’s joining were listed. Mitra took over the charge of MC commissioner a week back on August 23.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali took up the issue of tree felling: “We make endless efforts to plant trees and turn the city green. But the officials either turn a blind eye to the cutting of trees or make it a trivial issue. For the last four months, I have been taking up the issue of registering an FIR regarding removal of a tree in Industrial Area, Phase 1. Instead, the horticulture wing filed a missing report.”Councillors also complained that officials didn’t even register police complaints when MC property was stolen from parks/gardens.‘Councillors left out from decision-making’On the issue of street vendors, BJP city chief and councillor Arun Sood said, “Even after the MC House passed a resolution to make councillors members in the town vending committee, it was ignored. Sitting in their AC rooms they have made arbitrary decisions regarding the livelihood of residents.”Sood also alleged that MC officials were sending incorrect and inflated garbage collection bills in a bid to harm BJP’s electoral chances in the coming elections.Senior deputy mayor and BJP councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said residents had to run pillar to post for getting clearances from different MC departments. He demanded that a single-window system should be established.Responding to Sidhu’s request, Mitra said, “There should be a single window system for clearances. It should be the responsibility of the MC officials and not the residents.”Mitra also assured the House that all the lacunas in the working of the MC will be addressed. On several grievances, Mitra would be submitting a report on action taken, she added.OTHER DECISIONSSmart parking lots: A meeting with parking lot contractors has been called. “I will be submitting a report before the House on the action taken and if any penalties are imposed,” said the commissioner. Floating solar plant at Sector-39 waterworks: Councillors questioned how CREST had reached the costing of the plant. They also asked under what scheme the CREST was offering to install the plant free of cost. House sought a presentation from CREST before okaying proposal.The House cleared ₹58.93 lakh for development of a green belt around judges’ houses in Sector 10A.Payment of salaries to 179 employees whose salaries were stopped due to objections raised by an audit also approved. On the agenda of approving monthly licence fee of the bank located in MC office, the House was informed that since 2017, the bank had been operating without a formal agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhat-new-mc-chief-s-first-house-meet-councillors-pick-holes-in-working-101630438438570.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s virus trajectory hits new lows in August||Chandigarh The coronavirus infection trajectory in Haryana has continued a downward journey for 14 successive weeks. The deadly second wave of virus transmission during a six-week period in April and May had resulted in over 4.21 lakh infections and over 4,200 fatalities. The decline in the infection spread, which started in the second week of May, has continued since then. The state registered a record low of 109 infections last week (Aug 23-29) surpassing the previous weekly low of 129 two weeks ago (Aug 9-15). As per the health department statistics, the number of persons infected with the virus was 137 in the first week (Aug 2-8), 129 (Aug 9-15), 139 (Aug 16-22) and 109 (Aug 23-29). Also, the number of fatalities in August came down drastically to 36 as compared to 144 in July. Data showed that there are 10 districts which have 10 or less active cases and six districts which have 50 or more active cases. The total number of active cases across 22 districts is less than 640 and the cumulative positivity rate was 6.60%. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said though the infection transmission rate is consistently decreasing, there was no room for complacency. Health department statistics showed that the virus took 249 days to hit peak in November 2020 during the first wave. However, it took just 93 days to reach the peak during the second wave this May. Health officials said the decline in infection rate will eventually come to a halt due to easing of lockdown restrictions and the upcoming festival season. Officials said that 1.63 crore vaccine doses including 1.22 crore first doses have been administered so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-virus-trajectory-hits-new-lows-in-august-101630438437360.html
01-09-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad HC to look into state funding of religious institutions like madarsas||The Allahabad high court will consider various issues regarding the state funding of religious educational institutions like madarasas, especially whether the state funding to madrasas and other religious institutions is consistent with the Indian Constitution’s secular scheme.Hearing the writ petition filed by Madarsa Anjuman Islamia Faizul Uloom and another, Justice Ajay Bhanot directed the state government to file its reply (counter affidavit) within four weeks bringing on record the syllabi/courses, conditions and standards of recognition, including the requirement for playgrounds, at the madrasas and all other religious institutions which are recognized or aided by the state government.The bench of Justice Ajay Bhanot was hearing the plea of a madarsa duly recognised by the Madarsa Board and aided by the state government. In its plea, the madarsa sought the creation of additional posts of teachers in view of an increasing number of students.The court passed these directives on August 19 and it came into the public domain on Tuesday. The court directed to put up this case on October 6, 2021, for the next hearing. The court will also consider whether government funding of religious minorities institutions which impart religious education implements the constitutional protection afforded to all religious faiths, especially religious minorities in the country, with reference to provisions of the Constitution from Articles 25 to 30 (right to freedom of religion).Also, it will consider whether the institutions which impart knowledge in diverse fields and include courses in theological learning come within the ambit of the phrase “religious instruction or religious worship” or only schools which exclusively impart religious education come within the ambit of Article 28 of the Constitution of India.Besides, the court will consider as to whether other religious minorities are also provided government aid for running theological schools.Lastly, the court will also consider as to whether there is a prohibition against women from applying as students in religious schools and, if so, whether such bar is an act of discrimination prohibited by the Indian Constitution.Article 28 (1) of the Constitution provides that no religious instruction shall be provided in any educational institution wholly maintained out of the state funds.“Further it shall be disclosed whether madrasas so recognized and aided also admit girl students. The state government shall also indicate in its affidavit the details of various other boards of education and institutions imparting theological education of other religious sects,” the court further directed the state to disclose in its affidavit.Reporter: Jitendra SarinMob No:9651737686||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-hc-to-look-into-state-funding-of-religious-institutions-like-madarsas-101630438314832.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||SC puts Centre, Chandigarh admn on notice on private schools’ plea||The Centre and UT administration have been put on notice by the Supreme Court, after the Independent School Association, Chandigarh, filed a petition against the Punjab and Haryana high court’s ruling on uploading of balance sheets online. The apex court heard the matter on August 27, and has sought a reply on the issue from the government within three weeks. Earlier this year, the UT education department had issued show-cause notices to private schools, warning of penalties for not uploading balance sheets for the last financial year. The Independent School Association, which represents around 78 schools in the tricity, had then approached the high court against the notices and constitution of a fee regulatory authority. They reasoned that uploading balance sheets would violate their right to privacy and would also make it difficult to run schools.However, the bench of justices Jaswant Singh and Sant Parkash had ruled against the schools. “Since the field of education is a charitable occupation, we do not find any reason to hold that uploading of the financial statements... will breach the right to privacy,” the 107-page judgment noted. Following this, on August 19, the education department had written to all schools to upload their balance sheets within two months or face action.“There are a few constitutional irregularities in the ruling, which we have pointed out in the petition to the Supreme Court,” said HS Mamik, president of Independent School Association.Meanwhile, senior officials of the education department maintained that they are just enforcing the high court’s directions. An official, who did not wish to be named, said that failure to upload balance sheets will invite action under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, as extended to the UT and adopted in 2018. “Such schools can also be held in contempt of court,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-puts-centre-chandigarh-admn-on-notice-on-private-schools-plea-101630438258560.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Honour killing cases: HC orders high-level panels to monitor probes||The high court on Tuesday ordered constitution of a high-level government panels to monitor probes into honour killing cases in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The two states and UT have been directed to appoint committees consisting of home secretary, finance secretary, additional director general of police, legal remembrancer and member secretary, state legal services authorities at the state level to examine within one month the issue of compliance of Supreme Court and high court orders in honour killing cases. The report thus prepared and recommendations made within three months would be submitted to respective governments to take a policy-based action for implementing the recommendations. The committee will also periodically monitor the issue of compliance of directions from the apex court and high court. The order was passed by the bench of justice Arun Kumar Tyagi in a 2018 case of alleged honour killing in Fatehabad. The matter came in high court in 2020 when one of the accused had sought bail. The facts of the case revealed violations of court orders in this case and laxity and carelessness on the part of police in dealing with it. While dealing with the issue, justice Tyagi had sought reports from Punjab and Chandigarh too. It found similar violations there as well. The high court has also directed the director generals of police (DGP) to create a special cell in each district to prepare database in respect of couples who approach high court or the district courts for protection. The police will also establish a 24 hour helpline. The DGPs have further been directed to issue instructions to the field officers for ensuring that in case of reporting of any violence against inter-caste or inter-religion marriage or honour killing, an FIR is immediately registered, intimation is simultaneously given to the DSP concerned, who would ensure effective investigation within three months. Further, immediate steps would be taken to provide security to the couple/family for which they can be given safe house within the same district or elsewhere. “Any failure by any police officer/official to comply with the aforesaid directions be considered as an act of misconduct for which departmental action be taken under the service rules,” the judge ordered. For expediting trials all sessions judges have been directed to ensure that cases of honour killing are assigned to the designated court/fast track court to ensure expeditious disposal of such cases within six months as directed by Supreme Court. This direction would apply even to pending cases, the court ordered, adding that courts would conduct trial on day-to-day basis and coercive process should be taken to secure presence of the witnesses, if required. In cases where the trial is not concluded within six months, the court concerned would submit the progress report to high court seeking extension. As of state legal services authorities they have been ordered to prepare a scheme for providing legal aid to couples seeking protection and complainant of such marriages. Steps be taken for award of appropriate compensation to the victims of inter caste/inter religion marriage and dependants/legal heirs of victims of honour killing under the Victim Compensation Scheme, it ordered. The court also directed Haryana state legal services authority to take steps for award of compensation to legal heirs of Fatehabad resident who was killed in an alleged case of honour killing, within three months. The DGP has been directed to get an inquiry conducted and direct departmental action against the defaulting police officers. The court also ordered that the order passed be sent to all concerned in both the states and the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/honour-killing-cases-hc-orders-high-level-panels-to-monitor-probes-101630438257377.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Now, Sidhu questions Punjab govt on ‘inaction’ in drug peddling cases||ChandigarhPunjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday questioned his own government on the “inaction” against those involved in drug peddling.In a statement, Sidhu said numerous tormented mothers, who had lost their children due to the drug menace spread across the state, and people were waiting for the report of the special task force (STF) on former Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia. In February 2018, the STF filed a status report in the Punjab and Haryana high court. Later, the government filed before the court an opinion-cum-status report, and the matter is still in the court, he said. The STF report on Majithia in the ₹6,000-crore Bhola drug racket is likely to be opened by a division bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court on September 2.Questioning the government’s “inaction”, Sidhu said that despite the court’s directions, nothing had done to extradite the 13 drug smugglers back to India, who peddled drugs into Punjab and smuggled drugs to some countries. “These drug smugglers operated under the cover of government security using VIP vehicles,” he alleged.Sidhu said even a common man could sense why these drug smugglers had not been extradited for the past five years. “Because had they been brought to book, they would have spilled the beans and exposed the unholy nexus of drug peddlers and politicians,” he added.He claimed that the money exchanged with Amritsar-based businessman Jagjit Singh Chahal and statements by Bhola and Majithia’s former election agent Maninder Singh, alias Bittu Aulakh, are proof of the former minister’s involvement in the case.“What are we hiding? Why no action? Why no transparency? Why this delay?” Sidhu questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-sidhu-questions-punjab-govt-on-inaction-in-drug-peddling-cases-101630438193440.html
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Terror plot foiled, man held with 2 grenades in Tarn Taran||Punjab Police recovered two hand-grenades from a man while patrolling Kakka Kandiala village, 4km from Tarn Taran, on Janmashtami night. The accused, Saroop Singh of Johal Dhai Wala village in Goindwal Sahib sub-division, was arrested by a team led by Tarn Taran city station house officer (SHO) Jaswant Singh around 11pm on Monday. Saroop, who was a highly radicalised operative, had been linked with a foreign-based terror entity, said police, adding that their vigil has thwarted another possible terrorist attack in the border state.The team intercepted Saroop, who was riding a motorcycle, near the village and searched him on suspicion, leading to the recovery of the two hand-grenades, a mobile phone, an Aadhaar card and a driving licence. “On the occasion of Krishna Janmashtami, we had increased vigil that led to the arrest,” said a senior police official, requesting anonymity. Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said that during preliminary investigations, Saroop has revealed that he came in contact with foreign-based terror handlers over social media and was further radicalised, cultivated by them and motivated to carry out terror acts in Punjab.Saroop further disclosed that his foreign based-handlers had arranged a consignment of two hand grenades for him, said the DGP, adding that the accused had already conducted recce of a few sensitive targets in Amritsar and Ludhiana. A training video sent by his foreign handlers explaining how to successfully explode a hand-grenade has also been recovered from the mobile phone of the accused, he said.The DGP said preliminary investigations suggest that all these consignments are being sent from across the border by terror organisations for carrying out strikes in Punjab.A case under Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Explosives Substances (Amendment) Act has been registered against the accused at the Tarn Taran city police station.The development came at a time when Punjab has been witnessing huge influx of grenades and RDX-laden tiffin boxes, besides recovery of arms and ammunition, signalling major attempts being made by foreign-based terrorists to disturb peace in the border state.On August 8, the Amritsar rural police had recovered five hand-grenades, along with a tiffin bomb from Daleke village in Lopoke. The state special operation cell, Amritsar, had on August 16 recovered two hand-grenades of the same make besides other weapons from Amritpal Singh and Shammi. Similarly, the Kapurthala police also recovered two hand-grenades, a tiffin bomb and other explosive material from Gurmukh Singh Brar and his associate from Phagwara on August 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/terror-plot-foiled-man-held-with-2-grenades-in-tarn-taran-101630438074568.html
01-09-2021||Other||BEST to introduce 27 new bus routes in Mumbai from today||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) will be introducing 27 new bus routes in the city from Wednesday. The bus routes have been modified keeping in mind the change in the commuting pattern of passengers throughout the pandemic. The organisation will be focusing more on operating buses on feeder routes. The buses will be operated mostly from suburban railway stations connecting other nearby areas. The organisation has stated that the new routes will improve frequency.With the new routes, BEST is also expecting to increase its passengers as the organisation would introduce mini buses on feeder routes outside suburban railway stations.“The new routes will enable passengers to travel swiftly to their destinations. There will also be better frequency of buses on the new routes. Focus is given to feeder routes that can connect easily,” said a senior BEST official.On an average, nearly 2.4 million passengers travel by BEST buses daily.As local train services resumed on Independence Day for fully-vaccinated passengers, BEST witnessed a 1.8 million drop in its passenger count by between August 15 and August 23. Between August 9 and August 13, nearly 11.8 million passengers commuted by the BEST buses in the city. Between August 15 and August 23, nearly 10 million passengers travelled by BEST buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/best-to-introduce-27-new-bus-routes-in-mumbai-from-today-101630438073433.html
