02-09-2021||Noida||Rainwater enters homes, agitated residents block Delhi-Meerut Road||A group of about 200 residents from Patel Nagar 2 and Valmiki Kunj localities staged a protest at the busy Meerut tri-junction on Thursday morning, affecting the movement of traffic on the Delhi-Meerut Road for nearly two hours. The protesters were demanding redressal of issues related to waterlogging, as they said that rainwater enters their houses every time there is a heavy rainfall. Police officials said that they had to divert traffic through alternative routes to avoid a major jam at the tri-junction. The two localities are located adjacent to the Delhi-Meerut Road which witnesses the movement of about 120,000 passenger car units a day. The median of the road is being used by the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) for developing the regional rapid transit system (RRTS) project. The residents said that their localities are affected since last year when the RRTS project has started. “It is due to the construction activities that the drain outside our localities overflows and the rainwater enters our homes whenever it rains heavily. Rainwater has entered my house several times this season. On Thursday, it rained around 7am and the water inside my house was there till 5pm,” said Charanjeet Singh, a resident of Patel Nagar 2. “We cannot even flush out water as all the lanes and roads get waterlogged after the rainfall,” he added. Mahender Singh, a resident of Valmiki Kunj, said that dozens of houses in the locality have similar problems. “I also face similar issues. Our ration items get spoiled with water. The conditions are pathetic. We have made several complaints to the municipal corporation officials, but nothing has been done so far,” he said. Another resident Mahesh Kumar Singh said that women residents also participated in the protest. “There was no other option but to protest as people have suffered time and again during this monsoon season. It is because of construction activities of the project that the waterlogging issues have resulted with greater intensity. It takes hours for water to recede,” he said. Police officials said that around 200 people gathered at the Meerut tri-junction and protested against the waterlogging in their areas. “We had to diver the traffic. The diversion on Delhi-Meerut Road was done through ALT Centre Road and Raj Nagar Extension. The jam, which resulted due to the protest, was cleared after about one and half hours,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic).Officials of NCRTC said that the intensity of rain is higher this season and the two localities are in low-lying areas. “NCRTC is constructing an elevated RRTS station at Meerut tri-junction where a stormwater drain is passing. In order to maintain the flow of this drain, a pipe of the same width has been inserted, which discharges the water as per the drainage system of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation,” an NCRTC official said in a statement. The statement also said that NCRTC continuously runs two dewatering pumps to take out extra water from the drain located near the project site. Pramod Kumar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Our team of engineers has visited the affected localities. They have assessed the problems and will be taking up rectification measures for waterlogging.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rainwater-enters-homes-agitated-residents-block-delhi-meerut-road-101630607293519.html
02-09-2021||Noida||UP govt forms SIT to probe Emerald Court case||NOIDA: The Noida authority, in a report, has shared details of at least six officials involved in the process of sanctioning maps of twin towers -- Apex and Ceyane -- of Supertech’s Emerald Court project in Sector 93B, said officials on Thursday. Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government formed a special investigation team on Thursday to investigate the involvement of top officials of the authority in the same.The government has suspended a manager in the planning department of the Noida authority in connection with the twin tower case, officials said. “Mukesh Goyal, manager in the planning department, was nominated to attend the Supreme Court hearings in the Emerald Court case. But he did not bring important facts to the notice of senior officers of the Noida authority,” said a senior authority official.The move comes two days after the Supreme Court directed demolition of the twin towers within three months and ordered prosecution of officials of the Noida authority for commissioning violations of the National Building Regulation 2005, 2006 and 2020, while approving maps of these towers in violation of the building bylaws 2010.Senior officials of the Noida authority said that they have sent a report comprising the details of those posted there when the building map was sanctioned. The names include the then chief architect and town planner, additional chief executive officer, and several others. Now, the four-member SIT, headed by Uttar Pradesh industrial development commissioner (IDC) Sanjeev Mittal, will probe the role of the officials to fix responsibility in the matter -- which is a major jolt to the realty sector.“The Noida authority has sent a report in this matter. The SIT, headed by the industrial development commissioner, will investigate the matter and do the needful. The government will issue a notification in this regard soon,” said Arvind Kumar, additional chief secretary, infrastructure and industrial department (IDD) in Uttar Pradesh.The SIT team will also have additional chief secretary (revenue) Manoj Singh, ADG (police) Rajeev Sabharwal, and Uttar Pradesh’s chief town and rural planner Anup Kumar. The state government has given a week’s time to the team to submit the report.Meanwhile, the Supertech Group said, “We will comply with the honourable Supreme Court’s order, and we may use the legal options available.”Residents of the Emerald Court said that they are hoping that the Noida authority will exercise due care during the demolition drive, and it would not impact nearby buildings. “We have requested the Noida authority to carry out the demolition drive in a manner that it does not affect the safety of the nearby buildings where people are already residing,” said UB Singh Teotia, petitioner in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-govt-forms-sit-to-probe-emerald-court-case-101630607234875.html
02-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad electrocution: CCTV footage shows 5 died in span of 75 seconds||The street number 3 at Ghaziabad’s Rakesh Marg area was abuzz with activity on Thursday as residents and even families of the victims were able to get hold of the CCTV footage, which shows the five people, who were electrocuted on Wednesday, falling into the waterlogged lane in front of the shop one after another within 75 seconds.  The CCTV footage, which was accessed by HT, shows the entire incident spanning from 9.49am to 9.50am and 15 seconds more on Wednesday. “The footage is now available with everyone and even our families. Seeing our loved ones die one by one is painful. The footage shows Simran Kumari (11), who is one of my distant relatives, holding my four-year-old niece Surbhi in her arms and going to a shop. It was raining then... As Simran reached the shop, the two can be seen falling to the ground...,” said Surbhi’s uncle Vipin Rawat. Eventually, the footage shows Laxmi Narayan (24) running out of his house to save the girls but he too fell the moment he touched the girls. “In between, one of the girls, Khushi Kumari aged 10, was also electrocuted. Though she is directly not visible in the CCTV footage, she was probably at the shop. After Laxmi Narayan fell, his neighbour Deepak Kumar rushed to the shop and started fighting with the shopkeeper. As the commotion increased, my aunt Jaanki rushed to the shop and fell down after she was electrocuted,” said Rawat adding that Jaanki had no children of her own and was raising Surbhi like her own daughter. “Surbhi is one of my aunt’s relative’s child. My aunt loved Surbhi so much that she ran to save her but in the process, lost her own life,” said Rawat. Simran’s mother Krishna Devi was in tears when she came to know about the footage. “I cannot say much as I have lost my eldest daughter to something, which could have been easily avoided. Initially, those who went to save the girls did not anticipate that electric current was flowing through...they probably thought the kids lost balance and slipped on the flooded lane,” she said. Ghaziabad MP General (retired) V K Singh, along with officials from the district administration, visited the locality on Thursday morning and handed over cheques of ₹2 lakh each to the families of the victims. “I requested the officials not to offer compensation but provide some employment and education opportunities to the families of the victims. My son died while trying to save the girls, now his two minor children and wife face a bleak future,” said Laxmi’s father Badri Narayan. Laxmi became a father to a son a month ago and also has a one-and-a-half year old daughter. Residents said the cremation of the victims was completed late Wednesday night. “Families collected the ashes from the cremation ground, which will now be taken to the native places of the victims,” said Badri. Officials from the district administration said a committee has been instituted to probe the case. Members of the committee inspected the incident spot on Thursday and also spoke to locals. The inquiry report is likely to be submitted within a day or two, said officials. “Proper action will be taken against erring persons and an FIR will also be registered. The cheques bearing a compensation of ₹2 lakh were handed over to the victims’ families. We are also trying to aid them with benefits under government schemes,” said Shailendra Kumar Singh, additional district magistrate (city) who is heading the inquiry. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday took cognisance of the incident and directed that an inquiry be done and also announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh for each of the victims’ families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-electrocution-cctv-footage-shows-5-died-in-span-of-75-seconds-101630607053440.html
02-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad electrocution: More residents say they had warned the shop owner||The death of the five people, including three minor girls, due to electrocution on Wednesday could have been averted had the shopkeeper of the grocery store in ‘gali number 3’ at Rakesh Marg paid heed to the warnings of two residents who sustained an electric shock, when they touched the iron poles holding the newly erected shed at the shop, an hour before the incident. Residents said they had warned the shopkeeper even on Tuesday, when the shed was put in place to protect shoppers from rain, when they spotted some spark near a bulb hanging over the shed. Three minor girls--Shubhi alias Surbhi Paswan (4), Khushi Kumari (10) and Simran Kumari (11), were electrocuted while two others--Laxmi Narayan (24) and Shubhi’s mother Jaanki (35)--who tried to save them, also died at a grocery store in Ghaziabad’s Rakesh Marg locality on Wednesday morning. The owner of the shop, Sushil Kumar, is still at large, said police. On Thursday, Rita Paswan, a resident of gali number 3, said she suffered an electric shock when she came in contact with iron poles supporting the shed of the shop. “It was about 8:30am when I was going to work. There was little flooding outside the shop. I touched the iron pole for support to wade through water. I got an electric shock and lost my balance. Though it was raining, there wasn’t much waterlogging there, reason why I probably got saved,” she said. Rita immediately brought the matter to the attention of the shop owner. “He took the matter lightly and did not pay heed to my warning,” she said. Rita’s husband Yogesh Paswan said that an hour later, he got a call from his neighbour who informed him about the five who died of electrocution. “Had the shopkeeper not ignored my wife’s warning, the five people would have been saved. My wife is still having a pain on her right hand and veins have turned blue as a result of the electric shock she received,” he added. Sri Narayan Mahto, a 35-year-old resident of the area, complained that he too sustained an electric shock when he touched the iron pole around 8am. “I am a tenant at the same house where the shop is located. The shop owner ignored what I said and went on with his work. He should have closed his shop and raised a complaint with the electricity department,” said Mahto. Sunil Pandit, a tenant in the same house where the shop is located, said he had heard Rita arguing with the shop owner after she sustained an electric shock about an hour before the line of electrocutions. “The shop owner did not pay attention to her complaint. Instead, he had earphones plugged on and was listening to music,” said Pandit. On Wednesday, Lal Singh, a nearby shop owner, told HT that he and his tenants saw sparks from a bulb hanging from the shed. “The shop owner got the iron poles tested with a tester and told us there was no issue of electric current passing through,” said Singh. As per footage obtained from the CCTV cameras installed near the incident spot, it was around 9.49am on Wednesday when the victims, one by one, got electrocuted and eventually died. During a visit to the area on Thursday, HT found a bunch of snapped electric cables with open joints, with no insulation electric tapes around them, lying near the shop. The cable was drawn from the main electricity line and connected to the two electricity metres installed at the house where the shop is located. “Officials from the electricity department snapped the cables as they were passing adjacent to the shed. It has an open joint, indicating that it was probably used for providing illegal connection and passed on electric current to the newly erected shed. The shop owner ignored warnings time and again and now everyone is demanding an FIR be lodged against him. Had he acted, five deaths could have been averted,” said Badri Narayan, Laxmi Narayan’s father. Pankaj Srivastava, chief engineer of Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), said the cables were snapped after they received a complaint on Wednesday. “It is the consumer who pays for the cable. It has come to light that residents warned the shop owner but he did not lodge any complaint with us. As regards the open joint, it may be possible that the cable got cut while erecting the shed,” said Srivastava. Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city), said so far, no FIR has been lodged in the case. “The victims’ families are busy performing the last rites. Further, a report is awaited on the inquiry initiated by the district magistrate. Once the reason is established, responsibility will be fixed before an FIR is registered. Sushil Kumar, the shop owner, is yet to be traced,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-electrocution-more-residents-say-they-had-warned-the-shop-owner-101630606994603.html
02-09-2021||Noida||GB Nagar restaurateurs stare at losses after home deliveries banned during night curfew||Following the murder of a Greater Noida restaurant owner, the Gautam Budh Nagar police late on Wednesday night issued an order banning deliveries and takeaways during the night curfew hours between 10pm and 6am. The move, restauranteurs said, would affect their business that is just recovering from the impact of Covid-19.Thirty-eight-year-old Sunil Agarwal was shot dead outside his restaurant around midnight allegedly while attempting to solve an issue between his staff and delivery agents associated with an online food delivery service. Police said that they had arrested three suspects in the case and added that they were not linked to either the restaurant or the delivery agents.The Uttar Pradesh government imposed the night curfew in the state from April 15 when the second wave of Covid-19 infections gripped the country. It did not specify whether eateries were allowed to deliver food either by themselves or through online delivery partners during that time unlike last year when, during the first wave in March, these were considered “essential” along with state and health services.“During night curfew, all types of services are completely banned across the state except health related, emergency or essential services. There will also be a ban on take home services from eateries during night curfew,” read an official statement from the Gautam Budh Nagar Police Commissionerate on Wednesday night.Police commissioner Alok Singh said home deliveries were considered as “essential services” only during the first wave last year when restaurants and hotels were not allowed to open for dine-in customers. “Now that restaurants and hotels are open through the day, food deliveries will not be considered essential services during the night curfew,” he said. Restaurateurs say their revenues will be affected by the decision. “Since the lockdown in 2020, food deliveries were considered essential. All through the Covid curfew this year too, food deliveries have been going on without a hitch and became the only source of income for restaurants in the district. Almost 70% of the home delivery orders come after 8-9 pm and go on till 11pm to 1 am. If this is taken away from us, we will not be able to survive,” said Varun Khera, President of National Restaurants Association of India (Noida Chapter). Devendra Awana, owner of Swagath restaurant in Sector 104 said that he was barely able to break even and pay his employees these days.“Although our restaurant is known for our dine-in service, we began to deliver more after the Covid pandemic and now it has become a major source of our revenue. There are barely any lunch orders and home deliveries during dinner time, which starts at 9pm and goes on till midnight, sustained us. If this is also taken away from us, we may have to shut down,” he said.Some residents say that the time restrictions on home deliveries of food do not gel with lifestyle of people living in the city. “All of my friends in Noida also work in the corporate and IT sector and none of us eat dinner before 10 pm. Moreover, after working all day, we do not have the energy to cook food and hence ordering take out late night has become a part of our lifestyle,” said Prakhar Mathur, a resident of Sector 77. Mohit Bhardwaj, owner of Asian Empire restaurant in Sector 76 said that his regular customers comprise of those working in corporate and IT sector who order food late into the night till about 1 am. “The lifestyle of those in corporate and IT sector is such that they have their dinner only after 11 pm and some who work at night shifts also order food from us at 1 am. If we shut out operations at 10 pm, that means we cannot take any order after 9-9.15 pm. In Sector 76 alone, there are at least 10 more such eateries like ours who have at least a hundred customers in nearby high rises and this move will affect them all,” he said. Khera said that he will take up the matter with the police officials on behalf of the restaurateurs in GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-restaurateurs-stare-at-losses-after-home-deliveries-banned-during-night-curfew-101630606815564.html
02-09-2021||Noida||GB Nagar pandemic grievance panel orders action against private hospital||A panel set up to look into grievances against Gautam Budh Nagar private hospitals during the second wave of Covid-19 on Thursday ordered the district chief medical officer (CMO) to act against Prayag Hospital in Sector 41 for administering 11 vials of remdesivir to a woman in violation of protocol. The patient later died.The hospital denied the allegations and said they will challenge the ruling.The complaint was filed by the patient’s son on July 12. According to the complaint, the woman was admitted on April 17 with a severe case of Covid-19 and passed away on May 21. “As per the complainant, the hospital prescribed the patient 11 vials of Remdesivir drug. However, as per protocols set by the Director General Medical and Health Services, Uttar Pradesh, the number of vials prescribed to a Covid patient cannot be more than six. The complainant at the time had to pay an exorbitant amount to source the vials to save his mother,” said civil judge Sushil Kumar, who is the president of Pandemic Public Grievance Committee (PPGC). The committee had sent a notice to the hospital management on July 16 seeking its reply. “A representative from the hospital denied the allegations and said that it did not prescribe 11 vials to the patient but an investigation into the bills charged by the hospital found that it [the allegation] was true. Hence, the CMO of the district has been instructed to take legal action under the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act and under the rules of medical council of India, and inform the PPGC committee within 15 days,” said Kumar. He added that the patient was charged ₹7 lakh by the hospital that was paid immediately. CMO Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma said, “The district health department will inquire into the matter and take action accordingly”. An official from Prayag Hospital said, “The allegations are completely baseless. The hospital never prescribed 11 vials of remdesivir to the patient. We will challenge the decision of the committee”. The PPGC was set up on May 21 this year after the Allahabad high court on May 11 directed the Uttar Pradesh government to set up a three-member committee in each district to look into complaints regarding difficulties faced by the public in getting Covid treatment at government and private hospitals. Officials said it has heard over 100 complaints from the public so far and ruled against several hospitals till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-pandemic-grievance-panel-orders-action-against-private-hospital-101630606754006.html
02-09-2021||Noida||Discom to launch Scada system for real-time monitoring of power distribution in Noida||For real time monitoring of power distribution in Noida, the power distribution company (discom) – Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) – will launch a supervisory control and data acquisition (Scada) system on the network soon. The system can detect the exact location of faults along the network and help reduce the outage time, said discom officials.Scada is deployed in many industries -- from oil and gas to telecommunications -- for controlling processes and gathering data in real time.PVVNL (Noida division) chief engineer Virendra Nath Singh said the system will increase network reliability, reduce costs, improve worker safety and provide greater customer satisfaction. “Their alarms and real time views into operations can prevent small problems from becoming big ones and can also reduce restoration time. It saves time otherwise wasted on field visits, and also improves worker safety during outages and power restoration,” Singh said.He also said that in the event of an outage caused by an unforeseen event like a storm, the system’s advanced data collection capabilities help field workers in quickly identifying the exact location of the outage without having to wait for a complaint. “Scada-enabled switches and line reclosers [a system that shuts off power in case of a fault] can help operators isolate the outage and open adjacent automatic switches to reroute power quickly, without the need for a line worker to visit the site to perform a lengthy visual inspection,” he said.The chief engineer said that a Scada system for a power distribution application is typically a computer-based software package. “Data is collected from the electrical distribution system, mostly originating at substations. Depending on its size and complexity, a sub-station will have a varying number of controllers and operator interface points. In addition to data collection, Scada systems typically allow commands to be issued from central control and monitoring points to substations. If desired and as circumstances allow, these commands can enable full remote control,” he said.Singh said that Scada raises alarms and logs events as they happen. “Alarms are grouped into different categories and are given different priorities’,” he added.Residents expressed happiness over introduction of the new system.Pankaj Kumar Singh, a resident in Sector 77, said, “The Scada system is already in operation in states like Delhi, Gujarat and Maharashtra. It’ll certainly increase the efficiency and credibility of the discom.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/discom-to-launch-scada-system-for-real-time-monitoring-of-power-distribution-in-noida-101630606633413.html
02-09-2021||Other||Classes 9,11 in Delhi to follow CBSE’s exam structure, says state govt||In line with the two-term Class 10 and 12 Central Board Secondary Education (CBSE) examination set to be held this year, the Delhi government’s Directorate of Education (DoE) on Wednesday introduced the same assessment system for classes 9 and 11 in all public, private, and government-aided schools in Delhi for the academic session 2021-22.According to an order issued by director of education Udit Prakash Rai: “Academic session will be of two-term examinations i.e. mid-term examination (Term-1) and annual examination (Term-2) with approximately 50% syllabus in each.”According to the term and subject-wise marks shared with schools, each term will have 50% weightage for the calculation of final results.All government schools and most private schools in Delhi are affiliated to CBSE.The order explained that question papers in the 90-minute Term-1 or mid-term exams that will be conducted in October or November will have multiple-choice questions. The duration of Term-2 will be two hours, and it will be descriptive with short- or long-answer questions.In July, CBSE said that as a part of “special scheme of assessment” it will conduct two sets of board exams -- one between November and December, and the other between March and April 2022, for Class 10 and 12 students in the current academic session to prepare for any “unprecedented situation” that could arise because of the Covid-19 pandemic next year.Under this assessment scheme, the academic year has been divided into two terms, each covering approximately half the syllabus.CBSE Director (Academic) Joseph Emmanuel said the two-term assessments are in line with National Education Policy guidelines. “The NEP recommends making board exams stress-free and low-stakes in nature. It is expected that the bifurcation of syllabus into two-term will reduce stress level of students considerably, and it could be taken as a pilot to decide the future course of action. According to the board’s policy, assessment pattern of classes 10 and 12 needs to be followed for classes 9 and 11 as well even though it is done by schools internally. The same has been reiterated by the DoE circular, and it is in consonance with the CBSE guidelines.”Students of classes 9 and 11 returned to schools in Delhi on Wednesday for in-person classes. Class 10 and 12 students were already called back to schools on August 16, after a long break due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Schools said that the “timely order” will help them in planning their tests and internals accordingly.Awadesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya Rohini Sector-8, said, “Earlier, our midterms carried around 25% weightage in the final results. But the increase in weightage to 50% and inclusion of MCQs (multiple choice questions) will help students score better. After our students returned to school on Wednesday, we were planning to conduct internal tests to see where they stand after a year of online learning. The revised assessment scheme will help us plan teaching-learning and assessment better.”Some private school principals said they were yet to see the order. “We were planning to conduct the first test in September, now it’s been pushed to October. The paper pattern is very different. Since CBSE has changed the pattern for Class 10 and 12 students, it only makes sense to adopt the practice for class 9 and 11 students as well because students need training. Teachers will face challenges in setting question papers as per the new pattern,” said Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School.The education department has also given a matrix of different subjects and the break-up of marks allotted to different classes and modes of tests. For instance, in Class 9, students will have to appear for 40-mark Term 1 exams in Hindi, English, Mathematics, Science, Social Science, and Indian Language. The remaining 10 marks will be given on the basis of internal assessments. For skill courses such as Retail and Artificial Intelligence, both theory and practical component will comprise of 25 marks each.The department has also provided guidelines on internal assessment. “Internal assessment will be carried out as per the existing scheme across the year except that it will be done twice, and both will contribute equally in the final assessment. The evaluation by teachers for internal assessment/practical/project work needs to be based on evidence of the student’s performance throughout the academic session,” the DoE order stated.For subjects which have 80-mark theory paper, the division of 10 marks assigned to each term has been divided as Periodic test (3 marks), Multiple Diverse Assessment (2 marks), Portfolio (2 marks), and subject enrichment activities (3 marks).Periodic tests will be restricted to three in each subject per year, and schools can decide how many tests to conduct during each term. Multiple diverse assessment will include activities from classroom pedagogy, including group discussion, quizzes, blogs, debates, and art-integrated or sports activities.For Class 11, subjects with an 80-mark theory paper, such as Mathematics, Sociology, Political Science, Business Studies, Accounts and History, theory paper in each term will be worth 40 marks each. The remaining 10 marks, in each term, will be for internal assessment and projects.For subjects with a 70-mark theory paper, such as Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Computer Science, Geography, and Psychology, the Term-1 theory paper will be of 35 marks and the internal assessment and project will carry 15 marks. Skill subjects will have a 30-mark theory paper and 20-mark practical or internal assessment component in both terms.The internal assessment break-up for Class 11 is different for subjects with 20-mark internal assessment component and the ones with 30-mark practical/assessment component.For instance, subjects with 30-mark practicals will have a 15-mark practical exam per term. This will be converted to pen-and-paper test if the lockdown continues till the date of the exam. For the 20-mark internal assessment, students will have to prepare one project for the session that will be divided into two parts for both the terms, carrying 10 marks for each term.Bharat Arora, general secretary of the Action Committee for Unaided Private Schools, said, “We will hold a discussion on the revised assessment scheme with the private school principals on the matter to see how it can be implemented.”While there is little clarity over how board exams will be held in 2022-23, education department officials said adopting the two-term assessment similar to the board exam pattern this year was a safe option keeping the uncertainties of the pandemic in mind.A senior education department official, requesting anonymity, said, “Due to the pandemic and its impact on schooling, we had two options in front of us. Either to continue with the previous assessment system or think of a new way for evaluation. Instead of introducing something new, the department adopted the two-term assessment proposed by CBSE as it is the most viable option."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/classes-9-11-in-delhi-to-follow-cbse-s-exam-structure-says-state-govt-101630606334171.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||Ganga Expressway gets cabinet approval||: In a push to infrastructure development, the state cabinet on Thursday gave a go ahead to the 594-km Meerut to Prayagraj controlled-access Ganga Expressway, which is to come up at an estimated cost of ₹36, 230 crore. It also approved a proposal to develop Lalitpur airstrip into an airport in Bundelkhand region of the state. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath presided over the meeting of the state cabinet that approved the Greenfield six-lane expressway project, expandable to 8-lane, having a maximum permissible speed limit of 120 km per hour. Briefing media persons, minister for MSMEs and government spokesman Siddharth Nath Singh said the network of expressway projects coming up in the state would give a push to achieving the objective of making Uttar Pradesh a trillion-dollar economy. He said the RFP (request for proposal) and RFQ (request for quotation) documents had been approved for the project to be implemented on develop, build, finance, operate and transfer (DBFOT) basis under Public Private Partnership model. He said 60-day timeline to complete the bidding for project has been approved. He said there would be a provision for an airport on the expressway near Shahjahanpur. He said the expressway project would be implemented in four groups (each group having three packages). The estimated cost of the civil works would be ₹22,125 crore while the cost of buying the land is estimated to be ₹22,125 crore. An official press release claimed the Ganga Expressway project was second largest expressway project in the country that would cover 12 districts and provide smooth connectivity with the state capital, Poorvanchal Expressway, Agra-Lucknow-Yamuna expressway. It said project would lead to creation of about 20,000 jobs. Singh said the bidding process was being started only after acquiring about 93 percent land for the project. In an obvious indication towards the Samajwadi Party led government, he said the RFP and RFQ should be floated only after acquiring 80 percent land. “Our friends (previous government) launched the Poorvanchal Expressway project without meeting the requirement of acquiring 80 percent land to get support (of concessionaires) in the 2017 assembly elections,” he said. Singh said the chief minister had asked for areas for development of industry along the expressway. About expansion of Lalitpur airstrip to an international airport, Singh said besides the defence corridor, a drug park was also coming up in Bundelkhand region. He said there was a need for development of an international airport there as Jhansi airport was not a civil airport. He said 12.79 hectare land of defence ministry would be transferred for the airport and the state cabinet had approved a proposal to transfer a gram sabha land to defence ministry in lieu of this land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ganga-expressway-gets-cabinet-approval-101630605973992.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi transfers ₹836.55 cr to 55.77 lakh beneficiaries of old age pension scheme||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday transferred ₹836.55 crore to 55.77 lakh beneficiaries of national old age pension scheme through online transactions. He said no one will be deprived of basic amenities in the state, said a government statement. Speaking at an event held in a virtual mode, he said, “It is the intention of the government that every poor, farmer, elderly person and destitute woman should get the benefit of the welfare scheme of the government without any discrimination. In this sequence, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also released schemes from time to time to benefit people. No one will be deprived of basic necessities or die of hunger in Uttar Pradesh. I am happy to inform that out of them, 4.56 lakh are new beneficiaries. The quarterly instalment is being sent to these accounts for the first time,” he added.“Older people have a wealth of experiences. They are our guide. The central and state governments are working with a sense of service to manage the life and livelihood of each and every senior citizen. Whether the elderly needs ration or medical treatment at the time of illness, everything is being provided free of cost. Not only this, ‘Elderly Helpline 14567’ (Elderline) has been specially issued where any senior citizen can contact and get help 24×7”, he was quoted as saying in the statement.The CM also interacted with the old age pension beneficiaries of various districts virtually, where he inquired about the health of all . He also instructed the district magistrates to provide the benefit of Ayushman Bharat or chief minister Jan Arogya Yojana to every needy.Yogi said elderly people were neglected during the earlier governments. No one used to pay attention to them but today many efforts were being made for the happy life of old people, he added. The CM further said over 29 lakh new elderly people had been able to join the old age pension scheme in the last four years.Earlier, UP social welfare minister Ramapati Shastri presented a brief description of the departmental activities while the vote of thanks was presented by minister of state Dr GS Dharmesh.The elderly people, who received three months’ instalment of old age pension together, also expressed their gratitude. One Prahlad of Maharajganj said it was the first time when he was getting pension. Basanti of Sonbhadra thanked the CM for the arrangement of medicine while Mani Ram of Sultanpur thanked Yogi for free ration and pension, said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-transfers-rs-836-55-cr-to-55-77-lakh-beneficiaries-of-old-age-pension-scheme-101630605193933.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC says Ankit Gujjar's death in Tihar clear case of custodial violence||The Delhi high court on Thursday said the nature of injuries sustained by inmate Ankit Gujjar who died in Tihar jail clearly revealed that it was a case of custodial violence.Stating that the incident involved a larger issue of extortion by jail officials, Justice Mukta Gupta said there was every implication of extortion by jail officials.The court reserved its order on a petition by Gujjar's family members for transfer of investigation into his alleged murder to the CBI.Dubbed as one of the most wanted criminals in Uttar Pradesh with multiple counts of homicide and robbery, 29-year-old Gujjar was found dead in his cell in Tihar jail on August 4.“The issue is the moment a phone is recovered (from the deceased), your (jail) officer is asking for money. It is a case that for every implication, money is extorted from family. It is far more serious. What has happened to the deceased must have happened to others also,” the judge said.“The nature of injury clearly shows that it is a case of custodial violence... It is writ large that it is a case of custodial violence and who has done it is also very clear”, she added.In the petition, the family alleged Gujjar was being harassed by the jail officials as he was “unable to meet their regularly increasing demands for money” and was murdered “as a part of pre-planned conspiracy”.On August 18, the court had sought status reports from Delhi Police and jail authorities on the plea.Counsel for the family, advocate Mehmood Pracha said that “police was not conducting investigation in proper format” as the DVR of the CCTV installed in the jail was yet to be recovered and the aspect of extortion of money by jail officials through online transactions was not being looked into.“The status report filed before the magistrate and status report filed here say that the injury is a minor injury. The post-mortem shows 12 grievous injuries,” he said.Counsel for the prosecution Ranbir Kundu said the investigation by local police was ongoing in a fair manner.He informed the court the deceased, who was found to be in possession of a mobile phone amongst other things, had attacked the Deputy Superintendent (DS) earlier in the day and as of now, action has been initiated against certain officials.“He may have committed an offence (but) this man (jail official) not only beats him up but gets CCTV closed.. show the MLC of the DS.. This is not a case of simpliciter departmental action. A life has been lost. 12 injuries show it is case of custodial torture,” the court remarked.In its status report, the jail administration has stated that four officials, including the deputy superintendent, have been suspended and eight others have been shifted from Central Jail No.3 and ordered to report to the Superintendent, PHQ till further orders.The police officer said that as per the statement of eyewitnesses, “30-35 people came with dandas (sticks)” to beat up the deceased and that as per the jail administration, CCTV cameras were switched off due to technical issues.He added that aspect of financial transactions was being looked into and sought three weeks' time for further probe.As per the police status report, 28 witnesses have been examined and section 323/341 (voluntarily causing hurt/ wrongful restraint) IPC have been added to the original FIR registered under section 302/34 (murder) IPC.During the course of the proceedings, the court orally observed that transferring the case at this stage may delay further investigation.In the petition filed through Pracha and Shariq Nisar, the family has alleged that the jail authorities in Tihar are operating an “organised extortion syndicate” and the police was trying to manipulate the investigation in order to save and shield the culprits.Although an FIR for commission of offences of murder was registered after the directions of a magisterial court, “a free and fair investigation by a neutral investigation agency would inevitably lead to invocation of not just further provisions under the Penal Code but also under special laws such as the MCOCA, Prevention of Corruption Act and Prevention of Money Laundering Act”, it saidThe plea alleges “culpability of the entire administration” on the ground that the CCTV were ordered to be shut down by an official at the time of when the deceased was beaten.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-says-ankit-gujjar-s-death-in-tihar-clear-case-of-custodial-violence-101630604664074.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||Cong gears up for UP polls with camps, public contact drive||The Congress appears to be racing against time as it prepares the party organisation for the Uttar Pradesh assembly election due in early 2022.The Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) is holding 700 camps to train its nearly two lakh (0.2 million) workers and the process of appointing presidents of nearly 58,000 village units and setting up booth committees.“Our training camps will end by September 7. We hope to complete setting up the organisation structure up to the grassroots level by October 2. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has given indications about starting her tours from a district in the state’s eastern region. Her tours may begin after the 100-day Prashikshan se Parakram (training for valour) programme ending on September 7,” said a senior Congress leader.Priyanka addressed the party workers at some of the training camps via video conference last week. She asked them to go door to door to connect with the people and listen to their problems.“We got a very good response to the party’s Jai Bharat Jan Sampark mega campaign launched to connect with the people from August 19 to 21. About 20,000 senior leaders went door to door during the mega campaign to connect with nearly nine million (90 lakh) people and listened to their problems,” said another party leader. The Congress began revamping its organisation structure soon after its debacle in the 2019 Lok Sabha election in which it won only one seat, Rae Bareli, in Uttar Pradesh. Before that, the Congress contested the 2017 assembly election in alliance with the Samajwadi Party. It won only seven seats in the 403-member state assembly. Two out of the seven Congress MLAs (Adit Singh and Rakesh Singh from Rae Bareli and Harchadpur assembly seats of Rae Bareli) are considered close to the BJP though they continue to be Congress legislators.It remains to be seen whether the Congress will have an alliance in the 2022 assembly election. Priyanka recently indicated (in an informal interaction with media persons in Lucknow) that she was open to an alliance with like-minded parties. A Congress booklet brought out recently targeted the Samajwadi Party, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alike giving indications that the party was gearing up for “ekla chalo” (going it alone) in the assembly election.Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu said the Congress was ready for polls and would align only with smaller parties in the 2022 UP assembly election. Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’ said, “We are getting ready to fight the 2022 assembly election on our own. Our sangthan srajan (formation of organisation structure) is in the final stages and camps are in progress to impart training to the party workers.” Senior Congress leader PL Punia said, “As far as the issue of an alliance with any political party is concerned, the Congress is getting ready to fight the 2022 assembly election on its own.”“The Congress should reach out to the masses with a positive approach. It’s very clear that the Congress has not worked out any concrete programme and if the party is going to the people with a mindset to target the BJP only, this is going to be a futile exercise,” said prof SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cong-gears-up-for-up-polls-with-camps-public-contact-drive-101630604714038.html
02-09-2021||Other||Atrocities on Brahmins rising in UP: BSP leader||Citing the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey in a police encounter in July last year, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra on Thursday attacked the BJP government for what he termed the “rising atrocities on Brahmins” under the present dispensation in the state. The gangster was killed allegedly in a police shootout while being brought from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh to Kanpur. The incident took nearly a week after his henchmen gunned down eight policemen in Kanpur’s Bikru village on July 2-3, 2020.“Without any court case and hearing you picked Vikas Dubey and shot him dead in the name of Bikru massacre alleging he was a criminal and trying to escape by opening fire. You justify it by saying he was a criminal. It is okay but what about others who were either arrested or killed,” Mishra said while addressing “Prabuddh Varg Sammelan” (intellectuals’ conference) in Deoria. Under “Prabuddh Varg Sammelan”, the BSP has been conducting its Brahmin outreach programme since its first conference in Ayodhya on July 23. “The wife of slain gangster Amar Dubey was arrested and later it was found that she was a juvenile. The party chief took this case personally and directed the DM to ensure that she doesn’t get bail at any cost. In fact, they asked the officials to prepare a list of all influential Brahmins in Kanpur and the adjoining region and frame them in false cases. And that’s what exactly happened. More than half-a-dozen people (Brahmins) were killed in encounters,” Mishra alleged.“Remember how safe women and daughters were during the BSP rule (in UP) unlike today when they fear to step out of their homes due to prevailing ‘Goonda Raj’ (hooliganism),” he claimed. On farmers’ issue, Mishra said, “They (government) promised to double their income but they didn’t do so. Instead, they lowered it to zero. See what is happening with agitating farmers in Haryana. Our party is standing with farmers in their movement (against three farm laws).”On queries of farmers on suspected dengue cases and deaths due to it in west UP, Mishra alleged that first the UP government completely failed to check the pandemic outbreak and that the present situation was a part of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/atrocities-on-brahmins-rising-in-up-bsp-leader-101630604415422.html
02-09-2021||Other||Deepika donates ₹15 lakh for treatment of acid attack survivor||Actor Deepika Padukone has come forward to help out Bala, 25, an acid attack survivor, who had worked with Deepika in ‘Chhapaak’.Deepika has donated ₹15 lakh for Bala, who is suffering from a kidney ailment and is struggling for life while undergoing treatment at Safdarjung Hospital, in Delhi, where she goes for dialysis. Ashish Shukla, the director of ‘Chhanv Foundation’ thanked Deepika Padukone for her generous act. “Acid attack survivor Bala found new hope, as Deepika Padukone extended a helping hand to save her life. Bala, who is suffering from a life-threatening kidney disease, urgently needs a kidney transplant to survive. Word reached Deepika and she donated an exceedingly generous amount of ₹15,00,000 to the ‘Save Bala’ campaign,” Shukla stated. “Bala is a real-life star who also featured on The Kapil Sharma show. She has inspired many by surviving even the toughest of times but is now forced to battle for life,” said Ajay Tomar, the public relations officer at Sheroes Hangout, a café run and managed by acid attack survivors. Since 2017, Bala had been associated with Sheroes Hangout, run and managed under the umbrella of Chhanv Foundation.“Her condition is deteriorating every day due to the failure of both her kidneys and she is somehow surviving on dialysis. Without a kidney transplant, she won’t live to see another day. Being an acid attack survivor, her weakened immunity is already a threat to her life,” a press statement released by ‘Chhanv Foundation on Thursday, read. Bala still requires further monetary help to come out of this tragedy, and hence, the Chhanv Foundation is seeking as much support as possible. A fundraising campaign called ‘Save Bala’ has been started on the crowd-funding platform ‘Milaap’, to not only ensure that Bala gets quality medical treatment, but also to provide the survival cost for her family, Ashish Shukla said. “Moreover, there are 150 different survivors with stories like Bala, whom Chhanv wants to help through its campaign called ‘Smile Goal Hai’. If more generous people like Deepika Padukone come forward to help these survivors, lives can be transformed,” the press statement read. Caption: Acid attack survivor Bala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deepika-donates-rs-15-lakh-for-treatment-of-acid-attack-survivor-101630604233853.html
02-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees slight rise in new Covid-19 cases; 47 buildings sealed||Mumbai on Thursday recorded over 400 (441 to be exact) cases due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the second consecutive day, taking the caseload to 7,45,000. On Wednesday, the country’s financial capital logged 415 cases, while on Tuesday, there was a slight fall at 323.Three more patients died from the virus and more than 200 recovered during the day. With this, the total deaths and recoveries climbed to 15,984 and 7,23,155, respectively.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Thursday active cases in the city stood at 3,418 and the overall growth rate of Covid-19 cases from August 26-September 1 was at 0.05 per cent.As many as 37,163 samples were tested for the viral disease on Thursday taking the total count to 9.32 million.#CoronavirusUpdates2nd September, 6:00pm#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/GB46NbSpI2Having received accolades for containing the spread of the pandemic, Mumbai has been witnessing an uptick in its daily tally since August 16. On this day, the city recorded 190 new infections, the lowest single-day count since April.An official told news agency PTI on Thursday 47 buildings in the city have been sealed, adding highly congested slums and ‘chawls’ have remained free of containment zones since mid-August. The BMC seals a building or declares it as a containment zone if more than five people test positive for Covid-19.On Monday, Mumbai civic commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal instructed officials to deploy police at entry points of sealed buildings to restrict entry into the premises. The BMC, meanwhile, issued a release stating that people will not be allowed to any sealed building and those who visit to provide various services would be stopped.Meanwhile, Maharashtra recorded 4,342 Covid-19 cases, 55 deaths and 4,755 recoveries during the day. With this, the caseload climbed to 64,73,674. Nationally, the state continues to be the worst-hit region due to the pandemic. Amid fears of the third Covid-19 wave, the Maha-Vikas Aghadi-led government is considering reimposing restrictions to bring down the number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-slight-rise-in-new-covid-19-cases-47-buildings-sealed-101630598635033.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||ITI youth being deployed to run UP oxygen plants: Yogi||The state government is deploying youth from the ITIs (Industrial Training Institutes) for running the new oxygen plants in the state, and so far, 332 ITI-trained young technicians have been given the responsibility of operating the plants that are being installed across the state, keeping in view future needs.Chief minister Yogi Adityanth said this at a Covid-19 review meeting on Thursday and added: “Very soon the state will be generating oxygen at a large scale and will be self-reliant in its oxygen needs”.Talking about the Covid-19 situation and statistics, Yogi said that the state has been maintaining effective control over the second wave and as per latest updates as many as 21 districts have no active Covid cases. On an average, the state is doing 2.5 lakh Covid tests and the daily positivity rate is 0.01% in the state while the recovery rate is 98.7%. The state has 258 active cases and in the last 24 hours 63 districts did not report any fresh Covid-19 cases while 12 reported fresh cases in single digits.He said that 36 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the state in the last 24 hours and there were 16 recoveries.On the vaccination front, the chief minister said that the state, so far, has administered 7.41 crore doses including the 9.61 lakh doses that were administered on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iti-youth-being-deployed-to-run-up-oxygen-plants-yogi-101630603694048.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||Launch intensive sanitation drive across UP, CM tells officials||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday directed officials to launch an intensive sanitation drive across UP in view of dengue cases in various districts.He issued directives for sending a nodal officer in all districts to review sanitation work. The nodal officers will also monitor relief and rescue work in the flood-hit districts, said the CM while reviewing the situation in the districts during a high level meeting with the senior officers. “Low-lying areas are water-logged during the rainy session. The outbreak of dengue has been reported in some districts and the spread of malaria looms large. Sanitation drive should be launched to check the spread of mosquito- borne and viral diseases,” said Yogi Adityanath.Health workers, including ASHA and Anganwadi, should be activated to monitor the situation in villages. The rural development department, urban development department, women and child development department, health and family welfare department, medical education department should work in coordination to launch special sanitation and health protection drive across the state, he added.To enlighten people on how to protect themselves from disease, information and education programmes should be organised in the rural areas. Pure drinking water should be supplied to people and chlorine tablets should be distributed in residential areas, said the CM.Sanitation drive should be also launched in schools run by the basic shiksha parishad. All drives to protect people from disease and flood should be launched in the mission mode in all the 75 districts, he said.A state government officer said river Sharda was flowing above the danger level at Paliyakala in Lakhimpur Kheri while Ghaghra was above the danger level in Ballia. Rapti was flowing above danger level in Siddharthnagar and Gorakhpur districts and the embankments were safe, said Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/launch-intensive-sanitation-drive-across-up-cm-tells-officials-101630603214372.html
02-09-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination: Private hospitals told to adhere to govt guidelines||All private hospitals empanelled with the district health department for Covid-19 vaccination were on Thursday directed to properly follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for vaccination after senior health officials found several anomalies during an inspection of the Covid-19 vaccination centre (CVC) of a private hospital in Sector 47. A team comprising district immunisation officer, Dr MP Singh, and urban nodal officer, Dr Amandeep, undertook a surprise check of Cloudnine Hospital. “Importantly, the temperature logbook of vaccine storage was not properly maintained. The last entry was done on August 28. The temperature logbook is required to keep a record of temperature at cold chain points of vaccine storage. It helps in preserving the quality of vaccines,” said Dr MP Singh. According to Singh, government health centres have digital data loggers installed to monitor the temperature of vaccines at the cold chain points. It alerts about any change in the temperature by sending a message on mobile phones or emails. “Many private hospitals lack this digital device. Therefore, they have to maintain a logbook, where the temperature has to be entered twice a day,” said Singh. Officials found other irregularities, such as the lack of a proper mechanism to dispose of biomedical waste generated during the vaccination. “Used needles from previous days were on the vaccination table,” stated a report prepared by the health department, which was accessed by HT. According to the report, the vaccination staff was not fully aware of the features of the Co-WIN portal. Besides, officials said that the vaccination area was set up in the basement without ventilation, as there were multiple AC exhaust fans in the basement that made the area noisy and hot. The vaccination centre allegedly lacked adequate space for seating arrangements at the observation area, where people have to wait for 30 minutes after taking the vaccine shot. The management of the hospital refused to comment on the matter when contacted. Singh said that the hospital has been directed to eliminate the irregularities, failing which they will be removed from the empanelled list of Covid-19 hospitals. “An order has been circulated to medical superintendents of all private hospitals to conduct vaccination at their CVCs as per the guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare,” said Singh. About 85 private hospitals are empanelled with the district health department. Of these, at least 21 are administering Covid-19 vaccine doses. On Thursday, 20, 297 doses were administered at 91 CVCs. Of these, 13,182 doses were given at government health centres and 7,115 at private hospitals. Until now, over 2,435,768 vaccine doses have been administered. According to the government data, the district has achieved a 100% target in first dose inoculation by reaching out to almost 1,632, 456 people. Additional 300,000 people are yet to be covered as per the estimates, accounting for the influx of the migratory population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-private-hospitals-told-to-adhere-to-govt-guidelines-101630603098975.html
02-09-2021||Gurugram||Congress workers protest farmer lathicharge, changes to land acquisition norms||Members of the Congress party on Thursday protested against lathi-charge of farmers in Karnal on August 28 and changes to the Land Acquisition Act by the state government. The workers gathered at Rajiv Chowk for a protest and later submitted a memorandum addressed to the Haryana governor to the deputy commissioner of Gurugram at the Mini Secretariat. Senior Congress leader Ajay Singh Yadav, while addressing the workers, said, “The farm laws are anti people and they must be taken back. The decision of the government to amend the Land Acquisition Act (where consent of owners is not mandatory) is also retrograde decision and it harms the interests of the landowners.” Former Congress minister Sukhbir Kataria, who also participated in the protest, said, “The common man, working class and labour is suffering because of high inflation and this government has no solution for problems faced by people,” he said. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, refuted the allegations and said that the government was ready to hold discussions with farmers and allowed them to protest peacefully. “It is not the BJP but Congress which has a history of firing at farmers and workers across the country. The government has allowed peaceful protests but these should not become a tool to spread anarchy,” said Raman Malik, BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/congress-workers-protest-farmer-lathicharge-changes-to-land-acquisition-norms-101630603097859.html
02-09-2021||Gurugram||New spas should not be allowed in city: MG Road residents, shop owners||Around 100 residents and shop owners from condominiums and malls located on the Mall Mile of the Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road held a protest on Thursday demanding a ban on new spas in the city.The protesters said that the spas are often fronts for prostitution rackets and with Delhi tightening norms for spas, such facilities are likely to move to Gurugram, especially to malls on MG Road. A delegation of residents and shop owners had also met MLA Sudhir Singla on Monday regarding the matter. Rajiv Sinha, the president of Essel Tower residents’ welfare association, said that they organised a protest to create awareness and send a message to the administration that residents were not in favour of having spas in their neighbourhood. “Two years ago, the residents of MG road were forced to organise a similar protest against illegal activities in pubs and bars, after which action was taken against them. We don’t want a similar menace to grow again,” he said. Akash Oberoi, a shop owner in MGF Mall, said, “If the number of spas increase, visitors and families start avoiding such malls and there is loss of business. Also, there is a very thin line separating the legal and illegal activities in these spas and monitoring them becomes difficult.” Member of legislative assembly Sudhir Singla said, “I have assured residents that no illegal activities will be allowed in the garb of running a business. People are free to work but there should be no violation of rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/new-spas-should-not-be-allowed-in-city-mg-road-residents-shop-owners-101630603096676.html
02-09-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 symptomatic students to be given rapid antigen test||The district health department decided to conduct rapid antigen tests of symptomatic students and directed school Covid-19 nodal officers to administer tests when required, officials said.“At least 25 rapid antigen testing kits have been distributed to nodal officers trained to use them in schools. These kits will be used on any symptomatic student to quickly identify positives case and isolate them. The nodal officer will ensure that home isolation protocols are strictly followed by the parents of children who test positive,” Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said. Schools in Haryana reopened for students of classes 9 to 12 from July 16, and classes 6 to 8 from July 23. In the second week of August, the Haryana health department directed all districts to vaccinate teaching staff of government and private schools as well as universities, following which dedicated vaccination camps were organised until the last week of August. Vaccinations for students younger than 18 years is yet to start.Over 19,000 teachers in government and private schools were to be vaccinated in the district, of which everyone has at least received one dose, officials said. According to Yadav, doctors working with the health department under the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) have been appointed as school Covid-19 nodal officers to ensure Covid-19 guidelines are followed in classrooms. “There are 12 teams of RBSK in the district who will regularly visit schools to check whether they are adopting preventive measures in classrooms. The student turnout in schools is currently low. With this move, we will build trust among parents to send their children to schools,” said Dr Yadav. Even as the cases are on a constant decline, Yadav said that they don’t want to take a risk in schools. On Thursday, eight new cases of coronavirus infection were confirmed. At least 76 cases are currently active, while the total tally reached 181,075. The death toll stands at 922.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-symptomatic-students-to-be-given-rapid-antigen-test-101630603095034.html
02-09-2021||Gurugram||Fraud: Resident duped of ₹24.5 lakh in plot sale based on forged documents||A man was booked for allegedly defrauding a city resident of ₹24.5 lakh by selling him a plot in Om Vihar Colony of Carterpuri village in Sector 23 on forged documents, the police said on Thursday.The complainant in the case, identified as Amar Singh, approached a local court, which issued directions on July 27 to register an FIR in the matter. The police said that a case under sections 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Palam Vihar police station on Wednesday. In his complaint, Singh stated that the suspect approached him in March 2020, offered to sell a 100-square yard plot in Om Vihar and told him that he wanted to finalise the sale at the earliest as he was in dire need of money. Singh said that a deal was finalised for ₹24.5 lakh and an initial amount of ₹50,000 was paid in June 2020, for which a receipt was issued.As the colony is an irregular one located within 900 metres of an IAF ammunition depot, a sale deed could not be registered. Due to this, the suspect got a power of attorney executed at a Ghaziabad court, Singh said. However, these papers were later found to be forged.Singh said that during the course of proceedings, he paid ₹17 lakh through bank transfers and the remaining sum in cash. After completing the deal, Singh started construction at the site when he was approached by the plot owner, who got the work stopped. When Singh tried to contact the suspect, his phone was switched off and following subsequent investigation, realised that he had been duped.Singh also stated that he had managed to get through to the suspect on one occasion, but he refused to return the money.Subash Boken, the spokesperson for Gurugram police, said that a case has been registered in the matter. “The matter is under investigation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fraud-resident-duped-of-24-5-lakh-in-plot-sale-based-on-forged-documents-101630603093749.html
02-09-2021||Other||Shimla’s health workers brave tough terrain, rough weather to ensure 100% vaccination||The Union government on Thursday announced that Himachal Pradesh was among the two states, besides a union territory, in the country that managed to inoculate its entire adult population with at least one dose of Covid vaccine.For a state with a topography as challenging as Himachal, the feat could not have been possible without its brave and determined health workers, who crisscrossed rugged terrains, dense forests and gushing streams, even in adverse weather conditions, to ensure that those living in the remotest areas are covered under the vaccination drive.Besides the tough terrain, the health workers also had to deal with other challenges such as transporting the vaccine cold chain points to remote areas on time for the session to go off smoothly. In Shimla, the biggest challenge before the health authorities was the lack of manpower. A mere 1,456 health workers were involved in the inoculation drive in Shimla district as against 4,000-6,000 workers in other districts. Even small districts such as Bilaspur had far more manpower than the Shimla.Many of them had walk up to eight hours to reach remote regions such as Dodra Kwar to reach session sites, as parts of the district have limited road connectivity. Heavy rains, landslides leading to road blocks and snowfall in the month of April further added to their trouble, but the health teams successfully organised 9,017 sessions, since the beginning of the inoculation drive on January 16, to cover the targeted population. Ran Singh, a Class-IV employee, posted at a primary health centre, Jiskoon in Dodra Kwar, said he used to start his journey on foot at 5am to reach Kwar and receive the vaccine from the cold chain point at 7.30am. Then he would set out for Jiskoon, stopping for just a few minutes to have his breakfast. He would then hand over the vaccine carrier to health worker Jaymatti and wait for her to return with the leftover vaccine after completion of sessions at Jiskoon. Jaymati would walk up the steep hills to reach the vaccination site in the afternoon and after completing the vaccination session, return to Jiskoon at 8pm. On the way, she would submit the details of each beneficiary to the medical officers at Chirgaon, 80 kms away from Kwar, for online updation on the COWIN portal. “It was difficult task but I am happy that I have been able to serve my people. I also got to interact with the Prime Minister due to my work. That was the icing on the cake,” says Jaymatti, who hails from Jiskoon village, situated 7,700-ft above the sea-level in the remote Dodrakwar subdivsion in Shimla district. She carried out eight vaccination sessions on her own at Jakha and surrounding areas and vaccinated a total of 1, 070 beneficiaries.Another health worker, Rubha Devi, says she had to carry the vaccine from the cold chain point at Kwar to Pandhar. The village is accessible only by a trek stretching 5-6 hours. She would start her journey with peon Baji Lal at 8am, reach Futadhar by a vehicle and then cross Rupin river, followed by a steep climb uphill through a dense forest, before finally reaching Pandhar at 2.30pm. On April 23, there was a moderate snowfall in Tikker block of the district. However, it did not deter the health workers from completing the task. Shimla chief medical officer Surekha Chopra says, “Whatever success we achieved, the credit for it goes to our team members who faced the challenges bravely to ensure the entire population is vaccinated. It was especially challenging in remote regions but they did not give up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shimlas-health-workers-brave-tough-terrain-rough-weather-to-ensure-100-vaccination-101630602914075.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||Now, cases of leptospirosis to fore in Mathura||LUCKNOW Cases of leptospirosis, a rare bacterial infection, have come to fore in Mathura where dengue and scrub typhus cases were reported recently. “Some cases of Leptospirosis have now been reported from Mathura. It is spread through urine of animals and via water,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference on Thursday. “As leptospirosis spreads through water, we need to ensure that stagnant water is removed immediately and personal hygiene is given priority. Officials of nagar nigam and panchayati raj have been asked to ensure cleanliness,” said Prasad. Senior officials from state health department had been sent to Mathura and Firozabad to take stock of the situation and the health facilities being provided to people, he said. “Sporadic cases of leptospirosis are reported but the threat is higher during monsoon as the infection spreads more in flood-prone areas or where water is stagnant for days,” said Dr Sheetal Verma, senior faculty, microbiology at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU). Leptospirosis is a bacterial infection that comes from animals. It’s spread through their urine, especially from dogs, rodents, and farm animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-cases-of-leptospirosis-to-fore-in-mathura-101630602554002.html
02-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana court allows ED to inspect files of I-T cases of CM, son Raninder||Jalandhar The court of additional district sessions judge, Raj Kumar, of Ludhiana, has dismissed the plea of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder Singh, challenging a lower court order of September 2020 that allowed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to inspect the files of their income tax (I-T) cases. The ED had filed three applications after learning that the I-T department had placed fresh documents in their case files in August 2020. The central agency had initiated action against Raninder under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) after the I-T department alleged that he had lied, under oath, about the trusts that he allegedly owned in Virgin Islands. Raninder had even appeared before the ED in connection with a FEMA violation, and the agency wants to inspect or obtain the documents to carry forward its investigation. The CM and his son had challenged the lower court order on the grounds that no opportunity of hearing had been given to them before allowing the ED’s petition. They had claimed that this was against the principles of natural justice. Their plea added that the ED had no locus standi to file an application for inspection before the trial court, as to date no cognisance has been taken against them.The court of justice Kumar, however, observed that the perusal of proviso to Rule 2 (inspection of judicial records) reveals that a stranger to a civil or criminal case may, for sufficient reason shown to the satisfaction of court, inspect the record of such pending cases. “Thus, the matter regarding the inspection was between the ED and the court. So, it was for the court seized with the matter to record its satisfaction and allow the inspection of the record to the stranger,” the order says. The order adds, “As discussed above, in view of the inspection rules, a stranger to a case can inspect civil as well as criminal pending file for sufficient reasons and the ED is an independent investigation agency under the FEMA. The department has the locus standi to inspect the file and, in case, the inspection to the ED is not allowed which is the competent authority under law to conduct the investigation, it would create hurdles in investigation.” The judge has directed the parties to the case to appear before the trial court on September 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-court-allows-ed-to-inspect-files-of-i-t-cases-of-cm-son-raninder-101630602493524.html
02-09-2021||Other||Varanasi Smart City project: UP minister rebukes officials for poor quality work||Minister of state for tourism and religious affairs in UP government Dr Neelkanth Tiwari on Wednesday rebuked officials of Varanasi Smart City Limited for poor quality of construction work being carried out at Dashashwamedh ward area and asked them to rectify the shortcomings within three days or face action. Tiwari is an elected representative from Varanasi South Assembly constituency under which the Dashashwamedh ward area falls. An official of information department said Tiwari received information about laxity in the developmental works being carried out under Varanasi smart city project following which he carried out an on spot inspection. He walked through the lanes and spotted very poor quality plain cement concrete (PCC) work. He even used a spade to examine the quality of work.The official said sewer line and potable water supply line were being replaced with new one and laying of square stones after moulding plain cement concrete (PCC) layers was also in progress. As per the official, Tiwari rebuked officials of Varanasi Smart City Ltd for lackadaisical approach in replacing the sewer and water pipelines in the area. Accompanied by secretary Varanasi Development Authority, secretary Jal Kal and smart city officials, the minister inspected areas like Kaiwalya Lane, Ahilyabai Lane, Maan Mandir Lane, Tripura Bhairavi Gali, Rani Bhavani Lane, Mir Ghat, Kalika Gali and instructed officials to remove the flaws within three days or face action. The Varanasi Smart City project aims at improving basic amenities, adding new ones while maintaining antiquity and heritage of Kashi for which the ancient city is known across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-smart-city-project-up-minister-rebukes-officials-for-poor-quality-work-101630602254087.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||Antibodies also develop a month after 2nd dose of Covid vax: Study||LUCKNOW Protective levels of antibodies generally develop weeks after the first dose of Covid vaccine, but they also develop a month after the second shot, says a study. “It is considered that antibodies develop weeks after the first dose of vaccination. Our study showed they (antibodies) might take a longer time to develop,” said Prof MM Faridi, principal, Era’s Lucknow Medical College and Hospital (ELMCH) that conducted the study. This healthcare centre was a Level 3 Covid hospital and admitted about 5,000 patients.ELMCH vaccinated 6,500 staff working on the campus, and from among them, chose 246 for the antibodies’ study. Samples were taken one month after their first jab and a month after the second dose. Covishield was used for all 6,500 staff members. “As many as 17 people had not developed antibodies after a month of their first jab. Among them, 14 developed antibodies when we checked their sample taken a month after the second dose,” said Faridi. The three who did not develop antibodies (out of the 246) included two individuals in 30-39 years age group and one 60-plus. “Our study is significant also because we tested people who had worked during the second wave when the Delta variant caused problems to most people with Covid,” he said. Out of the 246, only 18 contracted the Covid infection post vaccination and these included 10 doctors and eight other health staff. Eleven were men and seven females. As many as 246 medical staff (156 male and 90 female) were chosen randomly from among those fully immunised between January and July. After one month of inoculation of both doses of Covishield, it was found that antibodies were generated in 93% (229) staff members while 17 employees didn’t have any antibodies. The average antibodies level was 11.76, said Dr Siddharth Chandel. The study showed that young beneficiaries of vaccination had better levels of antibodies compared to the elderly. “Vaccine is a strong protection against Covid infection as those who got infected again did not have any serious problem and did not require hospitalisation,” said Faridi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/antibodies-also-develop-a-month-after-2nd-dose-of-covid-vax-study-101630602013560.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||2 Punjab residents among 3 held with over 13kg hashish in Jammu||Three narcotics smugglers were arrested by the Anti-Narcotics Task Force (ANTF) in two separate cases on a highway in Jammu, officials said. Acting on a tip off regarding the smuggling of narcotic substances from the Kashmir Valley to Punjab, the ANTF swung into action and laid checkpoints at various places, they said. During checking, a Mahindra XUV vehicle was intercepted and a total 8.7kg hashish was recovered from Gurpreet Singh and Dev Karan – both from Punjab. The duo was taken into custody, they added. The car was also impounded and an FIR under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act registered. Initial investigation revealed that this consignment was being carried from Sangam area of Kashmir Valley to Punjab. The ANTF is investigating the case further to trace their links, officials said. In the other case, the ANTF arrested Khalid Ahmad Khan of Srinagar and recovered 4.8kg hashish from his possession, they said. His interrogation revealed that the consignment was being taken from Kashmir to Delhi. The ANTF has appealed to the public to extend all cooperation and share any information regarding drug dealers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-punjab-residents-among-3-held-with-over-13kg-hashish-in-jammu-101630601612518.html
02-09-2021||Patna||Bihar panchayat polls hit rural job schemes||The model code of conduct for the 11-phase panchayat polls in Bihar, which came into effect on August 24 and will remain in place till the conclusion of he poll process in December, is set to hit the state’s target of creating over 20 crore mandays to provide jobs to the rural poor under MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act), as also the construction of several lakhs of rural affordable houses under Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana (Grameen) during this fiscal, officials familiar with the matter said.While the model code of conduct doesn’t disallow work on ongoing projects, no new scheme can be launched as long as it’s in place.Officials said the panchayat polls, staggered from September to December, would consume four precious months during which new land related work is launched after rainy season. The biggest impact of the disruption, officials said, will be on the rural poor, including migrants, who returned home over the last two years amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown that led to loss of jobs. Officials said work on creating assets like ponds, ahars, pynes and renovation of buildings would remain at a standstill. In last five months, the government has created 9 crore man days against its target of 20 crore for this fiscal. Floods in over 20 districts have already slowed down the job creation associated with the afforestation drive to plant two crore saplings by job seekers under the rural employment guarantee scheme. Sources said 1.25 crore saplings have been planted so far and the afforestation drive is likely to remain a bit slow in the next few months. “Panchayat polls will affect our target of creating man days as September to December is a key time when land related works are done,” said C P Khanduja, director, social forestry, and commissioner, MGNREGA. Khanduja said they had instead expected to increase the target to 24-25 crore man days but the slowdown in works could hit the progress. MGNREGA is a flagship centrally sponsored scheme to provide at least 100 days of work to unskilled workers holding job cards. “We do hope we will be meeting the target of 20 crore man days under MGNREGA because we will have at least three months, from January to March, to speed up works,” he said. Khanduja said the average creation of man days for job card holders would be around 1.25 crore during the period of model code of conduct. Similarly, construction of rural houses under PMAY(G), wherein beneficiaries having land are given monetary assistance ( ₹1.30-1.50 lakh) to make their houses concrete (pucca) from is also set to take a hit. Officials said the backlog of completing around four lakh houses from last year’s targets and construction of new houses as per this year’s target of 11.49 lakh houses will be severely impacted. “As the rural polls are highly localised exercise, it will be difficult to convince beneficiaries to complete their houses as there are issues of logistics and rural labour. Monitoring is another issue as majority of rural officials at the panchayat level would be engaged in poll exercise,” said a senior officials in the rural development department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-polls-hit-rural-job-schemes-101630599134726.html
02-09-2021||Patna||Bihar: Second raid against suspended DSP in DA case||A team of Bihar’s economic offence unit (EOU) raided the properties of former Paliganj DSP Tanvir Ahmad in Patna and West Champaran in connection with an alleged disproportionate assets (DA) case on Thursday, officials said.The EOU sleuths seized documents related to land, bank account and investments during the raids.It is the second raid by EOU sleuths against the suspended government official after a DA case was lodged against him. Ahmad, along with 17 others, including two SPs of Bhojpur and Aurangabad, was suspended on July 27 for allegedly aiding and abetting illegal sand mining mafias. The EOU had lodged a case of DA worth ₹1.5 crore against former Dehri SDO Sunil Kumar Singh. Separate teams of EOU sleuths raided Ahmad’s ancestral house at Piradi village under the Inarwa police station area and a flat on Digha-Ashiana in the state capital. Sources said that the house was locked when the EOU team reached there. The caretaker provided the keys. DSP’s brother Samir Ahmad, who is a teacher in a middle school, also assisted the team. During the investigation, the EOU found that the suspended DSP had provided an account number to the sand mafias to deposit ill-gotten money. The account was said to be in the name of his relative. Ahmad used to transfer the amount received in this account into his and invest it in a hotel and a factory at Kolkata and Telangana respectively. Additional director general, EOU, N H Khan said that the searches are on after getting warrants from the concerned court. “No estimation has been made yet to ascertain the values of all properties as,” Khan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-second-raid-against-suspended-dsp-in-da-case-101630599133503.html
02-09-2021||Other||Gandak continues to wreak havoc in E Champaran||At least 15 houses and a government school have been damaged in the past two days due to the erosion caused by the turbulent Gandak river, at Sakhawa Tok village in Areraj, officials said on Thursday.Pawan Kumar Jha, circle officer (CO), Areraj, said the exact number of the houses collapsed by erosion would only be known after the water level recedes. “As per the information available with us, approximately 15 houses and parts of a primary school at Sakhawa Tok have collapsed between August 31 and September 1,” said Jha.“No loss to the lives reported so far. The villagers were shifted to safer places after they were alerted by the district administration,” the CO said. A village resident, identified as Yogindar Yadav (60), said, “The way the erosion happened, we knew the collapse was imminent. Therefore, we left the house about ten days back with whatever household articles we could take,” said Yadav. He has taken shelter in a makeshift tent house on an embankment in neighbouring Bhartoli village under Danapur panchayat in Gopalganj. Kamendra Mani Tiwari, the former village head and representative of village mukhiya Anisha Devi, said has put the total number of houses collapsed between 40 and 50. “Villagers have been facing the threat of displacement since the 1990s because of regular flooding. Several families have been displaced since a village called Sakhawa was engulfed by Gandak in 2005,” said TiwariWhen contacted, Sanjay Kumar, district education officer (DEO), East Champaran confirmed the collapse of parts of Rajkiya Prathamik Vidhalay at Sakhawa Tok. “We will get the condition of the school examined after floods,” said the DEO.Meanwhile, as many as 83,000 people dwelling in low lying areas of East Champaran and 6,000 people in Gopalganj are still affected by floods. “We are running eight community kitchens in the district,” said Dr Nawal Kishor Choudhary, district magistrate (DM), Gopalganj district. “People living in parts of Sangrampur, Kesariya, Areraj, Sagauli, Chirraiya and Banjariya in East Champaran are affected. Six community kitchens have been set up for them,” said Anil Kumar, additional district magistrate (ADM) and in charge of disaster management. Bhaskar, CO at Nautan in West Champaran, described the situation as under control. “Water has receded fast,” he said. Meanwhile, a man, identified as temple priest Krishnandan Ojha (36), died after he was struck by lightning at Bankatwa in Bagaha 1, West Champaran on Thursday morning, officials said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gandak-continues-to-wreak-havoc-in-e-champaran-101630598653369.html
02-09-2021||Patna||Stadiums in Bihar: No boundary walls, water stream on ground||The stadium built a few years ago at Jinhara-Lakshmipur village in Jamui district of Bihar has a water stream cutting through it. It also doesn’t have a boundary wall. Women now use it on Chhath Puja to offer tributes to the Sun God. The one at Koelwar in Bhojpur district is only a shade better. It has a pavilion, but the ground is uneven. The sorry state of stadiums came to light during a meeting held on August 24 by the youth affairs directorate of the culture department, which had in 2007 planned 534 stadiums in the state, one in every block. Between 2008-2009 and 2017-2018, it approved the design plan of 306 stadiums. Today, less than one fourth of the 534 stadiums have been constructed.And of the 115 stadiums said to be ready, half a dozen have no boundary walls, officials said. “We have formed a team of officials to visit and review the condition of all the stadiums and submit the status report,” Bandana Preyashi, who has recently joined the art, culture and youth affairs department as secretary, said. Mithilesh Kumar, deputy director of the youth affairs directorate, said many shocking facts about the stadiums were revealed during the review session. “It was expected that all the 306 stadiums which were approved must be ready, but only 115 were found ready,” he said. Officials said 66 stadiums are under construction while the process is on to start work on 125 stadiums. “Majority of stadiums said to be ready lack sports infrastructure,” said Kumar.The official said fund for the project was initially released to the respective district administration for construction work. “But in 2010, the project was handed over to the building construction department. For the last few years, it’s being handled by the recently formed Bihar State Building Construction Corporation,” he said. “Budget of the stadiums too have been revised considering the current rate of construction material,” he said. Three categories of stadiums were planned in the state. The first was a football stadium to be developed over 115x 95 metres at an estimated budget of ₹54.74 lakh. The second was a medium size stadium over 150x120 metres with a 300-metre-long track to be developed at a cost of ₹68. 23 lakh. The third category was a big stadium with a 400-metre-long track to be developed over 200x130 metres at a cost of ₹74.89 lakh. When contacted, Kumar Ravi, secretary of building construction department, said the department and the Bihar State Building Construction Corporation have been working on the project. “We are trying to get the works done fast at the sites which are free from encroachments. This is our priority,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/stadiums-in-bihar-no-boundary-walls-water-stream-on-ground-101630598533509.html
02-09-2021||Patna||Bihar BJP chief diagnosed with rare disease||Bihar BJP president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal has been diagnosed with Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), a rare condition that causes one’s skin to develop rashes, blisters and then peel, and is undergoing treatment at Patna’s AIIMS. On Thursday, Dr Jaiswal broke the news on Facebook and appealed to his supporters to not visit him at least for the next one week as it could lead to infection, given his low immunity level. “The disease is an outcome of a medicine reaction. Dr Jaiswal, who was admitted on August 30, is stable and is recuperating fast in one of our private wards. He is likely to be discharged tomorrow evening,” said Dr CM Singh, medical superintendent, AIIMS-Patna. Doctors at the AIIMS said that a particular medicine for gout, a form of arthritis, characterised by severe pain, redness and tenderness in joints, had reacted in case of Dr Jaiswal and led to SJS. The disease is generally caused due to the reaction of some medicines. “Dr Jaiswal was running fever, with skin rashes. We proceeded systematically and eliminated possibility of dengue and chikungunya before finally concluding that he was suffering from SJS. Soon after, we began the treatment and his condition began to improve, ” said a doctor at AIIMS. Dr Jaiswal said he developed fever while he was in Kolkata on August 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bjp-chief-diagnosed-with-rare-disease-101630598294424.html
02-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 975 fresh Covid cases, 4 deaths on Thursday||PUNE As per state health department authorities, Pune district reported 975 fresh Covid-19 and four virus-related deaths on Thursday.Two deaths were reported from Pune rural and two deaths were reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits in 24 hours.The progressive count of the district stands at 1,121,068 cases. Out of this, 1,086,788 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 19,620 deaths and there are 14,660 active cases.The PMC has reported 511,969 cases and 9,124 deaths till Thursday. Pimpri-Chinchwad has reported 262,532 cases so far and a total of 3,482 deaths due to the virus, while Pune rural has reported 346,567 total cases and 6,665 deaths.As per the state health department, 4,755 patients were discharged on Thursday in the state taking the total to 6,281,985. The recovery rate in the state is 97.04 per cent.Across Maharashtra, 4,342 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 55 deaths were reported and the case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.The state health department stated out of 543,27,469 laboratory samples, 6,473,674 have tested positive till Thursday i.e 11.92% of patients.Currently, 2,87,385 people are in home quarantine and 1,971 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-975-fresh-covid-cases-4-deaths-on-thursday-101630598052656.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ranjeet Singh murder case: HC judge recuses from hearing||A Punjab and Haryana high court judge has recused from hearing a plea seeking transfer of trial against Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim in the Ranjeet Singh murder case. Justice Arvind Sangwan recused from hearing on Thursday while recording that it has come to his notice that in the year 1986-1988, he had represented Ranjit Singh and his father in a civil suit in Kurukshetra. Now, the case has been transferred to the chief justice for placing it before some other judge. It was on August 24 that justice Sangwan had restrained a special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court, Panchkula, from pronouncing the final verdict in the murder case, two days before the final order. He had acted on the plea of Ranjit Singh’s son, Jagseer Singh, who had sought directions for the transfer of the case to any other court in the region. Ranjit Singh was murdered in 2002. As per the CBI, he was murdered as Ram Rahim suspected that he was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter highlighting sexual exploitation of female disciples on the Dera premises. The son had questioned adjournments granted by the CBI judge a number of times since joining and also levelled allegations against CBI public prosecutor KP Singh for “interfering” in the “administration of justice” and “influencing” the proceedings. The CBI has denied allegations against its public prosecutor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ranjeet-singh-murder-case-hc-judge-recuses-from-hearing-101630597573174.html
02-09-2021||Other||SIT probing political links to illicit liquor unit in Punjab’s Badal village draws a blank||Bathinda Two months after former Muktsar senior superintendent of police (SSP) D Sudarvizhi formed a three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) to look into alleged political patronage to an illegal liquor bottling unit at Badal village, no headway has been made in the case. Badal village is the native place of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president and former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal and state finance minister Manpreet Badal. A senior politician owns a huge chunk of land in the area, and this was also a point of reference to investigate for the SIT. On May 22, a team of the state excise department that joint commissioner Naresh Dubey led had raided an orchard at Badal village. A large quantity of Extra Neutral Alcohol (ENA), raw material for liquor, thousands of filled and empty bottles, fake holograms, caps, cartons and labels of major brands of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and country-made liquor of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Daman and Diu were seized in this raid. Three persons were arrested from the spot on May 22 while the role of two other suspects is still being verified, he added.The SIT was formed after allegations surfaced that the operators of the improvised plant had a political connection. Three persons namely Anand Sharma of Hardwar, Pargat Singh and Jashan Singh of Muktsar were arrested from the spot.“The role of two other suspects is still being verified,” new Muktsar SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal said, adding that he had directed the SIT head Kulwant Rai, SP (investigation) to expedite the verification/checking of land details. Sohal added that the role of a politically influential person remains a point of scrutiny that had not been ruled out yet. “An authorised factory is located less than 500m from the illicit unit. An investigation shows that the legal unit was non-functional since January this year, due to administrative reasons. The operation of the improvised unit is being probed from all angles,” he added.“The excise department conducted a raid, and as per protocol, they submitted details to the local police. We are trying to find a suspect, Raja, who the excise department had named as a suspect. We plan to include an official from the excise department in the SIT to conclude the investigation objectively,” SIT head Rai said.Excise joint commissioner Dubey said Muktsar police have recently filed a challan in court against the three accused; the department has not heard anything from the police since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sitprobing-political-links-to-illicit-liquor-unit-in-punjab-s-badal-village-draws-a-blank-101630595473439.html
02-09-2021||Other||Five held for smuggling drugs in Patiala, 3 lakh tablets recovered||Patiala Police have arrested five men for snuggling of narcotic pills and confiscated 3.1 lakh drug tablets and 4,000 injections from them. The men were running an inter-state gang and were smuggling pharmaceutical drugs from Uttar Pradesh to Punjab. The recovery includes 2.4 lakh narcotics pills (Tramadol), 76,800 capsules and 4,000 injections (Pentazocina).The accused are Sarwan Singh, 26, of Ashike village in Ferozepur district; Gurwinder Singh, 23, of Balor village in Tarn Taran; Rajvikram Singh, 18; Sharad Awasthi, 20, and Rajat Gogian, 25, all of Shahjahanpur district in Uttar Pradesh.SSP Sandeep Kumar Garg said on August 28, Rajpura Police had intercepted a truck on the national highway and recovered 22,000 narcotic pills from the occupants. Garg added that the men on the truck said that they had brought the tablets from Rajvikaram, who is pursuing a diploma in pharmacy.“During investigation, the police also zeroed in a godown owned by Rajat in Shahjahanpur. Three other accused were arrested more drugs were seized,” the SSP said, adding that the UP men had been in this smuggling racket for long. “The two accused from Punjab joined this gang only recently, and acted as suppliers. We have got seven-day remand of the accused and will question them on the people who bought their drugs,” he added. A case has been registered under Sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at the Rajpura Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-held-for-smuggling-drugs-in-patiala-3-lakh-tablets-recovered-101630594273192.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||84-day gap for those travelling abroad relaxed, Sundays only for 2nd shot||The Punjab government will allow people in urgent need to travel abroad take the second dose of Covishield without waiting for mandatory 84 days. Also, to better the state’s second dose figures, the government has also decided to hold special sessions every Sunday at government centres for the administration of the second shot. This relaxation for the administration of the second dose has also been extended to foreign nationals needing to return to their countries, health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said in a statement on Thursday. For availing this relaxation in inoculation, the people needing to travel abroad for unavoidable reasons may be asked to produce a copy of travel documents such as visas, confirmed tickets and other documents justifying the urgency for undertaking the travel, he added. This decision has been taken “as several Punjabis travel abroad for studies or some other important reasons”, the minister said. “Coverage of Covid-19 vaccination or 2nd dose to beneficiaries remains critical for the successful impact of the vaccination drive. So, it has been decided to earmark every Sunday for the Covid vaccination session at all government Covid vaccination centres only for administering the second dose among due beneficiaries,” he said. Normal vaccination sessions for the first and second doses of the vaccine will remain the same during the weekdays except Sunday. On the vaccination drive in the state, Sidhu said till August 31, the state had inoculated 1.36 crore people, of which 32.8 had taken both the doses. He appealed to the public to get themselves vaccinated without hesitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/84day-gap-for-those-travelling-abroad-relaxed-sundays-only-for-2nd-shot-101630593438297.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||Teachers in a fix as Delhi schools reopen||Schools closed right at the start of the pandemic, and have been shut ever since with the exception of a few days earlier this year. With Covid-19 cases being on an all-time low, the Delhi government recently allowed schools to reopen in a phased manner from September 1, alongside providing a long list of SOPs. This has certainly made the parents go into a dilemma of whether or not to send their children to school right away. But, in a far challenging situation are the city-based school teachers, who are have to be present at school and also make arrangements to settle things back home. “I’ve started hunting for a house help who can assist my mother-in-law in taking care of my two-year-old as well as with the household chores, when I am off to school! Abhi tak toh travelling time bach jata tha and kuchh ghante ki hi class hoti thi, so I was somehow managing. But now it’s difficult to manage house work as well as school work. It’s great that schools are reopening since children were having a pretty difficult time, but for us teachers this only means more hurdles since we need to ensure that the students follow Covid-19 precautions at all time,” says Manisha Verma, a teacher from Model Town. “Functioning on an offline as well as online work module, that too simultaneously, will be stressful,” says Neha Mathur, a teacher from Dhaula Kuan, adding, “We are asked to take online and offline classes together, which is tough. Also, we do ensure that students follow social distancing at school, but what about the time when they go out of the building? Youngsters tend to travel in groups. The last time when reopened schools, teachers were put on duties even on the road outside the school to ensure that the students are maintaining social distancing. This is too taxing after a day long work shift!” The work load will certainly increase, opine teachers about having to physically go to the school. Ruchika Bagai, a teacher from Shalimar Bagh, adds, “Ab school shuru ho jayega toh I will be very busy. Besides teaching, we will have to resume other duties as well. To follow Covid precautions, school buses won’t ply, so if all parents come to drop off and pick up their kids in their vehicles, there will be a major jam near the school and no one will be able to reach on time! And at home, my daughter had been telling me until now, seeing Instagram, ki yeh bana do woh bana do khane ke liye. Now, I’ve told her ki yeh sab nahi ho payega since I’ll have absolutely no time! Yes, we teachers are excited to meet each other, but for things to go back to how they were before the pandemic will take a lot of time. Staff room mein sab saath mein nahi kha sakte, classroom me zyada paas khade hoke samjha nahi sakte, kaafi kuchh badal jayega.” Some teachers even feel that parents need to chip in for them to be able to balance their work. “Parents need to have discussions with their children, especially the younger ones, about having Covid appropriate behaviour in school. Kids love going out, but they have got used to being at home in the past year and a half. Now, they need to be told about the importance of wearing masks,” says Verma, and Mathur adds, “Parents need to shoulder the responsibility with us to ensure that the students are well-informed and stay safe in the Covid times.”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories onFacebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/teachers-in-a-fix-as-delhi-schools-reopen-101630593435816.html
02-09-2021||Other||Amritsar AIR station in the works for 15 years; tower issue grounds progress||Amritsar The All India Radio (AIR) station, Amritsar, which had the potential to counter anti-India propaganda in Lahore, has received shabby treatment from authorities since the project was conceived. Officially, the station, strategically important due to its location near the international border with Pakistan in Gharinda village, has been under construction since 2006. The transmission station has no staff, but only guards. The stand-out feature of the facility is a 300-meter (nearly 1,000 feet) high broadcasting tower with a range of 100km. This was completed in 2013, but Prasar Bharati authorities inspected it and found that it was bent in its upper portion, effectively putting a full-stop on the project.From 2014 to 2016, there was no movement; in 2017, a 100-meter high tower was built adjacent to it and on 24th of September 2018, transmission was formally started, though temporarily, from the new tower. As things stand now, a 20 kilowatt FM transmitter is radiating sound from this temporary tower, which does not fully reach the downtown areas of both Lahore and Amritsar. Compared to the 300m tower, its range is 50km and it serves only a fourth of the area and the population.In 2020, the Prasar Bharati allocated a budget for dismantling of the bent portion; the same year, the upper portion of the higher towers was dismantled; to date, there has been no reconstruction. The transmission station remains locked, with guards on duty, changing shifts thrice a day. Santosh Rishi, director, AIR Jalandhar, who also looks after the Amritsar station, said, “Only the engineering section of the department can answer your questions, as I only oversee programming.” The engineering department officials are evasive. The purpose of the creation of a long-range AIR, Amritsar, was to use it as a facility for carrying the external service programming, particularly the Urdu Service of the AIR to Pakistan’s second-most populous city. The Urdu Service, however, is neither completely carried by AIR, Amritsar, nor is its frequency is included in the announcement. Harjap Singh Aujla, a retired engineer from the US and social activist, has written a letter to Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur on the issue.“I don’t think any other radio station in India has received such a shabby treatment. An agonising wait indeed,” he said, adding “To accommodate the programmes of the Urdu Service, Des Punjab Service, programming from the Golden Temple in Amritsar, the AIR Rainbow programmes and the Vividh Bharati Service, Amritsar needs three transmitters. We have just one.”Kulwant Singh Ankhi, patron of Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM), said, “All other radio stations in Punjab have a decent studio. AIR, Amritsar, cannot produce programmes even as this city is the theatre and cultural capital of the state. Amritsar has also been allotted a flawed frequency. Just like every other tourist city, it needs a Vividh Bharati channel of its own.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsar-air-station-in-the-works-for-15-years-tower-issue-grounds-progress-101630591513034.html
02-09-2021||Other||Emblems of empowerment: She stood her ground to become the change||She was afflicted with polio when she was only two months old but that didn’t stop her from studying and becoming a doctor. At 38, Dr Shabnam Nahid is a single parent of two who lives life on her terms. “I grew up hearing, ‘Arre yeh toh langdi hai (Oh, she is lame)’. Even today people call me langdi but their words make me stronger to the extent that I call myself langdi on their face and ask them if it’s a crime and if I should stop working?” says Dr Nahid, who runs a tent and catering business in Jammu. An MBBS graduate from Government Medical College, Jammu, she quit the medical profession in 2006 for varied reasons, such as lack of facilities at the girls’ hostel for differently abled students, ragging and unethical practices besides her deteriorating health. “I was not only disappointed but also getting depressed at the hostel. There were no lifts, no ramps or bathrooms for the differently abled. I quit medicine in 2006 and got married. It was a love marriage,” she says. Dr Nahid’s parents were upset with her decision to quit the profession. “I too was disappointed. I had two children, a son and a daughter, after which my husband abandoned us,” she says. Financial independence Being a differently abled woman with no source of income and two children to raise, Dr Nahid sold all her gold. “In 2017, when I was struggling to be financially independent, I came across the Prime Minister’s Rozgar Yojana. In 2018, I decided to set up a tent house and my aim was achieved in 2019,” she says. Considering her health, her parents suggested she open a boutique or a beauty parlour, but she refused. From the government scheme, she took a loan of ₹6.5 lakh and sold her gold for ₹2 lakh to start the business. Children her biggest strength “My parents were not convinced. All tactics were used to discourage me. It was heartbreaking,” says Dr Nahid, who is now recuperating from cataract surgery. “The support which my parents and husband should have extended was given by my children, Shaeryl and Abbrar. My daughter helps me in wearing the calipers and knows how to handle my needs,” she says. Professional challenges Today, she stands tall as the only woman in Jammu to be running a tent house. But she has her own set of challenges. “Some people don’t pay in time; others clear their dues in instalments. Labourers are not easily available and goons in slums create problems for my staff but I’m managing,” she says. “This was a profit-making venture before the Covid-19 pandemic struck and now things are improving,” she says. Dr Nahid admits the mindset of society has not changed even after two decades into the 21st century. “Society and the system are insensitive to a differently abled woman. But I stood my ground and didn’t give up. It’s important to be yourself and be the change.” She dabbled in politics and social work by joining the Aam Aadmi Party and launched a drive against drugs and prostitution in her area. Her aim is to do her bit for society and take her business to new heights. Next: Haseena Sozni, artist||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/emblems-of-empowerment-she-stood-her-ground-to-become-the-change-101630591152939.html
02-09-2021||Pune||Global village idiot: Sports, Paralympics, Inspiration||As a little boy in Mumbai, I used to watch my father play badminton every day. It was his time with his friends and I used to peep in because it was inspiring. He and his partner, Santhanam Uncle (the two MKs as they were sometimes called since both had the same initials) were birds of a feather - great characters on the court, colourful, animated, competitive, passionate … and sporting. Willing to nurture others and give them opportunities irrespective of background, they wouldn’t give an inch when competing on court. I started playing badminton in the late 1970s, but I started taking it seriously only when Prakash Padukone won the All England in 1980. That year was stellar for Padukone and for many kids in our LIC colony. We all wanted to be Padukone. (I also wanted to be Gavaskar and Kapil Dev, as also Khazan Singh, but that’s a different story.). The newspapers did a great job in keeping us kids informed and it’s been that way in subsequent decades (1990s I took up snooker thanks to Geet Sethi’s charismatic international success). Last week felt like those 1980s and 1990s days. It was an inspiring week. Bhavina Patel won a silver at the Tokyo Paralympics and it could have been a gold quite easily. I watched her play the quarter, semi and final matches, and it was clear that she was competing to win. On her way to the silver medal, she beat players ranked World Number 9, 8, 2, and 3. What struck me was her reported comment after one of the rounds “Please keep supporting me, I can win”. While Zhou Ying of China won the final in straight sets, it was a keen contest. Bhavina had a plan, played to her strengths and wasn’t overawed. Zhou is the current World Number 1 para-paddler and before the Tokyo Olympics had already won five Olympic golds from 2008 to 2016. She had beaten Bhavina in the opening round quiet easily, but had to use her diverse experience to counter the Indian’s strategy in the final. I was reminded of Sharat Kamal’s round of 32 match against eventual champion Ma Long in the Olympics. There was a conviction in Bhavina’s demeanour that she belonged in the gold medal match and it is something that can’t be taught, it evolves - self-belief. I had been waiting for the F46 men’s javelin event to watch Devendra Jhajharia, who is a legend. I had first heard about Jhajharia a decade ago and have been following his achievements off and on (through the internet) since then. Jhajharia - who was the world record holder on the F46 javelin for men - had previously won Paralympic gold in 2004 and 2016. I was keen to see if he still had the fire burning and the desire to perform at the top level of sports. His performance was incredibly inspiring, he not only performed at the top level, he delivered his best performance ever, breaking his own world record with 64.35m in his third throw; however, Sri Lankan Dinesh Priyan Herath Mudiyanselage shattered that with 67.79m on his third throw to take gold. Jhajharia took a well-earned silver, while bronze was won by Sundar Singh also of India. What was inspiring was that Jhajharia improved on his past performances and delivered his best - which is all that any human being should constantly aspire for: continuous improvement. Winning and losing, medals and records are a byproduct. There were many great stories in the Paralympics from across the world, just as there had been great stories in the Olympics. And like the Olympics, I followed the sports I enjoy playing and watching. Our children were curious at what I was reading and watching on my phone from time to time and excited about the events and the competitions. Two of them have taken up fencing since the Olympics and Paralympics (with plastic light sabres of the Star Wars kind). And here’s the thing about kids: they don’t perceive the abilities or disabilities nor the colour of skin or religion nor gender nor financial status - adults put it in their heads by drawing attention to the differences. The week was also inspiring because the government, industry, and media have been visibly supporting Paralympics and Paralympians, as they had Olympians. The media coverage has been extensive and that is significant because the fourth estate can lead the way to eventual change in societal attitudes by providing sustained visibility as a matter of equal opportunities. I also discovered that Olympic Gold Quest (OGQ), the non-profit movement that has been trying to instil the philosophy of self-belief in Indian sports people as a complementary effort to government and sports federations, has been supporting sportspersons in true spirit of equal opportunities. Several of India’s Paralympians (including Jhajharia) are among the 51 athletes supported by OGQ across eight sports disciplines. I was looking at the management team of OGQ and it took me some time to realise that the organisation was founded by two great sportspersons who brought unparalleled laurels to India in their playing days - Prakash Padukone and Geet Sethi. Former world champions giving back to society by doing, by driving others to share their expertise and experience, by providing a nurturing environment for sports people irrespective of barriers, by creating a performance-oriented legacy of sporting generations. That, is truly inspiring. Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-sports-paralympics-inspiration-101630590792059.html
02-09-2021||Pune||Pune civic body to conduct safety audit of electric poles ahead of Ganesh festival||With the Ganesh festival just round the corner, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is carrying out a safety audit of all the electric poles in the city to avoid any untoward incident.Ordering the safety audit, Shrinivas Kandul, head of the electric department of the PMC, said, “As the festive season is underway, the PMC has started the safety audit of all electric poles. During the Ganesh festival, many mandals in the city erect pandals and sometimes, electric poles are part of the pandal. We are checking the earthing of each pole, and even appealing mandals to keep the pandals away from electric poles.”There have been mishaps in the city where people lost their lives due to electrocution with a majority of these occurring mainly during the rainy season. Learning from experience, the PMC electric department has instructed its engineers to check each pole under its jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-civic-body-to-conduct-safety-audit-of-electric-poles-ahead-of-ganesh-festival-101630590432632.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Locals recover ₹20,000 ‘bribe money’ from SI, probe ordered||A departmental probe has been initiated against a sub-inspector posted at Baghapurana police station after locals allegedly recovered ₹20,000 bribe money from him on Thursday. A video of the incident is also making rounds on the social media. According to locals, the SI had allegedly taken ₹20,000 from a youth’s family to help him in a drug case. Family members also alleged that the police had registered a false case against the youth. Jagmohan Gill, an activist of Lok Insaaf Party, said the police allegedly registered a false case against Manpreet Singh of Kotla Mehar Singh Wala village at Baghapurana police station on Tuesday, claiming that they recovered 190 banned tablets from him. “The SI demanded ₹20,000 from the family of the youth in lieu of helping him out in the case. The youth’s family approached us, and the family handed over ₹20,000 to the SI. But we had kept photocopies of all notes with us. Later we went to the police station and recovered all the currency notes from the pockets of the sub-inspector,” he added. Moga SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said, “I have directed the SP (headquarters) to verify the allegations. A strict action will be taken against the sub-inspector if found guilty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/locals-recover-20-000-bribe-money-from-si-probe-ordered-101630589893227.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||Jantar Mantar hate sloganeering case: Pinky Chaudhary sent to 14-day judicial custody||The Hindu Raksha Dal chief Pinky Chaudhary was on Thursday remanded to judicial custody by a Delhi Court till September 17 for his alleged involvement in chanting communal slogans at a rally in Delhi’s Jantar Mantar on August 8, news agency ANI reported. Chaudhary, whose real name is Bhupinder Tomar, will be presented in court on September 16.The Delhi court observed that despite the nation celebrating ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’, the minds of certain individuals’ are "still chained with intolerant and self-centered beliefs".A video apparently made by Chaudhary surfaced on social media on Monday in which the 40-year-old said that neither he nor his organisation "did anything wrong" in Jantar Mantar on August 8. He declared in the video that he would get "himself arrested" on Tuesday. He also said that he will cooperate with the police during the probe. HT could not verify the authenticity of the video.Chaudhary surrendered to the police at Mandir Marg police station in Delhi on Tuesday and was brought to the police station by his supporters on their shoulders amid chants of ‘Jai Shree Ram’ and ‘Pinky Bhaiyya Zindabad’. Chaudhary denied allegations made against him earlier.Earlier, some of the videos on social media showed him and other protesters allegedly shouting communal slogans on August 8. Chaudhary claimed that they were protesting seeking the removal of ‘colonial-era laws’. The court earlier denied him anticipatory bail due to the ‘nature of the allegations’.Along with Chaudhary, former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay was also part of the ‘Bharat Jodo Andolan’ rally. Upadhyay was granted bail last week for his alleged involvement. Preet Singh, Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar, Vinod Sharma, Vinit Bajpai and Sushil Tiwari were among the others arrested along with these two for allegedly chanting communal slogans and defying Covid-19 protocols. Preet Singh was also denied bail last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pinky-chaudhary-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-101630586259995.html
02-09-2021||Pune||Pune student’s innovating concept can help patients in golden hour||Stasha Shivani, Class 7 student of Vikhe Patil Memorial School, Pune, has bagged the first prize in the recently concluded HCL Jigsaw national level competition.Stasha presented a smart health care system concept in the competition, in which at least 7,000 schoolchildren from across the country had participated.In her concept, there will be centralisation of the administrative details of all the city hospitals. Which will include information like availability of beds in the city hospitals, booking of ambulance among other details. This will allow people to book a hospital bed from their home and they can also book ambulances at the same time. And as the ambulance is on its way to the hospital, the patient’s information can be provided to the hospital administration, so the hospital can admit the patient on arrival. This will help in the golden hour in medical treatment which could potentially be life-saving for the patient.About her award-winning concept Shivani, said, “During the second wave of Covid-19, many people lost their lives due to lack of information regarding hospital beds, medicine, oxygen. If we had a centralised health care information system we could handle the situation better. That is why I presented the concept of the smart health care system in the HCL Jigsaw competition, which provides centralised information on health services.”HCL Jigsaw provides a platform to young students from Class 6 to Class 9 to assess their cognitive abilities and empowers them to think methodically and holistically about real-world problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-student-s-innovating-concept-can-help-patients-in-golden-hour-101630586472625.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 39 Covid-19 cases, zero fatality; active cases reach 344||National capital Delhi on Thursday reported 39 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 38 recoveries in the last 24 hours, according to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government's health bulletin. There was no fatality reported due to the infection, the bulletin further showed.This is a marginal increase from Wednesday's figures, when Delhi recorded 36 fresh cases of Covid-19.With today's addition, the total Covid-19 tally in Delhi has reached 14,37,839, while the death toll stands at 25,082.The number of active cases in Delhi are 344, while the case fatality rate is 1.74 per cent.The health bulleting also showed that the number of samples tested in the said period is 60,843. The Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital is 0.06 per cent.The second wave swept the city during April-May period.Despite the fall in daily cases in the last several days, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently cautioned that the chances of a third wave of Covid-19 pandemic were quite real, while he asserted that his government was preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it.Delhi's health minister Satyendar Jain said last week that medical infrastructure was being ramped up and 37,000 beds dedicated to Covid-19 patients were being set up in the national capital to tackle the anticipated third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-39-covid-19-cases-zero-fatality-active-cases-reach-344-101630584283963.html
02-09-2021||Bhopal||35-yr-old Bhopal man dies by suicide month after losing his job||BHOPAL: A 35-year-old man in Bhopal who lost his job at an ice cream factory over a month ago allegedly died by suicide, his family said on Thursday.His wife said that the man was depressed after losing his job and had started consuming liquor. “He tried to get a job but he was asked to come after six months after the possible third wave of Covid-19. We tried to bring him out of depression but he was not ready to listen to us,” his wife added.“On Wednesday, he came back home late in the night and started talking depressively. We tried to convince him that if he tries, he will definitely get a job,” she said. An argument ensued, after which the deceased attempted to take his own life, according to the wife.He was taken to the hospital where he later died.“The family members said the man was in depression and killed himself in front of all the family members. We are investigating to check their claims,” said inspector Virendra Chauhan, Jahangirabad.On Saturday, a 51-year-old engineer, who was allegedly depressed after losing his job, died by suicide after slitting his son and daughter’s throats. His 17-year-old son also died. The 51-year-old man wrote a three-page note in which he cited unemployment and poor financial condition as the reasons for his suicide.Dr Satyakant Trivedi, a psychiatrist at Bansal Hospital, Bhopal, said, “The state government should come up with a policy or platform where people having suicidal thoughts and facing acute depression can consult doctors. Because of Covid 19 and subsequent lockdown, people are facing mental issues.”(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/35yrold-bhopal-man-dies-by-suicide-month-after-losing-his-job-101630583712080.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh railway station fifth to get 5-star 'Eat Right Station' certificate. Know the other four||The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has awarded Chandigarh Railway Station a 5-star 'Eat Right Station' certification for providing “high-quality, nutritious food to passengers”, the ministry of railways announced on Thursday. Railway stations are awarded the certificate after an FSSAI-empanelled third-party audit agency rates them on a scale of 1 to 5 for standard food storage and hygiene practices.FSSAI awards the 'Eat Right Station' certificate to railway stations that receive a 5-star rating for setting benchmarks in providing safe and wholesome food to passengers. The certification is part of the 'Eat Right India' movement to transform India’s food system to ensure safe, healthy and sustainable food for all Indians.“The 5-star rating indicates exemplary efforts by stations to ensure safe and hygienic food is available to passengers,” the ministry of railways said in a release. “Eat Right India adopts a judicious mix of regulatory, capacity building, collaborative, and empowerment approaches to ensure that our food is suitable both for the people and the planet.”Also Read | Rajdhani Express between Patna-New Delhi makes maiden run with Tejas rake. Know the smart featuresChandigarh Railway Station became the fifth station to receive a 5-star rating from the FSSAI. The other Indian railway stations to get this certification are Anand Vihar Terminal railway station (Delhi); Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (Mumbai); Mumbai Central railway station (Mumbai); and Vadodara railway station.The ministry highlighted that Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Ltd. (IRSDC), which has been entrusted with the mandate to undertake facility management at Chandigarh railway station, has many firsts to its credit including ‘Water from Air’ Water Vending Machine, Fit India Squat Kiosk, Eat Right Station with the highest rating, digital locker, generic medicine shop, mobile charging kiosk, a retail store by a start-up and a food truck.The IRSDC will shortly be undertaking facility management of 90 more stations in a phased manner, according to the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-railway-station-fifth-to-get-5-star-eat-right-station-certificate-know-the-other-four-101630581257971.html
02-09-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination drive in Maharashtra’s Thane rises by 4% in 10 days||The Covid vaccination drive in Maharashtra’s Thane district has received a shot in the arm with the administration of 360,000 doses in the last 10 days—a 4% spike across the district, officials said. It was made possible due to allocation of more than 200,000 vaccine doses in each of the last two weeks.The increase in supply of doses has helped in inoculating more than 15,000 people on a daily basis, which even went up to 80,000 beneficiaries on two separate days, officials said.The vaccination drive picked up in the district after more than a month, ending a period when around 50,000 doses were being supplied in one or two instalments a week, much less than the demand.3.19 million among the district’s 9.9 million eligible population have received at least one dose of the vaccine. 2.2 million of these have received a single dose, while 900,000 have been fully vaccinated.“On August 26 and August 29, we received 153,000 and 78,000 vaccine doses respectively; this has helped conduct vaccination drives across the district without any hurdles. In the current situation, when only fully vaccinated are permitted to travel by trains or visit public places, there is an increased demand for vaccination. Moreover, residents in the 18 to 45 age group who got their first dose in May and June are now due for their second jab, leading to a further rise in demand for vaccine doses across the district,” said Dr Manish Renge, Thane’s district health officer.Despite the increase in supply of vaccines, demand in densely populated civic bodies like Thane, Kalyan and Dombivli continues to be very high. Thane Municipal Corporation has covered 1 million population by administering at least one vaccine dose to 470,000 women and 530,000 men.Despite the increased availability of doses, long queues are seen in many of Thane city’s 65 vaccination centres. Special sessions are being organized for those travelling abroad for work or studies. Till now, the city has vaccinated 395 pregnant women, 43 lactating mothers, 17 bedridden residents and 411 transgenders, officials said.“Our mobile vaccination facility has been posted in different parts of the city and we ensure that the destitute are also vaccinated through this facility. Moreover, we organised a special facility for teachers, health care workers and frontline workers at Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa and Parking plaza on Thursday. We do have sufficient infrastructure to vaccinate 50,000 beneficiaries daily but we are currently relying on the vaccine supply from the state government and plan our vaccination drive accordingly,” said Dr Vipin Sharma, commissioner, TMC.Overall, the city has fully vaccinated 11.3% of its population in the 18-60 year age group while 23% in this group have got their first dose. A senior doctor described this age group as “the moving population” and said vaccinating it was crucial to reducing the chances of a third wave of Covid infections.“Once the moving population is fully vaccinated, the impact of the third wave can easily be controlled,” said Dr Tejas Ghude, Pulmonologist, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-drive-in-maharashtra-s-thane-rises-by-4-in-10-days-101630580591826.html
02-09-2021||Pune||Ambegaon Budruk: Open nallah a disaster waiting to happen, say commuters||It’s a daily hurdle for commuters on the Katraj-Dehu road bypass, near the D-Mart at Ambegaon Budruk. An unfinished road running by an open nallah (canal) has created a risk for vehicles. “Last month one of my friends slipped on the road, fell close to the nallah and got injured. If there were barricades he would have been less injured. One of the water pipelines is busted and water flows continuously from this nallah. Then there is this road. It needs to be immediately repaired,” said Sapna Mamledar, a resident of the area. Another citizen, Abhishek Kamthe said, “During peak hours there is congestion from both sides. As it is a service road vehicles come from all over. There are no proper street lights. I have seen a two-wheeler rider falling into the nallah.”As this service road connects various localities like Ambegaon Budruk, Dattanagar and Jambhulwadi, it is used by thousands of citizens. Speaking anonymously, a senior engineer of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s road department said, “We have got complaints from citizens, but as there is some issue with the service road area jurisdiction, it is not yet repaired. Certainly we will take up this issue on priority and get it repaired soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ambegaon-budruk-open-nallah-a-disaster-waiting-to-happen-say-commuters-101630580292168.html
02-09-2021||Pune||Taste of Life: Deadly plague gets ‘foreign’ booze binge going in British India||In September 1896, the first case of the bubonic plague was detected in Bombay. It rapidly spread to Poona and other parts of the Presidency and killed thousands. The effects of this calamity were felt for many decades, as the plague kept visiting the Presidency every year until the 1930s.While the economy took a huge blow due to the plague, it had a rather amusing effect on the sales of foreign liquor, especially brandy. In 1897, Poona took 72,000 gallons of brandy and whisky as contrasted with a previous average of 12,000. The same phenomenon was repeated for the next four years, with the consumption of brandy increasing by almost 5% every year. The increase was steeper in the mofussil.When the plague struck the Presidency, a rumour gained ground that consuming brandy cured the disease. It is not known how the rumour started, but records with the Excise Department show that many teetotalers started drinking brandy in a belief that the disease would not kill them. The ravages of the plague in the Deccan and other parts of the mofussil in those years greatly stimulated the drinking of foreign spirit among the up-country natives. There was an increase in drinking among “higher caste” Hindus who adopted the “civilised” liquor of the Europeans in preference to mhowra or toddy spirit. It further helped that “foreign spirits” left little or no smell or taste in the mouth; this was no inconsiderable advantage when a man was ashamed that his friends or family would know that he drank.The significant increase in European population in Bombay Presidency between 1897 and 1908 was another factor that led to an increase in the consumption of foreign liquor.Initially, the Government was happy and intrigued by the jump in the sales of foreign liquor, especially brandy. Once it realised that a rumour was behind the phenomenon, it started monitoring the situation closely. Around 1901, the officials in the Excise Department found that most often there was not one drop of pure brandy in the stuff called “brandy”. The importers, retailers, and bottlers were selling diluted rectified spirit after adding flavours and essences.While brandy was ordinarily understood to be liquor manufactured from the juice of the grape in France, much of the commercially distilled cheap foreign spirit sold in Bombay and Poona markets as brandy and rum, was principally distilled in Hamburg in Germany and Spain, from the feculae of potatoes, and diluted in Bombay or Poona, into which an essence had been put. Occasionally some other bases, such as beets, carrots, Jerusalem artichokes, saw-dust, and cereals were also used. Sometimes the brandies which came from Germany would contain rectified spirit and were flavoured by brandies containing flavours. These were often passed as brandies from France.The practice had been in Bombay and Poona to label as “Rum” the stuff that was made locally from rectified spirit and water. They diluted the spirit, added burnt sugar, and called it rum. Tap water was used for dilution.Messrs Treacher and Co, Cursethee and Sons, Messrs Phillips and Co in Poona got their spirits in bulk and bottled the same. The first two mentioned firms did not colour or compound the same; they only added ordinary water to reduce the strength. Messrs. Phillips and Co was the only firm that added distilled water to reduce the strength of the spirits brought by them.Most of the labels were prepared in Bombay and put on the bottles according to their own fancy by the importers. Frequently, two different labels, e.g., “Superior Old Brandy” and “Fine Pale Brandy” were placed on bottles that had been filled with the spirit from one and the same consignment. Often, “Fine Pale Brandy” did not have a drop of real brandy in it. “Superior Old Brandy” was likely to be closer in flavour and alcohol content to the unadulterated brandy, though it was not distilled in France.The same quality of potato or other patent-still spirit would appear as “Vieux Cognac, Vinne Galle and Co” (with a great display of vine leaves and grapes), as “Imperial brandy, superior quality, four stars” with a portrait of the late Queen, or under a score of other equally fictitious and misleading labels.The patent-still whiskies of Glasgow were similarly described as “Scotch Whisky, Genuine Mountain Dew, finest quality” flanked with Highlanders, or “Fine Old vatted delicious whisky”, or “Finest old Highway whisky” with the names of firms below which were probably in every case fictitious. “Charles Pauline” was a popular brand, and no such firm existed in Europe.Foreign spirit was sold at a trifle over the price of the same quantity of mhowra spirit. The ordinary price for a quart bottle of cheap foreign spirit in Poona was one rupee-two annas in the year 1900, but in some shops, it was sold as low as Re 1, i.e. the price of a bottle of country spirit.The natives did not care for invented brand names. People who bought cheap brandies did not understand the difference between brandy and rum. They only required an ardent spirit to drink. They didn’t buy it for taste or flavour; they initially bought it as a cure for the plague, and later, out of addiction.To put a stop to the malpractices, a “Foreign Liquor Committee” was set up in 1907 in the Bombay Presidency of which AC Logan, ICS, was the chairman. HEE Procter, Chunilal Setalwad, Arthur Powell, Kavasji Edulji Dadachanji were the members. Exporters, excise inspectors, officers, shopkeepers, bottlers, importers, and members of the Temperance societies testified before the committee.The committee prohibited the bottling of foreign spirits or fermented liquors, or rectifying or compounding foreign spirits, and ruled that every receptacle containing foreign liquor must be conspicuously labelled showing clearly the country of manufacture, the name of the bottler, and the place of bottling.Interestingly, the consumption of foreign liquors among the natives declined after 1910. It was the time when the fear of plague had subsided and leaders like Tilak and Dr Mann had together strengthened their fight against alcohol.That story is for some other time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-deadly-plague-gets-foreign-booze-binge-going-in-british-india-101630579751627.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Tribute to teachers who groom life-long learners||Sister Joyce didn’t walk; she glided through the corridors in her white habit that included her spotless white tunic, a white headgear and the silver cross dangling from a silver chain around her neck. History and I could never see eye to eye. I chastised it for being static, morbid and theoretic. I could barely keep my eyes open when the teacher read the chapter in class or summon up the names and dates of birth or death of the monarchs. Despite best efforts, I could rarely score good marks in history as I would fail to satisfactorily describe the various civilisations, or the realms spread across the surface of the earth over a span of not one but numerous centuries. God in His Heaven must have witnessed my conundrum, for in answer to my prayers, he sent Sister Joyce to teach us history as we started the ninth grade. Sister Joyce was a bundle of energy bursting with knowledge and information. As a thumb rule, she never picked up the book to teach in class. Whether it was the First World War, French Revolution or Russian Revolution, the dates, the facts, the outcomes, they were all on her fingertips. She would clothe the bare bones of history with flesh and blood by bringing every character alive in the classroom through her teaching. Whenever in doubt, she would retrieve minuscule slips out of her tunic pockets to check the facts. I still remember the day the Treaty of Versailles was to be signed after an armistice was established between the Allies and the Central Powers post World War I. There was palpable tension in the classroom, which was evident from the pin-drop silence among a class of 40 students. All eyes and ears were riveted to Sister Joyce’s face as she laid out the terms and conditions of the treaty, while also adding the guilt clause along with the already burdensome and humiliating contract. I could imagine myself entering the awe-inspiring Baroque style Hall of Mirrors in the Palace of Versailles along with other dignitaries assembled to witness the historical treaty. With every clause that Sister laid out in front of us that was signed by German representatives, I dawdled between a sense of remorse, bitterness, revenge and compunction at the fate of the Germans in particular and the world in general. I wondered if the belligerent parties would stick to their commitments and give a thought to world peace or would they backtrack it all to thwart any attempts of establishing peace. Of course, my latter conjecture turned out to be more potent than the former. Teachers like Sister Joyce are rare. They don’t force students to learn; they don’t try to educate students; they make their students fall in love with learning and education, thereby converting them into life-long learners. Sister Joyce did not stay in our school for long for the very next year she was transferred to another. I was not sad for by that time I had already fallen in love with learning and realised that Sister Joyce needed to touch many more lives like she did mine. The only regret I nurture to this day, is, that I could not stay connected with her. sonrok15@gmail.com The writer is an associate professor at SD College, Ambala Cantt||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tribute-to-teachers-who-groom-life-long-learners-101630579631821.html
02-09-2021||Kolkata||TMC leader Mukul Roy unwell, admitted to Kolkata’s SSKM hospital||Trinamool Congress (TMC) veteran Mukul Roy was admitted to the SSKM hospital in Kolkata on Thursday, according to a report by HT’s sister publication Livehindustan. He was seen walking inside the hospital with his security officials.The Livehindustan report said that Roy was hospitalised due to an increase in his sodium and potassium levels. The 67-year-old politician has been keeping unwell after his wife Krishna died due to post coronavirus disease (Covid-19) complications at a hospital in Chennai in July this year.Mukul Roy, one of the founding members of the TMC and a prominent face in West Bengal politics, left his party and joined the rival Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2017. He fought this year’s assembly elections with the BJP from the Krishnanagar North constituency and won. However, the BJP failed to win the elections and form the government in West Bengal.On June 11, Mukul Roy returned to the TMC with party supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee describing the moment as a “homecoming of the family’s boy” and alleged that the BJP did not allow anyone to live with dignity and peace.The BJP, on many occasions, has slandered Roy for jumping ship. Leader of opposition in Bengal Suvendu Adhikari, a former TMC leader and close aide of Mamata Banerjee, had sent a petition to the Speaker on June 18, seeking disqualification of Roy as the MLA from the Krishnanagar North constituency.Roy’s appointment as the chairman of the public accounts committee (PAC) of the West Bengal assembly in July also drew sharp criticism from the BJP, with eight legislators of the saffron party resigning as heads of various assembly panels in the state. The BJP also told the Calcutta high court last month that Roy’s appointment as the PAC chairman violated a 50-year-old convention of an opposition party MLA getting the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-leader-mukul-roy-unwell-admitted-to-kolkata-s-sskm-hospital-101630576598361.html
02-09-2021||Jaipur||3 tiger cubs added to Ranthambore reserve, officials wary of rising numbers||Three tiger cubs, spotted for the first time at Rajasthan’s Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR), have taken the big cat population to 74 at the sanctuary located at Sawai Madhopur.The reserve now has 20 tigers, 30 tigresses, and 24 sub-adults and cubs, apart from 4 tigers each in Keladevi range and Dholpur range of the reserve.The tigress T-105 was sighted with 3 cubs on Wednesday evening in Tapkan-Sultanpur area in zone-1, said Sanjiv Sharma, assistant conservator of forest at Ranthambore reserve.He said it was the first litter of the big cat, the daughter of tigress T-39.While the good news has excited wildlife lovers, the RTR administration is also worried that with their increasing population, the tiger territory is shrinking.A forest official said that due to increasing population territorial disputes are rising among big cats, resulting in migration.Citing the example of tigress Ridhi and Siddhi, the official said they have injured each other a number of times due to territorial disputes and therefore need to be relocated to Sariska Tiger Reserve but the process hasn’t even started in the last two months despite all necessary approvals.Due to the growing tiger population and fights, the Rajasthan chief minister ordered a panel of experts to suggest ways to shift/relocate tigers. The panel was constituted in July and the report is awaited.Retired Indian Forest Service officer (IFS) Sunayan Sharma said relocation of tigers should be done on priority or else territorial fights and man-animal conflicts will continue.“This is not scientific management as carrying capacity should be the guiding principle. Relocation and habitat improvement of tigers should be done simultaneously,” he said, referring to how tiger population was being managed at the RTR.Sharma said old tiger habitats such as Ramgarh Vishdhari, MHTR, and Raoli Todgarh in Udaipur should be revived and developed to help in tiger and environment conservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/3-tiger-cubs-added-to-ranthambore-reserve-officials-wary-of-rising-numbers-101630578611761.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Farm protesters try to disrupt Sukhbir’s poll rally in Moga||At least six people, including three police personnel, were injured and six vehicles were damaged when protesting farmers tried to barge into a rally being addressed by Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal at the grain market in Moga on Thursday. Also read: BSF foils infiltration bid in Punjab, Pakistani intruder heldThe protesters broke barricades and clashed with the police when they were prevented from disrupting the SAD rally, Gall Punjab Di, around 1pm, DSP (City) Jashandeep Singh Gill said. The police used water cannons and cane-charge to disperse the protesters after they threw stones and damaged banners and hoardings put up by SAD workers. The protesters had gathered at the gate of the grain market on the Moga-Ferozepur road, but the SAD leader entered the venue from Zira road. Chamkaur Singh Rode, a leader of the Kirti Kisan Union, said, “We were protesting against Sukhbir, but the situation worsened when SAD workers threw stones at us. Many farmers got injured.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-protesters-try-to-disrupt-sukhbir-s-poll-rally-in-moga-101630576392170.html
02-09-2021||Other||Senior cop’s fake Facebook account unearthed in Maharashtra’s Raigad||A senior police official in Raigad, Maharashtra, has revealed that he fell victim to cyber fraud. Cheats created a fake Facebook account of district superintendent of police Ashok Dudhe and then reached out to his friends for money. Dudhe learnt about it on Wednesday when one of his friends called him, asking him if he was in need of money. The police official then took to social media to alert his friends about the fraud, requested everyone not to entertain that bogus account. Also Read | Maharashtra forms Council for Climate Change to prepare action plan“All please note that someone has created fake account under my name and asking money from my Facebook friends. Please don’t fall prey to his tactics. It is a totally fake/bogus account. I am not related to fake account,” he posted on Facebook. Dudhe said, “...Later I got to know that some other friends also received similar messages asking for money. I am now thinking of registering a First Information Report against the unidentified accused.” Pravin Patil, deputy commissioner of police (crime), Navi Mumbai, said that such cases have become common in the satellite city. “People should not trust anyone blindly online. If they receive a friend request from a relative or close friend on social media and if that person asks for money or some other favour, they should verify it first,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/senior-cop-s-fake-facebook-account-unearthed-in-maharashtra-s-raigad-101630575731495.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||UP CM orders cleanliness campaign in state after suspected dengue deaths||In view of a rising number of dengue cases in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed authorities on Thursday to run a widespread cleanliness campaign and assign a nodal officer to every district for monitoring.According to an official spokesperson, at a meeting with officials, the chief minister pointed out that cases of dengue have been reported in many districts and cautioned that the number of malaria cases can also rise."Due to rains and waterlogging, there are chances of spread of diseases," Adityanath said. Highlighting the importance of cleanliness in this regard, he ordered a massive statewide campaign."A nodal officer should be sent in every district to monitor the situation and the relief work due to floods," the chief minister said.Also Read| Firozabad 'dengue' deaths: CM Yogi suspends chief medical officerThe rural development, urban development, women and child development, health and medical education departments will coordinate the cleanliness and health security measures, he said.The state government on Wednesday transferred the chief medical officer of Firozabad, where 41 people, mostly children, died of suspected dengue and viral fever.Additional Director (Health) of the Agra division A K Singh and Firozabad Government Medical College Principal Sangeeta Aneja told reporters about these deaths, indicating at dengue as the probable cause.On Tuesday, Firozabad's BJP MLA Manish Asija had claimed that 44 people had died of suspected dengue in the district since August 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-orders-cleanliness-campaign-in-state-after-suspected-dengue-deaths-101630572636629.html
02-09-2021||Mumbai||Thane police ask banks to improve security to prevent ATM thefts||Maharashtra Police have issued guidelines for maintaining security of bank ATMs in Thane to prevent incidents of thefts, which have risen recently, police officers said and added that patrolling near these kiosks will also be intensified by local cops.“Such incidents are gradually on the rise so we have issued certain directives to be followed. Owing to the lockdown, most banks were short-staffed and the security was also lax. We have now asked banks to ensure each [ATM] kiosk has a guard, ample lighting and operational CCTV cameras among other necessary measures,” a senior police officer from Thane said.In the past two years, six cases of thefts at ATMs have been registered in the Thane Commissionerate. In the month of June, an ATM in Kalyan was robbed of ₹49 lakh in cash by four people including bank employees since there was no security around the machine and the CCTV was not working. Earlier in January this year, four thieves tried to break into an ATM machine at Ulhasnagar camp no. 4 since it was not guarded.S Jadhav, police inspector of Mahatma Phule police station, added that in most cases, the accused conduct a recce and target kiosks with maximum security lapses.“Apart from a security guard and CCTV, the ATMs also need to have an alarm system against forced entries. The security guard should also be subjected to a background check. ATM centers should display all emergency numbers including that of police, fire brigade and bank office.”Police department has stationed employees to patrol ATMs at night, while local police officials will be visiting ATMs placed in remote locations in civilian clothes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-police-ask-banks-to-improve-security-to-prevent-atm-thefts-101630572731243.html
02-09-2021||Noida||Police ban 'take home' services in Noida, Greater Noida during night curfew||The Gautam Buddh Nagar Police have announced a ban on “take home” services provided by restaurants and eateries in Noida and Greater Noida, according to news agency PTI. These services will remain prohibited from 10pm to 6am, when a night curfew is in effect across Uttar Pradesh.“There will be a ban on Take Home services of hotels and dhabas etc. after 10pm till 6am,” the police said in a statement. “CrPC Section 144 is imposed in Gautam Buddh Nagar. Additional Director General (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar has instructed all districts in the state to ensure compliance of the daily 10pm to 6am night curfew,” the statement further read.It also reiterated that only emergency and necessary services such as health care will be granted exemption while the night curfew is on, during which, it said, all usual activities will remain banned. The exemption, however, will also be extended to industrial services which will continue to function normally, the order stated.“Gautam Buddh Nagar Police commissioner Alok Singh has directed all officers and station in-charges to ensure that the instructions are strictly complied with,” the police said.Though officials have cited the imposition of Section 144 as the reason behind banning take home services during the night curfew, the announcement came in the wake of a 38-year-old restaurant owner in Greater Noida being shot dead at the outlet late night on Tuesday, allegedly over a delivery order which was taking longer than expected.The deceased, a resident of Dadri, was trying to resolve an argument among some food delivery agents when three men, all of whom were drunk and apparently unconnected with the restaurant, its owner or the delivery boys, opened fire, killing the victim.All three suspects have been arrested by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/police-ban-take-home-services-in-noida-greater-noida-during-night-curfew-101630571643611.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||IIT-BHU preparing to start B Tech 1st year course in Hindi medium||Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Banaras Hindu University (BHU) director and chairman of Rajbhasha (official language) committee, professor Pramod Kumar Jain, said the institute was gearing up to start B-Tech first year course in Hindi medium as per the new education policy.“According to the new education policy, the medium of instruction and education should be mother tongue,” Jain said, explaining the reason behind the move.He said the language of the region concerned has to be respected if entrepreneurship is to be promoted. He congratulated the officials of the institute for working in Hindi and appealed for more work to be done in Hindi in classrooms, departments and offices.Professor Anil Kumar Tripathi, the vice-chairman of the official language implementation committee of the institute also highlighted the importance of Hindi language, while varsity registrar Rajan Shrivastava highlighted the work done in the institute in Hindi in 2020-21.The National Education Policy 2020 notes that India will have the highest population of young people in the world over the next decade, and the country’s ability to provide high-quality educational opportunities to them will determine its future.It also promotes learning in mother tongue and regional languages to remove inequality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iitbhu-preparing-to-start-b-tech-1-year-course-in-hindi-medium-101630570811358.html
02-09-2021||Mumbai||Advisory to control crowding during festivals came from Centre, says Sena||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Thursday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) over the protests to reopen temples and carrying out the Dahi Handi celebration this week. It asked them to hold protests in Delhi and send a delegation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah as the advisory for crowd control during the festive season came from the Centre.In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, the Sena called the demand for reopening temples inhuman as the country faces the threat of a third Covid-19 wave.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said the government is not against any religion or festivals but against Covid-19.The statement came on the day MNS leaders defied orders and celebrated the Dahi Handi festival in Mumbai and Thane while the BJP questioned Sena’s Hindutva credentials. The BJP also staged protests across the state demanding reopening of temples. The restrictions on Dahi Handi celebrations in Maharashtra triggered a war of words with BJP leaders questioning the “selective” restrictions on Hindu festivals.“Your beloved central government has warned of a third wave. The Centre has written to the Thackeray government saying ‘there is a threat of the third wave. Remain cautious during festivals like Dahi Handi and Ganeshotsav’. Now you would not even listen to... Delhi? The Centre has sent guidelines for crowd control and festivities. Then why do not you show the courage to do a protest in Delhi? Take a delegation to Delhi and meet the Prime Minister and home minister,” the editorial said. It added an atmosphere was being created to paint the Thackeray government as anti-Hindu.In a veiled attack on MNS, the Sena said some “non-existent” political party did the “brave” thing of breaking Dahi Handis. “This political party is completely non-existent today... But its agenda is to oppose for the sake of opposing...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/advisory-to-control-crowding-during-festivals-came-from-centre-says-sena-101630570511115.html
02-09-2021||Other||Pistol shooter Rahi Sarnobat: Old notes to find fresh zing||Rahi Sarnobat can effortlessly recount her more than decade-long journey in shooting—her tiniest slips to moments of despair and victory. She has maintained a notebook where she diligently jots down all her performances, fears, weaknesses and emotional connect with each match. Whenever she needs encouragement to tackle a challenging situation, she just flips through the pages of her notes. The mental sport that shooting is Sarnobat believes decoding herself over the years through her diary has helped prepare for the biggest moments of her career. One such moment will come in the next few days when she lines up for the 25m pistol competition at the Tokyo Olympics. The 30-year-old is a medal contender, having won two back-to-back World Cup medals this year. “I have everything noted down and that has helped me grow as a shooter. I just go back to my notes whenever I feel the need for scores of a particular match or how I felt then,” says Sarnobat.Also read | IOC president quickly corrects slip up in Olympic pep talkYears of struggle in the range with form and injuries have toughened her. At the 2012 London Olympics, as a 21-year-old, she was overawed. A look at the scoreboard and she realised she had finished 19th with a score of 579. The cut for the eight-shooter final was 583. “What has changed for me from Rio to Tokyo is belief in myself. That is the only thing I am doing differently from London. When I finished my competition in London and looked at the scoreboard I felt a medal was certainly possible. I used to initially underestimate myself. I used to feel ‘no, this cannot happen in 3-4 years’. It will take 10 years and only then will I get an Olympic medal. Sometimes, you are working so hard you are capable of getting it, you never know,” she says. After London, Sarnobat re-set her goals. Then an elbow injury kept her out of the Indian team in 2015, ending the chances of qualifying for the 2016 Rio Olympics. Only at the 2018 Asian Games did Sarnobat rediscover herself by winning a gold medal in Jakarta, becoming the first Indian woman shooter to win gold in the continental competitions. “It was a really difficult competition because of my own expectations and the fight inside me. I was really happy before the Asian Games because nobody was expecting a medal from me. So, I could focus well.” She shot well in training but competition scores were not high. “The first challenge was to break the barriers in my score. Even in the Asian Games qualifications, I only shot 580 and qualified in the eighth position. So, I thought “okay this is my chance, I can at least come back in the final”.” In finals, Sarnobat gets into her zone—she loves that pressure. “The finals are my thing, like I own the finals. It was a chance to shed fears and doubts about my performance at the Asian Games. My coach and I were absolutely not satisfied with the scores but the medal gave me a boost.”Also read | Gymnast Oleg Verniaiev out of Olympics after doping banThat she is a different shooter in the final came through in the recent World Cup in Osijek, Croatia. Having won silver in the New Delhi World Cup in March, Sarnobat not only carried good form but oozed confidence in the final, demolishing a strong field with 39 hits out of 50, including five perfect series (one series of five rapid fire shots) to win gold. She was close to the world record score of 40 and was eight points ahead of silver medallist Lamolle Mathilde of France. The field had Olympic champion Anna Korakaki of Greece, who came fifth and Rio Olympics silver medallist in 10m air pistol, Russian Vitalina Batsarashkina, who won bronze. Having lost a year of competitions due to the pandemic, it was difficult for the shooters to regain form. “Even when I was in rehab because of injury, I was not out of shooting for this long. I really know how it feels when you are out of competition. It is really important to be in that zone of training and flow of competition. “The fire and the eagerness to compete in Tokyo have kept us going even in the pandemic period. I have 10-12 years’ experience; this is when we have to use all our experience. This is an historic Olympics we are part of, taking place after five years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pistol-shooter-rahi-sarnobat-old-notes-to-find-fresh-zing-101630569250533.html
02-09-2021||Patna||Bihar tourism seeks permission from Patna DM to resume Ganga Arti||Bihar State Tourism Development Corporation (BSTDC) has requested Patna administration to allow resumption of Ganga Arti at Gandhi Ghat on the banks of the Ganga river, citing reopening of cinema halls, gym, malls and parks in the city after the sixth phase of relaxations or Unlock-6 came into effect on August 27. BSTDC, a wing of the state tourism department which handles cruise tourism and Ganga Arti, wants to resume the popular Ganga Aarti on Saturdays and Sundays almost four months after its suspension at the beginning of lockdown in the state in May 2020 following the outbreak of the second wave of Covid pandemic.“But as all other institutions, schools, colleges, offices, parks and cinema halls in the city have started functioning, the state tourism intends to resume Ganga Arti also,” Narayan Prasad, tourism minister said. A trial of the Ganga Arti has already been done on August 23 with adherence to Covid-19 containment protocols, Prasad added. “And it again evoked a very good response. During the show all the Covid-19 protocols including social distancing will be followed. Besides, elaborate arrangements will also be made for the safety of the visitors,” he said.The BSTDC has also requested for deployment of police force at the ghat during the show to manage crowds, he said.A tourism development corporation official who preferred not to be quoted, said, Ganga Arti was started in 2011 in Patna after watching the charm the ritual held for locals and tourists alike in Varanasi. It was also meant to enhance evening attractions in the city and to bring cruise tourism in Patna under focus.Patna DM Dr Chandrashekhar Singh could not be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-tourism-seeks-permission-from-patna-dm-to-resume-ganga-arti-101630568290973.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||BSF foils infiltration bid in Punjab, Pakistani intruder held||The Border Security Force (BSF) foiled an infiltration bid and arrested a Pakistani intruder, who was injured in the firing, while two of his accomplices fled back from the border in Ferozepur district early on Thursday. Ferozepur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rajpal Singh said the intruder suffered a bullet wound on his thigh and was undergoing treatment at the civil hospital. “Suspicious movement was observed on the border and BSF personnel fired in that direction, injuring the Pakistani intruder. Two of his accomplices fled back to Pakistan,” he said Also read: Will Taliban act against Al Qaeda’s Kashmir agenda?Police sources said the accused is a resident of Pattonwala village in Pakistan’s Kasur district that shares its boundary with Ferozepur.An official spokesperson of the BSF said two packets weighing 2.12 kg, suspected to be heroin, were recovered from the intruder.A protest is being lodged with Pakistan Rangers over the incident.The sources said the intruders were trying to smuggle narcotics into India in the Ram Lal Chowki area of Ferozepur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-foils-infiltration-bid-in-punjab-pakistani-intruder-held-101630567211451.html
02-09-2021||Other||Army jawan assaulted for not wearing mask: 3 Jharkhand cops suspended||One head constable and two constables were suspended on Thursday for thrashing an army jawan allegedly for not wearing a mask during a special checking drive in Chatra district of Jharkhand a day ago. The incident occurred at Karmachowk area under Mayurhand police station on Wednesday. The army jawan was riding a bike when he was stopped by the police team on duty for a special drive led by Mayurhand block development officer (BDO). Also Read | Jharkhand HC orders CBI probe in cop’s death caseA video of the incident showing at least three policemen raining blows on the man went viral on social media, leading to public outrage. Chatra superintendent of police Rakesh Ranjan said, “I asked DySp, headquarter, to conduct a probe. Although both the parties were at fault, we have suspended one head constable and two constables. Whether it was an army jawan or a common person at the receiving end, such behaviour is not expected from policemen,” said Ranjan. On whether any action will be taken against the army jawan for violation of Covid norms, Ranjan said he has sought a report from the BDO who was leading the drive. “Will take further action depending on the report,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-jawan-assaulted-for-not-wearing-mask-3-jharkhand-cops-suspended-101630566011434.html
02-09-2021||Patna||Suspended urban and housing development officer raided in Bihar in graft case||Bihar’s special vigilance unit (SVU) late Wednesday night searched properties of former executive officer of Hajipur municipal council, Anubhuti Srivastava, suspecting him of accumulating assets disproportionate to income, officers aware of the developments said.Srivastava was suspended on August 18 after a Bhabua resident accused him of corruption during a janata darbar or public meeting held by chief minister Nitish Kumar. Srivastava had been accused of corruption earlier too when posted at Jagdishpur, Bhabua and Dumraon Nagar councils between 2018 and 2021. Officials say that his conduct was then probed at the district level but it didn’t lead to any substantial action.He was also suspected to be involved in embezzlement of ₹30 and 22 crore from Bhabhua and Hajipur municipal councils respectively before his suspension.“This is the first major crackdown on an officer of the urban development and housing department this year,” said a SVU officer. The sleuths raided Srivastava’s Patna and Indore flats.The officer quoted above said the search had been completed and a list of all his properties including bank fixed deposits, vehicles, plots, household articles, was being prepared. He added that a case of disproportionate assets worth ₹1.1 crore had been lodged against Srivastava under Sections 13 (1) (e) (possession of disproportionate assets) and 13 (2) (criminal misconduct) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 at the SVU police station.In the searches at his flat located at Aparna Mansions in Rukanpur, Patna, documents of real estate investments, insurance policies, fixed deposits, mutual funds, foreign tours including to Mauritius, were found. Ownership papers of two flats in Patna and one in Madhya Pradesh were also found. Two bank lockers and two sports utility vehicles were also found during the search, the officer said.It also came to light that he was paying ₹15 lakh every year to cover insurance policies in the name of his wife and children when his annual official income was ₹8 lakhs, the officer said.Entire search operation was supervised by additional director general (ADG) Sunil Kumar. One SUV officer involved in the probe against Srivastava said he was under surveillance after the chief minister ordered a probe against him. Officials in the home department said several officers posted with the urban development and housing departments were also on the SVU’s radar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/suspended-urban-and-housing-development-officer-raided-in-bihar-in-graft-case-101630565291099.html
02-09-2021||Patna||Bihar readies ₹200 cr plan to repair 158 flood-hit roads||Bihar road construction department (RCD) is faced with the challenge to quickly restore vehicular movement on 45 roads damaged badly in floods. 158 roads, mostly in north Bihar region, have been damaged in rains and floods, this monsoon.Additional chief secretary Amrit Lal Meena said that although the floods had damaged more than 340km stretch of roads in the state, traffic on 45 roads, submerged in water, was still disrupted. “To begin with, the department will undertake temporary repairs so that most of the roads are made motorable at the earliest,” said Meena.Recently, RCD minister Nitin Nabin reviewed the impact of rains and floods on roads and asked the department to prepare short and long term plans for repair so that vehicular movement could be resumed at the earliest.Meena said repair of roads and bridges damaged during the monsoon was the utmost priority of the department, as they are used to rush relief materials to the marooned lots. “Our agencies are ready with resources to launch the repair, once water recedes. The department has already allocated ₹48.75 crore for temporary and ₹149 crore for complete repair,” he added.Officials said a comprehensive report on damages to the road network in the state was also being prepared. “Some stretches of the national highways have also suffered extensive damages owing to the prolonged spell of floods. We have requested the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to undertake urgent repairs,” said an officer, adding that the report would also help them get compensation from the Central government.The RCD is estimated to have suffered damages worth over ₹200 crore so far. “This is an initial assessment of loss. Final assessment of damages will be made once the floods are over. Last time, the RCD managed to get around ₹150 crore as Central assistance for repair of roads damaged by waterlogging and floods,” said the officer, adding that the department has proposed to complete rehabilitation of road infrastructure by November this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-readies-rs-200-cr-plan-to-repair-158-flood-hit-roads-101630559050867.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather today: Heavy rain in morning; waterlogging continues||Delhi saw heavy rains in several parts in the early hours of Thursday, and as per India Meteorological Department (IMD), thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain is likely to continue till around 9am. The downpour caused partial waterlogging on some roads, including the stretch of roads near the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Delhi. For the second day in a row, people in the national capital woke up to incessant rains. As per IMD, the national weather forecasting agency, thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain would continue over many parts of Delhi and adjoining areas till around 9am. Also Read | Parts of Maharashtra likely to receive above-normal rainfall in September: IMDOn Wednesday, Delhi recorded 112.1mm rainfall in a span of 24 hours ending at 8.30am Wednesday, the highest single-day precipitation in September in 19 years, that inundated several areas, including the Chanakyapuri diplomatic enclave, in knee-deep water and disrupted rain and road traffic.The minimum temperature on Thursday is likely to be at 25 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 31°C.The maximum temperature on Wednesday was 28.7°C and the minimum was 24°C.Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Thursday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 66. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 64.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-today-heavy-rain-in-morning-waterlogging-continues-101630552990145.html
02-09-2021||Patna||Crop on 4 lakh hectares of land damaged in 25 flood-hit areas in Bihar||Even as many districts continue to reel under floods, the state government has started making primary assessment of Kharif crop damage in over 20 districts owing to deluge, and estimates that crops on over four lakh hectares of land have been affected, officials said on Wednesday. According to departmental sources, reports of crop damages in flood-hit districts have started pouring in, and the agriculture department will soon send a proposal to the disaster management department to sanction over ₹550 crore for providing crop input subsidy to affected farmers. “ We are assessing crop damage. Currently, our assessment in 25 flood-hit districts indicates damages worth ₹550 crore. But, it could be more. We will be rolling out crop input subsidy soon to affected farmers after sanction of funds,” said agriculture secretary, N Saravana Kumar. The official said that the sanction of funds would be done soon, and input subsidy to compensate affected farmers would be done at the earliest based on the final assessment report. Earlier on Tuesday, chief minister Nitish Kumar conducted an aerial survey of flood-hit areas of Madhubani and Darbhanga districts. He also highlighted the government’s initiatives to provide monetary assistance to affected families. Officials said the assessment process of crop damages has been fast tracked in last few weeks to provide support to affected farmers, and also ensure that paddy crop production target this Kharif season is not badly hit. In the current fiscal, the target of total cultivable area of Kharif crops ( paddy, maize, seasonal vegetables, pulses, sugarcane) is around 40 lakh hectares, of which the target of cultivating paddy is around 33 lakh hectares. The production target of paddy this Kharif season is around 110 lakh metric tones with the targeted production of rice standing at around 80 lakh metric tonnes. “ The production target depends on various factors, including quality of crops. But, yes, floods in over four lakh hectares of Kharif cultivable land has affected paddy crops to an extent. But, if crops are less damaged after water recedes fully, the production will be not be much affected,” said a senior agriculture officer. In the last fiscal, rice production stood at 68.66 lakh metric tonnes, while the same was 68.24 lakh metric tones in 2019-20, according to agricultural department data. Officials said the department has already provided seedlings in East and West Champaran and other north Bihar districts, where floods in mid-July damaged crops, so that farmers could sow alternative crops instead of paddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/crop-on-4-lakh-hectares-of-land-damaged-in-25-flood-hit-areas-in-bihar-101630552689741.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to heavy rain, day after highest Sept rainfall in 19 yrs||The national capital woke up to heavy showers on Thursday, a day after the Capital received the highest September rainfall in 19 years. Over the last two days, Delhi has been seeing heavy rainfall starting from early in the morning and continuing for hours, leading to a major waterlogging issue and heavy traffic.Thursday's light showers began at around 6.30am with light thunderstorms and lightning. The temperature was at 26 degrees Celsius and the humidity level hovered above 80 per cent. Partial waterlogging on some roads was also reported, including from the stretch of roads near the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS).In view of the incessant rain, the Indian Meteorological Department has issued a yellow warning for Delhi NCR region. It also posted an advisory on Twitter about the possible impact of the downpour. "Impact expected due to rain over parts of Delhi & adjoining areas: 1. Slippery roads and traffic disruption on roads. 2. Water logging in low lying areas. 3. Occasional reduction in visibility. 4. Partial damage to plantations, horticulture and standing crops. 5. Partial damage to vulnerable structures," said IMD.On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 112.1 mm rainfall in 24 hours, the highest single-day precipitation in September in 19 years. The downpour created major mayhem in the city as many parts of the city, including the Diplomatic Enclave in Chanakyapuri, Connaught Place, ITO, Janpath and Ring Road, got flooded, throwing traffic out of gear across the national capital.The capital had recorded 126.8 mm rainfall on September 13, 2002. The all-time record is 172.6 mm rainfall on September 16, 1963. The city gauged 75.6 mm rainfall in just three hours starting at 8.30 am on Wednesday.At least 27 instances of tree felling were also reported on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-downpour-on-thursday-day-after-highest-september-rainfall-in-19-years-101630546992895.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Poet in grief||They say that time assuages. But poet Ameer Dehlvi continues to be in mourning. “I’m not able to find myself these days,” he says, as his voice chokes up.Mr Dehlvi lost three brothers in swift succession—one of them to Covid. “Haji Faiyazuddin died on 28th April, Nasiruddin, the eldest, died on 10th May, Nawab Moinuddin died last year.” They were six brothers. Two survive.In his early 90s, the Urdu verse-composer has just stepped inside his family-owned hotel in Old Delhi. Until the coronavirus arrived early last year, Mr Dehlvi would be sighted daily in the hotel. While his brother, the late Haji Faiyazuddin, administered the longtime establishment from a stately desk in the balcony, “Ameer Bhai” would snuggle into the so-called “manager’s room,” penning poems or lying on the bed, and listening to old Hindi film songs in the radio that he would place by his pillow. His wife, whom he first met as a guest in the hotel, lies buried in Kashmir.This pandemic-era morning, Mr Dehlvi is back in the “manager’s room,” a rare occurrence. The world about him is still humming along the familiar way, and yet things are different: Haji Faiyazuddin’s place in the balcony is taken over by his gracious younger brother, Razi Zahoor Qureshi, a retired physician. The street that the balcony overlooks is, as always, clogged with pedestrians tossing cuss words at each other.Can poetry help the poet come to terms with his great losses? He lowers his head, raises his arm and says: “Yaad rakha tumhe marte dam tak, aur karta bhi kya marne wala (I remembered you till my last breath, what else could a dying man do).” In another instant, he says—“Manzil bhi nazar aaye toh manzil se gujar jaoon (Even if I see my destination, I will pass by it stealthily).”The poet sits down on the bed, looks thoughtful, gets up, and opens the small window—it faces the Jama Masjid. He closes it moments later. Keeping his hand on his heart, he mutters as if talking to himself, “Where was I a year back? Where have I reached today?”His voice trembles.“All I want is to be always able to exchange salam-dua with friends.”Mr Dehlvi talks of the love, care and respect accorded to him by his joint family in their Chawri Bazar mansion, of which he is now the senior-most patriarch. He reveals he is contributing towards a book—its subject is one of his late brothers. “The title is Haji (Faiyazuddin) Mian ki Taarif,” he says, the voice again chokes up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-poet-in-grief-101630543270075.html
02-09-2021||Noida||Man held for killing wife, kids in Greater Noida||A 35-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly murdering his wife and two children and burying their bodies in their home in Greater Noida West three years ago. The police said that the crime came to light after the suspect, identified as Rakesh, a resident of Chipyana Buzurg village, was arrested for allegedly murdering another man and planting his identity card on him in an effort to pass off himself off as dead.Anita Chauhan, SHO Bisrakh police station, said Rakesh had married Ratnesh, a resident of Etah in 2012. “The couple had a son, 3, and a daughter, 2. But he killed them and buried the bodies in their home on February 14, 2018,” she said.The suspect subsequently fled the house, following which their were complaints and counter-complaints of kidnapping by the families of Rakesh and Ratnesh.To get police off his back, Rakesh decided to pass himself off as ‘dead’ in police records, following which he killed a person in Kasganj on April 21.“The suspect decapitated the body and left his own identity card at the spot. The local police investigated the matter and the dead body was identified as a local resident,” said Chauhan.Kasganj police subsequently tapped Banwari Lal’s phone. “Based on the surveillance, Rakesh was arrested by Kasganj police in connection with the murder there. During interrogation, he revealed that he had also murdered his wife and two children in 2018,” the SHO said.Kasganj police dug up the crime spot in Greater Noida and found bones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-held-for-killing-wife-kids-in-greater-noida-101630542985784.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Mobility plan in the works for new sectors in outskirts||rThe Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has decided to work out the mobility plan for the new sectors that will be developed on the outskirts of the city under the land pooling policy. The authority has invited bids to hire a consultant for the preparation of a detailed mobility plan for the Zone L, which includes 30 urbanised villages located in southwest Delhi near Najafgarh.A senior DDA official said, “These are areas where the new developments will take place. The plan is to develop commercial centres, business districts and residential complexes here in the next few years. For this, we need a mobility plan within the area and ensure proper connectivity with the rest of the city.”There are 95 urbanised villages spread over five DDA planning zones where the land pooling policy, which was approved in 2018, will be implemented. Of the five zones, Zone L, spread over a total of 22,874 hectares, has the maximum number of villages.According to the request For proposal (RFP) floated by DDA, the consultant will have to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for the transport network and transportation system in line with the current Master Plan. The DPR will also take into account the estimated growth in traffic volume because of the new developments in the next three decades.The consultant will have to assess the type of public transportation that will be required to cater to the population in this zone once it is fully developed. Currently, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s network has reached up to Najafgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-mobility-plan-in-the-works-for-new-sectors-in-outskirts-101630542751975.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||‘82% success rate for facial recognition system for driving licences’, says NIC||SwThe facial recognition software used to issue e-learner’s driving licences in Delhi was able to identify 82% of all applicants in the first few weeks of its usage, said officials in National Informatics Centre (NIC), which developed the software for the state government.Out of the 24,684 applications the state received for e-learner’s driving licence between August 7 and August 31, the software was able to successfully identify — and therefore allow or reject — 20,144 (81.6%) candidates, according to a report prepared by the centre.Of the 20,144 candidates the software was able to identify, 18,294 (74.11%) passed the online test and around 6.6%, accounting for 1,628 candidates, failed the test. In addition, 222 people failed the colour blindness test, which means they could not further appear for the proper learners’ licence test.As on Wednesday, a total of 6,390 applications were pending — which includes those who failed the test since they have been slotted for a re-test — the report seen by HT said.“The biggest challenge for us was developing the facial recognition software for the online learners’ DL test. The software is such that it matches the face of the test taker in front of the computer or mobile phone with the picture in the Aadhaar card uploaded by the applicant. It is meant to ensure there is no proxy for the test and hence, is the most important feature of the entire faceless transport services,” said a senior NIC official involved in the project.Officials said the 18% unsuccessful recognitions were likely due to shortages in the software’s mapping of facial features of applicants aged between 18 and 21. “The facial features of teenagers and people in this age group change fast. We saw that the picture in the Aadhaar card of such applicants often varies from their current appearance. So we are now fine tuning the software to predict age-related facial changes too,” said a second official.The online DL test is a part of the Delhi government’s “faceless transport services” project, under which 33 transport-related documents are issued online without necessitating a visit to a regional transport office (RTO).The initiative was formally launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on August 11, even as the e-learners’ driving licence service had a soft launch on August 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/82-success-rate-for-facial-recognition-system-for-driving-licences-says-nic-101630542299008.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||New Delhi: Water, Water everywhere||Roads, residential areas, schools, hospitals, markets and even the diplomatic enclave in the national capital were inundated after a spell of heavy rain on Wednesday, leading to winding traffic jams on arterial stretches, shopkeepers using buckets to flush out water from their establishments, and patients wading through waterlogged lanes to access hospitals.Besides the regular waterlogging-prone areas, Wednesday saw areas under the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) such as Connaught Place, and Chanakyapuri, where embassies are located, going under rainwater.Water enters Connaught Place shopsTraders in one of Delhi’s most popular shopping areas said they had not seen anything like Wednesday in a long time. Roads in the British-era arcade were heavily waterlogged, and the stormwater then overflowed on to the parking lots and then entered shops.Traders in blocks C, G and H said rainwater entered their shops and did not clear till at least 11am. They blamed the New Delhi municipal body for poor maintenance and drainage.Atul Bhargava, president of the New Delhi Traders Association, said, “The situation arose despite a renovation a few years ago. Water entered our shops. The parking lots, middle circle and parts of the outer circle were flooded. Traders had a hard time removing the stock put up for display for fear of getting damaged by water.”Traders say that their complaints to fix the slope problem at Panchkuian Road-Outer circle junction have fallen on deaf ears. “As the slope is towards CP, our market gets flooded. We have been asking NDMC to fix this problem. Though they claim that the problem has been addressed, little has been done,” said Bhargava.A senior NDMC official said that the roads were inundated, but water was pumped out in about half an hour. “Excess rain water was not allowed to stagnate for long. We have 120 permanent pumps, which were turned on, as soon as water started accumulating. The parking lots were cleared within 20 minutes of water filling in,” said the official who asked not to be named.Residential coloniesSeveral residential areas reported almost two-foot deep water on streets and basements inundated. Residents from Pamposh Enclave, Saket, Munirka, Rajendra Nagar, Karol Bagh, Laxmi Nagar, Geeta Colony, Krishna Nagar, Lajpat Nagar and Kalkaji reported waterlogging and shared videos on social media.Gurvinder Singh Saluja, a resident of Old Rajendra Nagar, shared photos of water flowing into his basement from where he runs his office. “Sewer lines in the area have not been laid in the entire area. I had to call a plumber to get the manhole checked. It had loads of debris. We had to keep draining out water from the basement. If water keeps seeping in during every spell of rain, the foundation of the houses will weaken over the years,” said Saluja.Kirti Bhatnagar, a resident of Yamuna Vihar in northeast Delhi said she couldn’t send her son to the school on Wednesday since the streets were full of water. “My son had to go to school today for the first time after so long but the road outside our house was completely inundated,” Bhatnagar, a homemaker said.Mayhem on roadsDespite several interventions by the government at Minto Bridge in central Delhi, it went under water, forcing the police to cordon it off for traffic. The police also diverted traffic at Zakhira and Pul Prehladpur underpasses after they were inundated.Besides this, the other stretches that saw heavy waterlogging were Vikas marg, Aurobindo Marg, AIIMS underpass, Dhaula Kuan, Najafgarh road, Uttam Nagar, Saket Metro station, Jahangirpuri Metro station to Mukarba Chowk and Mother Teresa Crescent Marg.Traffic officials also tweeted about the places where traffic jams are being reported and when the waterlogging issue has been resolved. “Wherever required, the traffic was diverted onto other parallel roads. The underpasses were barricaded for safety,” said a senior police official, who didn’t wish to be named.Hospitals floodedSeveral city hospitals were waterlogged that resulted in patients facing inconvenience as they had to wade through to reach the department concerned to get treatment.At Lok Nayak Hospital, there was waterlogging at the entrance of the emergency for around half an hour on Wednesday morning making it difficult for people to find their way.There was a similar situation at the central government-run Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital that is situated in Central Delhi, which is the heart of the national Capital.The path outside the hospital’s outpatient department (OPD) was flooded.The road outside the gate of Sucheta Kriplani hospital’s OPD was also flooded, although the area inside remained largely dry. “There was no flooding here but there was a lot of water flowing on the road. There is always water on this road whenever it rains,” said a guard posted at the hospital gate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-delhi-water-water-everywhere-101630538036717.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Ashram Chowk woes deepen after two days of rain||Heavy rain for the past two days has added to the endless cycle of chaos at Ashram Chowk in the form of deeper potholes and loose mud, adding another degree of pain that hundreds of thousands of commuters have to endure while passing through this important road intersection.A site visit by HT on Wednesday showed how the already worn out road surface at the intersection has worsened due to rains, and the construction material dumped on the roadside has flown on to the road as slush that is making it even more difficult for the motorists to negotiate the stretch.The Delhi government’s public works department (PWD) began constructing an underpass, aimed at decongesting the transport heavy stretch, in December 2019. HT reported on August 17 that, having missed four deadlines already, the PWD has fixed a new December-end deadline for the project. However, as construction work continued at a snail’s pace, pathetic site management has ensured that the stretch has remained a traffic nightmare for nearly two years now. Simultaneous work on extending the Ashram flyover on Ring Road has expanded the chaos from all four directions at the main intersection to Maharani Bagh.Ashram, which connects south and central Delhi and virtually serves as the link between two NCR cities — Noida and Faridabad — sees over 350,000 vehicles passing every day during peak rush hours in the mornings and evenings.A PWD official said they will complete the first phase of the project by the end of 2021. “We have received complaints about potholes. We used to fill those up before the monsoon, but no road repair work can be done during rains,” said a senior official.Department officials said both the underpass and the flyover extension projects were hit by multiple setbacks in the last two years.“Delhi has received record rainfall in the past two days. It is because of the monsoon preparations and precautions taken by the Delhi government in the past few months that the infamous Minto Bridge did not witness waterlogging to the extent of a bus getting inundated. Apart from this, it was observed there was no waterlogging in several other parts of the city as well,” said a state spokesperson.Commuters rued that there was no end in sight to their daily travails.“Whenever it rains, it becomes a nightmare to cross this area. PWD is not doing anything to fix it. I have often read about the deadlines of this project in newspapers, but the work is yet to be completed. What will happen if a mishap occurs due to these potholes?” asked Gagandeep Singh, who travels from central Delhi’s Gol market to Faridabad for work||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-ashram-chowk-woes-deepen-after-two-days-of-rain-101630535274760.html
02-09-2021||Other||Clarify stand on Taliban- a terror outfit or not: Omar to Centre||Former chief minister and National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah on Wednesday sought the Centre’s stance on Taliban – whether India looked at as a terror outfit or not.The statements come a day after India engaged in diplomatic talks with Taliban, the first after the hardline Islamist group took over Afghanistan.Talking to reporters at the party headquarters, Omar said, “Either Taliban is a terror organisation or it is not? Please clarify how you see the Taliban? Is Taliban a terror organisation? If it is not, will you move the United Nations to have it delisted as a terror organisation because right now you (India) are presiding over the United Nations Security Council? If it is a terror organisation then how do you distinguish between Taliban and other terror groups? If it is not a terror organisation, then please move the United Nations to have it removed from that list of terror organisations. Let their bank accounts start functioning and let’s not treat them differently but you can’t have different yardsticks for different organisations.” “If they are a terror organisation, why are you talking to them? If they are not a terror organisation, why are you banning their bank accounts? Why are you not recognising their government? Make up your mind what it is… I am not the decision maker,” he said. The junior Abdullah, however, refused to respond to a question about his opinion on the al-Qaeda’s threat to Kashmir and said that the question should be answered by Prime Minister. Omar also feigned ignorance over ‘Ghazwa-e-Hind’, a mission of al-Qaeda and Hizb-ul-Mujahideen to capture India. “I don’t know anything regarding that,” he responded. He also said he was not aware of any statement from al-Qaeda about its wish for Kashmir to be liberated and the promise of ‘Ghazwa-e-Hind’ to be kept. Omar also demanded full restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir before holding assembly elections. “Whenever the Election Commission wants to hold elections, they should do it, but we demand full statehood to Jammu and Kashmir before elections,” he said.“We had prepared for assembly elections in 2019 because the assembly had been dissolved, he said. Regarding revocation of Article 370 and 35-A, besides other decisions that unfolded on August 5, 2019, Omar said his party will legally fight them before the Supreme Court. “The Prime Minister and Home Minister had made a commitment in the Parliament that statehood will be restored; then should it be delayed,” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/clarify-stand-on-taliban-a-terror-outfit-or-not-omar-to-centre-101630528807134.html
02-09-2021||Other||Farooq debunks BJP’s ‘all is well in J&K’ claim||National Conference president and Lok Sabha member Dr Farooq Abdullah on Wednesday debunked the Bharatiya Janata Party’s claim that “all is well” in Jammu and Kashmir, saying if so, how come even its activists are being killed in unfortunate militancy violence. Addressing a day-long interactive session with the National Conference functionaries here, Abdullah dwelt upon the overall scenario and also discussed the party affairs with senior colleagues. He made a special reference to acts of violence against elected representatives, especially those in Panchayat Raj Institutions, and called for adequate security as they are required to visit their areas for purposes of development and to listen to the people. Their security should not be jeopardised, Abdullah cautioned. He said the people, especially the youth, are encountered with numerous problems as the promises made have proved just a hoax. Unemployment is on the rise and the educated unemployed are undergoing a phase of despair. The trend is needed to be arrested by opening up vistas of opportunities in terms of employment generation and recruitment on fast-track basis. Dr Abdullah, however, expressed optimism about things changing for the better in Jammu and Kashmir, saying the National Conference has to play a vital role in this regard. He called for further rejuvenating the party at the grassroots level and enhancing the public outreach at all levels. He said the National Conference cadre has to get further activated to meet the challenges. Dejected and disillusioned people are looking towards the National Conference with hope and we have to prepare ourselves to meet their aspirations”, he said and asked the functionaries to mobilise workers for identifying the problems. “We are passing through most difficult times and there is a need to guard against polarising forces by upholding our unity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farooq-debunks-bjp-s-all-is-well-in-j-k-claim-101630528804858.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||JP Atray memorial meet: Arpit, Shaurya set up CAG’s win over UTCA||Riding high on century from Arpit Vasavada and Shaurya Sanandia’s five-wicket haul (5 for 28), CAG, Delhi, beat UT Cricket Association (UTCA) by 47 runs in the opening match of 26th JP Atray Memorial cricket tournament for Trident Cup at IS Bindra PCA Stadium in Mohali on Wednesday.Batting first, CAG team was bowled out for 245 runs in 49.5 overs. Arpit Vasavada (100) and Ankit Kaushik (68) were the main contributors for CAG team. For UTCA, fast bowler Jagjit Sandhu grabbed four wickets. In reply, UTCA were bowled out for 198 runs in 46 overs. Kunal Mahajan top-scored making 68 runs off 99 balls. For the winning team, Shaurya Sanandia was the successful bowler. Former Indian cricketer Chetan Sharma, chairperson, senior selection committee, BCCI, inaugurated the tournament earlier in the day.In the second match played at Sector-16 cricket stadium, Chandigarh, Ranstar Cricket Club Delhi beat Minerva Cricket Academy by four wickets. Brief scoresCAG, Delhi: 245 all out in 49.5 overs (Arpit Vasavada 100, Ankit Kaushik 68, Jagjit Sandhu 4 for 50, Nipun Pandita 2 for 33, Bhagmender Singh 2 for 50) beat UTCA: 198 all out in 46 overs (Kunal Mahajan 68, Amrit Lubana 40, Rahul Sharma 27, Shaurya Sanandia 5 for 28).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jp-atray-memorial-meet-arpit-shaurya-set-up-cag-s-win-over-utca-101630528754262.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Harish Rawat conveys rebels grievances to Punjab CM||Congress general secretary in-charge of Punjab, Harish Rawat, met chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday and spoke with him about the grievances that the rival camp led by state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu has aired and asked him to fulfil some of the major demands made by them, like the reduction of electricity rates.Rawat, who is in Chandigarh to iron out the differences between the warring factions led by Singh and Sidhu, also raised the issue of pending election promises and the apprehensions among some dissenting ministers and legislators about alleged attempts to target them in their constituencies by those close to the CM. “I told him about their (disgruntled ministers and MLAs’) grievances. It is his duty to address these,” Rawat told reporters after the meeting.The two leaders met at the CM’s Siswan farmhouse, with Singh summoning top officials, including the advocate general and the director general of police, to brief Rawat on the Bargari sacrilege (the 2015 desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book) and police firing cases, power purchase agreements (PPA), arrest of “big fish” in the drug rackets, cancellation of the three controversial farm laws passed by the Union government, and other pending election promises.These promises are part of an 18-point to-do list prepared by the party’s central leadership based on feedback received from state leaders and handed down to the CM for implementation ahead of next year’s assembly elections. Sidhu, who has been seeking action on the agenda, had conveyed to Rawat on Tuesday his dissatisfaction with the state government’s efforts on this front, urging him to get these issues sorted out quickly.Rawat met Sidhu on Tuesday and offered to quit if he was not being given any say in party affairs, according to people privy to the meeting.‘Give cheaper power’Rawat said the government would try to find a way to give power to consumers at reduced rates. “On PPAs, the CM said that some actions have been taken. I am hopeful that the state government will extend the facility of 200 units of free power given to SCs (Scheduled Castes) and the poor to consumers of general category also. I have also requested him to give relief to general consumers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lend-ear-to-miffed-congress-leaders-grouses-harish-rawat-tells-punjab-cm-101630528753247.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||74 booked for vandalising SAD leaders’ vehicles in Ludhiana||Two days after the vehicles of Akali leaders were damaged, 74 people, of whom 60 are yet to be identified, were booked for threatening and assaulting Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders and damaging their vehicles. The 14 people named in the FIR are Jasdev Singh, Yudhvir Singh, Sandeep Singh, Tinku, Dharamvir, Jagjit Singh, Raja Kahlon, Amit Modgil, Neeraj, Parminder Singh, Lalli, Janjua, Joga Singh, Joga Singh, Sahil, all of whom live in Machhiwara or surrounding areas.The complainant, Harjot Singh, said that on August 30 he and other SAD leaders – Yadwinder Singh Yadu, Gurcharan Singh, Gurjeet Singh, Talwinder Singh — were on their way to attend SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s rally in Machhiwara when the accused intercepted them near Nagra Marriage Palace.Harjot said that the accused were armed with sharp-edged weapons, including swords, and threatened to kill them. The SAD leaders sped away but the accused managed to damage their vehicles.Investigating officer Vipin Kumar said a case had been registered under Section 341 (wrongful restraint), 160 (affray), 506 (criminal intimidation), 427 ( damages), 149 (unlawful assembly), 148 (rioting) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Punjab (Prevention of Damage to Public and Private Property) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/74-booked-for-vandalising-sad-leaders-vehicles-in-ludhiana-101630528752008.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Add mandatory features at parking lots or face action: Chandigarh MC to contractors||Chandigarh municipal corporation MC commissioner Anindita Mitra on Wednesday asked the contractors to implement mandatory features in all paid parking lots according to the tender document failing which, immediate penal provisions will be imposed. A meeting in this regard was held on Wednesday under the chairpersonship of MC chief, which was attended by the paid parking contractors and officials concerned. The MC commissioner instructed the parking contractors to immediately implement a slew of measures such as display of rate lists, ‘No Parking’ and ‘No Haphazard Parking’ sign boards at the parking sites. Pictures of number plates of serious violators will have to be taken and action must be initiated against them in coordination with police and MC authorities, she added. Mitra said the contractors must ensure that display of LED screens is functional. “Existing app should be made proper functional to show real-time space slots available in the parking lots,” she said, adding that internet-related issues also need to resolved. Contractors will have to ensure proper quality uniform for the attendants deployed at the parking lots, the MC chief said. “Entry and exit of vehicles should be synchronised and recorded, photographic evidence of each and every service should be maintained, and daily inspection report including functional features will have to be submitted,” the contractors were told. Contractors have been given seven days to implement the features, after which an MC team will revisit and inspect their parking lots. WhatsApp group of contractors, officials createdA WhatsApp group of the contractors concerned, area police and MC officials has also been created. “The group has been formed to immediately report parking violations. The police have been requested to challan violators. For illegal parking, the MC will start towing away vehicles,” Mitra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/add-mandatory-features-at-parking-lots-or-face-action-chandigarh-mc-to-contractors-101630528750681.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana cops crack the whip on drug peddling proclaimed offenders||The city police have registered 18 cases and booked 19 people, including a woman, who were facing drug peddling charges and had been declared proclaimed offenders by the court.The cases were registered following the orders of the newly appointed commissioner of police Naunihal Singh, who has ordered the cops to keep a tab on criminals.One of the accused, Madan Lal of Amritsar, was booked nearly 22 years after he was declared a proclaimed offender by the local court in a Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act case.Similarly, Abdul Khalid, a Doraha resident, was also booked 229A of the IPC. The section reads: Failure by person released on bail or bond to appear in Court. “Whoever, having been charged with an offence and released on bail or on bond without sureties, fails without sufficient cause (the burden of proving which shall lie upon him), to appear in Court in accordance with the terms of the bail or bond, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.” The Dugri police registered a case against Suraj Sahni who was declared a proclaimed offender in a drug peddling case by the court of additional session judge Jasvir Singh Kang in January 2018. Similarly, Ajay Kumar of Bihar, who was declared a proclaimed offender in 2006 was booked for the offence.The PAU police has booked Sanjay Yadav of Haibowal Kalan, who was facing drug peddling charges, and was declared a proclaimed offender in 2019.Similarly, Nand Kishore of Haibowal, Abhay Sharma of Sham Nagar, Arjun Kumar of shame Uttar Pradesh, Khushi Ram of Mangolpuri Delhi, Dilbag Singh of Madhya Pradesh, Neeraj Paswan of Bihar, Manoj Kumar of Ludhiana, Gyan Chand of Rajasthan, Davinder Kumar of Bihar and Harpal Singh Madhya Pradesh, Asha Rani of Ludhiana, Niranjan Yadav Jharkhand, Mohd Ismile an Roshan Kumar of Bihar, who are all facing drug peddling charges were booked.After the registration of case raids will be carried out to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-cops-crack-the-whip-on-drug-peddling-proclaimed-offenders-101630528749527.html
02-09-2021||Other||Vaccination teams fly to Himachal’s remotest village Bara Bhangal||A vaccination team flew over Dhauladhar Range of Himalayas on Wednesday to reach the isolated Bara Bhangal village of Kangra district to inoculate the left-out population in remote areas. The medical team was airlifted in a state government helicopter in the morning. Himachal Pradesh has achieved 100% vaccination in terms of the targeted population as per the 2011 census—the first state in the country to do so. However, many people in remote areas of the state are yet to get the jabs. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had recently ordered a mop-up campaign to vaccinate the remaining population. Located deep in Himalayas at the height of 2,575 metres, in Baijnath sub-division of Kangra, Bara-Bhangal village is one of the remotest hamlets in the state. Deputy commissioner Dr Nipun Jindal and chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Gurdarshan Gupta accompanied the medical team. “It is a challenge to reach the village as it is not connected with road. So, the state government provided its helicopter to conduct the vaccination camp,” said Dr Jindal. Chief medical officer Dr Gupta said close to 100 people had been already given the jab. “We have sent another team with additional doses and the total number of people vaccinated will be known when the team returns tomorrow,” said Dr Gupta. The village, having a population of around 700 persons, is accessible through a 70-km arduous trek. It takes two to three days to reach Bara Banghal on foot, either from Bir in Kangra or from Nayagran in Bharmour subdivision of Chamba. The village remains cut off from the rest of the state in winters even as most of the residents migrate to the Bir village. However, many of them, mostly elders, stay behind in the village. Dr Jindal said many people had got the jabs at Bir but those who stay behind were yet to be vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-teams-fly-to-himachal-s-remotest-village-bara-bhangal-101630528748283.html
02-09-2021||Other||New food, nutrition policy will boost healthy Himachal initiative: CM||The state government is all set to launch a new food and nutrition policy, which will take Himachal on path of becoming a health state, chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur said on Wednesday.He was presiding over an event held to mark the first foundation day of Himachal Pradesh State Food Commission (HPSFC). He also launched the website of HPSFC on the occasion. The CM said the major objective of this website was to spread awareness about right of food. He said the commission has also prepared a draft of food and nutrition policy, which will be uploaded on the website so that all stakeholders can be sensitised and their feedback can be taken on the policy.Thakur said the state government has taken various steps to redress malnutrition and anaemia, particularly among children and women in the state. The CM said the state government was working to ensure that every eligible citizen gets the benefits of various schemes, such as public distribution system, mid-day meal, integrated child development services and Pradhan Mantri Matri Vandana Yojna. He said that the state government was also providing fortified wheat flour and rice to consumers of PDS to add nutritional value.Chairman, state food commission, Surender Singh Ghonkrokta apprised the CM about the functioning of the commission and unique features of the website.Secretary, food and civil supplies, C Paulrasu, advisor to the CM, RN Batta, managing director, HP state civil supplies corporation, KC Chaman, member secretary Anil Chauhan and other official and non- official members of the commission were also present on the occasion.Co-op bank complex inauguratedThe Himachal Pradesh State Cooperative Bank (HPSCB) has been providing efficient and reliable banking services to about 16 lakh consumers through its 218 branches and 23 extension centres located in remote parts of the state, CM Thakur said while inaugurating the new complex of Rohru branch of the bank.Thakur said the bank has achieved a new milestone by surpassing the magical figure of ₹19,000 crore gross businesses in the state. He said the bank has provided loan of ₹1,448 crore to people of the state engaged in agricultural activities. He said during the Covid pandemic, the bank through its emergent credit line scheme provided banking services to the consumers.The CM said the bank was also providing modern banking services to consumers through a network of over 100 ATMs. He said the bank was also providing services such as UPI-enabled digital services, Google Pay, Phone Pay, IMPS, PFMS, RTGES/NEFT and mobile banking to ensure efficient services to the consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-food-nutrition-policy-will-boost-healthy-himachal-initiative-cm-101630528747072.html
02-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra forms Council for Climate Change to prepare action plan||Maharashtra government on Wednesday announced the formation of State Council for Climate Change based on a report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) about carbon impact. Terming it as a “climate emergency”, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray said the council will prepare an action plan within a month to deal with the challenges of climate crisis.“Climate change is impacting us. We believe this is a climate emergency. Today we presented the IPCC report before cabinet and an important decision has been made to set up a State Council for Climate Change under the chairmanship of the chief minister. The cabinet has asked us to prepare an action plan which we will present after one month,” Thackeray said after the cabinet meeting on Wednesday.He added, “Largely, it is believed that this is the last decade for mitigation measures, but I personally think we do not have the luxury of time. We have already started acting on it through out Electric Vehicles Policy, Aarey forest and other multiple actions. In the next one month, we will have interdepartmental conferences where we will finalise the goals of our government for climate change mitigation and adaptation.”According to a senior government official, five sectors including energy, agriculture, industries, transport, and urban development need urgent action. “Under this council, the department dealing with these sectors will hold interdepartmental conferences. Since the environment department cannot directly ask other departments to come up with mitigation measures in their proposals, this council will be that forum. It will have its separate funds,” the official said requesting anonymity.According to the presentation, the government is expected to look at “decarbonizing the power sector”, move towards “electric, non-motorised transport system”, look at “33% mandatory green cover” for industries, “reforms” in agriculture sector, and look at “sustainable, eco-friendly buildings”, and achieve “zero waste” in urban areas.Thackeray said all departments and public representatives will need to work together to achieve this. “If all the departments and public representatives work together we can take mitigation and adaptation measures to tackle climate change. As part of the Sustainable Development Goals 2030, whenever cabinet notes are moved by any department, it will contain the development goal it aims to achieve through the decision,” he said.Highlighting that the state witnessed some extreme weather conditions recently, the minister said that climate change is visible with reduction in the number of days of rain and winter and increase in the number of warmer days. “Climate change is impacting us all. Not just the melting of polar ice and glaciers, but we can see that days in monsoon are reducing, heavy rainfall is witnessed in a short period of time, warmer days are increasing while colder ones are reducing,” he said.Dr Anjal Prakash, who was involved in the IPCC Report 2021, welcomed the move by the state government, but also called for a national-level movement to tackle climate change. “I welcome this step as it will create more scope and space to look at the problem and solutions. The council under the chief minister could be a bridge between departments. This is a small start to make some efforts to take climate change, but is it not all-encompassing. “Climate change needs to have a wider national mitigation. I have always maintained that these are kneejerk, short-term solutions. We need to have a separate ministry for climate change. Because of the kind of crisis we have, this cannot be handled with a backyard ministry. Most progressive nations have a separate ministry,” said Dr Prakash, research director, Bharati Institute of Public Policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-forms-council-for-climate-change-to-prepare-action-plan-101630528745993.html
02-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to develop 488 schools as model schools||Maharashtra government has decided to develop 488 government-run schools in the state as “model schools” as a part of its initiative to improve the quality of learning in schools. The decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday.The schools will have quality infrastructure as well as quality education which will be at par with the 21st Century teaching needs such as creativity and critical thinking, collaboration and communication, officials said.“We have selected 488 schools for the project that aims at quality education and learning in schools. They were selected on the basis of criteria prepared by us. The state government will spend a sum of ₹494 crore on the project,” said school education minister Varsha Gaikwad after the cabinet meeting.The selected schools will have teachers working for at least five years at a stretch. They will also have to adopt innovative teaching methods including activity-based learning, officials said. “The model school will have proper facilities such as independent toilets for boys and girls, safe drinking water, hygienic classrooms, an attractive building, sports arena, sports equipment, ICT lab, science lab and library,” said an official from school education department.“They will also provide a conducive environment for quality academic studies to students. Teachers will ensure that the students will get to learn beyond textbook lessons. Supplementary reading books, reference books and encyclopaedias will be made available in the library. Along with self-study, constructive educational programmes like group study will also be implemented under the project,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-develop-488-schools-as-model-schools-101630528744900.html
02-09-2021||Other||Rain brings life to a standstill in Haryana||Rain in several parts of Haryana on Wednesday brought life to a standstill but no damage of life and property was reported. More showers are expected in the region over the next four days, the meteorological department said.According to the MeT officials, light to moderate rain is likely in parts of Haryana on September 2 and light to moderate rain at isolated places from September 3 to 5.In the last 24 hours, Charkhi Dadri witnessed 95.5mm rain, Gurugram 91.1mm, Faridabad 83.5mm, Jhajjar 52.7mm, Bhiwani 44.7mm, Nuh 44mm, Rewari 40.9mm, Palwal 40.8mm, Mahendergarh 28.7mm, Rohtak 26.1mm, Panipat 16.8mm, Sonepat 15.8mm, Jind 9.4mm and Karnal 3mm.Many areas got submerged due to waterlogging which affected normalcy in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Dadri, Faridabad and Gurugram. Traffic disruptions were witnessed due to the heavy downpour in low lying areas.Former minister and Jannayak Janta Party leader Satpal Sangwan said most areas in Dadri were affected by rainfall and waterlogging.“The administration has failed to take concrete steps to eradicate the problem. The bus stand here was submerged and commuters faced a lot of problems,” he added.According to the Indian meteorological department (IMD), Chandigarh, Haryana has witnessed 12% surplus monsoon rainfall than normal from June 1 to September1.The state received 412.8mm rainfall in this time period against the normal 367.9mm. The districts with highly-deficient rain include Panchkula (53% less rainfall than normal), Ambala (39%). Yamunanagar (16%), Rohtak (10%), Bhiwani (8%) and Faridabad 2%.The district with excess rainfall were Jhajjar (92% more than normal), Fatehabad (69%), Kaithal (60%), Gurugram (44%), Sonepat (42%), Rewari (32%), Jind (31%), Panipat (26%), Karnal (20%), Mahendergarh and Hisar (18% each), Kurukshetra (14%), Charkhi Dadri and Nuh (12% each), and Sirsa (3%).Rohtak deputy director (agriculture) Inder Singh said rain is good for all crops which are at maturation stage.Satywan Sagwan, a farmer from Dadri’s Atela village, said the two-day rain has proved to be a boon for the cotton, guar, moong and bajra crops which were drying out.“All our crops will mature well. This rain will be helpful in sowing of the next crop. But now, we are praying for clear weather. If rain continues, our cotton crop which is in the last stage will be damaged,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rain-brings-life-to-a-standstill-in-haryana-101630528694863.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 38 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Wednesday reported 38 fresh Covid cases, taking the count to 6,00,651. The state’s death toll from the infection reached 16,434 with one fatality reported in the past 24 hours, according to a medical bulletin. The state reported a positivity rate 0.12%, the bulletin said. The number of active cases in the state has also come down to 330. Among fresh cases, Mohali registered six, followed by five in Ferozepur, four in Ludhiana and three in Amritsar, the bulletin said. With 52 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,83,387, it said. A total of 1,34,28,737 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state and 1,70,092 doses of the vaccines were administered on Wednesday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-38-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101630528690238.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to depute BSF commandants as superintendent of 3 more jails soon||With the experiment of deputing Border Security Force (BSF) commandant-rank officials as superintendents of four central jails in the state yielding positive results, the Punjab prisons department is set to give charge of three more jails to the officials of the paramilitary force. In July this year, four senior BSF officials were posted as superintendents in central jails of Ferozepur, Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Faridkot. A senior prison department official said, “Three BSF officials will be posted as superintendents in the coming days. We are in the process of identifying the prisons considering various factors.”Jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said, “The experiment (of posting BSF officials) proved successful. Earlier also, we have posted police officials in prisons on deputation. But of late, many police officials have shown their reluctance to join the prison department as they face pulls and pressures while supervising the prisons.” The biggest success of this experiment is that the staff of the prisons department have adapted well to the command of officials of the paramilitary force, the minister added. “We have not compromised with the professional competence of our own officials. Where the BSF officials are posted as in-charge, our department officials are being posted as additional superintendents,” Randhawa said. Additional director general of police (ADGP prisons) PK Sinha said the idea behind posting BSF officials as superintendents was mooted to bring more transparency in the prison system in the state. “With this experiment, we have tried to open our jail system which was considered closed. Punjab is the only state which has deputed BSF officials as superintendents,” the ADGP said. The department’s earlier experiment of posting Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans to guard the prison cells where dreaded gangsters are lodged has been successful by and large with a view to keeping check on the activities of gangsters in the jails, an official said.The state has nine central, 11 district and five sub-jails.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-depute-bsf-commandants-as-superintendent-of-3-more-jails-soon-101630528689097.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||Five electrocuted in Ghaziabad||Three minor girls were electrocuted and two others who tried to save them also died near a grocery shop in Ghaziabad’s Rakesh Marg locality on Wednesday morning.State power officials said a loose electrical wire at the grocery shop and waterlogging in the area together led to the incident.The shop’s owner, Sushil Kumar, a resident of Dadri in Gautam Budh Nagar is at large, and though the police have not received a complaint from any of the families, they are still on the hunt for him.Residents said the three girls, Surbhi Paswan (4), Khushi Kumari (10) and Simran Kumari (11), touched an iron rod — which held up a tin shed at the store — that touched the exposed electrical wire.Maya Kumari, Shubhi’s aunt, said, “Our neighbour Laxmi Narayan (24) rushed to save the girls but he got electrocuted in the process too.”Kumar added: “As their cries got louder and more residents came out of their homes, my aunt Jaanki Paswan rushed to the shop and got electrocuted while trying to pull out the girls from the waterlogged lane.”Residents said it took nearly 15 minutes to snap the electricity supply to the shop.Four of the victims (Surbhi, Simran, Laxmi and Jaanki) were taken to the Santosh Sudarshan Hospital on GT Road, and Khushi was taken to Yashoda hospital, where she was declared dead on arrival.Dr Anjay Vats, chief medical superintendent of the Santosh Sudarshan, said, “All four were brought dead.”Police said one of the girls was taken to another hospital, but she too did not survive.Residents, while blaming the authorities for the incident, tried to block the GT Road stretch outside the hospital but returned after discussions with the police.Residents said Sushil Kumar opened the store around two months ago.“We have not received any complaint so far from the families of the victims, but we are conducting inquiries,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city).Officials of the Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) said an initial inquiry found that the electrocutions were a result of loose household wiring. “It seems the electrocutions were the result of some loosely connected household wire,” said Pankaj Srivastava, chief engineer of PVVNL.Late in the evening, the UP CM”s office issued a statement saying the kin of the deceased will get a compensation of ₹2 lakh each and added that an inquiry is underway to ascertain the cause of the electrocutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/owner-ignored-electricity-spark-a-day-ago-at-his-shop-say-locals-101630528687881.html
02-09-2021||Other||Manual scavenging: Ludhiana MC employees’ union seeks cancellation of FIR||Raising hue and cry over the FIR lodged by Sahnewal police in the alleged incident of manual scavenging in the Jugiana area, the Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee has warned of an agitation if the report is not cancelled in 15 days.In a memorandum submitted with municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Wednesday, the MC employees’ union stated that the FIR was lodged on the complaint of Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission chairman Geja Ram Valmiki.They further stated that the chairman is doing injustice with the MC employees as no official had forced the sewermen to enter the manhole for cleaning the sewer lines.Lodging an FIR in the case on August 30, the Sahnewal police have booked unidentified persons under Sections 7 and 9 of The Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act. Ashwani Sahota, chairman of the employees’ union, said, “Even though the FIR is lodged against unidentified persons, it has brought down the morale of the MC’s operations and maintenance cell. They are fearing action against them in the coming days. No official forces any sewerman to enter the manhole. It is difficult for the employees to work under this pressure, and it might also have a bad impact on their mental and physical health.”“In the memorandum submitted with the commissioner, we have demanded cancellation of the FIR within 15 days otherwise, we will be forced to raise an agitation,” said Sahota.Despite attempts made to reach MC commissioner Sabharwal, he was not available for comments. While the police stated that an investigation is being done in the case, Geja Ram demanded that the FIR should be lodged against the concerned MC employees by name, failing which he will move the court.Geja Ram had recommended an FIR against the MC executive engineer and sub-divisional officer for allegedly forcing the sewermen to enter manholes to clean the sewer lines without safety kits in the Jugiana area on July 16. Subsequently, MC officials including executive engineers, sub-divisional officers, and junior engineers locked horns with Geja Ram, during the meeting of the commission convened to discuss the delay in lodging an FIR.Sharing a video of the incident, the MC officials alleged that the chairperson himself had forced the employees to enter the manhole, to implicate MC staffers. The MC employees union had said that they will go on strike if an FIR was lodged against the MC officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manual-scavenging-ludhiana-mc-employees-union-seeks-cancellation-of-fir-101630528684866.html
02-09-2021||Other||Kupwara ARTO, three others booked for corruption||The Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Wednesday booked the Kupwara assistant regional transport officer (ARTO) and three others for graft and recovered ₹15 lakh from their possession.The accused have been identified as Kupwara ARTO Mukhtar Ahmad Sofi, motor vehicle inspector Khursheed Ahmad Kanna, motor vehicle inspector Abdul Hamid Bhat and private agent Bilal Ahmad Sheikh.An ACB spokesman said a surprise check was conducted at the driving test site in Nagri Kupwara following allegations that all affairs of the ARTO office, such as issuance of learner’s licence, driving licence, fitness certificates, etc, are carried out through corrupt means. “During the checking conducted in association with Handwara executive magistrate first class, the accused Bilal Ahmad Sheikh was found actively involved in conducting driving tests along with the officials of ARTO, Kupwara. On searching his personal car, bearing registration number JK01R-4373, the team recovered 138 original driving licences, besides other incriminating material such as provisional appointment slips for driving tests, application reference slips, application for addition of new class of vehicle, journey sheets of vehicles, transport plans, learners’ licence, handwritten details of tests held on August 4, 2021etc,” the spokesman said in a statement.“During initial investigation, it came to the fore that there is a deep nexus between some officers of the transport department and private agents (brokers) who are involved in fleecing the general public. ACB conducted searches at the residential premises of Mukhtar Ahmad Sofi (ARTO, Kupwara) and Bilal Ahmad Sheikh and found ₹15 lakh and various incriminating material,” the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kupwara-arto-three-others-booked-for-corruption-101630528634940.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers block Sukhbir’s motorcade in Mattewara||LudhianaAlleging that the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) was complicit in the passage of the three contentious agri laws, farmers blocked party president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s motorcade in the Mattewara area on Tuesday. A police team led by additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Rupinder Kaur Sra, assistant commissioner of police Raj Kumar and other officials tried to persuade the protesting farmers to lift the blockade, but in vain. Sukhbir had to walk to the rally venue, which was around 300 metres from the protest site. The protesters raised slogans and accused Sukhbir of supporting the farm laws and then changing his position after facing the farmers’ ire.A farmer leader, Jagjit Singh, said: “Akali MLA Sharanjit Singh Dhillon had assured us that Sukhbir will speak to the farmers and answer all our queries pertaining to the farm laws and the Behbal Kalan firing. But later, Dhillon backtracked and Sukhbir refused to meet us and instead proceeded for the rally, which is why we have blocked the road.”A clash broke out between SAD workers and farmers at Buthgarh Gurdwara after SAD chief left the venue.Addressing the gathering, the SAD chief dismissed the protesters as “Congress workers in the garb of farmers who are being backed by the Punjab Police.” Addressing the rally, Sukhbir listed out contributions of the party to uplift the farmers of the state. He said from free power to bringing assured MSP for paddy and wheat to scrapping taxes on the purchase of tractors and issuing tubewell connections to farmers, all such initiatives were undertaken during the SAD government.He said the party’s “Gal Punjab Di” programme would continue at full steam and would not be affected by the “sponsored protests of the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party”. On the occasion, Sukhbir also announced sitting MLA and senior leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon as party’s candidate from Sahnewal. Majithia faces farmers’ ire in Gurdaspur GURDASPUR: Former minister and senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia faced a protest from farmers during his visit to Sri Hargobindpur constituency in Gurdaspur on Wednesday. Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee also raised slogans against Majithia for supporting the three farm laws in Parliament. They also showed black flags to Majithia’a motorcade. Terming the protest sponsored, Majithia alleged that his car was attacked by protesters. Heavy police force was deployed during his visit, but the farmers managed to block his motorcade for a few minutes. Majithia said the Congress government was playing into the hands of central agencies that were using sponsored protests to destabilise the peace of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-block-sukhbir-s-motorcade-in-mattewara-101630528633912.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh initiates steps to revise SAP of cane||Ahead of the assembly polls, the Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday initiated the process for the enhancement of cane rate in the state with the State Advisory Committee on cane prices holding a high-level meeting with all the stakeholders, including farmers and sugar mill associations, two officials who participated in the meeting said. The development comes in the wake chief minister Yogi Adityanath making an announcement during an interaction with a group of progressive farmers here last week that the government would soon increase the State-Advised Price (SAP) of cane. The SAP of cane was last upped by ₹10 per quintal in 2017 soon after the present government came to power. The current SAP is ₹325 per quintal—the price that has not been revised since 2017 because of which the Opposition has been targeting the government within and outside the assembly. In the meeting chaired by chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, farmers’ representatives, according to officials, demanded the government fixed the SAP at ₹400 per quintal in view of the fact that the SAP had not been revised for last four consecutive years and also because their input costs in terms of diesel price etc had gone up considerably since. People representing sugar mills, however, expressed strong reservations over the demand on the plea that it would not be possible for sugar mills to be viable at the rate demanded by the farmers. “The sugar mill associations did agree to farmers that cane price revision was overdue considering the growing input cost but at the same time they said ₹400 per quintal price as demanded by farmers would be too high for mills to pay,” officials said. The sugar mills association pleaded that the current minimum selling price (MSP) of sugar, as fixed by the Centre, was already too low for sugar mills to earn profits amid slump in the sugar industry and any irrational hike in the SAP of cane would further hit sugar trade hard in UP, officials said. The chief secretary, according to officials, asked cane commissioner Sanjay Bhoosreddy who is also additional chief secretary, sugar, to prepare a proposal for the SAP revision taking into consideration all stakeholders’ views and suggestions. The proposal recommending the SAP hike may soon be put to the Cabinet for approval The next cane crushing season is scheduled to start from October 20 in western UP, from October 25 in Central UP and from the first week of November in the eastern region. Though the government has often claimed of having made a record payment of ₹1.42 lakh crore to farmers as arrears pending since 2010, non-revision of the SAP since 2017 was snowballing into a political issue before assembly polls in the state. Many farmers in western UP have also been staging protests against the Centre’s three farm laws for last several months and have threatened to intensify the stir incorporating other issues too, including non-revision of the SAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-initiates-steps-to-revise-sap-of-cane-101630528631764.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Will move court if LIT e-auction not nullified within month: BJP||A day after Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) chairman Raman Balasubramaniam refuted allegations of undervaluing a prime commercial property in the Model Town Extension, Bharatiya Janata Party leaders on Wednesday said they will raise an agitation and move court if the state government does not cancel the e-auction proceedings within a month. District BJP president Pushpinder Singal and BJP unit executive member Bikram Singh Sidhu alleged that the LIT had auctioned the land for ₹98.38 crores (including 6 percent cess) throughan e-auction, while the market value of the 16,344 square yards (3.79 acres) of auctioned land is around ₹300 crore. The leaders alleged that the LIT had also deliberated on establishing a food gallery and shops-cum-offices on the site and auctioning the same for around ₹400 crore in the past, but the proposal had been set aside to favour the “land mafia.” Sidhu said,”The Congress government has been involved in several scams. The City Centre scam also took place during the Congress’ tenure. The LIT chairperson, who is working on the directions of a Cabinet minister, is currying favours with the bidders by auctioning prime land at throwaway prices. The LIT has also auctioned land reserved for a community centre and school by changing its land use. All of this is being done to favour the land mafia.” “Former officiating LIT chairman PS Gill had also proposed that shops-cum-offices be established on the site, but the proposal was disregarded. The details of the e-auction were not publicised properly so that fewer people bid for the land,” said Sidhu, adding the matter has already been raised with the Centre and a CBI probe has been sought. “ A copy of the complaint has also been marked to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. We will move court if the state government fails to take action to stop auction proceedings within 30 days. An agitation will also be raised,” he said. Meanwhile, the LIT chairman refuted the allegations and said that information regarding the e-auction was publicised in the newspapers thrice and four bidders participated in the same. “No proposal to establish a food gallery was ever tabled and misinformed BJP leaders are levelling baseless allegations. As far as allegations pertaining to quoting a lower reserve price are concerned, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority has auctioned over 6,000 square yards of land on Dugri Road for ₹54,000 per square yard. We have auctioned the land for around ₹56,000 per square yard,” said the chairman, adding the proceedings were transparent and had also been recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-move-court-if-lit-e-auction-not-nullified-within-month-bjp-101630528629545.html
02-09-2021||Other||No alteration done at Jallianwala Bagh: Punjab guv||A day after assuming charge as Punjab governor and administrator of Chandigarh, Banwarilal Purohit on Wednesday visited Jallianwala Bagh amid controversy over its restoration/renovation. He paid his tribute to those killed in the massacre of April 13, 1919.“I have paid my homage to martyrs. The complete renovation team had done a wonderful and archaeologically right job. No changes have been made to the archaeological site of this place,” the governor wrote in the visitor’s book.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, virtually inaugurated the historic site on August 28. The renovation had led to a huge row with historians, among others, criticising the central government for ‘erasing history’ of the Bagh. It had also started a political debate in the country.On Tuesday, Rahul Gandhi slammed the makeover of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre site as ‘belittling of the martyrdom’. However, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had said, “I don’t know what has been removed. Whatever I saw that night (at the inauguration event), it looked very nice to me.”Some family members of those who were killed during the massacre also raised objections over the work done on some parts of the Bagh and the changing of Amar Jyoti (the eternal flame) and the flag post.The governor also visited the Golden Temple and the Durgiana Temple in Amritsar, where the managements of both the sites honoured him. He, however, refrained from talking to the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-alteration-done-at-jallianwala-bagh-punjab-guv-101630528628396.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||When it rains in the national capital, the buck doesn’t stop anywhere||Five municipal bodies and two government agencies, one of them the state and the other under the Centre, manage roads and drains in the national capital. Rampant flooding of roads, markets, hospitals and residential colonies on Wednesday showed their collective failure, and exposed their lack of preparedness to deal with waterlogging during monsoon.Besides the three municipal corporations -- East, North and South, the city has a cantonment board for administering areas under the defence establishments, and the New Delhi Municipal Council for managing civic affairs in the New Delhi and Lutyens zones. The Delhi government’s public works department (PWD) — essentially a construction agency — and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) which comes under the Union government also manage roads and drains in their respective jurisdictions.City residents described the situation as the “same story repeating over the years”, and experts said that Delhi’s civic infrastructure has not been upgraded commensurate with the increase in population.Besides the usual road stretches that are waterlogged every time it rains in Delhi, Wednesday witnessed roads in NDMC areas and Lutyens’ zone such as Connaught Place and Chanakyapuri going under the water. A large number of residential areas also reported knee-deep waterlogging with stormwater entering the basements and ground floor houses in many areas such as Rajendra Nagar, Karol Bagh, Pamposh Enclave, Saket, Krishna Nagar and Geeta Colony, among others.Delhi received the highest single-day rain received in September in the past 19 years, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). The city received 112.1mm rain in 24 hours, ending 8.30 am Wednesday. An additional 75.6mm rain was recorded over three hours between 8.30am and 11.30am, the Met department said.Experts said little has been done to upgrade the infrastructure or address the problem in entirety, and only piecemeal measures have been taken over the last decade. They also pointed out the lack of a comprehensive stormwater drainage network, multiplicity of authorities and lack of monitoring as other reasons why no lasting solution has been found yet to the annual mess.Experts stressed on the need to have a single agency for maintenance of drainage network so that accountability can be fixed and work can be done in a systematic manner. They also stressed on the need to immediately implement the drainage master plan, which was prepared by IIT-Delhi experts in 2016.Till 2011, the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi was largely responsible for the maintenance of drainage along all colony and arterial roads (that are less than 100-ft wide). But in 2011, the then Congress government transferred the upkeep of 60-foot and wider roads to the Delhi PWD. Later, the drains along these arterial roads were also transferred to PWD even as the maintenance of drainage in residential areas remained with the civic bodies.Though waterlogging has been a perennial problem, it has become worse since 2011, said Sarvagya Srivastava, former engineer-in-chief, PWD.Former MCD commissioner KS Mehra said there should be one agency in-charge of desilting and maintenance of the drainage network, as it is important to fix responsibility. “But the most important thing is that the city needs a proper drainage system. The drainage plan prepared by IIT-Delhi should be implemented at the earliest,” said Mehra.The last drainage master plan was drafted by the Delhi administration in 1976. To be sure, Delhi was administered by a metropolitan council between 1966 and 1990. In 2016, the Delhi government commissioned a study of the city’s drainage system by IIT-Delhi. Following the study, a drainage master plan was compiled which had also pointed out to the fact that the city had no single agency to manage and maintain drainage. However, the plan could not be implemented.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government is now working on the Delhi Drainage Masterplan. At a review meeting on August 25, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the design of city drains will be changed according to the suggestions by an expert team from IIT-Delhi to ensure smooth flow of water during and after heavy rains and resolve waterlogging on roads during monsoon.There are about 2,846 drains in Delhi with a combined length of about 3,692km. Most of these drains are maintained by PWD.Srivastava said in many areas there was no sewerage lines due to which storm water drains also carry sewage. “The stormwater drains of residential colonies and along arterial roads should be separate. But in several cases, we found that these were connected. The storm water drains along arterial roads are designed according to the road capacity. Waterlogging is bound to happen if it carries additional water, including sewage, from residential neighbourhoods,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/when-it-rains-in-the-national-capital-the-buck-doesn-t-stop-anywhere-101630528624760.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rahul Gandhi playing cheap politics on Jallianwala Bagh, says BJP’s Tarun Chugh||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Wednesday accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of “trying to play cheap politics in the name of martyrs” on the Jallianwala Bagh issue. Complimenting Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “infusing new life” in the Bagh after for carrying out renovation work worth ₹20 crore, Chugh in a press statement slammed Rahul for running down the PM’s efforts to score political points.Chugh said not even a single brick was renovated when AICC president Sonia Gandhi and former prime minister Manmohan Singh were at the helm of the Jallianwala Bagh trust. “Visitors to the place could not even get basic facilities, leave aside making it educative. The Congress never had any respect for freedom fighters and for those who sacrificed their lives for the country. I wonder if Rahul knos why and when did the Jallianwala Bagh massacre take place,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rahul-gandhi-playing-cheap-politics-on-jallianwala-bagh-says-bjp-s-tarun-chugh-101630528578103.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Grenade seizure: Germany-based handler on Punjab Police radar||Two days after a potential terror plot was foiled in Punjab with the arrest of a man with two hand grenades at a Tarn Taran village, police have zeroed in on a Germany-based handler. Saroop Singh of Johal Dhai Wala village in Goindwal sub-division was nabbed with two China-made hand grenades on the outskirts of Kakka Kandiala village, 4km from Tarn Taran, on Janmashtami night. Police said Saroop had identified some locations in Amritsar and Ludhiana to launch a terror attack. “Our preliminary investigation has found that Saroop was in contact with a man who lives in Germany through various social media apps. We have got the Germany-based man’s contact number, which is being examined by cyber experts. We are also working to ascertain his identity,” said a senior police official, who didn’t wish to be named. “Saroop was paid only ₹15,000 by the Germany-based handler for collecting and keeping grenades. He had collected the grenades from a dump, the location of which was sent to him through a social media platform, the official said, adding the recovered grenades were a part of consignment smuggled from Pakistan via drones, the official added. A training video sent by his foreign handlers explaining how to successfully explode a hand-grenade was also recovered from Saroop’s mobile phone.Saroop had been living with his mother and elder brother, an ex-army man. His father, who was a truck driver, died around 13 years ago. Police said the family had 2 acres of farm land and Saroop had sold his part of the land to his brother a few years ago. Saroop was a truck driver and wanted to become rich. “He had not been talking to us for the past two years. He never informed us about his routine or work. He had no friends,” said Saroop’s mother. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) OS Ghumman said: “We are investigating the case and questioning the accused. We hope to break the chain soon.”On Wednesday, Saroop was taken to a joint interrogation centre (JIC) in Amritsar where various security agencies questioned him. A case under Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Explosives Substances (Amendment) Act was registered against him at the Tarn Taran city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/grenade-seizure-germany-based-handler-on-punjab-police-radar-101630528573879.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cricket Association to host multiple national meets till Feb next year||The Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) is all set to host multiple national tournaments from September 20 to February 25, 2022. The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has allotted one group of the Vinoo Mankad Trophy, Men’s U-25 State one-day matches, Vijay Hazare Trophy and CK Nayudu Trophy to PCA. The matches will be organised at IS Bindra Stadium, Mohali; Maharaja Yadavindra Singh Stadium, Mullanpur; and Cricket Stadium, Sector 16, Chandigarh.First up will be the Elite A Group matches of Vinoo Mankad Trophy from September 20 to October 4.According to a PCA official, a bio-bubble will be created with the assistance of BCCI at the teams’ hotels as well as at the venues. All teams and staff will remain in quarantine ahead of the matches.Trident Foundation to provide sponsorship Trident Foundation will provide PCA sponsorship worth ₹1.3 crore this season. In addition, it has offered to give 50 male and female players ₹15 lakh sponsorship. Each district of PCA, other than Mohali, Patiala, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar, that has enrolled over 300 regular players will also fetch ₹5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cricket-association-to-host-multiple-national-meets-till-feb-next-year-101630528567909.html
02-09-2021||Mumbai||MVA striking deals to lift curbs, says BJP; Sena calls it conspiracy||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has accused the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of “striking financial deals” with the industrial and commercial sectors for relaxations from pandemic curbs. BJP leader and former minister Ashish Shelar alleged that son-in-law of a Rajya Sabha MP of Shiv Sena has been mediating between theatre owners and the Uddhav Thackeray-led government to “strike a deal” for relaxations from curbs. The Shiv Sena said the allegations were part of the BJP’s conspiracy to defame the government. Decisions related to lifting restrictions are taken only after due consultations, it said. “After the associations representing particular sectors meet certain people in the government, the sectors are given relaxations. Hoteliers met them, after which they got the permissions. Bar, pub operators met people in government, after which they were allowed to open their shutters. Similarly, theatre owners and their associations are being approached for a deal for the permission. The son-in-law of a Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP is actively involved in it,” said Shelar. Shelar said the sectors which cannot afford to crack such a deal with the government, have been deprived of their livelihood. “Flower, agarbatti sellers outside temples have been struggling hard for their livelihood. Marathi drama artists and folk artists have been agitating for the permission for opening of the auditoriums, but no heed is paid to them because they are not able to ‘pay’ the required financial favours. Does the government expect such ‘deals’ from dahi handi, Ganeshotsav and Navratri Utsav mandals,” asked Shelar, adding, “They point at the Union health ministry’s letter while imposing curbs on dahi handi and Ganesh festivals. But the state did not follow the directives related to aggressive testing, equitable distribution of vaccine and prioritising vaccination for health workers.” Shiv Sena legislator and spokesperson Sunil Prabhu said, “The decisions related to the opening up of activities/sectors are taken only after due deliberation with the state-appointed task force of doctors and senior officials from various departments. Even the state wants to open up everything, but it has to think about the risk of the spread of infection too. Shelar’s allegations are part of their party’s conspiracy to defame the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-striking-deals-to-lift-curbs-says-bjp-sena-calls-it-conspiracy-101630528566355.html
02-09-2021||Other||Moga beat Ludhiana by 12 runs||Even Vaibhav Kalra’s swashbuckling innings of 185 runs could not prove to be enough to save the Ludhiana team from defeat during the Katoch Shield Tournament played in Moga.The host team beat Ludhiana by 12 runs in the tightly fought encounter.Batting first, Moga scored 401 for the loss of eight wickets. In response, Ludhiana could only score 390 for the loss of nine wickets.The highlight of the match was Kalra’s batting performance. His innings included 16 boundaries and nine towering sixes, four among those came in successive deliveries.However, Vaibhav was caught out by Shivam Gupta on the bowling of Gurjot Singh.For Ludhiana, Captain Nihal Wadhera scored 80 runs in 128 balls.For Moga, Gurjot Singh Sohraab Kamal and Gurjinder Singh scored 111 runs and 82 runs, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/moga-beat-ludhiana-by-12-runs-101630528565291.html
02-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC contractors divided over corruption allegations||At a time when a section of municipal corporation (MC) contractors is at loggerheads with the MC officials over alleged corruption, another group is refuting the allegations.A group of contractors, led by Manmohan Singh, Talwinder Singh, Deepak Madaan, among others, under the banner of ‘Contractors Association Municipal Corporation Ludhiana’ conducted a meeting at a restaurant near the Clock Tower on Wednesday and jumped in support of the MC officials. They accused the group of around 20 bitumen contractors led by Vinod Jain of levelling baseless allegations against the civic body for their alleged vested interests.They said that no corruption case had come to their notice in the past.Manmohan Singh said,” Many contractors are working in the city including, those working on the construction of RMC roads, installation of interlocking tiles, etc. We have decided to keep away from the allegations and continue with the development works.”As per sources, the group led by Singh is being forced to support the MC to mount pressure on the other group.Vinod Jain said that the contractors supporting the MC officials are hand in glove with them.“The MC officials also support these contractors while allotting the contracts and we have been raising an issue regarding the same. Rather than using pressure tactics, mayor Balkar Sandhu should take action against the corrupt officials,’ said Jain. On August 24, contractors led by Jain had announced the boycott of development works in the city, citing corruption in the MC. They alleged that a commission is also sought for releasing payment for completed works. The mayor had said the allegations are baseless.After it was found that Jain was blacklisted last year and was still awarded contracts by the MC officials, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal had marked an inquiry into the matter to MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal.On Tuesday, the MC employees’ union had also asked Jain to submit proof of corruption or apologise in three days failing which the union will raise an agitation against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-contractors-divided-over-corruption-allegations-101630528515814.html
02-09-2021||Other||BJP govt sold national assets, has no right to remain in power: Ex-union minister||Former Union minister Subodh Kant Sahai on Wednesday strongly criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government for its monetisation plan and said “the government, which failed to safeguard the national assets, has no right to remain in power”. Addressing mediapersons here, Sahai said, “The government’s move is an attack on the national assets and the future of the country.” He said the Congress will fight it alongside other opposition parties, trade union leaders and others. “The government which cannot manage power, telecom, railway, roads, airports, stadiums and gas pipelines has no right to remain in power,” said Sahai. Sahai, who was here as part of the party’s national campaign against the government’s new national monetisation plan, alleged that the BJP-led government has put India on “clearance sale” to benefit a few of its “business friends”. “They are selling the national assets built over the past seven decades to a few capitalist friends. These assets are not going to come back after being leased out for 30 to 50 years and the next 10 governments will not get any benefit by this move,” he said. He said the government’s claim that it will have the ownership rights over all these assets is an “eyewash”, and adding that the government is selling property worth over ₹60 lakh crore at ₹6 lakh crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-govt-sold-national-assets-has-no-right-to-remain-in-power-ex-union-minister-101630528512262.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||Nearly 1 lakh students secure RTE admission in UP this year||Nearly one lakh children from underprivileged sections of the society this year secured admissions under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009, in 12,563 unaided private schools across UP where they will receive free and quality education from the beginning up to class 8. The increase in the number of admissions assumes importance as it has come amid the Covid pandemic. The admissions were for kids in 3-6 age group (less than 7 as on April 1, 2021) in pre-primary to class 1. Under the RTE policy, 25 per cent seats in these schools are reserved for economically weaker sections. A record 2.55 lakh applications were received for admissions under RTE this year. The admission process opened on March 2 and ended on July 15, 2021.More than 1.53 lakh applications were verified and eventually 99,146 children were allotted seats in various private schools. This is the best conversion rate so far in the state since 2017 when the RTE lottery system shifted online. The selection is based on the lottery system set up by the state government.While Lucknow topped the list with 12,770 children securing admissions under RTE, Varanasi stood second with 8,655 children getting admission and Kanpur Nagar was third with 6,078 admissions. In Aligarh, 4,864 students secured admission and in Moradabad 4,202 students got admission.“It was my dream to enrol my six-year-old son Aaroh in a good school. However, it was just a dream as I had no means to turn it into a reality. My dream came true recently when my son secured admission in a reputed school in Lucknow under Right to Education [RTE 12.1.(c)] policy in this year’s (2021) lottery,” said Ankit Singh, 26, a gardener and earns ₹4,000-5,000 per month.Singh, who hails from Sitapur district, moved to Lucknow three years back so that his children could study in a good school. However, the pandemic and corona-induced lockdown derailed his plans.“I wasn’t getting regular work. I exhausted my savings but I did not return to my village. I stayed back in Lucknow so that both my children could get good education. I am happy that my son is getting a chance to study in a good school. He is too young to understand the importance of good education, but I will provide him with all the facilities. I even bought a smartphone for him so that he could attend his online classes,” said Singh.This year, six-year-old Antara’s Singh life changed forever. She lost both her parents to Covid within a week. For a few days, Antara and her elder brother lived with their landlord in Kanpur and later moved with a local guardian. In April, Aditya Pandey, an office assistant, who looks after RTE lottery and allotments in Kanpur, and a few others from the department, enrolled Antara’s name for RTE 12.1.(c) lottery.Early this week, Antara secured admission in a reputed school in Kanpur. She received her admission letter from UP minister of state for higher education Neelima Katiyar in the presence of district education officer Pawan Kumar Tiwari.Like Antara and Aaroh, all other students who got admission come from most underprivileged section and RTE 12.1 (C) will provide them with free and quality education in private schools across the state.Commenting on the increasing number of students from humble backgrounds getting admission under RTE, director general, school education, Anamika Singh said, “With a robust online RTE portal incorporating end-to-end process integration and widespread awareness campaign in 2021, we could receive a large number of applications from diverse geographies resulting in record 1 lakh lottery allocations.”“The state is now committed to ensuring these admissions in schools as we gear up towards opening of schools post Covid. We are also encouraging private schools to register themselves on RTE portal in order to receive timely reimbursements. This would be mandated under SSSA (State School Standards Authority) of NEP 2020,” she said.Lalita Pradeep, additional director, basic education said, “It is fascinating to see that now guardians are more aware and some social organisations have contributed a lot to instil the spirit of the RTE Act into system.”Samina Bano, founder and CEO, RightWalk Foundation, which was instrumental in implementing the RTE policy in the state, said: “We request all the private schools in the state to register on RTE portal for smooth functioning of the process and it will also make data collection easier.” In 2019, 59,692 children had secured admissions while in 2020, 87,728 children had got admission despite Covid.Top five districts Lucknow (12,770), Varanasi (8,655), Kanpur Nagar (6,078), Aligarh (4,864), Moradabad (4,202)Upgrade of RTE portalAs the number of allotments has gone up, to keep up with the pace, the RTE portal has undergone key changes since its inception. Earlier, the portal had features like director, admin, BSA, application, lottery and report module.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nearly-1-lakh-students-secure-rte-admission-in-up-this-year-101630528511048.html
02-09-2021||Other||Chautala starts state-wide tour to invite people to Devi Lal’s birth anniv||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) patriarch OP Chautala on Wednesday alleged that the lathi-charge on farmers in Karnal last week was planned by the state government.Chautala started a state-wide tour to invite people to attend former deputy prime minister Devi Lal’s birth anniversary on September 25 in Jind.Interacting with party workers in Sirsa and Fatehabad, the former Haryana chief minister condemned the lathi-charge on farmers and urged party workers to stand by the farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws.“The BJP-JJP government has become synonymous with scams, drugs, crime, unemployment, and no safety for women. The government has failed to address grievances of youth, farmers, women and labourers. Every section of the society is forced to come out on road to raise their issues but the government is still turning a blind eye to their grievances. The government is responding to protesters with sticks. I have never seen such a failed government in my entire political career,” Chautala added.“The BJP-JJP leaders are not allowed to visit their constituency which showcases the resentment against them. The Congress has hatched a conspiracy against me for giving jobs to 3,600 junior basic teachers during our tenure, following which I had to stay in jail. People of Haryana are looking towards us as we are capable enough to fulfil their dreams. Lakhs of people will attend Devi Lal’s birth anniversary in Jind on September 25,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chautala-starts-state-wide-tour-to-invite-people-to-devi-lal-s-birth-anniv-101630528509905.html
02-09-2021||Other||Three Kaithal cops suspended, booked for delaying FIR in rape case||Three cops, including a woman ASI, posted at the city police station of Kaithal, have been suspended for allegedly delaying registration of FIR in a rape case.Kaithal superintendent of police Lokender Singh has also ordered registration of FIR against the three cops.The cops reportedly did not register a rape case against a local businessman and tried to settle the case with the victim. It is alleged that they took ₹10 lakh from the businessman to resolve the issue amicably and paid ₹3 lakh to the victim and ₹7 lakh kept with them, but the police officials said that this is under investigation.The matter was brought to the knowledge of the SP and he marked an inquiry to Kaithal DSP Dileep Singh.As per findings of the investigation, police have booked three cops, ASI Sudesh Rani and ASI Rajkumar and head constable Dalbir Singh, under Sections 166 A and 120 B of the IPC.The DSP said on August 27, a woman had filed a rape complaint at the city police station. As per law, the FIR should be registered on the same day.During investigation it was found that the cops delayed the registration of FIR against the businessman and tried to sort out the issue outside, he added.On whether the cops had also took money from the businessman, the DSP said that this is part of investigation.Head constable Dalbir Singh posted at Pundri police station was allegedly involved in breaking a deal between the accused and the victim.Talking to HT, Kaithal SP said they have been suspended and an FIR has been registered against them and investigation is in the case is going on.The police are also investigating the role of the victim in the case.Two more cops suspendedTwo other police officials posted in Kaithal have also been suspended by the SP.As per information, a 35-year-old man from Kaithal city had received injuries after he was allegedly stabbed by unidentified persons.Later, he had succumbed to the injuries, but SI Shamsher Singh and head constable Davinder did not register a case, following which they have been suspended.The SP said probe is on in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-kaithal-cops-suspended-booked-for-delaying-fir-in-rape-case-101630528508517.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||CHB e-auction finds takers for only 4 of 182 leasehold properties||The Chandigarh Housing Board failed to attract good response to its latest e-auction of residential and commercial properties, most of which were offered on leasehold. Out of the 149 commercial units on sale on leasehold basis, the board could sell only two units. The total reserve price of the two units was ₹1.06 crore and their sale fetched CHB ₹1.09 crore. Similarly, out of 33 residential units, only two found takers. The highest bids received against these units came to ₹90.85 lakh against a total reserve price of ₹89.83 lakh. Even in the previous e-auction held on August 10, CHB could sell only three of the 151 commercial units and five of the 38 residential units on offer. On the tepid response to the latest auction, Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB, said, “In the residential category, the number of units was low, limiting the bidders’ choice. The lack of provision for conversion of leasehold to freehold impacted the sale of commercial properties. The outcome of all e-tenders will be placed before the board in its meeting on September 9 for deliberations and appropriate measures.” Response to freehold properties tad betterThe freehold properties fared better in the auction though here also the response was lower than the last auction. CHB sold eight out of 34 units to the highest bidders. The reserve price of the eight units was ₹4.7 crore and a revenue of ₹4.8 crore was made from their sale. A freehold MIG flat in Sector 51 (West) went for ₹92.25 lakh against the reserve price of ₹90 lakh, while the highest bid for a commercial unit on leasehold basis in Sector 49-B was ₹56.5 lakh against the reserve price of ₹55.03 lakh. Similarly, a leasehold MIG flat in Sector 44-D received the highest bid of ₹53.41 lakh against the reserve price of ₹53.39 lakh. In all, CHB raked in ₹6.8 crore from the auction of eight residential units on freehold basis, and two residential and two commercial units on leasehold basis. These were offered against a total reserve price of ₹6.66 crore. “During the past five months, the board has sold 95 residential properties on freehold basis in five e-auctions and earned ₹75.4 crore against the total reserve price of ₹70.26 crore. For leasehold properties, the board earned ₹5.42 crore by selling nine residential units and ₹7.39 crore from the sale of commercial properties,” Garg added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chb-e-auction-finds-takers-for-only-4-of-182-leasehold-properties-101630528507319.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Woman dies after beaten up by alcoholic husband||Police have booked a man for allegedly beating up his wife leading to her death. The accused, an alcoholic, thrashed his wife with a log and she succumbed to her injuries at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, on Tuesday, said the police. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered against Jagtar Singh, 48, of Mangwal village at the sadar police station following a complaint by couple’s son Satgur Singh.The first information report stated that the accused used to quarrel and beat up his wife. On August 28 evening, Jagtar attacked his wife Paramjit Kaur with a wooden log. She was rushed to the Sangrur civil hospital from where doctors referred her to PGIMER, Chandigarh, where she died during treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-dies-after-beaten-up-by-alcoholic-husband-101630528505844.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Spotlight on sacrilege, SAD bets on police firing accused Mantar Brar from Kotkapura seat||Even as the incidents involving post-sacrilege violence are in the spotlight ahead of the 2022 Punjab assembly elections, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has decided to field Mantar Singh Brar, one of the accused in the 2015 police firing cases, as its candidate from the Kotkapura constituency. The party, it is learnt, has decided to go ahead with Brar’s candidature to strengthen its claim that it had no involvement in the post-sacrilege firing incidents. Brar was the Kotkapura MLA when the firing incident took place in 2015. He was named as accused in the FIR alleging his involvement in the Kotkapura firing incident. The special investigation team (SIT) had claimed that Brar pressurised the then Kotkapura station house officer (SHO) Gurdeep Singh not to record statements of the complainant, Ajit Singh, and other persons injured in the police firing. Brar allegedly exchanged 157 calls with senior police officers on the day of firing and directed the administration to disperse the protesters by using force, the SIT had alleged.However, the chargesheets filed by SIT in the Kotkapura firing cases were quashed by the Punjab and Haryana high court in April and a fresh SIT was constituted by the state government to probe the Kotkapura firing case. The SAD on Wednesday announced its candidates from six constituencies in Punjab, repeating all the three candidates from Faridkot district who unsuccessfully contested the 2017 polls. Apart from Brar, Youth Akali Dal (YAD) president Parambans Singh Romana was declared candidate from Faridkot and Suba Singh Badal from Jaitu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/spotlight-on-sacrilege-sad-bets-on-police-firing-accused-mantar-brar-from-kotkapura-seat-101630528504728.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn employees to receive salary hike from October||Salaries of UT employees are set to increase by a minimum of 15% from October with the Chandigarh administration adopting the recommendations of the Sixth Punjab Pay Commission.The administration has notified the Punjab Civil Services (Revised Pay) Rules, 2021, in respect of the UT employees who draw pay on Punjab pattern. These will also apply to employees on deputation from Punjab. Most of the 20,000 UT employees stand to gain from the decision. The Sixth Punjab Pay Commission had submitted the first part of its report to the Punjab government on April 30, 2021, broadly comprising recommendations on revision of pay scales, allowances, and pension and retirement benefits.The Punjab government notified the revised pay rules on July 5 with effect from January 2016, followed by Chandigarh also deciding to roll out the pay hike from October this year. “Decision on payment of arrears for January 1, 2016, to September 30, 2021, will be taken in due course of time,” states the UT notification. “A salary increase of ₹8,000 to ₹16,000 per month is expected depending on the grade/post of the employee,” said a UT official. An employee currently getting ₹56,038 monthly pay can expect a hike of ₹9,454 to ₹14,910 per month, with the difference being mainly due to the rate of dearness allowance –17% or 28%. The rate of future increments in salary will be 3% of the basic pay, uniformly for all government employees. The notification states, “The level of posts shall be determined in accordance with the grade pay assigned to the post as per the recommendations of the Fifth Punjab Pay Commission notified by the government in 2009.” The Fifth Pay Commission was applicable from 2006. Gopal Dutt Joshi, general secretary, UT Powermen Association, said, “While the Punjab government doesn’t have the funds to release arrears of employees, the UT administration doesn’t have such constraints. It should immediately disburse the arrears due from January 1, 2016.” Balwinder Singh, president, Chandigarh Subordinate Services Federation, said, “The pay rise does not match the level of inflation in the country. The relief for UT employees has come too little, too late.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-employees-to-receive-salary-hike-from-october-101630528457604.html
02-09-2021||Other||NHRC seeks report from Karnal DC, SP over lathi-charge||Four days after around 40 farmers sustained injuries in police lathi-charge in Karnal, the National Human Rights Commission has sought a report from Karnal deputy commissioner and superintendent of police over the incident.As per the letters written to them, the commission has sought a reply on a complaint filed by a delegation led by Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee Kumari Selja on August 31.In the complaint, the Congress leaders have alleged brutal lathi-charge on agitating farmers by the police in Karnal on August 28.In the complaint, it has been alleged that the then Karnal SDM-cum-duty magistrate Ayush Sinha had ordered for brutal lathi-charge and as a result several farmers have sustained grievous injuries.The complainants have alleged the action of the district administration and police was a part of conspiracy and that they have acted contrary to law violating their fundamental rights guarantee under Article 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India and have also violated the basic principles on the use of force and firearms by law enforcement officials as adopted by the United Nations on August 28 to September 7, 1990.The Congress leaders have also submitted pendrives containing video clips of SDM Ayush Sinha to the commission.However, Karnal DC Nishant Yadav and SP Ganga Ram Punia could not be contacted for a comments despite multiple attempts but it was learnt that the copies of the letters have been received in their offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nhrc-seeks-report-from-karnal-dc-sp-over-lathicharge-101630528453707.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||112.1mm of rain in 24 hours is heaviest Delhi has seen in September in 19 years||Delhi on Wednesday received 112.1mm of rain, within a span of 24 hours, to record the highest single day rainfall for the month of September in 19 years and the fifth highest for the month since 1963, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) records. The intense rain showed no signs of abating and continued well into Wednesday morning, leading to widespread waterlogging on key stretches, residential colonies and low-lying areas. The weather officials said the rainfall activity is likely to decrease from Thursday — they have forecast only light and scattered rain over the next two days. “The monsoon trough has shifted southwards again and is closer to Delhi, which combined with easterly winds blowing over the north-west region resulted in these heavy spells. Light rain may occur in parts of the city on September 2-3,” an IMD official said, asking not to be named.According to the IMD rainfall data, the Safdarjung Observatory, considered representative of Delhi’s weather, received 112.1mm rain between 8.30am Tuesday and 8.30am Wednesday — the highest 24-hour rainfall in September since 2002. The last time it rained so much was on September 13, 2002, when Delhi received 126.8mm rain over 24 hours. The Palam weather station recorded 71.1mm rainfall over 24 hours. The Lodhi Road and Ridge weather stations recorded 120.2mm and 81.6 mm rain, respectively, during the same period, while the Ayanagar station received 68.2mm rainfall.Weather scientists said the Safdarjung observatory recorded another heavy spell of rain between 8.30am and 11.30am, measuring 75.6mm. The Palam weather station received 78.2mm during this period while Lodhi Road received 75.4mm, Ridge received 50 mm and Ayanagar received 68.2 mm.On Tuesday, too, Delhi received heavy rainfall measuring 84.1mm over six hours.Delhi has been receiving short and intense spells of rain instead of being more uniformly distributed this season, which weather experts say is adversely affecting the ecology. The intense spells have covered the monthly rainfall deficit as well.While August had ended with a monthly rainfall deficit of 13%, September has already recorded surplus rain on the first day of the month itself. August had received 214.5 mm rain against the normal reading of 247.7mm. However, September has received 112.1mm rain in just one day, against a normal reading of 6.6mm for the month so far. Delhi this monsoon (from June 1) has received 868.5mm rainfall, against a normal reading of 530.4mm til September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1121mm-of-rain-in-24-hours-is-heaviest-delhi-has-seen-in-september-in-19-years-101630528450954.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||UP CM orders special panel probe into violations in Supertech project||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday ordered that a special inquiry committee be constituted to probe the violations of building norms in the construction of two 40-storey towers at the Supertech Emerald Court project in Noida’s Sector 93 -- a day after the Supreme Court ordered the demolition of the twin towers pointing out a “nefarious complicity of the planning authority in the violation by the developer of the provisions of law”.The chief minister also directed the officials to register criminal cases against the guilty persons, if need be, as he reviewed the matter in Lucknow, an official spokesperson said. “In the case of Noida’s Supertech Emerald Court case, the orders of the Supreme Court should be ensured in letter and spirit. Irregularities in this case have been going on continuously since 2004,” the CM said, according to the spokesperson.“A special inquiry committee should be constituted at the government level and a thorough investigation be done,” Adityanath said at a high-level meeting in Lucknow on Wednesday.On August 4, while reserving its judgment in the case, the apex court observed that the conduct of the Noida authority “reeks of corruption from the eyes, ears and nose”.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah on Tuesday directed that Supertech shall carry out the demolition at its own expense and will complete it within three months under the supervision of Noida authority and an expert body such as the Central Building Research Institute.Further, the court ordered that Supertech will refund money to all the existing homebuyers in Emerald Court’s Apex and Ceyane towers within two months, along with an interest of 12% per annum from the date of their deposits. Besides, the developer shall shell out ₹2 crores to the Emerald Court Owner Resident Welfare Association (RWA), which had led the legal battle against erection of the twin towers on a green area and in breach of the minimum distance norms.“The sanction for the construction of Tower-16 and Tower-17 were given by NOIDA (New Okhla Industrial Development Authority) in contravention of the minimum distance requirement provided by the building regulations... the record of this case is replete with instances which highlight the collusion between the officers of NOIDA with the appellant and its management. The case has revealed a nefarious complicity of the planning authority in the violation by the developer of the provisions of law,” the apex court held.The Noida authority on Wednesday said a two-member committee has begun investigation to identify the guilty officials. “The committee will probe into all aspects of this case and is likely to submit a report within a week,” said Ritu Maheshwari CEO of the Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-orders-probe-in-supertech-towers-case-criminal-cases-against-guilty-101630528449730.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: PWD to focus on 50 problem areas in city||The Delhi government’s public works department (PWD) has identified 50 most vulnerable spots from a list of 147 for repair to ensure there is no repeat of waterlogging in the areas during monsoon next year, said senior officials. Among the spots are Shahdara railway bridge, Karkardooma Metro station, Shashi Garden, Laxmi Nagar Metro station, Vikas Marg, Minto road, IP flyover just after the loop, turn on Khyber Pass, under Mayapuri flyover, Tikri Border Metro station, Mehrauli Badarpur road, and Bhati Mines road.“Different agencies went about building more small drains and connected them to the larger PWD drains which has already reached their carrying capacity. Further, storm water from previously unpaved areas now flows into drains along roads...,” said a PWD official.Officials also insisted that their efforts to avert waterlogging at Minto bridge underpass was successful to a great extent.Officials added they will construct an underground sump with enhanced pumping capacity in the area. “We will start the work towards September end and have set February 2022 deadline for the project,” added the official cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhipwdidentifies-50-most-vulnerable-spots-to-ensure-no-repeat-of-waterlogging-next-year-101630528448398.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate polls: Clean sweep for Goyal group in faculties constituency||The Navdeep Goyal and Ashok Goyal alliance on Wednesday won all six seats in the constituency of faculties of Panjab University (PU) senate. Both Navdeep and Ashok were also contesting from the constituency. Of the 12 candidates in fray, six from the Goyal group were declared elected after the counting of votes. The remaining candidates were aligned with the BJP group. This was considered a key contest on the PU campus. In the arts faculty, Ronki Ram was declared elected after securing 53 votes. Ram was in a close contest with Anju Suri, who managed to bag 47 votes. Ashok Goyal, a powerful candidate from the Goyal group, was declared elected in the medical science faculty with 47 votes. He was contesting against Dr Sarvdeep Singh Dhatt. “We have proved what we said. It is not only the victory of democracy but defeat of those who tried to stall the process,” he said. From the languages faculty, former PUTA president Rajesh Gill won after bagging 48 votes against Gurpal Singh, who got 35 votes.Keshav Malhotra of the Goyal group secured 141 votes and was declared elected from the combined faculty. He was contesting against Naval Kishore.From the science faculty, Navdeep Goyal won with 90 votes. Navdeep was contesting against former PUTA president Promila Pathak, who secured 38 votes. “The margin with which we have won the election shows that democracy can never be defeated,” Navdeep said. With 37 votes, Anu Chatrath was elected from the law faculty. She was contesting against Jagjot Singh Lalli, who got only 10 votes.The alliance between Navdeep and Ashok was forged during the syndicate election in 2018 and the group had last year decided to continue to fight senate polls together. They were both in the opposite camps during the previous senate polls of PU.So far, the election has been conducted for seven constituencies of the PU senate. The varsity has yet to announce the date of polling for the registered graduate constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-polls-clean-sweep-for-goyal-group-in-faculties-constituency-101630528447302.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Women falling behind in vaccination drive in Ludhiana||Even as the vaccination drive gathers pace in Ludhiana with a record 20 lakh people inoculated in eight months, there remains a gender gap in the vaccination rate, with women lagging behind. As per the data shared by the health department, of the 20 lakh people who have received the shot, only five lakh are fully vaccinated, while the rest have only received a single dose. Of the 20 lakh people inoculated in the district so far, 12 lakh are men and eight lakh women. As per the health department, 11,77,817 men have been vaccinated so far, while 8,07,560 women have got the jab, leaving a gap of 3,70,257 doses between the genders. Experts say vaccine hesitancy due to rumoured side effects, lack of information, technical and logistical support, and patriarchal social values are responsible for the gender gap in Covid vaccination. Vaccination in-charge Dr Puneet Juneja says, “A variety of factors are responsible for the gender gap in the vaccination drive. We are doing better than other states in bridging the gender gap. Women should also come forward and get vaccinated as they too are at a similar risk of catching the fatal infection as men.” An age-wise breakup reveals that 9,80,298 people in the 18 to 44 age bracket have received the jab, 6,15,606 people in the 45 to 60 bracket have been vaccinated and 3,89,751 people above the age of 60 have got the shot. Ludhiana, which has the distinction of being the most populous district, is leading the state in the vaccination drive. It had crossed the milestone of inoculating 10 lakh people on June 22. Out of 20 lakh people vaccinated in the district so far, five lakh people were vaccinated in August.Dr Juneja says the vaccination drive is on the right track and people are receiving the second dose at regular intervals of 12 to 16 weeks as suggested by the government.In a nutshell Category PeopleMen: 11,77,817Women: 8,07,560Gender gap : 3, 70,257First dose: 14,85,551Second doses: 5,00,10418 to 44 age group: 9,80,29845 to 60 age group: 6,15,60660+ age group: 3,89,751||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/women-falling-behind-in-vaccination-drive-in-ludhiana-101630528445974.html
02-09-2021||Other||110 new Covid cases, 1 death in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday recorded 110 fresh Covid-19 infections while a fresh death related to the disease was reported in Kashmir valley. There were 94 cases in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 16 infections. The summer capital Srinagar in Kashmir saw the highest count of 52 cases. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 120 with active positive cases reaching 1,319.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 523 followed by Baramulla district with 142 active cases.So far, 3,19,801 persons have recovered, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.24%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,25,529 and the death-toll stands at 4,409.The officials said that 50,601 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. Officials said with 52 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 18 in Budgam. As many as 18 other districts had no or single-digit cases.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,142 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 835 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/110-new-covid-cases-1-death-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101630528444708.html
02-09-2021||Other||Prepare traffic management plan at earliest: Ashu tells Ludhiana police||Punjab food, civil supplies, and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu directed the senior officials of Ludhiana Police, municipal corporation, and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to ensure a smooth ride for city residents during the upcoming festive season. He said that as construction is underway on several main roads, the concerned officials should prepare a comprehensive plan for effective traffic management.Bharat Bhushan Ashu chaired a meeting in this regard at Police Lines on Wednesday. The meeting was attended by the commissioner of police Naunihal Singh, ADC (UD) Sandeep Kumar, MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, Joint CP J Elanchezhian, Joint CP Deepak Pareek, NHAI senior officials, traffic expert Rahul Verma, XEN Smart City Raman Kaushal, besides several others.The cabinet minister said that it is known that under the Ludhiana Smart City project, the work on an elevated road project at Ferozepur Road, at Pakhowal Road Rail Over Bridge, and two Rail Under Bridges, upgradation of Malhar Road as Smart Road, etc. is going on in full swing.Ashu stated that due to these development projects being carried out for the benefit and welfare of city residents, there have been reports of traffic congestion/jams in some parts of the city. He has asked the traffic police and MC Ludhiana to prepare their traffic management plan at the earliest. He said that the Tehbazaari wing of MC should also clear encroachments on the roads where traffic congestion is prevalent.He also directed the NHAI officials to clear the unnecessary traffic hazards or barricading on roads so that people do not suffer. He promised the residents that all bottlenecks that lead to traffic congestion will be cleared on priority.He directed the Ludhiana Police to ensure that all CCTVs installed under the safe city project are in working condition as they help keep a check on criminal activities. He also directed them to depute PCR personnel at all points where there’s traffic congestion.Ashu said that he would personally monitor and review the traffic management plan weekly. We will not tolerate any lapse by any official.Bharat Bhushan Ashu has appealed to the city residents to assist the Punjab government during the construction of these development projects that will benefit them in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prepare-traffic-management-plan-at-earliest-ashu-tells-ludhiana-police-101630528395412.html
02-09-2021||Mumbai||PM2.5 exposure reducing lifespan in Mumbai by 3.7 years: AQLI||Exposure to PM2.5 — respirable particulate matter less than 2.5 micrometres in diameter — is potentially reducing the lifespan of Mumbai citizens by an average of 3.7 years, suggests a recently updated index known as the Air Quality Life Index (AQLI) by the University of Chicago’s Energy Policy Institute (EPIC).The index also shows that the average annual concentration of PM2.5 in Mumbai increased from 43.4ug/m3 to 47.9ug/m3 from 2016 to 2019. Accordingly, the outcome for life expectancy has been unfavourable and the average reduction in a single citizen’s lifespan has also increased from 3.3 years in 2016 to 3.7 years in 2019. This is based on AQLI’s epidemiological assumption that life expectancy is reduced by 0.98 years for every 10μg/m3 of sustained exposure to particulate matter.AQLI was first published in 2018, using available data till 2016. The latest instalment in AQLI uses updated air pollution data till 2019 and translates it into impact on life expectancy using an approach similar to that deployed in China, where populations north of Huai River are provided free or subsidised coal for indoor heating in the winter. AQLI is based on a study in which researchers were able to measure the effect of sustained exposure to high levels of pollution on a person’s life expectancy.As per the updated numbers released on Wednesday, the national average reduction in lifespan due to PM2.5 is 5.9 years in India, while that in Maharashtra is four years. In Pune, exposure to PM2.5 is reducing life expectancy by 4.2 years on an average. Gondia and Bhandara districts in Vidarbha were found to be the most polluted with life expectancy reducing by 5.1 and five years, respectively.Dr Piyush Goel, pulmonologist with a leading chain of private hospitals in Asia, explained that PM2.5 particles are minute enough to enter the alveoli in human lungs, where the exchange of respiratory gases takes place. “When this alien material, which comes from vehicles, construction and many other sources, enters the alveoli, the body begins to secrete mediating enzymes which cause destruction of lung tissue,” he said. These particles can even be tiny enough to pass through the alveoli and enter the blood stream, from where they get deposited in other organs, making them degenerate prematurely.“On the whole, inhalation of PM2.5 leads to a gradual degeneration of various parts of the body, which results in accelerated aging. This may be one reason why we’re seeing younger people having chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), heart attacks and similar ailments which were earlier majorly seen in older age groups,” Dr Goel said.Dr Lancelot Pinto, pulmonologist and epidemiologist from Hinduja hospital, emphasised that the link between ambient air pollution and life expectancy has been reported in multiple studies and guides WHO guidelines. “Air pollution has a strong link with respiratory disease through its association with diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which is the third leading cause of death in India, as well as asthma and other underlying respiratory diseases. There is also a link with cardiovascular diseases through its effects on heart rate, blood pressure. It [AQLI] is important for policymakers because the focus on health is often on helping to build healthcare infrastructure, which addresses disease once it has occurred (tertiary prevention). Primary prevention might yield much higher returns, by promoting health, and preventing, rather than curing disease.”In a statement released on Wednesday, EPIC noted that India’s high levels of air pollution have expanded geographically over time. “Compared to a couple of decades ago, particulate pollution is no longer a feature of the Indo-Gangetic plains alone. Pollution has increased so much in the states of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. For example, the average person in those states is now losing an additional 2.5 to 2.9 years of life expectancy, relative to early 2000s,” it said.SN Tripathi, atmospheric scientist and professor at Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur who recently led an air pollution study across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), said the numbers are plausible, and that the increase in PM pollutants in Mumbai was likely to be due to anthropogenic activities. “We have always believed that Mumbai, being a coastal city, has a natural defence against air pollution, but now it seems even this has its limitations. In a recent study, we have observed PM2.5 concentrations of up to 100ug/m3 in some locations. The increase in such pollutants is likely to be due to human activity, namely vehicular emissions, construction or industries. Sectoral policies to mitigate emissions from these sources are the appropriate response. For example, a policy to increase adoption of cleaner transport and fuel would help bring down pollutants from vehicles and improve human health to a degree,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm25-exposure-reducing-lifespan-in-mumbai-by-3-7-years-aqli-101630528391307.html
02-09-2021||Other||‘Substandard’ material used: Ludhiana MC razes under construction road as contractor fails to meet quality norms||The municipal corporation (MC) razed an under-construction road in Block-G of the South City area on Tuesday evening as the contractor failed to meet quality norms.Around ₹68 lakh has been allotted for construction of the main road and a few internal streets of Block G. Area residents and councillor Pankaj Kaka complained that the contractor was using sub-standard material including, ‘Gatka’, for preparing the bed before laying the bitumen mix. The action was taken following their complaint.The civic body officials stated that the contractor had initiated the work without intimating the MC officials. As per information, the contractor belongs to the group of contractors which accused the MC officials of corruption recently.Kaka said,” Warnings were issued to the contractor to improve the quality of work, but he failed to take corrective steps. Now, the MC has removed the sub-standard material from the site and is issuing a notice to the contractor. If he still fails to improve the quality, proceedings will be initiated to blacklist him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/substandard-material-used-ludhiana-mc-razes-under-construction-road-as-contractor-fails-to-meet-quality-norms-101630528390107.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman snatcher strikes again, takes away walker’s chain||A female snatcher struck again, the third time in the past four months, plucking a woman’s gold chain in Sector 23 on Tuesday night.The victim, Pardeep Kaur, was out for a walk with her two daughters around 8.40pm when a woman walked up to her and snatched her gold chain. Before Kaur could react, the snatcher ran towards her male accomplice waiting on a motorcycle in the nearby market and the duo sped away. “The woman was around 40 years old, was wearing jeans and had her hair tied with a claw clip. I was talking on the mobile phone when she attacked me from behind,” Kaur told the police. Acting on her complaint, a case under Section 379-A (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 17 police station. According to police the area was poorly lit and not much could be made out from the CCTV footage. Not a firstOn May 30, a woman riding pillion on a motorcycle had snatched the mobile phone of a Sector 41 resident. More recently, on August 4, a man and a woman on a motorcycle had snatched a 76-year-old woman’s gold chain in Sector 15. So far the police have failed to make any headway into these cases. They have neither been able to track down the accused nor the motorcycles used by them. “Such gangs mostly cover the registration plates with mud or tape to avoid being traced,” said a senior police official. “Women are active in various crimes, but now Chandigarh is witnessing their involvement in snatchings as well. These crimes appear to be the handiwork of same people working together as a gang,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh. He said, “The lure of easy money was pulling youngsters into the vortex of crime, irrespective of gender.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhwoman-snatcher-strikes-again-takes-away-walker-s-chain-101630528388910.html
02-09-2021||Other||Himachal’s Covid cases shot up by 92% in August||Violation of Covid-19 protocols seems to have put Himachal at risk for the third wave, with the state recording a 92% increase in infections in August, as compared to July.Though the cases had started waning by the end of June, the upward trend began again in July end. The hill-state recorded a total of 7,521 cases in August against 3,904 in July. The positivity rate which was 0.9% in July, climbed to over 2% in the month gone by. The overall positivity rate in the state currently is 6.7% Though the state government has made RT-PCR negative reports or vaccination certificate (both doses) mandatory for those trying to enter the state, there is no mechanism to check violations within the state boundaries. There is also no check on social gatherings, where the cap on attendees has been set at 50 for indoor facilities and 50% of the total capacity in open spaces. Norms are also being openly flouted in public transport, which are supposed to ply with 50% capacity but are running overcrowded. The State Executive Committee (SEC) has been issuing guidelines from time-to-time but the implementation is not as stringent as it was during the second and first wave. “We are issuing guidelines, the government is increasing testing and tracking to detect the positive cases,” said health minister Rajiv Sehzal, though he stayed mum on rallies and political events being organised by the Congress as well as the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. What is more worrying is that of the 28 oxygen plants sanctioned in the state, only three are functional so far while another six plants had to be set up in the state under corporate social responsibility Mandi worst-hit: Political events to be blamed? Mandi is the worst-hit district in the state, recording 1,839 infections—highest among all 12 districts— in the month of August, which was more than double the July figure of 821. The central district, also the home turf of chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur, has become a political hotbed in view of the Mandi parliamentary constituency byelections. The CM himself has been extensively touring the district and addressing public rallies, where people have been openly flouting the norms. There is no implementation of Covid safety rules in such events. Even the CM and leaders accompanying him have been seen without masks at such events. Mandi, with a high positivity rate of 5%, is among the 67 high Covid positivity districts in the country along with Lahaul-Spiti. Mandi is followed by Kangra, the largest district in terms of population, with 1,444 cases and Chamba with 1,377 cases. In the last one week, six of the 12 districts in the state had positivity rate above 2%. Lahaul-Spiti’s positivity rate is high but the absolute number of tests and cases reported is low compared to other districts. Covid becoming lethal again With rising infections, the number of fatalities has also gone up. In August, a total 77 people died of the infection as compared to 42 in July. Forty-seven people have died in last two weeks with weekly CFR crossing 1.5%. On an average, three to four fatalities are being reported daily in the state while the highest number in a day was six.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachals-covid-cases-shot-up-by-92-in-august-101630528386842.html
02-09-2021||Other||J&K will open higher educational institutes once all students are vaccinated: LG||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha on Wednesday said the union territory will open higher educational institutes this month, once all students in the 18-plus group are vaccinated.For the last couple of days, the government has been dropping hints about its willingness to open educational institutions soon.Speaking on the sidelines of a function in Srinagar, Lt Governor Manoj Sinha said, “Parents have been demanding the reopening of schools and higher educational institutions for some time. These will be reopened this month after all students are vaccinated.”Earlier after a review of Covid-19 situation in the union territory, the government had allowed higher educational institutions, where 100% staff and students were vaccinated, to open for ‘limited on-site’ classes.During the review, conducted under the chairmanship of chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta last week, it was reiterated that there was a need to continue with the existing containment measures in all districts “in view of the uneven trend observed in daily Covid cases”.In an order on Sunday, the chief secretary had said that all educational institutes, including coaching centres, shall continue to remain closed for onsite or in-person teaching till further orders. However, higher educational institutions can be permitted to commence with limited in-person teaching, subject to 100% vaccination of staff and students and specific permission of deputy commissioners concerned. “Such institutions can organise special vaccination camps in consultation with the district administration,” the order said.The other educational institutions can allow attendance of vaccinated staff for administrative purposes. Schools and colleges have been closed in Jammu and Kashmir since March when the second wave of Covid-19 had started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-will-open-higher-educational-institutes-once-all-students-are-vaccinated-lg-101630528385693.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||NCSC asks Patiala DC, SSP to submit report on assault on woman sarpanch||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) on Wednesday issued a notice to the Patiala deputy commissioner and senior superintendent of police (SSP) over a complaint filed by a woman Dalit sarpanch in the district alleging assault on her while carrying out development works. Commission chairman Vijay Sampla asked the officials to submit an action taken report by September 3.Sukhpal Kaur, sarpanch of Santnagar Maulviwala village, was allegedly beaten up in public and her clothes were torn after an altercation with some upper-caste men on May 24, 2020. A case under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and other sections of the Indian Penal Code was registered against 13 people at the Patran police station. In her complaint to the commission, Kaur said an inquiry was ordered but the accused were let off as the police cancelled the FIR in September last year.“The incident clearly indicates towards the plight of scheduled caste women in rural Punjab If an action taken report is not submitted within the stipulated time, the commission will exercise its powers of a civil court conferred on it and issue summons to the officials for appearing in person in Delhi,” Sampla added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ncsc-asks-patiala-dc-ssp-to-submit-report-on-assault-on-woman-sarpanch-101630528384564.html
02-09-2021||Other||Many trains between Prayagraj-Lucknow to remain suspended for a fortnight||Many important trains, including Ganga Gomti Express and Triveni Express, would remain suspended for a fortnight due to the re-modelling and track doubling works to be undertaken by Northern Railways (NR) near Rae Bareli, railway officials said. Station superintendent, Prayagraj, Sanjay Kumar, said, “Northern Railways (NR) has decided to suspend operation of several trains between Prayagraj and Lucknow, including Ganga Gomti from September 4 to 14, due to the re-modelling of Raebareli railway yard and doubling of the tracks.” Ganga Gomti Express, reaching Prayagraj Sangam on September 3 from Lucknow would remain suspended till September 13. Likewise, the train reaching Lucknow on September 3 from Prayagraj would remain suspended till September 14. Similarly, Prayagraj-Lucknow Intercity Express would remain suspended between September 8 and 13. Sakatinagar-Takanpur Triveni Express would also remain suspended from September 5 to 14, informed officials. Around half a dozen more trains passing thorough Rae Bareli would remain suspended on different dates till September 15. The commuters, who use these trains to travel between Prayagraj and Lucknow or the different smaller towns on the route, will now have to switch over to other modes of transportation during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/many-trains-between-prayagraj-lucknow-to-remain-suspended-for-a-fortnight-101630528333246.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sacrilege probe at a standstill, SIT now turns focus on Burj Jawahar Singh Wala ‘bir’ theft case||The Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases has turned its focus on a desecration incident wherein a “bir” (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in Faridkot, after its inquiry remained at a standstill for nearly a year due to legal tangles and other factors. Since inspector general of police (IGP) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar took over as SIT head in February, no further progress was made in the case as a supplementary chargesheet is yet to be filed in court. The SIT had so far focused on the other two interlinked sacrilege cases with the arrest of Dera Sacha Sauda followers and filing of chargesheets against them. IG Parmar along with other team members — assistant inspector general of police (AIG) Rajinder Singh Sohal and deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Lakhbir Singh —visited Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on Wednesday and interacted with the locals seeking their assistance in the investigation. In the morning, the SIT members visited the Bajakhana police station and discussed the probe status. The SIT head appealed to the locals to provide any information regarding the “bir” theft. “This is the place of origin of sacrilege incidents. Therefore, it was important to talk with the locals. Sometimes people are hesitant about sharing information. We have already filed chargesheets in two sacrilege cases, while the challan in this case will be filed soon after collecting evidence,” he said. Refusing to comment on the chargesheet filed by IG Ranbir Singh Khatra naming the dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh as an accused, Parmar said, “We will move ahead in the case as per evidence only.” Whether the jailed dera head will be questioned in this cases, the IG said that will depend on the evidence that they may come across. The “bir” was stolen on June 1, 2015, and a case was registered at the Bajakhana police station in the district the next day. The SIT led by IG Parmar is probing the “bir” theft case and two other interlinked cases wherein derogatory posters were put up at Bargari on September 24, 2015, and torn pages of a “bir” were found scattered near the Bargari gurdwara on October 12 the same year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sacrilege-probe-at-a-standstill-sit-now-turns-focus-on-burj-jawahar-singh-wala-bir-theft-case-101630528329626.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Jallianwala Bagh complex restored with utmost respect: Culture ministry||Amid allegations the government was “glamorising” the Jallianwala Bagh complex, the culture ministry Wednesday said it has been “restored” by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), the agency that has restored world heritage sites in the country, to conserve it for posterity.It also said a “poignant” soundtrack has been chosen as part of the sound and light show describing the event on the day of the massacre. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently inaugurated four new galleries and opened the renovated memorial virtually, a year-and-a-half after it was closed for the revamp.The well into which the people jumped when forces led by Reginald Dyer opened fire on them has been covered with a transparent barrier. The narrow entrance has been adorned with sculptures. A daily sound and light show explaining the events has been started.Ministry of culture secretary Raghvendra Singh argued the complex was in dire need of conservation. “Instead of letting a derelict structure to fall, we have restored it to conserve it for posterity,” he told PTI, but refused to comment on the political storm brewing over the restoration.On the criticism over the light and sound show, he said that the show existed but it became defunct over time. “The soundtrack is so poignant. It has been very sensitively done and is informative as well. Anyone coming to this place will leave better informed. The galleries too have been improved, technology has been improved to bring out the poignancy of the killings of innocents and how the incident influenced other bravehearts,” said Singh. He said the work has been done with “utmost respect”. Slamming the revamp, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had said only a person who does not know the “meaning of martyrdom can inflict such an insult on the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh”.“I am the son of a martyr — I will not tolerate the insult of martyrs at any cost…We are against this indecent cruelty,” he had earlier this week.Some historians have also criticised the work terming it an “insult towards the martyrs”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jallianwala-bagh-complex-restored-with-utmost-respect-culture-ministry-101630528328166.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||CM launches ‘Innovation Mission Punjab’ to boost start-up sector||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday launched the “Innovation Mission Punjab”, a public-private partnership that aims at brining in the best global investors and experts to catalyse start-ups. Speaking at the virtual launch event, the CM said that the mission will unleash Punjab’s growth potential and create a thriving economy by generating jobs and inviting investment. He said the mission will mobilise a global pool of ambassadors and partners for investment, mentorship and market access. The mission will also leverage the strength of the Punjabi diaspora, allowing them to partake in this renewed growth story of the state, besides running focused programmes to encourage entrepreneurship amongst women, he said. On the occasion, an ideathon was also announced in partnership with incubators, inviting budding entrepreneurs, young professionals and students across the state. Showcasing Punjab as an entrepreneurial state with a strong footprint of entrepreneurs across the world and India, the CM said that the state has a burgeoning entrepreneurial ecosystem with 450 start-ups and 20+ incubators. As partners, the department of agriculture, industries and commerce, Mandi Board and Startup Punjab are providing over ₹30 crores in cash and kind, including operating expenses for the first three years, 10 year rent-free lease for 12,000 square feet at Kalkat Bhavan and support to startups and incubators in the state.Describing innovation as the important factor in the start-ups, eminent economist Montek Singh Ahluwalia said the mission would get going in true sense once the things get back to normal and a post-Covid scenario emerges. He mentioned digital connectivity and artificial intelligence as key areas of the start-up sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cm-launches-innovation-mission-punjab-to-boost-start-up-sector-101630528326934.html
02-09-2021||Other||Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid cases dipped by 31%, deaths by 45% in August||Even though experts were fearful of an early third wave of pandemic, Jammu and Kashmir witnessed a 31% drop in Covid-19 cases and 45% decrease in monthly deaths in August as compared to July.The overall test positivity rate (TPR) – the percentage of tests that turn out to be positive out of the total tests conducted during the period – has also shown a decline while settling at 0.23% in August from July’s 0.32 %. August, however, also saw a 6% decline in average daily tests with 53,359 persons tested daily as against 56,719 in July. The union territory reported 3,957 infections and 30 deaths in August while in July, it saw 5,800 cases and 55 deaths. In June, the UT had seen 25,197 cases and 416 deaths.Last month, experts had warned that the cases may see a substantial rise by the third week of August as restrictions had been lifted and people were hardly wearing masks.Prof Dr Mohammad Salim Khan, head of the department of community medicine at Government Medical College, Srinagar, and nodal officer, Covid, said that the situation seems fine as of now. “The current trend is not that scary. Vaccination has certainly augmented our immunities, though not that profoundly. There may be a slight rise but it will be unlike (the intensity of) the second wave,” he said.There was a slight increase in TPR in the last-third of August, climbing to 0.26 % for the period of August 21-31 after recording 0.22% in the first-third (August 1-10) and 0.23% in the second-third (August 11-20).However, Srinagar saw an increase in active cases in the past week. From 293 active cases on August 24, the capital has 528 active cases on August 31. “Srinagar is showing an upward trend in cases. That should not happen as it is the capital city and may affect other places as well. That is a cause of concern,” said Khan.In June, the TPR in the UT was recorded at 1.80%. In May, when the second Covid-19 wave peaked, the TPR was 8.77% with the month recording 1.14 lakh cases and 1,625 deaths.The UT conducted 16.54 lakh tests in August as against 17.58 lakh tests in July – a decline of around 6%. In June, 13.93 lakh tests were performed. Dr Owais H Dar, general secretary of Doctors Association of Kashmir, said that August was a fluctuating phase for J&K. “Nobody can say exactly when the third wave will hit. It is more likely that the cases may rise again after September 15 but this time, we are better prepared,” he said.He said that the intensity of the third wave may not be as severe as the second wave.“Our preparations for the third wave are good. We are better vaccinated. Oxygen plants have also been augmented. And schools are yet to be opened,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jammu-and-kashmir-s-covid-cases-dipped-by-31-deaths-by-45-in-august-101630528325746.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU vice-chancellor heckled by protesting students amid senate polls||Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar was heckled by varsity students during his visit to the law auditorium on Wednesday while polling for the senate elections was underway.Kumar had stepped out of the auditorium after casting his vote in the law faculty when students raised slogans against him as he tried to enter his vehicle. Before this, he had also cast his vote in the science and combined faculties amid polling for six faculties of PU. Gheraoed by students, the V-C tried to leave by getting on a security guard’s motorcycle, but eventually managed to board his official vehicle and left amid jeers by students.The students have been on an indefinite protest since August 14 for reopening of the campus and immediate conduct of polling for the registered graduate constituency.On Tuesday, they had also locked the main entrance of the varsity’s administration block. “We have been protesting for the last 19 days outside his office, and even marched towards his house and administration block, but neither the V-C nor any official has paid heed to our demands. So we wanted to ask him to address our demands,” said Aman of Punjab Students Union (PSU-Lalkaar).Chief of university security Vikram Singh refused to comment on the matter, while the varsity’s official spokesperson said the students should have maintained the dignity of student-teacher relationship.Meanwhile, according to candidates, Kumar’s presence at the venue was unprecedented, as a PU V-C has never voted in senate polls in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-vice-chancellor-heckled-by-protesting-students-amid-senate-polls-101630528324595.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Classroom teaching resumes for primary students||Classroom teaching for students of the primary section (classes 1 to 5) resumed in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday after nearly five months of closure of schools due to Covid-19 with attendance varying from a meagre 25% to moderate 70% on the first day.With this, physical classes from grades 1 to 12 are now operational across the state. Students of class 9 to 12 returned to school on August 16 and those of classes 6 to 8 on August 24.On day one, the turnout remained low due to a number of reasons. Parents were concerned about the health of their children for whom no Covid-19 vaccine has become available yet. Concern over a possible third wave in the future also appeared to have made them cautious.Plus, a number of schools are not plying school vehicles to transport students. At St Teresa’s College in Lucknow, students reached school either with their parents or on bicycles.“The school will provide transport from September 6 for those students whose parents ask for vehicle service,” said Geetika Kapoor, principal of St Teresa’s College in Aashiana locality of the state capital.“Commuting daily to school will be mostly taken up by parents through their own vehicles or hired ones with minimal seating. School will provide conveyance facility after taking the consent for the same, most probably by September 6,” said Anil Agarwal, managing director of St Joseph group of institutions in Lucknow.St Joseph group of institutions saw attendance of around 58.21% for classes 1 to 5. Parents accompanied primary section students to school in their own vehicles. Some children came on hired auto-rickshaws as well. Those staying nearby came walking with their parents.Mala Mehra, principal of Hoerner College in the state capital, said, “All students were dropped by parents and no public transport was seen. All Covid-19 protocols were met within the campus as well as during entry and exit. Staggered timings made the task easier as the entire school didn’t come and go at the same time. Whereas 75% attendance was witnessed in pre-primary, it was 44% for the primary section. The feedback from students and parents was most positive and encouraging.”The thrill of being back at school was palpable as the children were greeted with balloons and toffees.It was hustle and bustle at Hoerner College as the pre-primary and primary sections returned after one-and-a half years, Mehra said.GD Goenka Public School conducted classes on the campus for grade 1-8 students on Wednesday.“Students from grade 9 to 12 have been attending the offline classes since August 16, 2021. This essential exercise of letting students attend in-person classes in school is a step towards normalcy. Amid Covid-19, every classroom has sanitisation facilities. Students’ thermal checking on arrival and use of pulse oximeter is among the school’s standard operating procedures. Students and teachers are required to wear masks all the time. Seating arrangements in classrooms and the entry and exit of students have been planned to keep the obligatory distancing in mind,” said Raveen Pande, principal of the school. More than 45% of parents have given their consent to send their children to school, Pande said.At City Montessori School (CMS), 12, 222 of the total 20,03 students on the rolls of class 1 to 5 were present.“It was extremely delightful to see the students of primary section come back to schools. They were themselves very excited to be back. We are ensuring complete safety of our students by strictly following Covid protocols. The safety of students is our topmost priority,” said CMS founder Dr Jagdish Gandhi.Justifying the state government’s decision to reopen schools, UP basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi said, “As the Covid situation has eased, it was felt necessary to reopen schools in UP in a phased manner.” He said under chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s guidance, the Covid-19 situation was “well within control” and more than six crore people in the state were vaccinated. Dwivedi visited a government primary school in Makdampur. He said every school would have a nodal officer to keep a watch on the students’ health.At several government schools, teachers accorded a warm welcome to students by applying tilak, offering laddus and garlanding them as they entered the school premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-classroom-teaching-resumes-for-primary-students-101630528276146.html
02-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MVA delegation meets Governor, seeks nod for MLC names||Nine months after recommending 12 names as nominations to the post of members of the legislative council, a three-member delegation led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday evening and requested him to clear the appointments. The governor has assured them to take a final decision soon, a leader from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government said. The delegation comprised deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar (NCP) and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat (Congress).The appointment of 12 members has become a major friction point between Koshyari and the three-party coalition government in Maharashtra. It has been 20 days since the Bombay high court said the governor is constitutionally obligated to either accept or reject the proposal sent by the state within reasonable time. The verdict was passed by the court on August 13, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed against the governor’s inaction on the recommendations made by the Thackeray government.“We requested the governor to see if the decision can be taken early as it would help in the functioning of the state legislature. We said it was our request to accept the recommendation even though it is your right to take a decision,” Pawar told reporters outside Raj Bhavan after their meeting with Koshyari.“He (governor) has no objection to any of the names recommended by the state government. The governor told us that he has heard everything and will take a final decision soon,” he added.Thorat said, “We discussed almost all major issues of the state such as floods, monsoon, Covid-19 and at the end requested him to take a decision on appointing MLCs.”The MVA leaders wanted to meet the governor last Wednesday, but Koshyari denied an appointment owing to prior appointments, it is said. Raj Bhavan said the communication for seeking an appointment from the government started only after 4pm and it was not possible for the governor to meet them owing to prior appointments.The governor nominates 12 persons from different walks of life as members of the legislative council (MLCs) for a period of six years. The appointment is to be made on the recommendations made by the state cabinet. Most of the seats have been vacant since June last year. The state had approved the names in November 2020, but they are yet to be appointed.The list submitted to the governor included the names of Vijay Karanjkar, Urmila Matondkar, Nitin Bangude-Patil and Chandrakant Raghuvanshi from the Shiv Sena; Eknath Khadse, Raju Shetti, Yashpal Bhinge and Anand Shinde from the NCP; and Rajni Patil, Sachin Sawant, Anniruddha Vankar and Muzaffar Hussain from the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mva-delegation-meets-governor-seeks-nod-for-mlcnames-101630528274914.html
02-09-2021||Other||Haryana edu dept for criminal cases against 60 JBT teachers for doubtful documents||As many as 60 JBT teachers have failed in the physical verification of documents conducted by a committee formed to investigate the allegations of irregularities in the recruitment of 756 JBT teachers during the Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government in Haryana.Director, Haryana elementary education, has written to district elementary education officers for the registration of first investigation reports against these 60 JBT teachers whose HTETs and STETs are found doubtful.As per notice issued, the DEEOs are directed that a criminal case be registered against the teacher concerned and the list of these teachers was attached with the letter.The letter also mentioned that photocopies of the records will also be handed over to the officials concerned.The director has also provided details of these candidates and their HTET and STET certificate roll numbers as these candidates passed the eligibility test in July and December 2009.The matter was related to the physical verification report of 756 JBTs in case where the physical verification report of the about 756 JBTs were sent to the state crime records bureau and forensic lab in Madhuban but the lab did not given definite opinion.However, in the letter, it was mentioned that there was no definite opinion but the report of the investigation committee the HTETs and STETs of 60 teachers were found doubtful.Talking to HT, Karnal district elementary education officer Rohtak Verma said, “We have heard about it but as of now we have not received the official orders and will follow do as instructed.”As per the letters, the candidates belonged to 16 districts of Haryana and maximum 10 teachers belong to Mewat (now Nuh) district, seven from Ambala, and five from Hisar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-edu-dept-for-criminal-cases-against-60-jbt-teachers-for-doubtful-documents-101630528272585.html
02-09-2021||Other||Himachal govt ignored apple cultivators: Rathore||Himachal Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Wednesday blamed faulty policies for the heavy losses being incurred by the apple cultivators in Himachal Pradesh. The Congress staged a demonstration outside Adani agri fresh fruits store in Bithal in Rampur subdivision. Wholesale apple prices had sharply declined three weeks ago while it further declined after agri fresh stores announced new prices. “Farmers will continue to raise their voice against the open loot started by the corporate,” he said. He said the Congress will fight a decisive battle for the rights of farmers and fruit cultivators. Rathore said the state government has completely ignored the horticulturists. Nor has the government given them any relief. He said the BJP has exploited fruit cultivators at every stage. He said the government had assured that this time due to natural calamity, there would be no increase in the prices of cartons, but it was increased by Rs.25-30. He said the cost of apple production was increasing. It is falling and is now being sold in the market at the same price. Rathore said the horticulture department in the state has been given to a leader who neither has experience nor interest in horticulture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-govt-ignored-apple-cultivators-rathore-101630528271410.html
02-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt gives nod to policy to set up medical colleges, hosps with help of private sector||In a bid to provide better medical services across the state, address the shortage of qualified doctors and bridge the gap in medical education, the state cabinet on Wednesday cleared a policy to allow setting up new medical colleges and super speciality hospitals on public-private partnership (PPP) basis. The policy is expected to boost the number of doctors, including intensivists and specialists, in the state, as well as augment the medical infrastructure in the state. The model will help set up new medical colleges and specialised hospitals and also link new private medical colleges with existing functional district hospitals to increase medical seats. Medical education department minister Amit Deshmukh said that the policy will help districts that do not have medical colleges so far. “This policy will be beneficial in districts where there are no medical colleges so far. It will boost the standard of medical education and also augment the medical services in the state. We are confident that the gap in the number of doctors, intensivists etc, which was felt during the pandemic in Maharashtra, will be reduced by this policy. The numbers of doctors, nurses, paramedics, super-specialists will be filled up through this,” the minister said after the cabinet meeting.According to officials, 20 new medical colleges and super speciality hospitals can add 350 doctors including Doctor of Medicine (MD) and Master of Surgeon (MS) in the state, taking the total to 1,000 in three years. In 10 years, 1800 new medical colleges seats for MBBS will be created. Besides that, the additional medical infrastructure will help cater to 10 million patients in the OPD sections, 2,500 surgeries in one year.“From 2026, 200 additional intensive care units will be created, and the hospitals will be able to provide about 300,000 outpatients and about 75,000 admissions per year. The establishment of new medical colleges and speciality hospitals through public-private investment will create skilled and unskilled employees in small towns,” a statement from CMO said.Deshmukh added that the district hospitals where tertiary care is provided can be upgraded and modernised through this policy and a medical college can come up in the same vicinity. “Our intention is to create world-class medical infrastructure in the districts. Similarly, greenfield projects can also come up where the government will provide them with the land, where the interested private player will set up a medical college, super speciality hospital and other required amenities,” he said.To give a push in setting up of colleges and hospitals in rural and remote areas in the state, the state government could provide some incentive to private players. The incentive would be a part of the Industries Department’s Package Scheme for Incentives, officials said. He said that 17 districts in the state do not have a medical college. The statement from CMO added that the viability difference fund (VGF) will be financed by the Central government, as per the Niti Aayog’s policy. The VGF is a key bidding parameter. “In view of the continuous population growth, it is imperative to increase the number of doctors in the state from the point of view of public health and for this, it is necessary to set up new government medical colleges in the state,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-gives-nod-to-policy-to-set-up-medical-colleges-hosps-with-help-of-private-sector-101630528268577.html
02-09-2021||Other||‘Panj Pyare’ Remark: Book Rawat for hurting religious sentiments, demand YAD leaders||Lambasting Congress Punjab Affairs in-charge Harish Rawat for comparing Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu and four working presidents under him with ‘Panj Pyare’, Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leaders burnt his effigy outside the mini secretariat on Wednesday.The YAD leaders demanded that Rawat be booked for hurting religious sentiments, and Congress should remove him from the party position in the state. The protesting YAD workers led by Ludhiana Urban-2 president Manpreet Singh Manna said that Rawat has deliberately tried to hurt the sentiments of the Sikh community by issuing the statement.Manna said, “The police should book Rawat for hurting the religious sentiments. We will also take up the matter with the Akal Takht seeking action against him. Congress party should also remove him from the post of in-charge of Punjab affairs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panj-pyare-remark-book-rawat-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-demand-yad-leaders-101630528266205.html
02-09-2021||Mumbai||6,504 fully jabbed contracted Covid in Mumbai||In Mumbai, 6,504 individuals have contracted Covid-19 after taking both vaccine doses against novel coronavirus, with a few beneficiaries having contracted the Delta Plus variant. As per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), such breakthrough infections have been recorded in only 1.5% of the fully vaccinated population in the city. If breakthrough infections increase and get more severe, there might be a need to boost immunity through homologous or heterologous booster doses, said medical experts. A breakthrough infection is when a person develops Covid-19 after two weeks of being fully vaccinated. Those vaccinated are much more likely to have mild symptoms compared to those who are not vaccinated. Last month, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC (health), who is fully vaccinated, contracted the Covid infection. He was mildly symptomatic and was treated at Seven Hills Hospital, Marol. “No vaccine is 100% effective against the illness. Some fully vaccinated people will get sick and may require hospitalisation. Data across the globe shows that vaccination makes illness less severe for those who are immunised,” said Kakani. The state Covid-19 task force said the purpose of anti-Covid-19 vaccines is to save lives. Immunisation contributes to eradicating an infection only when the vaccines reach a certain quantum, in terms of the number of vaccinated people. Dr Rahul Pandit, part of the task force, citing an example, said that smallpox or polio viruses were eradicated after several mass immunisation programmes across the globe for decades. “In case of Covid, there will be no infection after vaccination only when 70-90% people across the globe are completely vaccinated. That is when the infection rate will also go down,” said Dr Pandit. Doctors said it’s too early to predict if the trend is worrisome. It will depend on the proportion of vaccine breakthrough cases that progress to moderate and severe infections. But if the cases increase, immunity boosters might be an option. “If that proportion is very small, Covid-19 will become an endemic disease like common cold, without a heavy healthcare burden. If not, we need to start thinking of ways to boost immunity, such as homologous or heterologous booster doses,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, pulmonologist and epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital. Medical experts said as the efficiency rate of the available vaccines is around 70%, such a phenomenon is not rare. “Breakthrough infections with variants such as Delta are worrisome as they are highly transmissible and put those who haven’t been vaccinated at a high risk of getting infected,” said Dr Pinto. Globally, this breakthrough pattern is being observed in around 1% of fully vaccinated people. “As long as we are able to keep patients out of hospitals and ICUs, we should look at it as winning the battle against the virus.” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/6504-fully-jabbed-contracted-covid-in-mumbai-101630528264675.html
02-09-2021||Noida||Heavy rain, waterlogging throw life out of gear in Ghaziabad||Residents from prime localities of Indirapuram, Vasundhara and Vaishali, among others, had to face hardships as rains lashed the city on Wednesday. Commuters had a difficult time between 8am and 10am due to slow movement of traffic on major roads.“There was heavy waterlogging on several roads in Indirapuram. The worst affected stretch was from Mangal Bazaar Chowk to Rail Vihar that witnessed almost knee-deep waterlogging. The other areas like Niti Khand and Shakti Khand were also affected. In Shakti Khand 1, water even entered some houses,” said Mohan Sangwan, a resident of Shakti Khand in Indirapuram. “Commuters suffered a lot while reaching their workplaces due to heavily waterlogged roads. Pockets of Ahimsa Khand 2, Vaibhav Khand and near Shipra Sun City were also waterlogged as these are low-lying areas,” said Alok Kumar, a resident of Arihant Harmony in Ahimsa Khand 2, Indirapuram. Residents who travelled outside the city also faced major issues. “I was travelling to Bulandshahr from Vaishali and got stuck at Lal Kuan intersection (GT Road) which was heavily waterlogged. Vehicles were hardly moving. It took more than 30 minutes of cross the intersection. In Vaishali, waterlogging was prevalent in sectors 1, 2, 3 and 4,” said BK Pandey, resident of Vaishali. Govindpuram resident Pratibha Rai also complained of heavy waterlogging on main road leading to Harsaon police lines. “I was to go to a school for submission of forms for my daughter. Due to heavy waterlogging, my car got stuck in water and we had to return home,” she said. The weather analysts, meanwhile, said that there are chances of light to moderate rains on Thursday.According to the Indian Meteorological Department, Ghaziabad recorded an average rainfall of 12mm over the past 24 hours (between 5.30pm Tuesday and 5.30pm Wednesday). The automatic weather monitoring station at CDO Ghaziabad did not get a record for morning rainfall. According to IMD, Ghaziabad has so far recorded 178.2mm of rainfall since June 1 till date, which is 60% deficient, against expected 448.9mm. Officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation said that they have deployed teams in areas like Kavi Nagar, Vijay Nagar, Vaishali, among others. “The team continued their work throughout the day. We even roped in jetting machines to clear off water from roads. The volume of rainwater was high. But most of the waterlogged areas were got cleared by evening,” said Pramod Kumar, additional municipal commissioner. The officials of the Ghaziabad development authority, which maintains Indirapuram locality, said that pumps were deployed to clear the waterlogged areas. “The intensity of rain was high that caused waterlogging in some areas. Our teams worked continuously to clear water from low-lying areas,” said AK Chaudhary, executive engineer of the authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/heavy-rain-waterlogging-throw-life-out-of-gear-in-ghaziabad-101630528224860.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||HC grants temporary custody of minor to NRI father, final call to be taken by US court||The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted custody of a minor child to his NRI father and directed the wife to return to the US with the child.The HC bench of justice Arun Kumar Tyagi observed that it will be in best of interest of the minor that an order be passed for his return to the US, from where he was removed. It will be appropriate that the question of appointment of guardian/handing over custody of the minor child to either of the parents be left for adjudication by the court of competent jurisdiction in the US on the basis of paramount consideration of welfare of the child, it said. The order came on the plea of an NRI techie from Benton County, Arkansas, US. The couple had gotten married in New York in 2011 and the child was born in January 2016. The mother left for Gurugram in January 2019 for surgery of the child. But as per the petitioner father, she started making excuses to not return to the US even as the deadline as per consent given by him for travel of the child ended in September 2019. In June 2020, the father had approached HC seeking custody of the child with the minor being a US citizen. He had also secured an order on custody of the child from jurisdictional court in the US in his favour. The mother had argued that only one surgery has been performed and that child needs to be operated upon again. The child is being monitored and requires regular follow-ups. The standard medical care and ease of availability of medical advice is better in India, she had argued. She had also levelled allegations of domestic violence against the NRI petitioner. The court had sought a report from lawyer Anil Malhotra who was appointed as amicus curaie. He had opined that the jurisprudence in child abduction law varies in India. The welfare of the child principle being the paramount consideration, there is a tendency among Indian courts to digress from a consistent approach, he had submitted. The court took note of the fact that there is a pre-existing order of the foreign court in favour of the father. But added that the same is not determinative of the question of repatriation of the minor child as same is to be decided on the test of “best of interest and welfare” of the minor child. To determine the same, the court had held a summary inquiry on various aspects of the case. “…Repatriation of minor child to US will not be harmful to him on account of his medical condition,” the court said, adding that there is no reasonable ground to believe that the minor child cannot be given due personal care and attention in the US by the father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-grants-temporary-custody-of-minor-to-nri-father-final-call-to-be-taken-by-us-court-101630528224257.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||LMC may rope in more agencies for door-to-door collection of waste||LUCKNOW The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) may rope in more agencies for door-to-door collection of waste, a job currently undertaken only by EcoGreen, which is not performing as per the expectations of the civic body, said officials. In the past also, corporators had blamed EcoGreen for poor sanitation in the state capital. Now, in the wake of fever and dengue cases, there is pressure on the LMC to deploy more sanitation agencies.Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said, “It’s a proposal that needs to be implemented soon by LMC. We cannot compromise with the health of Lucknowites. More than one agency could be roped in for collection of waste and sanitation work in every zone.”“The proposal in this regard is being considered by the authorities,” said Dr SK Rawat, nagar swasthya adhikari. EcoGreen is covering around 50% of houses in the city, but there are complaints about workers not collecting waste. At many places, workers of the company don’t turn up daily for waste collection, he said.He added , “Some of the agencies supplying manpower to LMC are under scanner for fudging records of their employees. Many times, the companies don’t appoint the staff in adequate numbers because of which sanitation in the area suffers.”In the past, the LMC tried to introduce Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology so that bar codes could be used to ensure door-to-door garbage collection.“The LMC brought the technology from a Pune firm at ₹10 lakh. But the sanitation workers never allowed its implementation,” said Rawat.“Now, the corporation is thinking of starting a pilot project in which a sanitation worker will be required to scan the ward using a smartphone, after collection of waste or cleaning the lane. However, the sanitation workers take a plea that they don’t have any smart phone with them. This has to be sorted out,” added Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lmc-may-rope-in-more-agencies-for-door-to-door-collection-of-waste-101630528210087.html
02-09-2021||Other||No alteration made in Jallianwala Bagh: Punjab governor after visit||Amritsar A day after assuming charge as Punjab governor and administrator of Chandigarh, Banwarilal Purohit on Wednesday visited Jallianwala Bagh amid controversy over its restoration/renovation. He paid his tribute to those killed in the massacre of April 13, 1919.“I have paid my homage to the martyrs. The complete renovation team has done a wonderful and archaeologically right job. No changes have been made to the archaeological site of this place,” the governor wrote in the visitor’s book. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, virtually inaugurated the historic site on August 28. The renovation had led to a huge row with historians, among others, criticising the central government for ‘erasing history’ of the Bagh. It had also started a political debate in the country. On Tuesday, Rahul Gandhi slammed the makeover of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre site as ‘belittling of the martyrdom’. However, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had said, “I don’t know what has been removed. Whatever I saw that night (at the inauguration event), it looked very nice to me.”Some family members of those who were killed during the massacre also raised objections over the work done on some parts of the Bagh and the changing of Amar Jyoti (the eternal flame) and the flag post.The governor also visited the Golden Temple and the Durgiana Temple in Amritsar, where the managements of both the sites honoured him. He, however, refrained from talking to the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-alteration-made-in-jallianwala-bagh-punjab-governor-after-visit-101630528206756.html
02-09-2021||Kolkata||Visva-Bharati moves Calcutta high court over students’ stir||hAuthorities of the Visva-Bharati University on Wednesday filed a petition before the Calcutta high court seeking intervention in clearing the impasse created by an agitation against expulsion of three students on disciplinary grounds.The petition is likely to be heard later this week.Visva-Bharati did not make any statement.However, lawyers aware of the development said the university in its petition said that security on campus has been breached by the student agitation that started on August 28. Since then, vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty has been confined to his on-campus residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/visva-bharati-moves-calcutta-high-court-over-students-stir-101630527493844.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||New DCs appointed in Haryana’s Bhiwani and Yamunanagar||The Haryana government on Wednesday posted Rippudaman Singh Dhillon as deputy commissioner (DC) Bhiwani and Parth Gupta as DC Yamunanagar.The 2008 batch IAS officer Dhillon replaces Jaibir Singh Arya, who has been posted as director Haryana Governance Reforms Authority and managing director CONFED, in a bureaucratic rejig in which the state government either transferred or gave additional charge to 19 IAS and one HCS officers with immediate effect.Varinder Kundu, additional chief secretary (ACS) will be ACS employment, Sainik and Ardh Sainik welfare, and printing and stationery, while Siddhi Nath Roy will hold the post of ACS forests and wildlife, environment and climate change and medical education and research.Dr Raja Shekhar Vundru will be ACS labour department, G Anupama will hold the post of chief administrator trade fair authority of Haryana at Delhi, and principal secretary of women and child development and nodal officer of International Gita Mahotsav, 2020.Awaiting posting orders, Arun Kumar Gupta has been posted as principal secretary urban local bodies, skill development and industrial training. Vijay Singh Dahiya was transferred and posted as director general as well as secretary food civil supplies and consumer affairs.Renu S Phulia, was transferred and posted as commissioner, Ambala division, while Jagdeep Singh has been posted as director general as well as secretary of welfare of SC and BC.Chander Shekhar Khare, will be director and secretary of higher education and technical education. Sujan Singh, was posted as director as well as special secretary rural development, Rajnarayan Kaushik has been given additional charge of director and special secretary of social justice and empowerment.Mandeep Kaur additional labour commissioner and additional director ESI has been given additional charge of director art and cultural affairs.Akhil Pilani, joint commissioner, MC Yamunanagar has been posted as additional deputy commissioner-cum-district citizen resources information officer, Kurukshetra.Aparajita, SDM (civil) Ballabhgarh has been posted as additional commissioner, MC, Faridabad.Sachin Gupta, SDM (civil), Ambala Cantt, estate officer for management of government land in excised area, Ambala Cantt and administrator, MC Ambala Sadar has been posted as additional deputy commissioner-cum-district citizen resources information officer, Mahendragarh and additional deputy commissioner-cum-district citizen resources information officer, Rewari. HCS officer Vivek Padam Singh, special secretary to Haryana finance department has been given additional charge of member secretary, Haryana Backward Classes Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-dcs-appointed-in-haryana-s-bhiwani-and-yamunanagar-101630521859764.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha who made ‘crack heads of farmers’ remark transferred||The Haryana government on Wednesday transferred Karnal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Ayush Sinha, who was recently caught on tape directing police to hit protesting farmers on their head if they breached the security cordon.The 2018-batch IAS officer was transferred out of Karnal and posted as additional secretary of Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID), as per a government order. The CRID has been dealing with some of the flagship programmes of the government, the progress of which is personally monitored by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Sinha is among 19 IAS officers who were either transferred or given additional charge, the government order read.The transfer order came a day after the state government sought a report from Karnal deputy commissioner on the alleged video that surfaced after police action on protesting farmers at Bastara toll plaza on Saturday. Chief secretary Vijai Vardhan has reportedly asked the deputy commissioner to also take into account Sinha’s version of events while preparing the report.In the video clip, Sinha was heard instructing a group of policemen: “Utha utha ke maarna peeche sabko (hit them hard)…We shall not allow this cordon to be breached. We have enough force available. We haven’t slept for the past two days. But you have come here after taking some sleep… Mere paas ek bhi banda nikal ke nahi aana chahiye. Agar aaye toh sar foota hua hona chahiye. Clear hai aapko (No one should break the cordon and reach me. If someone does, make sure he has a broken head. Hope this is clear).”The IAS officer, however, alleged the video was edited and consisted of selected portions of his instructions to the cops.Police had used force on the protesters when farmers allegedly tried to march towards the venue of the BJP meeting, in which the chief minister and other senior party leaders from the state were present.While the CM admitted that Sinha’s choice of words was wrong, he defended the police action against the farmers. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala also condemned Sinha’s instructions to the police and assured action against the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnal-sdm-ayush-sinha-transferred-101630521603939.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||‘Auto appeal software to hasten delivery of services in Haryana’||An auto appeal software (AAS) was launched on Wednesday to ensure that citizens get delivery of services by government departments in a time bound manner in Haryana.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said this will bring transparency and accountability in government functioning.The software of the Haryana Right to Service Commission will ensure that if a government department fails to deliver a service to a citizen within a stipulated time period under the Right to Service Act, the matter will get auto escalated to an appellate authority.The commission, constituted under the Haryana Right to Service Act, aims to provide delivery of service to citizens in a time-bound manner.RTSC chief commissioner TC Gupta said if the service still remained undelivered, the application will get escalated to a higher authority and so on to the RTSC.Also, citizens can themselves file an appeal against rejection of a service by a government department, Gupta added.At present, 546 services pertaining to 31 departments have been notified under the Right to Service Act. The Act has also notified designated officers, first and second grievance redressal authority for delivery of services.Gupta said with the introduction of auto appeal software, people can expect services to be delivered within a stipulated time frame. “Officers and employees will no longer be able to take things casually. Failure to deliver may result in action and they can lose their job if a monetary penalty is imposed on three occasions,” Gupta added.The chief commissioner said all deputy commissioners have also been given clear direction to review the status of notified services under the Right to Service Act. The DCs have been told that if a district’s score is below 8 (out of 10), then a displeasure note will be communicated, and if the score is above 9.5, then a letter of appreciation will be given every month.Khattar said AAS will prove to be a milestone in timely-delivery of government services. He said action should be taken against the officer or employee who does not work within the prescribed time limit.“The punishment fixed by the commission for dereliction of service delivery should be strictly implemented. But the officers and employees who work ahead of time should also be rewarded,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/auto-appeal-software-to-hasten-delivery-of-services-in-haryana-101630521543999.html
02-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: No decision on school restart yet, says Varsha Gaikwad||Maharashtra school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Wednesday said they are yet to take a decision on reopening schools in the state. The state task force had a meeting with the school education department and asked them to make changes to the standard operating procedure (SOP) prepared by them. Following the changes, they will again meet to finalise the SOP. The proposal will then be sent to the chief minister for final approval.“We had a meeting with the state task force as well as the paediatric task force last week, during which they asked us to make changes to the SOP. We have started our preparations. We will again have a meeting with the task force to finalise it and then a proposal will be sent to the chief minister for final approval,” Gaikwad said. “They also want us to brief parents and teachers on what they need to do when physical classes resume in schools for which we have started our preparations,” she added.Physical classes in schools were shut in Maharashtra from March 2020, when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the state. On July 12, schools in rural areas were allowed to resume physical classes for Class 8 to 12 students in areas where Covid-19 cases are minimal. Nearly 17,701 schools resumed offline classes in rural areas, where Covid-19 cases are on the decline, said the officials.From August 17, the school education department decided to reopen physical classes in schools even in urban areas. It was decided that the offline classes will be allowed for Class 8 to 12 in urban areas and for Class 5 to 7 in rural areas of the state. The decision was deferred following strong opposition from the state task force on Covid-19.On August 29, state health minister Rajesh Tope also said they are working on vaccinating all teaching and non-teaching staff by September 5, which will be their first step towards reopening schools in the state. “We have been asked to complete the vaccination drive of teaching and non-teaching staff by September 5. They have been asked to hold a special drive for the same, if required. This is a first step towards opening schools and the final decision will be taken after holding deliberations with the state task force,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-no-decision-on-school-restart-yet-says-varsha-gaikwad-101630521489403.html
02-09-2021||Other||Bribery: 4-yr jail to the then senior bank manager of PNB, Kaithal||The special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) awarded four-year imprisonment to the then senior bank manager of Punjab National Bank, Fatehpur in Kaithal for seeking and accepting a bribe of ₹10,000 from a person who sought a loan under the Pradhan Mantri Rozgar Yojana.Convict Dharampal Dhull, 60, has been held guilty and convicted for committing offences punishable under Sections 7 and 13 (1)(d) read with Section 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.The FIR was registered on March 2, 2016 by the anti-crime bureau of the CBI, Chandigarh. There were allegations that Dhull had demanded and accepted the bribe from complainant Sandeep, who had applied for a loan under the Pradhan Mantri Rozgar Yojana. He was arrested by the CBI with the first instalment of ₹10,000.Seeking leniency, Dhull had stated that he is not a previous convict and was not involved in any criminal activity. He is facing the agony of a protracted trial since 2016. So, a lenient view may be taken while awarding a sentence for him.But public prosecutor for the CBI, Kanwar Pal Singh, argued that in order to check rampant corruption in public life, it is needed to give exemplary punishment to the public servant who was found indulging in corrupt practices.Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI, said: “Be you ever so high, the law is above you. One lie is enough to question all truths. But it is the duty of the court to enforce the rule of law and, thus, to guard against erosion of the rule of law. We all are governed by the rule of law, not by the rule of man.”“This court agrees with arguments of the public prosecutor and observation made in the judgment cited by him that undue sympathy to impose inadequate sentence would be more harmful to the justice system to undermine the public confidence in efficacy of law and corruption is a hydra-headed monster and it is eating into vitals of the country,” the court observed.Stating that his conduct is highly deplorable, judge Sushil Kumar Garg observed: “Any softness in this regard could produce an undesirable result, namely, encouragement to adoption of corrupt means by public servants which has indeed to be checked.” The court awarded him four-year imprisonment and a fine of ₹1 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bribery-4-yr-jail-to-the-then-senior-bank-manager-of-pnb-kaithal-101630521425547.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||High-level meeting to beef up Uttar Pradesh secretariat security held||A high-level meeting was held at Lok Bhawan to discuss the strengthening of security at secretariat complex on Wednesday. This comes two days after a personal secretary attempted suicide by shooting himself in his office in Bapu Bhawan of the secretariat complex. According to a press statement issued by the home department the meeting was held on the directions of the chief minister. The meeting was held under the joint chairmanship of additional chief secretary, home Avnish Kumar Awasthi and additional chief secretary, secretariat administration Hemant Rao. Various points to make the secretariat security stronger were discussed in detail. Additional director general of police, PAC, commissioner of police, Lucknow also attended the meeting. It was decided to form two committees that will submit a detailed report on the security equipment, resource manpower and its training. Some of the proposals that were discussed include complete ban on bringing firearms in any building of the secretariat and declaring the entire area as no weapon zone. For the security of the secretariat, the co-operation of the newly formed special security force was also considered in the meeting. The security arrangements currently existing at the entrances of all the buildings in the secretariat will be made stricter. Under this, door frame metal detectors will be made more effective by arranging access control equipment like bag scanners. Surveillance systems will also be improved further through CCTV cameras. More discussions on the issue will be finalised in next meeting which was scheduled for next week. UP initiates steps to revise SAP of cane||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/highlevel-meeting-to-beef-up-uttar-pradesh-secretariat-security-held-101630521424552.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi high court seeks Centre's reply on Rakesh Asthana’s selection||The Delhi high court on Wednesday asked for the Centre’s response on a plea challenging the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police commissioner, even as Solicitor general of India Tushar Mehta said that “intermeddlers” not be allowed to file such petitions.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice on the pleas, by one Sadre Alam and an intervention application by the Centre for Public Litigation through Prashant Bhushan.On August 25, the apex court gave Bhushan the liberty to file an intervening application in the high court after it was informed that a similar matter was pending there. It has adjourned the matter for two weeks.Bhushan on Wednesday said Alam’s petition was a copy-paste of the plea that he filed in the SC. Bhushan said, “Prayer in my application was just to take it on record after we were granted liberty by the SC…My petition is pending in the SC.”Solicitor general Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said, “...Mr Alam seems to have copied and followed the dangerous path of Mr Bhushan (NGO’s counsel). The debutant should be stopped here and now.” He also said the petitioner must be investigated. When the court asked advocate BS Bagga, Alam’s counsel, if the petition was copied, he replied in negative. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on September 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-seeks-centre-response-on-plea-challenging-appointment-of-asthana-as-delhi-police-chief-101630521423337.html
02-09-2021||Other||Govt cannot suppress the agitation with lathis, FIRs: Charuni||Haryana farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said the BJP-led government at the Centre and the state cannot suppress the agitation with lathicharge and FIRs against farmers.He said the agitation will continue as per directions of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) until their demands are accepted.“We are not concerned about the FIRs being registered against farmers across Haryana. They have already booked around 40,000 farmers so far but there is no impact on the agitation,” he said during his visit to Kaithal on Wednesday.“We don’t fear going to jails. We have more farmers ready to go to jail than the capacity of their prisons,” he added.Reacting to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s statement that the government may take strict action if farmers try to disrupt law and order after a state-level meeting of the Morcha leaders was scheduled in Karnal on September 7 against the lathicharge on farmers on August 28, Charuni said, “The government is free to take any action against us. We are ready to even sacrifice our lives but we will not allow them to sell our land and agriculture to corporate houses.”“We are fighting for the future generations of farmers,” he added. “The Karnal lathi-charge was enough to prove that the BJP has forgotten humanity. Farmers were beaten up mercilessly. This is a fight against the rich corporates and politicians,” he said.He said people who did not have any contribution in the freedom movement are ruling the country but the farmers will not allow them to sell everything to rich corporations.Charuni also addressed farmers in Kaithal and urged them to reach Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh to attend the mahapanchayat on September 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-cannot-suppress-the-agitation-with-lathis-firs-charuni-101630521305036.html
02-09-2021||Noida||Noida: Rains leave several roads waterlogged||Noida: Morning showers in Noida led to waterlogging and traffic snarls on several main roads of the city on Wednesday.The worst affected areas were Labour Chowk, underpass at Mamura metro bridge in Sector 61, Vishwakarma Marg, and Electronic City metro station. Heavy waterlogging was also reported from the stretch near Fortis hospital and Haldwani mod in Greater Noida, officials said.“The traffic was moving very slow due to the waterlogging at some areas, including the road near Fortis hospital, Sector 61 underpass and Labour Chowk, among others. However, at DND cut and Mahamaya Flyover, the traffic was normal as the water was pumped out before 8am,” said an official from the Noida traffic police department.With some of the major roads waterlogged, commuters sought alternative routes while the broken roads in some areas added to their discomfort.“Several stretches of Vishwakarma Marg were waterlogged and there were also some potholes. So, I had to be very attentive while going towards Indirapuram in the morning. On the way, I took shelter near Sector 59 metro station as the underpass was fully waterlogged. Later, I took a longer route to avoid the underpass,”said Vaibhav Maheshwari, who commuted towards Indirapuram on a two-wheeler from Noida’s Sector 75.“The traffic towards Delhi was very slow during the morning hours. I use Noida bypass road from Vishwakarma Marg to reach Delhi. But the connecting route is broken with big potholes which fill up during the rains and become dangerous for driving,” said Sangeeta Mishra, another commuter going to Delhi for work.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the city recorded 35mm of rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Wednesday. So far, Noida has been rainfall deficient. According to the IMD, the city has received about 65% deficient rainfall since June 1 till date. It has so far seen 155mm of rainfall against the expected 448.9mm. Meanwhile, officials of the Noida authority said that several workers were rushed to clear the roads.“Since the rainfall was heavy, there were some instances of waterlogging. But all our workers were in the field sorting out the issues. At the Sector 61 underpass towards Mamura, there are pumps installed but we must also understand that there will be some retention time whenever there is a heavy rainfall. The roads where waterlogging happened were later cleared off water, and we are also working on such spots,” said PK Kaushik, general manager, Noida authority.Meanwhile, the weather analysts said that there are chances of light to moderate rains on Thursday too.“Noida may also see rainfall on Thursday. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 31 and 25°C,” said an IMD official.“On Wednesday, the Delhi-NCR received excessive moisture intrusion from both the Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea. This led to heavy rains. The moisture is still there, so there is a possibility of light to moderate rainfall on Thursday,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet.According to IMD, the rainfall below 1.5mm is considered very light, between 1.5mm and 15mm is light, 15mm and 64mm as moderate, 64mm and 110mm as heavy and above 110mm as very heavy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-rains-leave-several-roads-waterlogged-101630521182591.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||Centre to reply on removal of Afghans on stir in Vasant Vihar||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre and the Delhi government on residents’ plea seeking the removal of Afghan nationals protesting outside the United Nations Human Rights (UNHCR) office in Vasant Vihar, observing that it would not want the gathering to become a super spreader of the Covid-19 infection.Justice Rekha Palli said the lives of people in the city cannot be “endangered” just because removing protesters will have international consequences. The court was hearing a plea by Vasant Vihar Residents’ Welfare Association seeking the removal of the protesters on the grounds that they were inconveniencing residents.“We are also dealing with Covid-19. Look at the pictures. What if this could be a superspreader of Covid-19? You should ensure some protocol is there. Why are they not wearing masks? You are fining people daily for not wearing masks in cars,” justice Palli said.The bench asked the Delhi government what steps have been taken to comply with the Supreme Court’s direction to frame guidelines on the issue of the right to protest so as to ensure a balance between fundamental rights and the maintenance of law and order.Central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul told the court that it was not a normal situation and residents should have a more “humanitarian approach”.Delhi government additional standing counsel Satyakam said there are around 500 protesters at the site and sufficient force has been deployed there and Centre shall be asked to resolve the issue at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/afghan-protest-outside-unhcr-office-could-become-covid-super-spreader-says-high-court-101630520763821.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi court takes cognisance of Kailash Gahlot’s defamation plea against BJP’s Vijender Gupta||A Delhi court on Wednesday took cognisance of a criminal defamation complaint filed by Delhi transport minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Kailash Gehlot against fellow legislator Vijender Gupta of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for allegedly making defamatory remarks about him over the procurement of 1,000 low-floor buses by the Delhi Transport Corporation.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey fixed the matter to September 18 for examination of the complaint as part of the pre-summoning evidence.In his complaint, filed through advocate Dhruv Rohatgi, Gehlot has alleged that Gupta “intentionally and for malafide purposes” defamed him and tarnished his reputation to gain political mileage.He said Gupta levelled “defamatory, scandalous, mischievous, false and scurrilous allegations” verbally as well as in writing.Responding to Wednesday’s proceedings in the court, Gupta said, “The Delhi government is filing cases in an attempt to save face amid allegations of corruption. They aren’t replying to the people on the charges. Today’s proceeding in the court was routine and the high court’s (earlier) order should be a lesson to them.”On August 28, the Delhi high court declined to grant ex parte interim relief to Gahlot in his civil defamation plea seeking the removal of alleged defamatory statements and posts shared by Gupta on social media. The court, while issuing summons to Gupta, gave him 30 days to respond to the suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-takes-cognisance-of-kailash-gahlot-s-defamation-plea-against-bjp-s-vijender-gupta-101630520163112.html
02-09-2021||Delhi||Police probe possible collusion of Tihar jail officials, ex-Unitech promoters||The Delhi Police commissioner’s office has written to the city prison department seeking details of all officers posted inside Tihar jail number 7 as it began a probe to identify how former Unitech promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra, in alleged connivance with jail officials, operated a “secret undergound office” in south Delhi while staying in jail. The Chandra brothers were arrested in April 2017 for duping homebuyers in 74 projects. Police have also sought details of the dates and the duration when the two brothers were out on bail or parole and also the reason why they were granted parole/furlough in the last three years.“A notice was sent to director general Sandeep Goel asking him for the details of all persons who were posted in jail number 7 in the last one year. Along with the names and ranks, they were also told to submit the phone numbers of those officers. In the notice, the prison department has also been told to submit the registered phone numbers to which the Chandra brothers were authorised to make phone calls from the prison’s landline. Any other number to which the calls were made is illegal,” said an officer aware of the matter. Officials privy to the inquiry said the prison department has submitted some of the details and requested time to provide all the information sought.Sanjay and Ajay Chandra, who were lodged together in Tihar’s jail number 7, were moved to Mumbai’s Arthur Road and Taloja jails on August 28 on the orders of the Supreme Court, which was informed by the Enforcement Directorate that jail authorities helped the two engage in illegal activities, including running an underground office in south Delhi.According to ED, the office, which was being operated by Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra, was visited by his sons, Sanjay and Ajay, when they were on parole or bail. ED further said that the two brothers were communicating and instructing their staff from inside jail to dispose of their properties.The apex court asked Delhi Police chief Rakesh Asthana to conduct an inquiry into the matter and submit a report within four weeks. HT spoke to senior police officers who confirmed that the inquiry started on Saturday. This is the first time that the police commissioner is personally conducting an inquiry to probe the nexus between prisoners and jail officers.Even as the police are probing how both the Chandra brothers had access to cell phones and communicated freely with their contacts outside the prison, interestingly, records from jail 7 show that the two were never caught for violating any prison rules. HT contacted the Tihar director general for a response, but he declined to comment.Meanwhile, on Saturday, a team of officers from the Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing visited the prison headquarters to take the details of officers posted in jail housing another prisoner, Sukesh Chandrashekhar, who is accused of allegedly duping the wife of Shivinder Singh, the former promoter of Religare Enterprises. Chandrashekhar allegedly cheated her by posing as a senior government officer and promised to secure bail for Singh, who was arrested in October 2019 in a case pertaining to alleged misappropriation of funds.“Sukesh was in jail 1 with former promoters of Unitech until 2018. There are reports that he had helped the two men...This will also be part of the inquiry,” said an EOW officer.Delhi Police arrested Chandrashekar in 2017 for allegedly duping an AIADMK leader of ₹2 crore on the pretext of helping his faction of the party retain the two leaves symbol by bribing Election Commission officials.Meanwhile, the Tihar prison department on Saturday also transferred at least 23 deputy superintendents across Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli complex of Tihar prisons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-begin-probe-into-collusion-of-tihar-jail-officials-with-former-unitech-promoters-101630519263411.html
02-09-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh corruption case: CBI arrests SI for leaking report||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday arrested one of its own officers in connection with the leaking of the report of it’s preliminary enquiry into the allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. The agency has also detained Nagpur based advocate Anand Daga, who was a part of Deshmukh’s legal team, for attempting to influence the enquiry officers.The central agency registered an offence in connection with leaking of the report and arrested its own sub-inspector Abhishek Tiwari. Tiwari is also suspected of having illegal gratification from Deshmukh’s team for purportedly manipulating the report.Daga was detained on the suspicion that he tried to influence a junior CBI officer during the preliminary enquiry into corruption charges against Deshmukh, agency officers familiar with the matter said.The central agency also detained Deshmukh’s son-in-law on Wednesday, but he was allowed to leave after questioning. The lawyer was detained.“Attempt of Anil Deshmukh’s team were in contempt of Bombay high court, which had directed that all concerned should fully cooperate with the CBI while conducting the PE. In this case it has appeared that Deshmukh’s team tried to subvert the PE,” an official told PTI, asking not to be named,The CBI has initiated the fresh probe after the report of the preliminary probe was leaked and suspected that Daga had tried to scuttle the probe through a junior rank CBI officer, who was part of its team, said a CBI officer.The CBI had undertaken a preliminary enquiry into the allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh, pursuant to the April 5 order of the Bombay high court. Deshmukh, accused of corruption by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh, stepped down soon after citing moral grounds. Later, the ED also registered a money laundering case against Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cbi-detains-a-member-of-anil-deshmukh-s-legal-team-101630517822653.html
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Shaurya Chakra awardee’s killing: NIA court frames charges against eight KLF terrorists||A special NIA court has framed charges against eight terrorists of the proscribed Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) in the assassination of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu in Punjab last year, a spokesperson of the National Investigation Agency said on Wednesday.The NIA said the investigation has revealed that the chargesheeted accused were part of the conspiracy hatched by Pakistan-based leadership of the terrorist organisation.The special judge for NIA cases, Mohali, framed the charges against Sukhraj Singh, alias Lakhanpal, Ravinder Singh, alias Ravi Dhillon, Akashdeep Arora, alias Dhaliwal, Jagroop Singh, Sukhdeep Singh, alias Bhura, Gurjit Singh alias Bhaa, Inderjit Singh, alias Inder, and Sukhmeet Pal Singh, alias Sukh Bhikhariwal, for various offences inter-alia, including those under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Arms Act, the spokesperson said.Sandhu, who was awarded the Shaurya Chakra for his brave fight against terrorists at the peak of militancy in Punjab, was killed at his residence-cum-school in Bhikhiwind village of Tarn Taran by two unidentified persons on October 16, 2020. Accordingly, a case was registered at police station Bhikhiwind.The NIA had taken over the investigation of the case on January 26 and had filed a chargesheet against the eight accused for their roles in the conspiracy on April 27.“KLF chief Lakhvir Singh Rode and his Canada-based deputy Sunny Toronto had tasked Sukh Bhikariwal, a gangster turned terrorist, to arrange shooters and execute the plan,” the NIA said.The spokesperson said Bhikariwal had instructed Sukhdeep Singh and Gurjit Singh to undertake the killing of Sandhu. Inderjit Singh was involved in the reconnaissance of the target.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shaurya-chakra-awardee-s-killing-nia-court-frames-charges-against-eight-klf-terrorists-101630517103720.html
02-09-2021||Pune||Pune mandals press for permission to allow advertisements near Ganesh mandaps||The “Covid fund crunch” has hit small and medium-sized mandals in the city, ahead of the Ganesh festival to begin on September 10 this year. With public donations, normally sought by house-to-house or shop-to-shop visits by these mandals, out of the question, this year, some may have to skip the public observance of the festival altogether.“Last year, celebrations were done in a simple way. It is the same this year, but funds available with our mandal are over. To do a 10-day celebration with minimum resources, taking all precautionary measures, Rs1 lakh is needed for a medium-sized mandal,” said Piyush Shah, president, Sainath Mitra Mandal on Shivaji road.As a result, Ganpati mandals are now talking about getting the permissions to have advertising in specific zones near the public display of the statue.“Our demand is that police allow us to display advertisements, like we used to have in pre-Covid times. We can charge for the advertisements. It will certainly help us to keep our festival tradition going even in these tough times,” he added. The permission is for advertisements to be displayed on barricades set up around the mandap to control crowd movement.Ganpati mandal president Sachin Alande said, “We have cancelled our celebrations this year as there are not enough funds available. We do not want to put a financial burden on citizens by taking public donations. Every one of us is struggling in these tough situations. Advertising or direct donations from big offices or companies can help the small mandals survive this year.”The Pune police, on Sunday, held a meeting with Ganapti mandals in the city and issued guidelines for the 10-day celebrations for this year. Amitabh Gupta, police commissioner, Pune, said, “We have got a request from Ganpati mandals about advertisements and our discussions are going on. Soon an appropriate decision, beneficial for everyone, will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-mandals-press-for-permission-to-allow-advts-near-ganesh-mandaps-101630513081846.html
02-09-2021||Pune||Pune civic body asks pvt hospitals to reserve 10% beds for paediatric Covid-19 cases||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has requested private hospitals to reserve 10% of the total beds available with them for paediatric Covid-19 patients in view of the anticipated third wave. The move comes in the wake of the central and state governments asking to start preparations for the predicted third wave and the possible surge in paediatric patients with respect to the management of both beds and oxygen.Dr Ashish Bharti, chief health officer of the PMC, said, “The central and state governments have asked us to prepare keeping in mind the peak of the second wave and the day when the city had maximum active cases in terms of oxygen- and bed- management. As of now, we have 16,000 beds available for Covid-19 which includes private and government (2,500) hospital beds. As of now, the number of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals has gone down and so, we have instructed them to reserve 50% of the beds for Covid-19 in case the number of cases increases again. We have further instructed them to reserve 10% of the total beds available with them for paediatric patients, keeping in mind the third wave.”“To ensure that we do not face a shortage of oxygen the way we faced during the second wave, we have built oxygen generation plants which we did not have during the second wave due to which we had to rely upon liquid oxygen and cylinders. Now however, we have oxygen generation plants ready with us and we can generate 8,400 litres of oxygen per minute. In the coming week, more generation plants will come up to generate 5,300 litres per minute,” Dr Bharti said.He said that 75 kilo litres of liquid oxygen which is required for intensive care unit (ICU) patients is readily available for now and 30 kilo litres will be ready in the upcoming week. “As per the deficit report given by the state a month ago, we fell short of 28.3 metric tonne of oxygen which we have covered now and the current capacity is more than the requirement,” Dr Bharti added.The anticipated third wave will allegedly affect children the most as they remain a vulnerable, unvaccinated population. To ensure that there is no shortage of beds in future when the number of cases begin increasing, the PMC will soon send an official letter to private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-asks-pvt-hospitals-to-reserve-10-beds-for-paediatric-covid-19-cases-101630512780970.html
02-09-2021||Pune||Pune ZP earmarks ₹3.5 crore for disability rehab centre||A ground-plus-three floor (G+3) building has been proposed as the District Disability Rehabilitation Centre to act as a one-stop centre for treatment and therapeutic services for persons with 21 types of disabilities recognised by the government of India. The Pune Zilla Parishad has earmarked ₹3.5 crore for the construction of the centre. The Zilla Parishad has prepared a draft for the building of the centre which will be housed at the existing campus of its district hospital.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), Zilla Parishad, said, “The draft is ready and we have sanctioned ₹3.5 crore for its construction. The draft is out in the public for feedback and guidance by September 7. The centre is planned holistically, so that we can take care of prevention, treatment, post treatment, as well as to ensure that those with disabilities are able to survive on par with the general population. This would be a first- of-its-kind, state-of-the-art centre and one-stop solution for all kinds of disabilities.” In addition to providing medical treatment, like artificial limbs, the centre will also provide rehabilitation therapies. This will be a first such centre in the state, officials said on Wednesday. The centre would identify persons with disabilities and work towards prevention of disabilities through early detection and intervention, treatment, therapeutic services, facilitation of disability certificates, and surgeries. Funds will be sought through government and charitable institutions and loans from banks and other financial institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-zp-earmarks-rs-3-5-crore-for-disability-rehab-centre-101630511760792.html
02-09-2021||Pune||Pune river pollution: MPCB sends eighth show cause notice to PMC, PCMC||The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) this week sent a show cause notice to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) seeking a report on compliance with the steps taken by it to curb pollution in the rivers under its jurisdiction.The notice stated that the PMC should reply as to why necessary action should not be initiated against it under the Water (P and CP) Act 1974; Air (P and CP) Act 1981; and Hazardous and other waste management and trans-boundary movement (M and TM) Rules 2018. On its part, the PMC said that it will reply to the notice seeking a compliance report.Sanjay Jagtap, regional officer of the MPCB, in its report said, “Given the poor quality of water, we have issued notices to PMC and PCMC this week regarding failure on their part in using the mandated 25% budgetary allocation to curb river pollution. Earlier too, we had filed a case against both civic bodies and had issued guidelines regarding the same.”This is the eighth notice issued to the PMC in the past four years and the second one this year. Previously, green tribunals have slapped a fine of Rs8 crore on the civic body for polluting rivers. Notwithstanding the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT’s) explicit warning, the PMC has continued to operate the garbage processing plant at Sinhagad road and is still engaged in large-scale dumping of garbage on the Mutha riverbed. After locals and environmental activists complained, MPCB officials even visited the spot and sought an explanation from PMC officials in May this year. The MPCB has also been issuing notices to the PMC for dumping debris and releasing sewage into the rivers under its jurisdiction.PMC executive engineer and compliance in-charge, Pramod Unde, said, “Currently, we don’t have maximum sewage treatment to process the sewage flowing into the river. Also, the necessary compliance is being carried out by constructing a sewage treatment plant (STP) which will take time. This is a follow-up notice which the MPCB has sent, seeking compliance from us. We will send a compliance report to the MPCB authorities at the earliest.”As per the 2018 MPCB report, the Mula-Mutha river which flows for 22km through Pune city is Maharashtra’s second-most polluted river after the Mithi river in Mumbai and has been found to contain human and animal excreta three times more than the safe limit. The MPCB study revealed that levels of faecal coliform content (an indication of human and animal excreta); biochemical oxygen demand (oxygen levels for aquatic life to survive); and dissolved oxygen in the Mula-Mutha river are more than the safe limit.In 2019, civic rights’ activist Sarang Yadwadkar filed a petition in the NGT and revealed the 12 dumping spots in the PMC, PCMC and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). The NGT took cognisance of the same and appointed a five-member committee along with deputing MPCB as the nodal agency, while warning the municipal commissioners of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad against further dumping of debris or any other waste, including construction waste, into the rivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-river-pollution-mpcb-sends-eighth-show-cause-notice-to-pmc-pcmc-101630511640803.html
02-09-2021||Lucknow||Firozabad CMO shifted as 41 die of suspected dengue||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday transferred the chief medical officer of Firozabad, where more than 40 people, mostly children, died of suspected dengue fever.Dr Dinesh Kumar Premi will be the new CMO of Firozabad, a government order stated.CMO Neeta Kulshresth has been transferred from Firozabad as senior consultant of Aligarh’s Malkhan Singh district hospital, the order said. The order, however, did not mention the reason for the transfer.“As many as 41 deaths due to suspected dengue fever have been reported in Firozabad. Of these, 36 were children and five adults. Patients are responding to treatment of dengue and reports of samples also confirm that most of the cases are of dengue,” stated Dr AK Singh, additional director (health).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/firozabad-cmo-shifted-as-41-die-of-suspected-dengue-101630510741396.html
02-09-2021||Bhopal||Bangle seller assaulted in MP denied bail in molestation case||A special court on Madhya Pradesh has rejected the bail application of a Muslim bangle seller who was booked for allegedly molesting a 13-year-old girl last month, hours after he was brutally thrashed by a group of men reportedly because of his religion in Indore town.Special public prosecutor Sanjay Meena said additional judge Pavas Srivastava rejected Taslim Ali’s bail application on Tuesday. The 25-year-old has been in jail since August 24.Besides molestation, the bangle seller was booked for forgery after he was found carrying two Aadhaar and voter id cards. Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra had claimed that the victim was using a fake identity, passing himself as Hindu.Police said it may become difficult to probe the case if Ali, who is a resident of Uttar Pradesh, was granted bail.Appearing for Ali, advocate Ehtisham said he will challenge the special court order in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bangle-seller-assaulted-in-indore-denied-bail-101630483198126.html
