03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Neighbour, aide gangrape 16-year-old girl in Ludhiana||In yet another sexual crime against minors in the district, two men gangraped a 16-year-old girl after tying her up at her house in Kaunke Kalan village in Jagraon on Thursday.The accused, Sukhwinder Singh, alias Prithi, who is 33 years old and unmarried, and Amandeep Singh, alias Kalu, were arrested on Friday.They were caught following a complaint by the girl’s maternal grandfather. The complainant told the police that his 16-year-old granddaughter, a Class-10 pass-out, lived with him and his wife.On Thursday, he and his wife had gone somewhere, while their granddaughter was home alone. When they returned in the evening, they found her crying inconsolably.On being coaxed, she revealed that their neighbours, Sukhwinder Singh and Amandeep Singh, barged into their house in their absence and overpowered her. As she raised the alarm, the duo gagged her and tied up her hands using different pieces of cloth, before taking turns to rape her. They fled the spot after threatening her to keep mum.Sub-inspector Kamaldeep Kaur, who is investigating the case, said they had arrested the accused who were facing a case under Sections 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code, and Sections 3 and 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. They will be produced in court on Saturday.On Thursday, a Ludhiana resident was booked for raping a 15-year-old girl for three days in Haryana’s Fatehabad district. In another case, a slum dweller was arrested for raping a 15-year-old girl and impregnating her in Sehjomajra village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/neighbour-aide-gangrape-16-year-old-girl-in-ludhiana-101630693760489.html
03-09-2021||Other||Man shot dead in front of Sheetla Mata temple||A 19-year-old murder suspect out on bail was shot dead near the Sheetla Mata temple of Sector 5 opposite Sheetla Colony on Friday morning. Police identified the victim as Annu Thakur who lived on rent in Shiv Nagar with his brother 20-year-old Manish Thakur. A senior police officer said that Annu was allegedly involved in a murder case on May 28 last year in Shiv Nagar and was sent to a correctional home as he was a juvenile at the time. When he turned major recently, he was sent to ‘place of safety’ located inside the Karnal jail from where he got bail on August 17, the officer added. Police suspect Annu Thakur was killed in revenge for the murder.In his complaint to the police, Manish Thakur said Annu worked in a shop near the Sheetla Mata temple. “My brother Annu was involved in a murder case in which a person named Manan was killed in a scuffle. He was in Karnal jail and was out on bail. A person, who is the prime witness in Manan’s murder case had been repeatedly threatening that he would avenge his death by killing my brother,” he told police in his complaint lodged on Friday.As the age of the person named by Manish in his complaint is uncertain, HT is not revealing their identity. Manish told police that he feared for his brother’s life and asked him to stay in Sheetla Colony. “On Friday morning both of us had gone to Sheetla Mata temple to pray. My brother was standing outside the temple, and I was at the gate. I saw a masked person shoot my brother and flee. I am sure that this person who was prime witness in Manan’s murder was involved in this killing,” he stated. A police team from Sector 5 rushed to the spot and began their investigation. Shopkeepers around the temple said that they were shocked by the heinous crime close to the temple. “Everything happened in just a few seconds. We just heard a bang and later saw a man lying on the ground,” said a local resident who did not wish to be named. Police said they had registered a case against the person named in the complaint and several unknown persons based on the victim’s brother’s complaint.“A case of murder has been registered against the suspects at the Sector 5 police station under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act,” said Pankaj Kumar Sector 5 police station house officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-shot-dead-in-front-of-sheetla-mata-temple-101630693520605.html
03-09-2021||Gurugram||Health depts busts nexus that conducted illegal sex determination||In a joint operation, the Gurugram health department and Uttar Pradesh Police busted a foetal sex determination racket from Uttar Pradesh’s Etah district on Thursday that led to the arrest of three persons, including a Gurugram resident. A health department official said they acted on a tip on Gurugram’s Devilal Nagar resident Satyendra Pratap Singh who allegedly took pregnant women from the district to Delhi and Uttar Pradesh to abort female foetuses, a crime under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition Of Sex Selection) Act​ (PCPNDT).According to the FIR filed in the matter, the suspect charged ₹35,000-45,000 for sex determination tests and abortion. On Thursday, the health department deployed a decoy “customer” who approached Singh. Singh allegedly took ₹35,000 from the woman at Devilal Nagar and together made their way to Etah where they allegedly met a doctor of a local hospital on Aligarh Road. The doctor was paid around ₹14,500 to conduct an immediate sex determination test, officials said. On his directions, the woman was then taken to another clinic allegedly run by two other suspects who the officials identified as local residents Sanjeev Kumar and Ruchi. There an ultrasound test confirmed a female foetus, said the official. “It was then the health team along with the local police arrived and arrested Kumar and Ruchi at the clinic. Singh was also arrested from Aligarh road while the doctor managed to escape,” said the official.The FIR states that Kumar and Ruchi allegedly confessed that they did not have a medical education or a qualification to conduct the ultrasound, and that their clinic was not registered under PCPNDT Act. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Illegal ultrasound machines have been recovered from the spot. The FIR was filed under several sections of the PCPNDT Act and Indian Medical Council Act late Thursday night after the Gurugram health teams along with the Etah police busted the nexus. In the last few months, several such raids have been conducted. It shows that a network exists in Delhi and UP for illegal abortions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/health-depts-busts-nexus-that-conducted-illegal-sex-determination-101630693221810.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||25-year-old man tied to a tree, beaten to death on suspicion of theft; two arrested||A 25-year-old unidentified man died after he was tied to a tree and beaten up by a group of locals on the suspicion of theft in outer Delhi’s Narela Industrial Area on Thursday, police said. Two men were arrested in this connection and efforts are on to identify and nab the others, police said Friday.Deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said the body of the man has been preserved at the government hospital mortuary in outer Delhi for identification purposes as his identity could not be ascertained till late Friday evening.DCP Singh said on Thursday around 9am, the Narela Industrial Area police station received a call that a thief was caught and beaten up by the public in Block I of the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (DSIIDC) industrial area in Narela. A police team was dispatched to the spot and the personnel arrived there to find an unidentified man lying injured and unconscious. Locals alleged that he was a thief and was caught red-handed.“The injured man was rushed to Raja Harish Chandra Hospital in Narela, where he later succumbed to injuries during treatment. A case was registered under relevant sections and investigation taken up,” the DCP said.Through local inquiries, the investigating team learnt that a man had barged into a factory in Block I to commit a theft on Wednesday night. Some workers who were sleeping inside the factory woke up and raised the alarm, forcing the thief to flee. The workers told police they saw the man’s face before he fled.On Thursday morning, a few locals saw a man coming out of another factory in the same block, carrying some items. They stopped him for questioning. In the meantime, workers of the first factory also arrived there and they identified him as the thief who had entered their factory the previous night, a police officer associated with the case said.“The gathering grew by then; they tied the man to a tree and assaulted him till he fell unconscious. They fled before the police arrived. We have identified and arrested two of them so far,” said the officer, asking not to be named.Police have not shared information about the identities of the arrested men and said there were more suspects remaining to be arrested.In May this year, a 20-year-old man was beaten to death in outer Delhi’s Swaroop Nagar on the suspicion of theft. Two men were arrested a day later for the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/25yearold-man-tied-to-a-tree-beaten-to-death-on-suspicion-of-theft-two-arrested-101630693220661.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Pune rly div transport 71 goods trains in August||The Pune railway division in August transported 71 goods train earning an income of ₹29.49 crore. In the current financial year from April to August end by transporting various types of goods, the division has generated a revenue of ₹95.23 crore which is the best revenue generated in last five years in the Central Railways. As Pune is surrounded by many manufacturing companies and MIDC companies, the major mode of transport is by railways. Considering it in the month of August this year highest number of goods trains with 71 trains went from the division across the country. In this maximum transportation was of sugar and automobile products. “A better marketing of railway goods train transportation was done in last few months and as a result we have achieved this landmark of 71 goods train transportation in a month. Several new clients on national and international level got tied up with the railways and through our affordable, frequent and safe transportation we have got this business,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rly-div-transport-71-goods-trains-in-august-101630693041937.html
03-09-2021||Other||Yogi surveys 3 flood-hit districts, reviews relief and rescue work||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath conducted an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas of Gonda, Bahraich and Balrampur districts on Friday. In a meeting with the district administration officers and people’s representatives, he reviewed the relief and rescue operation launched in the three districts. He also distributed relief material among the flood victims. Speaking in Bahraich, the CM said 15 districts in the state were flood -affected. Bahraich was located on the confluence of Sharda and Ghaghra rivers which entered Uttar Pradesh from Nepal. Due to heavy rainfall in Nepal and the river basin area, there was sudden increase in the water level of the rivers leading to flood. As many as 2,500 people in four villages had been affected, he said. The state government had launched relief and rescue operation on a war footing. National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF), State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF) and Provincial Armed Constabulary had been deployed for relief and rescue operations. Flood posts had been set up, drinking water was being supplied and chlorine tablets had been distributed, he said. Snake venom antidote and anti- rabies vaccines had been supplied to the health centres to protect the people from snake and dog bites, he said. Speaking in Gonda, Yogi said for the third time in this rainy season the people were facing flood. In spite of the heavy rainfall in the area the impact of the flood had been minimized with the launch of the flood control measures. The dredging and channelization of the rivers helped in controlling the flood, he said. Ten villages in Gonda district were flood-affected, he said, adding relief and rescue operations had been launched in the villages. NDRF, SDRF and PAC teams had been deployed as well. Adequate boats and steamers had been arranged to shift the people to safer spots. The state government had directed the district magistrates of the flood -affected districts to carry out survey of crop loss so that compensation was distributed among the farmers who suffered losses, he said. With the decline in the flood water, the outbreak of vector-borne and water -borne disease loomed large. To check this, the state government had launched a special sanitation drive from September 5 to 12. All the departments had been directed to coordinate for the drive, which would be supervised by the people’s representatives, he said. If any person drowned in the flood water or dies of snake bite, his family members would be given ₹4 lakh financial aid. Under the agriculture accident insurance scheme, the family member of the farmers would get ₹5 lakh insurance cover. The people whose houses had been destroyed with flood would also be given compensation, he said. In Balrampur, the CM said with the rise in the water level of the Rapti, 60 villages had been inundated and 65,000 people affected. Relief and rescue operations had been launched in the villages, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-surveys-3-flood-hit-districts-reviews-relief-and-rescue-work-101630693041410.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Illegal arms supplier held with 5 pistols and 200 cartridges near Sunder Nursery||The city police on Friday said they arrested a 58-year-old man from near Sunder Nursery and recovered five pistols and 200 cartridges that he allegedly brought to the city to deliver to criminals in the Capital. Police said the suspect has previously been arrested in 2018 with 407 cartridges, allegedly intended for Maoists in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli, and was also involved in supplying arms and ammunition to criminals in Delhi and Bihar, and Maoists in Odisha as well.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said that on Wednesday, a team from the special cell received information that a habitual firearms trafficker from Bihar, identified as Ram Krishan Singh alias Master, would reach the area near Sunder Nursery’s parking in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin to deliver a consignment of arms and ammunition.“A trap was laid and Singh was caught with a bag containing five pistols and 200 cartridges. The bullets and pistols were to be supplied to three criminals, including one from trans-Yamuna area,” said DCP Kushwah, adding that Singh had procured the seized items from his contact in Firozabad, Uttar Pradesh.Police said that Singh, a B.Com graduate, worked as a private school teacher in Bihar’s Ara and Bhojpur districts between 1989 and 2014. In 2015, he came in contact with a local criminal who lured him into the illegal trade of arms and ammunition trafficking. In 2018, the special cell arrested Singh with 407 cartridges that he was to deliver to Maoists in Gadhchiroli.“His interrogation at that time led to the arrest of another arms trafficker, Sanjay Singh, from Ara, who carried a reward of ₹1 lakh announced by Bihar Police. Two Maoists -- Ajit Akhil Ray who carried a reward of ₹2 lakh, and Raj Bahadur who carried a reward of ₹1 lakh -- were arrested from Gadhchiroli and Ara respectively. A total of 506 cartridges and several weapons, including INSAS and SLR (rifles) were seized from them,” added Kushwah.Police said Singh remained in jail for nearly four months and came in contact with criminals of Delhi-NCR. Police said though he was inactive for a while, he began the illegal activities post the second wave of Covid-19. Since June, he has allegedly supplied over 300 cartridges and 10 pistols to criminals in Delhi-NCR, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiillegal-arms-supplier-held-with-5-pistols-and-200-cartridges-near-sunder-nursery-101630692984239.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Science Innovation City to come up at PCMC Science park premises||Soon, the Pimpri Chinchwad city will be getting a world-class Science city at the premises of existing Pimpri Chinchwad Science Park on 8 acres of land. The decision was taken recently in the state cabinet meeting by the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and ₹191 crore was sanctioned for it.The new science complex will be named after the late former prime minister of India Rajiv Gandhi and the name will be ‘Bharat Ratna Rajiv Gandhi Science Innovation City’. While it will take five years to complete and it’s mostly for the students interested in Science and future technologies.“In a bid to strengthen science and research in our country and to boost the scientific approach amongst the stdmudents and most importantly create future scientists amongst us such kind of science innovation centers are much needed in our state,” said CM Thackeray.The existing Science Park which is run by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Kalewadi Road is a centre of attraction for children as well for public. Prior to pandemic, daily hundreds of people and school trips used to come here to experience various science projects and fun science games. It was started in 2013 and ever since is popular in Pimpri Chinchwad.Talking about the new science city project, Pravin Tupe director of the PCMC Science Park said, “As the sanction has been given for the new Science city project by the state government, we are been informed to prepare the detailed project report of this city with the help of other authorities. It will be 10 times bigger and with many new things coming up at this centre. “There would be different galleries in this city like fun science, automobile gallery, energy science gallery, outdoor exhibits and many more things would come up at this science city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/science-innovation-city-to-come-up-at-pcmc-science-park-premises-101630692859843.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Builder and contractor booked for labourer’s death in Pune||A case was registered against a builder and a labour contractor on Thursday for causing death of a labourer due to negligence.The deceased was identified as Navnath Dattu Satpute (42) a resident of Shindenagar in Old Sangvi area of Pimpri Chinchwad.The incident happened on the evening of August 12 in a building in Ganeshnagar colony of Bopkhel. The accused have not yet been arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police.Satpute was working on the fourth floor of an underconstruction building without any safety nets or safety gear like helmets.The plank that Satpute was standing on broke and he slipped and fell four floors down, to his death. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the man’s wife, who is a housewife.A case was registered under Sections 304(2) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code at Dighi police station. Sub-inspector B Shikhare of Dighi police station is investigating the case.The forest department of Pune conducted a raid on an illegal sawmill operating in Kharadi area of Pune on Wednesday. The department officials have seized six machines from the mills during the raid from three different mills. “During the action in the sawmill Ashok Khashaba Jadhav’s Rohit Packaging, Tukaram Nagar, Kharadi, Sunil Bhaskar Nikam’s Maharashtra Packaging, Tukaramnagar, Kharadi, and Bhavanaji Ravji Patel’s Lashmi Timber, Vagheshwarnagar in Kharadi were involved,” read a statement from the forest department. The raid was conducted based on information received by the forest department through local sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/builder-and-contractor-booked-for-labourer-s-death-in-pune-101630692739816.html
03-09-2021||Gurugram||Special vaccination camps for teaching and non-teaching staff in Gurugram||The Gurugram health department will hold special Covid-19 vaccination camps for teaching and non-teaching staff of registered government and private schools following a government order aiming at 100% vaccination coverage among such staff by Teachers’ Day that falls on September 5.In Gurugram, there are about 18,006 teaching and non-teaching staff. Of these, 17,717 have got at least one dose, said officials. “Only 289 staff are left to get their first dose. We will have five special camps on Saturday, with at least 150 doses reserved for school staff. If required, we will administer more doses (including second doses) based on the footfall,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. The camps will be in government schools at Hailey Mandi, Pataudi, Wazirabad, Kasan and Garhi Harsaru and will be stocked with the Covishield vaccine. On Wednesday, a state health department letter to all district chief medical officers directed them to hold special vaccination camps on September 4 and 5 to achieve the target.As the schools have reopened in the district, the health department on Thursday appointed school Covid nodal officers. At least 12 doctors under the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) will ensure Covid-19 guidelines are followed in classrooms. They will regularly visit schools to check whether they are adopting preventive measures in classrooms. Also, antigen testing kits have been provided to officers to test the symptomatic child in the school and ensure their timely isolation.On Friday, over 22,911 doses were administered, out of which at least 14, 258 were given at government health centres and 8653 in private hospitals at 89 Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs). Vaccination on Saturday will be held at 47 government sites with a target to administer over 8850 doses through direct walk-in and online appointments. In the last eight months, over 2,458, 679 vaccine shots have been given.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/special-vaccination-camps-for-teaching-and-non-teaching-staff-in-gurugram-101630692440424.html
03-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram civic body to redevelop a pond to mitigate waterlogging on NH 48||To mitigate waterlogging on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway (national highway 48, NH-48), the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will redevelop a pond at Mohammadpur Jharsa village located near Narsinghpur.Similar to the Minto Bridge in Delhi, the Narsinghpur-Khandsa stretch on the Expressway inevitably floods with a short spell of rain. On Wednesday, the rain was heavy at 100.8mm. The stretch was the worst-affected stretch that day in Gurugram. Such was the waterlogging there that all service lanes and much of the main carriageway were inundated triggering a four-hour-long traffic jam with vehicles taking nearly 25 minutes to cross the three-kilometre stretch.On Thursday evening, the MCG issued a tender inviting bids to redevelop the pond.“We aiming to start the work from October. We have two main objectives with this project. This first is to increase the groundwater table through natural absorption of rainwater and secondly, resolve waterlogging related issues in the area by channelling all rainwater towards the water body,” said Amarjeet Bisla, executive engineer, MCG who is looking after the project.Bisla said that the project will be carried out independently by the MCG.“The village already has a pond. We want to increase its capacity thereby increasing the catchment area. Besides the expressway, it will also solve the waterlogging issues of the village as well as nearby villages such as Khandsa, Narsinghpur, and other vital stretches nearby,” said Bisla.The pond in Mohammadpur Jharsa village is located close to important roads such as the Dwarka Expressway, Pataudi Road and the Central Peripheral Road (CPR). MCG officials said that rainwater from these stretches will also be channelled to the water body.Bisla said that the MCG was encouraged by the success of developing localised ponds in the creeks of Aravallis that accumulate downstream rainwater and prevent flooding of Golf Course Road (GCR) and the agency plans to replicate the same model at other points of the city.As part of the restoring process, Bisla said that encroachments along the catchment area will be cleared, garbage and construction and demolition (C&D) waste will be removed to ensure there is no obstruction in the passage of rainwater towards the pond. The green cover too will also be increased with native plants and trees to absorb and channel rainwater, he added.The entire restoration project is expected to cost around ₹94.56 lakh. Bids of the tender would be opened on September 10, following which a contractor will be finalised.Dr Indu K Murthy, principal research scientist at the Center for Study of Science, Technology and Policy (CSTEP), said that the authorities should redevelop the pond keeping in mind the current land use and structures around the water body as otherwise it could be counterproductive. “Just diverting rainwater will result in all the waste and muck being piled into the water body and thereby polluting it. Installation of a filter unit for removal of dirt and groundwater-recharging structures is a must for facilitating water recharge and conservation. If planned well, tree planting around the water body can further rejuvenate the environment,” said Murthy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-civic-body-to-redevelop-a-pond-to-mitigate-waterlogging-on-nh-48-101630692200855.html
03-09-2021||Pune||43K students register for ITI courses in Pune division||PUNE A total of 2,88,588 students have registered for the Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) courses for this academic year across the state, out of which 2,58,569 students have paid the fees to confirm admissions, while 13,553 students have been instructed for corrections in the application forms.In the Pune division, 43,699 students had registered, while 42,931 students have confirmed their admission.The highest number of registration was from the Aurangabad division with 56,749 registrations.The last date for registration for the ITI admissions as told by the state department of technical education (DTE) was August 31 and this year 1,49,296 seats are available.As per the information given by DTE, the online admission process for the ITI courses started on July 15. As the Class 10 passing percentage was high this year students registering for ITI courses has also increased, said officials.This year a total of 91 ITI courses are available in the 417 government ITI colleges and 550 private ITI colleges across the state.Out of the 91 courses for 80 courses the eligibility criteria is to pass Class 10 and for the remaining 11 courses it should be either Class 10 passed or failed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/43k-students-register-for-iti-courses-in-pune-division-101630690699796.html
03-09-2021||Other||AAP questions Punjab govt on cane-charging farmers in Moga||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday questioned the ruling Congress for police using water cannons and cane-charging protesting farmers in Moga on Thursday. “What is the difference between the Captain government of Punjab and the Manohar Lal Khattar government of Haryana, when both are raining batons on the farmers,” said Kultar Singh Sandhwan, AAP MLA and the president of the Kisan Wing in a press statement, adding that farmers were peacefully protesting and wanted to question Sukhbir Singh Badal on the black farm laws. He alleged that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh was following in the footsteps of his boss Narendra Modi and was torturing farmers, due to his secret pact with the Badal family. “People of Punjab will never tolerate this,” he added. Criticising Congress state president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Sandhwan said the police of the Congress government was oppressing the farmers, day in and day out; but Sidhu had preferred to be silent on the issue. “Sidhu is seen shouting in favour of farmers from stage, but is yet to utter a word against the caning and the FIRs that the Punjab Police have lodged against farmers,” Sandhwan claimed. SUKHBIR, CAPT BOTH ANTI-FARMER: SISODIA Responding to the Moga lathi-charge, Delhi deputy CM and AAP leader Manish Sisodia tweeted, “Brutal attack by police on farmers in Moga is unpardonable. The eerie silence of Sukhbir Badal, against whom the farmers were protesting and CM Captain Amarinder Singh, to whom the police reports to, further vindicates that both of them are as much anti-farmers as the BJP govt in the Centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-questions-punjab-govt-on-cane-charging-farmers-in-moga-101630688240291.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Awaiting confirmation on new schedule: Maharashtra CET cell||With no word from the state common entrance test (CET) cell, officials have confirmed that MH-CET exams will not begin from Saturday, September 4. While the state government had announced last month that the entrance exam for engineering, pharmacy and architecture courses will be conducted between September 4 and 10, no hall tickets for the exam have been distributed as yet and an official circular is still awaited.“We are still waiting to hear from the state government for confirmation on a new schedule. Once we get the go-ahead, we’ll share it on the official website,” said an official from the state CET cell, on condition of anonymity. Earlier this month, a representation of parents and students approached Uday Samant, state minister of higher education and technical education, seeking postponement of the MH-CET exam. The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) is scheduled to take place on September 12, while the entrance exam for the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is scheduled to take place on September 7, 8 and 13. Similarly, CBSE Class 12 students also have their class improvement exams until September 15.“The new schedule is put together keeping in mind these exams and ensuring that students are not in a fix,” added the official.As per figures revealed by the CET cell in June, registrations for the exam dropped from five lakh last year to 4.3 lakh this year. For years now, engineering faculties have been attracting fewer students and the fall in registrations could be due to the same reason, say experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/awaiting-confirmation-on-new-schedule-maharashtra-cet-cell-101630687640441.html
03-09-2021||Other||Army recruitment: Racket busted, 6 held in Bihar||PATNAWith the detention of six job aspirants on Thursday night, the Military Intelligence (MI) has exposed an Army recruitment scam in Bihar, officials familiar with the matter said. The six youngsters, including one from Deoria in Uttar Pradesh, were promised a job in the Army by the accused, identified as Sunil Kumar, who had collected a total of ₹2.25 lakh from them, officials said.Kumar, who stays in Cantonment area, had allegedly assured them of recruitment in military engineering services (MES) of the Indian Army, for which a camp is scheduled at the premises of Bihar Regimental Centre at Danapur from September 5. The detained youths have been identified as Sanoj Kumar, Amrendra Kumar Yadav, Abhishek Kumar Mandal (all three from Munger), Manish Kumar (Araria), Rahish Kumar Yadav (Lakhisarai) and Manu Prasad (Uttar Pradesh). Accused Sunil Kumar and some others managed to escape, officials said.Talking to HT, Manish, who has studied up to class 12, said he was selected twice in the physical eligibility test but was declared unfit in the medical exam. “Sunil told me he would ‘manage’ army officials for my recruitment. He sent a video of three people, including a woman, wearing army combat uniform and performing medical fitness test,” said Manish.The MI team also seized documents like reporting forms, medical fitness certificates, appointment letters and family declaration certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-recruitment-racket-busted-6-held-in-bihar-101630687040479.html
03-09-2021||Other||HC slaps ₹5 lakh fine on PMC for plying 925 unregistered vehicles||PATNAThe Patna High Court Friday imposed a fine of ₹5 lakh on the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) with direction to the municipal body to recover the amount from its erring officers/officials due to whose lapse 925 municipal vehicles kept plying on roads without mandatory registration.The court asked the fine amount to be deposited with the state government. “It is difficult to fathom that a municipal body was oblivious of the requirement of getting 925 vehicles (approx.) to be registered under the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. Such vehicles were allowed to be plied in public places for a considerable period, thus potentially jeopardising public interest and endangering human life and property. It is only under the monitoring of this Court from time to time and more particularly interim orders since 2019 that the corporation took steps for complying with the mandate of law and getting the vehicles registered under the Act,” observed the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Partha Sarthy.The bench ordered that “no vehicle of the PMC, the state government or its authorities would be plied in derogation of the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988,” and directed the principal secretary (urban development department) to probe and take appropriate action against the erring officers/officials.“The disciplinary proceedings must be completed within four months from today,” the bench said.The HC was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by one Nirbhay Prashant in 2019, seeking direction to the municipal corporation for registration and insurance of around 925 vehicles used for collecting garbage and ensure the collection of revenue loss caused by non-registration and non-insurance of the vehicles of the Corporation. The petitioner stated that he had filed a representation before the municipal commissioner and the secretary, transport department, bringing to their notice the violation of the Motor Vehicles Act by the Corporation, but no action was taken, after which he approached the HC.Later, in its affidavit, the Patna district transport officer admitted that the transport department had come to know of government vehicles plying without registration and the department secretary had written to all officials concerned for registration of official vehicles and submit a list of vehicles plying without registration and insurance. The secretary of the transport department also set up a committee to inquire into the matter.In its order, the bench observed that the Motor Vehicles Act, being a welfare legislation, was enacted to ensure road safety, compensation for victims of road accidents, third party insurance and health and safety of vehicles and registration of vehicles was an essential step in achieving this objective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-slaps-rs-5-lakh-fine-on-pmc-for-plying-925-unregistered-vehicles-101630686920591.html
03-09-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Congress MLA Irfan Ansari backs Taliban, BJP hits back||Congress legislator in Jharkhand Irfan Ansari, who is a former working president of the party’s state unit, on Friday praised Taliban for “having done a good job in forcing the USA to leave Afghanistan”, prompting an immediate backlash from the Opposition.Speaking to media persons at the Jharkhand assembly after the first day of the Monsoon session, Ansari said, “They (Taliban) should be lauded, as they chased the Americans out of Afghanistan. We all know the kind of excesses the American forces used to commit in Afghanistan,” said Ansari, a two-term Congress MLA from Jamtara. Told that he was supporting a front widely viewed as a terrorist organisation and is yet to get global recognition, Ansari said, “Yes, they are a terrorist organisation, but they have been revolutionary in forcing the American occupational forces to leave that country.” The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) immediately hit back at Ansari, saying his remark shows the “Talibani mindset of the Congress.” “He is speaking this language because the Congress party itself has a Talibani mindset. He is supporting a terrorist organisation that is known for cruelty against women and minorities. Several of our mothers and sisters and others are fleeing Afghanistan because of fear. Does Ansari want to see similar things happening here?” said Biranchi Narayan, BJP’s chief whip in the state Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-congress-mla-irfan-ansari-backs-taliban-bjp-hits-back-101630686860281.html
03-09-2021||Other||{Punjab polls 2022/Row over ticket} Maluka indifferent to SAD efforts to pacify him||Bathinda Former Punjab minister Sikander Singh Maluka continues to be in a dissent mode, even as the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leadership is trying to pacify him over the issue of him being announced as the party candidate from Rampura Phul for the assembly elections due in 2022. Maluka, a two-time MLA and once a blue-eyed aide of SAD patriach Parkash Singh Badal, has not issued any statement since Sunday, the day he expressed displeasure over the ticket allocation. Maluka is keen to contest from Maur and wanted his son Gurpreet Singh Maluka, a former chairperson of Bathinda zila parishad, to be given the SAD ticket from Rampura Phul. Since then, Jagmeet Brar has been announced as SAD candidate from Maur. On Wednesday, SAD general secretary Bikram Majithia met Maluka in Chandigarh and on Thursday Brar called on the ex-MLA’s native village in Bathinda.At a press conference at Chandigarh on Thursday, Majithia showed photos of the Maluka father-son duo with him the previous day, claiming that there was no dissent in the party from any quarters. There has been no statement by the SAD indicating that Gurpreet’s name is under consideration for a ticket. Maluka’s last public appearance, however, was in Maur on Sunday where he expressed his anger against the leadership for ignoring his earlier appeal to consider Gurpreet from Rampura Phul. Since then Maluka and his son Gurpreet remained incommunicado. Both are not holding any public meetings for five days and there has been no post on their Facebook pages. Sources said Maluka is trying to meet former chief minister Badal.Political watchers said what may have embarrassed the once all-powerful Akali leader is that in spite of Maluka’s public utterances, the party took no time in announcing the name of Brar, a party-hopper, as its candidate from Maur.Brar was with the Congress for over three decades and was elected MP twice before he was shown the door in April 2016 for “indiscipline and working against the party’s interest in Punjab.” In November 2016, he joined the Trinamool Congress but in less than two years, quit as its Punjab chief.Brar’s entry into the SAD in 2019 was interesting, as before this his entire electoral career had been focused against Akali patriarch Badal and his son and now SAD president Sukhbir Badal. Sources said former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had pushed for his induction. “Maluka was eyeing two party tickets from Bathinda. The SAD, however, did not want giving the baton of the political management of their traditional electoral bastion to one family. Clipping Maluka’s wings and his open dissent over ticket distribution was unexpected. Brar is a resident of Muktsar and never contested election from any of Bathinda Lok Sabha seats, but the Badal family is banking on him to curtail any parallel political force in the constituency,” said an observer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-polls-2022-row-over-ticket-maluka-indifferent-to-sad-efforts-to-pacify-him-101630686740255.html
03-09-2021||Other||Bihar MLA pic in undergarments on train goes viral; JD(U) faces fire||PATNABihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) came under fire from the Opposition on Friday after a party legislator was captured on camera walking across his coach on a New Delhi-bound train in undergarments, the picture of which was widely circulated on social media. The legislator, Gopal Mandal, MLA from Gopalpur in Bhagalpur district, later defended himself, saying he had an “upset stomach” soon after he boarded Tejas Rajdhani Express in Patna Thursday evening and that he was rushing to the lavatory when some passengers created a ruckus.According to news agency ANI, Mandal lodged a complaint at Government Railway Police (GRP) at New Delhi Railway Station on Friday, accusing one Prahlad Paswan of abusing him, misbehaving and snatching his gold chain and rings. The case is now being transferred to Buxar (where the incident took place) for further action, GRP officials said. “The matter was sorted out as the melee led to the RPF (Railway Police Force) being called. They recorded my statement and of the hostile co-passenger,” Mandal told reporters in New Delhi.He, however, insisted that the co-passenger had “overreacted”. “I was suffering from dysentery. No sooner did the train chug off that I felt the need to urgently relieve myself and made a dash to the toilet,” he said.“On the way, I was accosted by this man. I shoved him away and after relieving myself, I confronted him. I admonished him saying he should have looked at my age. I am 60. He spoke of female passengers feeling uncomfortable though no woman or girl was inside the compartment,” the MLA said.The legislator also claimed he suspected that the co-passenger was “drunk”, which has not been confirmed by railway and police sources here. Sale and consumption of liquor is banned in Bihar.Patna resident Munder Shah, who was travelling with his mother in the same coach, said the MLA got into heated arguments with his fellow passengers and some of them pulled the alarm chain while others video-recorded his misbehaviour.Rajesh Kumar, chief public relations officer of East Central Railway, said the matter was sorted out when the train’s escort party and travelling ticket examiners pacified the passengers. “The MLA was later shifted to another coach even as the train was stopped briefly at Dildarnagar because of the ruckus,” said an official.RPF inspector at Dildarnagar, Sanjiv Kumar, said no action was initiated as no one lodged any complaint.Back home, JD(U)’s rivals said the incident brought “a bad name to Bihar”. “I am not aware of the full episode. But I must say it is incidents like these that are responsible for Bihar’s poor reputation. I wish the chief minister, who is now left with just a handful of MLAs, could spend some time tutoring the public representatives on public conduct,” said LJP MP Chirag Paswan.RJD MLA and chief spokesman Bhai Virendra concurred. “The so-called sushasan babu (reffering to CM Nitish Kumar) should take note of such foul behaviour. The state keeps getting a bad name for such reasons”.Last month, JD(U) had sought Mandal’s explanation for his comments against deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who he accused of visiting Bhagalpur frequently to extort money from traders.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-mla-pic-in-undergarments-on-train-goes-viral-jd-u-faces-fire-101630686680192.html
03-09-2021||Other||{Moga cane-charge on farmers} Cancel FIRs by September 8 or will escalate stir: Farm unions||Moga A day after police cane-charged protesting farmers and used water cannons against them, also booking 200 of them, 17 by name, in an attempt to murder case, farm unions have issued an ultimatum to the police to drop the case by September 8, or they will escalate their stir. On Friday, farmers gathered at the new grain market and some of them handed over a memorandum to the authorities. The police had released all detainees on Thursday. In the First information report (FIR), police had stated that some farmers tried to run them over by tractor trollies, when members of the force stopped them from marching towards SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s rally.Baldev Singh Zira, general secretary of Bharti Kisan Union, Krantikari, said, “The police should cancel the FIR immediately and we demand legal action against the activists of the Student Organisation of India (SOI), the student wing of SAD, as some of their members pelted stones at farmers.”“We have given an ultimatum to police and administration seeking the cancellation of FIRs. The administration has assured us that justice will be done,” he added. Nirbhai Singh Dudhike, president, Kirti Kisan Union, said, “We will stage an indefinite protest outside Moga deputy commissioner’s office, if police fail to cancel the FIR.”Those booked by name are Chamkaur Singh Rode; Karamjit Singh; Kali Singh; Nirmal Singh; Balkar Singh; Baldev Singh; Mohal Lal Singh; Jasmail Singh; Tehal Singh; Palwinder Singh; Jatinder Singh; Rajdeep Singh; Mandeep Singh; Dalbir Singh; Resham Singh; Lakhvir Singh and Nirbhai Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/moga-cane-charge-on-farmers-cancel-firs-by-september-8-or-will-escalate-stir-farm-unions-101630686260348.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad: No coercive action against Varavara Rao till Sept 6, NIA tells HC||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday assured the Bombay high court (HC) that they would not take coercive action against Elgar Parishad accused P Varavara Rao who was granted bail for a period of six months on February 22. As Rao has to surrender on September 5, he approached the HC seeking an extension of the bail. However, due to paucity of time, the matter could not be heard. In light of this, Rao’s counsel sought reliefs from HC, however, after the NIA assured of no coercive action, HC posted a hearing of the matter to Monday, September 6.When the application of the Telugu poet and activist came up for hearing before the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, senior advocate Anand Grover for Rao informed the bench that the period of bail granted by the bench for six months was coming to an end and he had to surrender to the Taloja jail by September 5.However, due to paucity of time, the bench said it would hear the application on Monday to which Grover sought directions to the NIA and the prison authorities to not take any steps as per law against Rao for not surrendering on the given date.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the NIA gave a statement that no coercive action would be taken against Rao in the event of he not surrendering on September 5 as the court was going to hear the application the next day, which was accepted by the bench.Rao’s wife had approached the HC seeking medical bail for her 84-year-old husband who was kept at Taloja jail with other accused in the Elgar Parishad case. The application had stated that as Rao suffered from various ailments and the jail did not have sufficient facilities, he should be released and permitted to join his family in Telangana as his daughter was a doctor and she would take care of him. The HC had granted him bail on February 22 on furnishing a surety of ₹50000 with strict conditions which included that he had to stay within the jurisdiction of the special NIA court at Mumbai and not interact with anyone among others. After completion of all formalities, Rao had been released from Taloja prison in the first week of March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-no-coercive-action-against-varavara-rao-till-sept-6-nia-tells-hc-101630685300428.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Light to moderate rain likely in Pune on September 6, 7||PUNE The city is likely to experience light to moderate rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall in ghat areas on September 6 and September 7, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials on Friday.As the southwest monsoon enters its last leg, monsoon revival is likely to be seen in the state from September 6, said, officials.Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department of IMD Pune, said that monsoon revival is likely from September 6.“At present, there is no active trough (elongated area of relatively low pressure extending from the centre of a region of low pressure) available as of now. There is an upper air cyclonic circulation in the Saurashtra and Kutch area and another on coastal Andhra Pradesh and Bay of Bengal. Another upper air cyclonic circulation east-central Bay of Bengal is active currently. The revival of monsoon is expected around September 6,” said Kashyapi.He added that on September 6 and September 7, it is likely that ghat areas around the city will receive isolated heavy rain.“Pune city will have cloudy weather and light-moderate rainfall during this time. Along with Pune district, Konkan and Goa will receive isolated heavy rainfall. Moreover, parts of Marathwada, central Maharashtra and Vidarbha may receive light to moderate rainfall along with thunderstorm and lightning activity till September 7,” said Kashyapi.Because of monsoon breaks in August, Pune city reported a deficiency of 62.5 mm rainfall between June 1 to September 3. The actual rainfall received by the city was 388 millimetres against the normal of 450.5 mm as per IMD.Pune district has reported a deficiency of two per cent between June 1 to September 3. This rainfall deficiency has increased because of the frequent breaks by the southwest monsoon.With two consecutive breaks by the southwest monsoon, rainfall across Maharashtra has been normal. So far, Nandurbar, Buldhana, Gidnia and Gadchiroli have received largely deficient rainfall between June 1 to September 2. The rest of the districts in the state have normal or above-normal rainfall.Maharashtra state so far has reported only three per cent excess rainfall which falls under the normal category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/light-to-moderate-rain-likely-in-pune-on-september-6-7-101630684941577.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Pune land deal case: ED files charge-sheet against Eknath Khadse’s son-in-law||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday filed a prosecution complaint or charge sheet in the Bhosari (Pune) land deal case against the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse’s son-in-law Girish Chaudhari. Chaudhari was arrested by ED on July 7 in connection with the case.Lawyer for the Khadse family, advocate Mohan Tekavade, said that he has not yet seen the charge sheet and would offer comments only after perusing it.The case pertains to the purchase of a plot at Bhosari village in Haveli taluka on April 28, 2016, by Khadse’s kin for ₹3.75 crore against the prevalent market rate of ₹31 crore.ED’s case is based on a first information report (FIR) by Maharashtra anti-corruption bureau (ACB) against the Khadses in 2017. ACB later closed the case, but ED continued its probe into the alleged financial irregularities in the land deal.The plot’s ownership was contentious as the industries department acquired it in 1971, but the final award of the land was not made, and the owner had not been compensated for it.According to ED, Khadse and his family, despite having knowledge that the plot was reserved for Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), fraudulently purchased it so as to obtain compensation from MIDC, about thrice its market value. Last month ED had attached properties worth ₹5.73 crore belonging to Khadse and his family including a bungalow, flats and seven land parcels worth ₹4.86 crore in Jalgaon and Lonavala. Bank balance worth ₹86.28 lakh was also frozen. Khadse and his family are accused of defrauding the exchequer of ₹61.25 crore. Khadse’s wife Mandakani and the Bhosari land’s owner Abbas Rasalbhai Ukani were also booked in the case by ED on August 28, 2019. Khadse has claimed ED was set after him because he left the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pune-land-deal-case-ed-files-charge-sheet-against-eknath-khadse-kin-101630684940217.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Pune land deal case: Bail plea of Eknath Khadse’s son-in-law rejected||The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Friday rejected the bail application of Girish Chaudhari, son-in-law of NCP leader Eknath Khadse. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a charge sheet in the matter against Chaudhari in the Pune land deal case.Advocate Mohan Tekavde had argued for Chaudhari that no actual loss was caused to the government exchequer due to the deal and sections 3 and 4 of PMLA did not apply to them and the arrest itself was illegal.ED counsel Hiten Venegaonkar and Kavita Patil had opposed the plea, primarily citing that the agency was about to file a charge sheet in the matter.They said the sale deed was executed in the name of Chaudhari and Khadse’s wife Mandakini at a much lower price of ₹ 3.75 crore when the actual market price of the plot was much more - about ₹ 31 crore.They added that the sale deed was entered to get compensation - thrice the market price of the plot - from the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC).The prosecutors pointed out that the money for the alleged deal was routed through five shell companies. Part of the money was received from Benchmark Buildcon Private Limited, a company that had no income and didn’t exist at its registered office. The agency had further found that Benchmark had, in turn, received the money from five other non-existing shell companies - Proficient Merchandise, Abjayoni Trading, Adamina Traders, Chemexgoods Private Limited and Pearl Dealers Private Limited.Chaudhari had claimed to the agency that this money was a loan he had taken from Benchmark Buildcon. However, the agency had later found out the money was layered and routed through shell companies.Venegaonkar had further argued that while Khadse was the revenue minister in 2016, he used his position and government machinery to manipulate the actual market price of land. The deal cost the state exchequer a loss of ₹ 61.25 crores.The ACB had registered an FIR against Eknath Khadse, Mandakini his wife, son-in-law Chaudhari and original landowner Abbas Ukani on the directions of the Bombay High Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pune-land-deal-case-bail-plea-of-eknath-khadse-s-son-in-law-rejected-101630684774683.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body gives nod to 1,389 Ganesh pandals||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has received over 2,200 applications for setting up Ganesh Pandals in the city, of which it has approved 1,389 applications. This year the permissions are expected to be above the 1,700 applications approved last year. Every year, before the outbreak of Covid-19, the BMC received around 3,000 applications, however the number went gone down since the past two years due to the pandemic.According to the data, until Friday, the BMC has received 2,216 applications for approval of which it has approved 1,386 applications, 228 applications were rejected, and 601 applications are under process. The highest number of applications have been received from Andheri East, Dadar, Parel and other areas around Grant Road.Further, like last year the BMC has capped the height of Ganesh idols to four-feet in case of mandala and two feet for home. No procession will be allowed during visarjan and mandals will be given slots, during which, they will have to arrive at the collection points for immersion.Last year many organisers cancelled the festivities and instead held blood donation camps. BMC is expecting an uptick in the number of pandals to be set up in the city. Following the pandemic last year only 1,764 applications of Ganesh mandals were approved. The Lalbaugcha Raja Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Mandal, which is Mumbai’s most-visited Mandal, had called off last year’s festivities in light of the pandemic. However, this year they have planned online darshan.The BMC is expected to release a detailed circular in this context next week. However, even this year those taking idols at home will be asked to conduct immersion in the artificial ponds of the BMC and mandals will be allowed to do immersion in the sea. But no gathering will be allowed and limited members of mandals will be allowed to come till collection points for sea immersion. The BMC has also mandals to not have more than five people inside pandals and appealed to organise online darshan.A BMC official said, “We will be generating a QR code and sending it to big mandals of the city including Lalbaugcha Raja and other big mandals in the city. Further those, taking idols at home will have to take slots for immersion at artificial ponds. We will appeal to citizens to conduct immersion in their buildings itself like last year. Also, no aarti will be allowed at the location of immersion.”In 2020, 31% dip was recorded in immersion of Ganesh idols in 2020 compared to 2019. This the BMC attributed to many who preferred to conduct immersion at their homes or inside their residential premises. According to the figures provided by the BMC last year, around 1.35 lakh Ganesh idols immersed in 2020 compared to 1.96 lakh idols immersed in 2019. Further, usage of artificial ponds for immersion doubled from 33,000 in 2019 to 70,000 in 2020 owing to restriction of immersion in sea.Meanwhile, Naresh Dahibavkar, president, Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshostsav Samanvay Samiti (BSGSS) said, “This year we have not allowed gathering during immersion and only 10 people from each mandal is allowed to come till collection points. However, the condition is that 10 people should be fully vaccinated but in the younger population not all are fully vaccinated.”Dahibavkar added, “We are expecting that BMC allows usage of loudspeakers while going to the collection points as it is required to make announcements, if there is any gathering. Also, loudspeakers have been allowed in Pune. Further, we are also expecting the BMC to allow fully vaccinated people to come for actual darshan in limited numbers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-gives-nod-to-1-389-ganesh-pandals-101630684460065.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Pune court denies bail to woman accused of using derogatory remark on Ambedkar||PUNE: A court in Pune has denied bail to a woman whose social media account has published posts making defamatory remarks about Babasaheb Ambedkar. Identified as Vandana Santosh Bhosale (38), the woman was booked in a case for causing enmity between two groups and defamation registered at Loni Kalbhor police station. The order was passed by Additional Sessions Judge BP Kshirsagar on September 1, with public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal and advocate VM Patil as defense lawyer. Vandana was arrested on August 23 and after spending two days in police custody, she was remanded to judicial custody where she remains. A complaint against her was lodged by Shashikant Gaikwad who has identified himself as a journalist in his complaint. While the woman’s lawyer has claimed that it is a fake account in her name, the complainant in the case has stated that the woman had accepted that the posts were made from her account when he went to her house. The investigating officer has also submitted to the court that the posts are made from the woman’s account. “The applicant either used the defamatory words or she propagated the said information maliciously, deliberately to harm his image, reputation and to insult the feelings of not only that particular community but of all persons who respect him for his work,” read one of the concluding remarks in the order. The sections invoked in the case against the woman invite punishment up to 3 years upon conviction. Due to overcrowding in jail and Covid situation, the courts encourage bail to people booked in cases that invite less than 7 years punishment upon conviction. “Her remarks are so hurtful that the court has decided to not grant bail. The court has recorded statements of the people who went to her house to talk to her about the posts. They have all said that she agreed to have posted those words and asked them to do whatever they wanted to do,” said Agarwal. The legal representative of the woman, advocate VM Patil, submitted in the court that the woman had lodged a complaint with the cyber cell about a fake profile being created. “The applicant herself lodged the complaint dated August 12 to the cyber cell informing that her fake account is opened on Facebook to publish such defamatory posts. Thereafter, certain organisation had been to the house of applicant, the members of those organisations abused the applicant, threatened her and therefore, she called the police. The informant is the press reporter, he lodged false FIR. The alleged posts are written by someone else. The applicant herself raised these issues at initial stage on August 13,” reads the submission made by Bhosale’s legal counsel. The woman is in judicial custody till September 6 and the case will be heard next on the last day of her custody. A case under Sections 153(a), 295(a), 500 of Indian Penal Code was registered against the woman at Loni Kalbhor police station. Police sub-inspector Amruta Kate is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-court-denies-bail-to-woman-accused-of-using-derogatory-remark-on-ambedkar-101630684339468.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Charges against Punalekar will be framed for destruction of evidence, not murder : court||PUNE: The Pune court of Special Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) judge SR Navander told advocate Sanjeev Punalekar that he will only be tried for the charges of destruction of evidence under Section 201 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), during the hearing of arguments on Friday on the draft charges in the case of murder of rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar. This could be major relief for Punalekar as his aide, Vikram Vinay Bhave, is facing charges for conducting recce, providing a bike and an escape route to the two shooters of Dr Dabholkar. “I’m stating it in open court that charges against you will be under Section 201 (destruction of evidence) of IPC. Charges against you will not be framed under Section 302 (murder) and 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) of IPC,” said Judge Navander. During their arrest in May 2019, Punalekar was accused of advising Kalaskar, who is also accused in Gauri Lankesh murder case, of disposing of the weapon used for killing Dr Dabholkar. Bhave, who works in Punalekar’s office, was accused to helping the two shooters. They were arrested based on an alleged confessional statement made by Sharad Kalaskar to the Karnataka police during his interrogation in Lankesh case. His statement incriminating Punalekar and Bhave was recorded under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crime Act. “There is no evidence suggesting that I had any involvement that falls under Section 201 of IPC. I never spoke with the CFSL expert Nilesh Wagh as claimed by the prosecution. And they have no weapon recovery from the Thane creek even after spending more than 3 years on it,” said Punalekar in his defense. Bhave is convicted under Explosive Substances Act in a bomb blast case, according to the defense and SPP Prakash Suryavanshi. Punalekar had represented him in that case. “He is being targeted due to his conviction. He has written to the government about his ordeal post-conviction in a letter and published a book about the unknown story about the Malegaon blast case,” said advocate Virendra Ichalkaranjikar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/charges-against-punalekar-will-be-framed-for-destruction-of-evidence-not-murder-court-101630684279419.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 967 new Covid cases, 18 deaths||Pune: As per the state health authorities, Pune district reported 967 fresh Covid positive cases and 18 deaths in the last 24 hours. Out these, 11 deaths were reported from Pune rural and seven from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 512,238 Covid cases and 9,124 deaths till Friday. PCMC has reported 262,678 cases so far and 3,489 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 347,119 cases so far and 6,676 deaths due to the virus. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,122,035 covid cases. Of this, 1,087,424 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 19,638 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 14,973 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 4,360 patients were discharged on Friday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,286,345 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.04%. Across Maharashtra, 4,313 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Friday and 92 Covid deaths were reported on Friday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. The state health department stated that of 54,387,950 laboratory samples, 6,477,987 have been tested positive till Friday. That is 11.89% of patients till Friday. Currently 298,098 people are in home quarantine and 1,954 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-967-new-covid-cases-18-deaths-101630680919183.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Emblems of Empowerment: Stitch by stitch, she designs a secure future for women||When Hassina entered her teenage years in the late ’80s, she was drawn towards learning Kashmiri embroidery, particularly Aari and Sozni. Three decades on, she is not only an established artisan but also a meticulous trainer, empowering thousands of women to hone their skills and earn a livelihood from the comfort of their homes. At 42, she is the mother of a teenage daughter and believes that the best way to empower a woman is to provide her with a skill. “In difficult times, the woman of the house faces the brunt. If she is skilled and can earn, she can become the family’s backbone,” she says. She has chosen to share her skill for the uplift of Kashmiri women, most of them downtrodden and without any formal education. “In 22 years, I’ve trained more than 10,000 women in tailoring, fashion designing besides Aari and Sozni embroideries and helped them become self-reliant,” she says proudly. Following her heart A resident of Munawarabad in Srinagar, Hassina opted out of formal schooling after matriculation as her heart lay in learning embroidery from artisans of the handicrafts department. Though she started out when she was in Class 8, the eldest of seven siblings says she decided to take up handicrafts as a profession after Class 10. “My parents were supportive and later my husband also encouraged me to pursue my passion,” she says. Embarking on her journey in 1989, she started a cooperative society along with other members and the government provided them with subsidy of ₹10,000 to buy their own material. “We bought shawls and started doing Aari and Sozni work on them. A government federation bought our products and things took off,” she says. When her work helped her financially and got her recognition, she decided to give back to society. “The skills I learnt should help more women,” she says. She works with the departments of handicrafts, women’s development corporation and urban development agency for providing training and supplying products. She has participated in 25 exhibitions. Bold move that paid off After she started her training centre in 2001, Hassina took the bold decision of training women of a leprosy colony in Srinagar. “People would be reluctant to go there but I wanted to do something for the inmates,” she recalls. Two decades on, when the government decides to start a training programme, the authorities start with the leprosy colony. “I know many families who started educating their children after they earned a livelihood through the Kashmiri art of Aari and Sozni. Now their children have become officers, and some have shown interest in this skill,” she says. Catch them young At present, she works with 300 women on embroidering pherans (outer loose gowns), suits, shawls, cushion covers, bed covers and file folders in jute. “I have helped women to start their own self-help groups that are working independently for livelihood in many parts of the Old City and also in south Kashmir,” she says. She wants the government to start skill development courses in schools. “Kashmir art skills should be introduced in schools and colleges so that students get a vocational edge,” she adds. Next: Sanna Masood, business executive||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/emblems-of-empowerment-stitch-by-stitch-she-designs-a-secure-future-for-women-101630680501578.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Vax jabs at pvt centres on par with govt count in Pune||Pune: With vaccination drives picking up in the city in the past few days, private centres are performing on par with government counterparts. Earlier, data suggested that many beneficiaries preferred government centres as vaccines administered were free of cost. However, now the overall contribution by private centres has seen a rise in the city. Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said, “Though the visitor count remains more or less same, there is a rise in second dose beneficiaries. First dose beneficiaries are still trying for government centres. With regular supply now, there is no delay in giving jabs.” Speaking about the vaccination drive, Dr Sachin Edke, district immunisation officer, said that 61,160 doses of vaccine are remaining as of Friday afternoon. “There are 18,690 doses of Covaxin and 42,470 of Covishield,” said Dr Edke. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer at zilla parishad (ZP), said free vaccination campaign has been started at 12 select centres across the city for economically weaker sections. “These centres are located in Wanowrie, Wagholi, Janta Vasahat, Chandannagar, Aundh, Kondhwa, Mundhwa, Erandwane, Hadapsar and Sinhgad road. Beneficiaries can avail the benefits by showing their ration card at the centre,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vax-jabs-at-pvt-centres-on-par-with-govt-count-in-pune-101630680139198.html
03-09-2021||Pune||‘Checking CCTV camera footage to verify corporators’ action is not wrong’||PUNE: NCP leader Ajit Pawar has instructed party leaders to follow the instructions given by the city unit president. The direction came after the city unit president on Thursday sought CCTV camera footage of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) standing committee meeting to check its party members’ action as it was alleged that some corporators supported the proposals put forth by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) public representatives. According to the NCP leaders, though the party is taking an official stand to oppose some proposals in PMC, the party’s standing committee members are supporting the BJP plans. “They (public representatives) have to listen to the city unit president as he consults leaders and executive committee members before taking a decision. There is nothing wrong to check CCTV camera footage. It is not to insult anyone, but verify facts.” NCP has four members in the PMC standing committee. The party president had instructed them to oppose appointment of a security agency owned by BJP MLA. However, the members voted in favour of the proposal, and they went against the party’s line for the third time in one month. The members had also voted in favour of selling of PMC flats against the NCP’s stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/checking-cctv-camera-footage-to-verify-corporators-action-is-not-wrong-101630678579102.html
03-09-2021||Pune||BJP, MNS leaders should read Centre’s letter before demanding to reopen temples: Pawar||PUNE: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leaders for staging agitations over reopening of temples and religious places.Pawar said, “Our government is also willing to reopen temples and religious places, but experts advise against it. The BJP-ruled Centre has recently issued a letter to the Maharashtra government to strictly follow precautions in view of the upcoming Ganesh festival.”Pawar said, “BJP and MNS leaders are holding protests to reopen religious places. They should listen to the central leadership who have issued the letter. Kerala is witnessing a spike in Covid cases due to relaxations given during the festive season. Against this background, we should follow caution.”Pawar said, “We too want to respect residents’ faith. No government wishes to close religious places, but we cannot act on emotions and agitations. We need to give priority to health and life of citizens.”Regarding the recent statewide agitations by the BJP and the MNS to reopen temples, Pawar said that such public events are organised to gain political mileage with civic elections round the corner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-mns-leaders-should-read-centre-s-letter-before-demanding-to-reopen-temples-pawar-101630677319138.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Office-goers suffer as few MSRTC buses ply from Pune to various destinations in dist||PUNE The passengers who travel to offices in the city are facing inconvenience due to few Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses on various routes in the district.During pre-Covid times at least 200 buses were plying on various routes, while the number has now come down to 50, as per officials. While buses from Pune have been cancelled on various routes including Bhor, Indapur, Pirachiwadi, Dahitane, Koregaon Bhivar.With buses plying empty, MSRTC is not keen on restarting bus service to small villages within Pune and Satara districts.Few long route buses stop at some villages, but its timing is not suitable, claim villagers.“I have to come daily to Pune from Indapur as I work at a shop on Laxmi road. State transport bus is safer than travelling in a cab. The evening return journey becomes difficult as direct buses are not functioning,” said Sayali Pingale.Vilas Sikchi from Bhor, said, “Walking to the highway to avail bus service is difficult as I commute early in the morning. Also, once schools will start in Pune city, many students will face travelling issues due to the non-availability of direct buses.”Since last one year, the number of buses starting from small villages have been curtailed by MSRTC as it was suffering major losses due to empty rides. With schools and colleges not functioning, MSRTC is not looking forward to starting buses from Pune to various villages in and around the city.“MSRTC is suffering losses and still buses on a number of routes are not running to their full capacity. Once the situation becomes normal we might resume service on various routes,” said an official from MSRTC on the request of anonymity.Current MSRTC bus service*Buses plying from Pune during pre-Covid times: 200*Buses plying from Pune during post-Covid times: 50*Buses cancelled on routes: Bhor, Indapur, Pirachiwadi, Dahitane, Koregaon Bhivar,*Regular buses on routes (from Wakedewadi, Swargate)Satara, Thane, Kolhapur, Borivali, Aurangabad, Nashik||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/officegoers-suffer-as-few-msrtc-buses-ply-from-pune-to-various-destinations-in-dist-101630676779903.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Pune Zilla Parishad identifies 91 hotspot villages||PUNE As the Covid-19 cases in the district are on the rise, Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) has identified 91 hotspot villages in rural areas for having ten or more active cases.ZP has also flagged 44 villages as emerging hotspot villages, and there are a total of 49 villages that have been on the hotspot list for the last two weeks.According to officials, there are five tehsils: Baramati, Shirur, Indapur, Junnar, Ambegaon, which are reporting maximum cases and need attention.“Rural areas have been recording slightly higher positivity rate. Also, five tehsils, namely Baramati, Indapur, Ambegaon, Shirur, and Junnar have been reporting more cases in the last two weeks,” said Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister, and Pune district guardian minister.Pawar chaired the weekly Covid-19 review meeting in the divisional commissioner’s office on Friday.“According to the officers, the case identification rate has increased because of the increase in the number of tests. It is expected that the number of active cases would go down in the upcoming week. We have been trying to increase the vaccination in these parts,” he said.As of September 1, Baramati tehsil had 940 active cases, followed by Junnar with 751 active cases, Shirur, Indapur, and Ambegaon had 606, 604, and 614 active cases respectively.Pawar also pointed out that people are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour, and negligence on their part is leading to surge in cases.“We need to be cautious during the festive season and take precautions. If cases increase, action will be taken against culprits,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-zilla-parishad-identifies-91-hotspot-villages-101630676540041.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Stricter restrictions will be back in Pune if crowd seen during Ganeshotsav: Pawar||Pune: Deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar warned of imposing more Covid restrictions if safety norms are found flouted during the Ganesh festival. Following the weekly Covid review meeting on Friday, Pawar announced no new restrictions during the Ganeshotsav, but return of impositions if crowds are seen on the first day of the festival. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune police have already issued guidelines to celebrate the 10-day festival as per the Covid protocol. “In Pune, there is a tradition to visit Ganpati pandals throughout the night. People come to see the decorations, displays and live skits. However, this year the mandals are keeping the celebrations simple because of the Covid situation. People’s representatives and officials are in contact with each other. Failure to manage crowd control on the first day of the festival will see return of stricter norms from second day onwards. I request residents and Ganesh mandals to not let this happen,” said Pawar. On Tuesday, Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune police, issued rules and regulations for the upcoming 10-day Ganpati festival which begins on September 10. No processions on the first or the last day will be allowed this year. The police have urged temples having big sanctum to not move the idols to mandaps. The height of public idols is limited to four feet, while household idols cannot cross two feet in height, according to the police rules. The puja cannot be attended by more than five people who are required to follow sanitisation, wear mask and observe social distancing. The police have also urged mandals to not put up huge displays or live skits.” “This festival is celebrated with a lot of enthusiasm in Pune and all over the state. I request people to follow Covid safety measures,” said Pawar. More vaccine doses administered in August than July “In July, 1,781,000 vaccine doses were administered in Pune district. Our efforts are to increase the count every month. The figure in August was 1,880,000 vaccine doses,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/stricter-restrictions-will-be-back-in-pune-if-crowd-seen-during-ganeshotsav-pawar-101630675758963.html
03-09-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh orders probe into mass sterilisation camp in Surguja district||The Chhattisgarh health secretary Alok Shukla, on Friday, ordered an inquiry into a mass sterilisation camp that took place on August 26 in Surguja district.The Chhattisgarh health department reportedly carried out tubectomy surgeries on 101 women, in eight hours, at the camp. The chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Poonam Singh Sisodia , served notice to two doctors, including the surgeon who conducted the surgeries, on August 28.Officials claimed that the women, mostly tribals, were from Mainpat block of the district and were sterilised at Narmadapur community health centre on August 26. As per local media reports, the tubectomy surgeries were reportedly carried out between 7pm and 3am. “We have issued a show-cause notice to two doctors, including a surgeon, and are waiting for their reply. If they are found guilty, action will be taken,” said the CMHO. According to authorities, 30 sterilisation camps were held in Surguja this year, and 821 sterilisation operations have been carried out till now. “ Fortunately, all women are healthy, but because the number of sterilisation operations has crossed the stipulated guidelines, I am ordering an inquiry into the matter,” said Alok Shukla, secretary health department, Chhattisgarh. Under the Central government’s guidelines for National Family Welfare Programme , a doctor can conduct maximum 30 sterlisation operations in a day. “The surgeon told us he was pressurised by the villagers stating that they had travelled long distances and it would be difficult for them to come again. This, however, doesn’t mean that surgeons should flout the government guidelines, and hence we have ordered an inquiry,” Shukla added. Also Read | After Punjab and Chhattisgarh, Congress now fights with itself in KeralaWhen asked why the surgeries were done at night , Shukla said that the surgeon, in his written response, told the department the surgeries were conducted between 12pm and 6.30pm. The surgeon Dr Jibnus Ekta, who conducted surgeries and block medical officer, Dr RS Singh, who was present during surgeries , were unavailable for comment even after repeated phone calls. Ram Kumar Ravi, who was with his wife when she was operated at the camp said, “My wife is healthy and has had no issues after the sterilisation operation till now.” His wife told HT she was operated upon around 10pm.In 2013, at least 14 women died when a doctor operated upon 83 women within six hours at the Sakri health camp in Bilaspur (which would mean that he spent just two minutes per tubectomy). Health activists believe that Chhattisgarh authorities have not learnt from previous tragedies and the same violations happening again. “What has happened in Narmadapur is a clear violation of both government and court orders on quality standards to be maintained during female and male sterilisation. The Supreme Court banned such sterilisation camps in 2016,” said Dr Sulakshana Nandi, national joint convener, Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, adding that the demand for contraceptive services is very high in the community, but its burden falls on women who are then subjected to such procedures under terrible conditions. Nandi said that the Chhattisgarh government must take strict action against the officials and doctors who took the decision to go ahead and against the orders of the District Quality Assurance Committee (DQAC), whose responsibility is to monitor and ensure the guidelines are followed. “There is always a demand for family planning in rural Chhattisgarh but due to Covid-19, in the last one-and-a-half-years, women could not reach health centres for sterilisation and now they want surgeries due to family pressure or other reasons. The government should chalk out a plan for accumulated sterilisation surgeries in rural areas because this will continue for next few months,” said Dr Nandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-orders-probe-into-mass-sterilisation-camp-in-surguja-district-101630673839479.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: A Wellness Pioneer||Backdrop: The late Nineties. Time: Mid-morning. Scene: A nondescript low-star hotel in Juhu. Action: Under a blazing hot sun, a gaggle of 30 or so young women in leotards are being put through what looks like an intense boot camp, by a male instructor who has a striking resemblance to Freddy Mercury. The routine he commands is rigorous by any standard; they are required to jog in place, break into circuit training, followed by calisthenics then isometrics, then aerobics, then dancercises, and then start all over again. Clad in similar attire, the girls are skinny, uniformly pretty and difficult to distinguish from one another. It is tiring just watching them; and just when I think they will collapse from sheer exhaustion, the instructor announces the day’s last routine — they will have to line up in a single file and run all the way up five floors to the hotel’s terrace through its narrow staircase and all the way down again, with 6 kgs of weight strapped on to their backs! This time I’m sure there will be a mutiny; but no, I watch incredulously as the girls muster up their last vestige of energy and queue up for their arduous hike up and down. “You’ll thank me when you’re wearing the crown,” their instructor calls cheerfully after them. For these are no ordinary girls — each is a potential beauty queen and international pageant title holder, who is being put through rigorous training as a Miss India contestant. And the instructor is none other than Mickey Mehta who, along with a handful of elite nutritionists, cosmetologists, etiquette tutors orthodontists and even arts and culture gurus, has been tasked with polishing these rough diamonds into celebrated gems. ***************************************************** When he was nine years old, long before fitness became a byword and a brand and Talwalkars gymnasiums where sweaty beef cakes would pump iron on torturous machines was the only brush with fitness for many of us growing up in Mumbai, Mehta, who used to see his cousins working out at home, recalls asking his mother for a membership to a gym. It was a few days before his birthday and the most reasonable gym to be found had been the YMCA; but being underage, Mehta had been refused membership. “Disappointed, I came home with a long face and asked my parents to provide me some gym equipment at home,” he says. But again, there was to be disappointment. “Personal equipment cost a couple of thousands, and I realised that my parents’ salary was around a few hundred a month each,” he says. It was then that his mother had suggested that he follow in the footsteps of his sister: “She is doing yoga at home, why don’t you look at her and learn?” And that’s how Mehta’s tryst with fitness — which was to turn him in to a brand, a corporate entity and a household name and which in many ways mirrored the growth of Mumbai itself — began. After completing school, he had joined a cousin’s martial arts academy and his formal orientation in fitness was to accelerate. “Normally one would do three one-hour classes a week, adding up to 12 hours a month, instead I did three-four classes a day, making it an 18-20 hours a week and almost a 80 hours a month,” he says, adding, “Thus, I got my black belt in around 18 months and somehow even found the time to enrol in programmes in various disciplines like health and nutrition with Dr Vijaya Venkat, and programmes in Naturecure, drugless therapies, calisthenics, agility drills and functional training, apart from my continued exploration of yoga and martial arts.” To support this deep dive into holistic health, Mehta served various hotels as a health club manager, and it was on one such stint at a hotel in Oman where the former school swimming champion, who had been named by his father after the Hollywood star Mickey Rooney, found great success with his “Mickey Mehta’s Learn Swimming In 24 Hours” programme, which he later taught along with fitness and nutrition at a Juhu hotel for a few years, gaining much fame. That had led to him being signed on as one of the official instructors of the Miss India pageant, and from there, there was no looking back… ******************************************************************** With the unprecedented success and fame of being trainer to Miss India contestants under his belt, Mehta’s rise to pre-eminence in his field was a foregone conclusion. Soon, his fitness empire straddled TV, radio, print and also digital media. Along the way, he pioneered the rise of the star personal trainer when he was signed on by some of the biggest names in India Inc, Bollywood and the corridors of Mantralaya; and professional engagements with the police, Army, Navy, Air Force, municipal corporation, immigration, customs and speaking invitations at leading educational institutions around the world followed, along with engagements across prestigious hospitals like The Tata Memorial and ambassadorships of campaigns like Fit India. Mehta had now become as rich and famous a name as some of the A-list clients who he trained. And as a crowning achievement, next month along with his friend and celebrity chef Sanjeev Kapoor, Mehta will launch a book, his third, on a topic that’s on every one’s lips — immunity, making him, he says, another leading Parsi along with global immunity master Adar Poonawalla to address the subject. ******************************************************************* “Mickey Mehta’s uniqueness lies in his unique approach to fitness. While spirituality, work-life balance and health of the mind are buzzwords today, Micky has always approached fitness through the prism of wellness; even when he was training buff, overly muscular men for the Mr India pageant decades ago,” says Jamal Shaikh, editor of Brunch who had once helmed a leading fitness magazine. This is what, Mehta says, his “Get Mickeymized” programme is about. “In the early Eighties, I had a choice to be just a martial arts/ fitness/ swimming / nutrition/ yoga coach… Instead of choosing one, I started propagating the concept of holistic health. It’s what I have been doing with corporates in the past year-and-a-half or two. It’s not about weight loss, it’s about evolution of the mind. Statistics say that today 45% of corporate executives need psychiatric help and 25% of them are already on psychiatric medicine and most of them are taking sleeping aids. Pressure and stress make people buckle in, crumble…,” he says. Last week, when Mehta turned 60, the manner in which he spent his day was a paean to his holistic approach to wellness. “I woke up with gratitude, bowed my head to the ground, surrendered to the will of Mother Nature,” he says. “Then, I lit some lamps at my altar and went to thank my mother and take her blessings.” Mehta spent the rest of the day attending to his clients and replying to thousands of messages that had poured in from friends and fans; and in the evening, he visited an old age home before returning to have dinner with his family. “And then before I went to bed, I once again offered gratitude to Mother Nature for her blessings, and went to sleep energised, to get revitalised, and…” “Mickeymized?” I prompt. “Yes, to get Mickeymized,” says Mehta, smiling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-a-wellness-pioneer-101630673120532.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Coast Guard rescues labourer stuck on barge for 26 hours near Vasai||The Coast Guard on Friday rescued a labourer, Rafique Shaikh (30), after the barge on which he had fallen asleep – Hiradevi-- hit rocky surfaces when its anchor broke, around 3 nautical miles (roughly 5.4 km) off the Arnalapada lighthouse, near the Bhuigaon coast in Vasai on Thursday. The labourer was stuck onboard for nearly 26 hours and was asleep on the barge when it drifted out to sea. He was alone as the pilot had left the barge to have his dinner. On Friday morning, the Coast Guard reached the spot in a chopper and rescued Shaikh. They checked his documents which he had in a black bag and found them in order. They took him to the Bhuigaon coast where the Vasai Gaon police whisked him away for questioning. The MBVV police had sought the help of the Coast Guard who also did an aerial survey on Thursday evening but due to bad weather the rescue operation had to be done on Friday.The barge belongs to Akhtar Kalokhe of Uttan. The Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) Commissionerate will question Kalokhe as well as Shaikh as the duo did not inform the MBVV police although Shaikh was in touch with Kalokhe over the phone. It led to a security scare too as the CG, MBVV and the Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB) were also put on alert, said Sanjaykumar Patil, DCP, Zone II, MBVV.“We will take necessary action in the matter. The labourer had also unfurled a black flag onboard and the barge had no markings like the Indian national flag or other identification marks which threw the agencies into a tizzy,” he said.The 6 cylinder barge weighing 8 tonnes belonged to Rajendra Gulab Patil of Kalwa, Thane earlier. He had sold it to Kalokhe about two months ago for ₹26 lakh and the transfer papers were still pending, Patil said. The barge was used to ferry stones, sand, building material and also to transport construction workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/coast-guard-rescues-labourer-stuck-on-barge-for-26-hours-near-vasai-101630672759467.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Man stuck on barge for 26 hrs off Maharashtra’s Vasai coast rescued||The Coast Guard (CG) has rescued a 30-year-old man stranded onboard a barge that was sighted off Vasai coast. On Friday morning, CG reached the spot in a Chetak chopper and rescued the man. They checked his documents and reached Bhuigaon coast, where Vasai Gaon police took him for questioning. The man has been identified as Rafique Shaikh and the barge, Hiradevi, belongs to Akhtar Kalokhe of Uttan. It had hit rocky surfaces after the anchor broke around 3 nautical miles (roughly 5.4 kms) off Arnalapada lighthouse near Bhuigaon coast in Vasai on Thursday. Shaikh, who was stuck onboard for 26 hours, was asleep on the barge when it drifted. The pilot had left the barge for dinner. The Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) Commissionerate will question the duo as they did not inform the police about the incident, even though Shaikh was in touch with Kalokhe on mobile phone. “The incident had led to a security scare as CG, MBVV and the Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB) were put on alert. We will take necessary action in this regard,” said Sanjaykumar Patil, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 2, MBVV. The labourer had also unfurled a black flag onboard and the barge had no markings such as the Indian national flag and other identification marks which put the agencies on alert. MBVV police had sought the help of CG, which had also conducted an aerial survey on Thursday evening, but owing to bad weather, the rescue operation was concluded and continued on Friday. The six cylinders on the 2019-registered barge, weighing 8 tonnes, belonged to Rajendra Gulab Patil of Kalwa, Thane, who had sold it to Kalokhe two months ago for ₹26 lakh but the transfer papers were still pending, said Patil. The barge was to be used to ferry stones, sand and building materials as well as construction workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-stuck-on-barge-for-26-hrs-off-maharashtra-s-vasai-coast-rescued-101630670959323.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Don't make govt shut everything if 3rd Covid wave hits: Maha Dy CM Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday urged people to follow all Coronavirus-related protocols and said they should not put the government in a position where everything will have to close if the third wave of the pandemic hits Maharashtra.Being one of the worst-hit states from the pandemic apart from Kerala, Maharashtra has till now reported 6,473,674 cases due to Covid-19. On Thursday, the state saw another high of 4,342 cases, while 55 patients died and 4,755 recovered. Amid the worsening situation, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is mulling to bring back the lockdown-like restrictions to contain the spread of the viral disease.Also Read| Maharashtra records 4,342 fresh Covid cases; state mulls reopening of schoolsAddressing reporters in Pune, Pawar, who is also the district’s guardian minister, said on Friday that in Maharashtra’s rural areas, some people have become lax and are not wearing masks or following social distancing, and are assuming the Covid-19 pandemic is over. “This has led to a rise in infections,” Pawar said, according to news agency PTI.On being asked when will schools reopen in Maharashtra, Pawar said that talks are being held with experts and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take the decision in this regard. “There are two opinions. Some say schools should open after Diwali, while others say they should be reopened in places where the Covid-19 positivity rate is zero,” the deputy chief minister added.As Ganesh Chaturthi is coming closer, Pawar also said that people must refrain from celebrating in a grand way. Pointing out that all big organisers will observe the festival in a simple manner and there will be no decorations, he said there is no scope of crowding. “We will monitor the situation from day one, and if we find that gatherings are taking place, stricter measures will be taken from the second day,” Pawar added.Also Read| Mass gatherings should be discouraged ahead of upcoming festive season: CentreThe Union health ministry on Thursday advised that mass gatherings across the country should be discouraged, specifically in the upcoming festive season, adding full vaccination should be a prerequisite if it is absolutely critical to have a gathering of some people. Addressing a press conference, Niti Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said that people have to be careful in the upcoming festive season and urged them to celebrate festivals within their families. “We will not have mass gatherings, we will not move out unnecessarily and we will shop at markets carefully without overcrowding” Dr Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dont-make-govt-shut-everything-if-3rd-covid-wave-hits-ajit-pawar-101630668550012.html
03-09-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand village develops big cracks, 80 villagers shifted to safety||Over 80 people living in half-a-dozen houses in Sainrathi village in Pithoragarh, Uttarakhand, were shifted to safety on Friday after wide cracks appeared in the ground. Some of the houses also developed cracks on their walls.“We have sent a revenue team to the village...We are also sending a team of geologists to study the phenomenon,” said Phincha Ram Chauhan, additional district magistrate Pithoragarh. Locals said they panicked when they saw 20 to 50 metre long cracks in the ground. “Some of the houses have become dangerous to live in due to cracks. That’s why, we have shifted 80 villagers to a safer area,” said Abhay Pratap Singh, sub-divisional magistrate, Munsiyari. Also Read | Tipped off about acid attack on Congress rally, says Harish Rawat.”We have never witnessed such a phenomenon in our lives,” said Bhagat Singh Bachami, a local. District geological officer Pradeep Kumar said the cracks have surfaced due to shifting of the land towards the river flowing nearby. “I have seen the photographs and video of the cracks. These are due to gradual sliding of land towards the river flowing near the village,” he said. The villagers are scared as this comes within a week of five people dying in a landslide triggered by a cloud burst. Meanwhile, the national highway between Tanakpur and Pithoragarh opened after 12 days. The closure of this road link resulted in heavy losses to traders of Champawat and Pithoragarh areas as the supply of goods was halted.“The highway could not be opened due to landslides and boulder fall at Swala village near Champawat,” said LD Mathela, executive engineer National Highway Authority of India in Pithoragarh. According to trader organisations, at least 10,000 traders were affected by this closure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-village-develops-big-cracks-80-villagers-shifted-to-safety-101630668380478.html
03-09-2021||Bangalore||Bangalore Talkies | A local snack that only a few have heard of||There are some snacks that have a pan regional jurisdiction, while there are those that are authentically linked to one particular state.Mention chivda and quite a few north Indians from different states will perk up. Mention chakli and the same will happen to south Indians. But if I say “kodubale, anyone?” all I get is a “Huh?” or a “Kodu-what?” Which is a shame because this snack, much like Congress peanuts, or avarekalu mixture is beloved in Bengaluru and all over Karnataka.Kodu refers to an elongated shape. For example, in Kannada alasande kodu refers to long beans or snake beans that we typically make into sabzi. Bale means bangle and alludes to the shape of these bangle-like round snacks. The recipe is pretty much the same as in many south Indian savoury items. Dry roast rice flour, along with a little chiroti rava and maida. Separately, grind some chutney kadalai or fried gram. To that, add curry leaves, grated coconut and spices-- chili powder, salt to taste, asafoetida. Grind the flour and spice mixture together. Finally, add a big spoon of piping hot oil. This gives the crispiness, so don’t miss this step. Give the whole thing a twirl in the mixie. Then take it out, add water and make it into a roti-type dough. Next comes the shaping of the kodubale. First elongate, then bring the two ends together so it looks like a bangle. Deep fry, naturally. Eat right away or store in a jar and savour over weeks. If they last that long.There are three types of kodubale. The Mysuru style ones are the most common and are available all over Bengaluru. The Malnad style is made with maida instead of rice flour and is smoother instead of grittier. Then there is a version that is hard on the outside and soft instead. This is the mosaru kodubale or the yogurt/curd based variety. In this sour curd is added in addition to water, then deep fried. This comes out like one of those vadas sold in Udupi restaurants all over the country. Except that they taste infinitely better. In fact, how these big urad-dal-ka-vadas took over the country instead of the slimmer mosaru kodubale is a mystery. The thing with the yogurt based version is that it won’t keep. You have to make it and eat it right away.Also Read | The city’s favourite monsoon snack— nippattuIf you want a compromise between crispy and soft, I recommend the maddur vada as the opening batsman followed by a mosaru kodbale, both served with a dollop of white coconut chutney. What is a maddur vada, you ask? The man, let us call him Basavanna, is on his way back to his “native,” as we say here in Bengaluru. Call your accountant during these Covid times and he might say, “Connection poor, madam. I am in my native in Shivamogga.” The virus has troubled us long enough but one side benefit is the number of people who have decided to go back home.There is only thing that Basavanna needs to carry back, one thing that his relatives wanted and that is a stack of maddur vadas. To do that, he has to get to Maddur, a town in between Bengaluru and Mysuru on the banks of the river Shimsha, a tributary of the Cauvery. This town in the rich, fertile Mandya district of Karnataka has become the ‘tender coconut capital’ of the world, sending its coconuts far and wide up the Konkan coast. People come here for its temples, its sugarcanes and of course, to eat its maddur vadas. In what is typical of the Tamil-Kannada debate, the name of the town too is open to interpretation. Some say that an inscription in Ugra Narasimha temple calls this town Marudhur. Others say that Madduru means gun powder and refers to the town’s military past. What it is known for today however are its snacks.Although you can buy these vadas all along Maddur town, the place to go if you want a bit of history is Maddur Tiffanys on the Bengaluru-Mysuru highway 275. This family establishment is part of the lore of the snack. One of the owners is a descendent of Ramachandra Budhya who ran VTR or Vegetarian Tiffin Room inside Maddur railway station. Upon learning that a train was arriving early, Budhya hastily converted the mix for his pakoras into a flattened version that would cook faster and sold it as maddur vada. This accidental invention with its happy mix of onions, spices, sooji and maida turned 100 in 2017. It is the reason Basavanna’s relatives have asked him to bring home four dozen vadas, because you see, they keep for a few days without putting them in the fridge.In Bengaluru, I go to Woodys on Commercial Street for my maddur vada fix. And when I go up north, the snack I carry for discerning foodie friends is also the maddur vada, along with, you know it, the kodubale.Shoba Narayan is Bangalore-based award-winning author. She is also a freelance contributor who writes about art, food, fashion and travel for a number of publications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bangalore-talkies-a-local-snack-that-only-a-few-have-heard-of-101630667839441.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai University members approach Governor against latest perspective plan||Teacher representatives part of the senate, academic and management councils of the University of Mumbai have approached the chancellor of all state universities, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari to share their dissent on the recent events at the varsity. This comes days after teacher unions addressed the issue of 74 new college site approvals for 2022-23 as part of the University’s perspective plan to the Mumbai University (MU) vice-chancellor and received no positive response on the same.Recently, the MU announced the approval of 74 new college sites for the next academic year and immediately invited flak from several stakeholders. While many questioned the need for new colleges for an already overburdened varsity, which currently boasts of over 840 affiliated colleges, others highlighted how the approvals were given by flouting several university statutes and demanded that the university refer back the perspective plan.The perspective plan is an annual exercise to chart out MU’s future growth. It provides details about prospective colleges for different regions under the university’s jurisdiction. The plan needs the state government’s nod before it is finalised.“MU statutes mention that a special committee should survey the location and understand from stakeholders the need for colleges before approving a new institute in the perspective plan. However, no such physical survey was conducted. Approving colleges in a city that already is overflowing with institutes, especially for traditional arts, science and commerce shows zero research by MU,” said Tapati Mukhopadhyay, president, Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (MFUCTO).In the letter addressed to Governor Koshiyari, members have also highlighted how approval of 74 new colleges is a 12.2% increase in existing non-technology faculty whereas the university law only allows a 5% increase. “What’s more is that several members of the senate rejected the proposed perspective plan when it was tabled in the senate, despite which the university approved the same,” said members in their letter.The governor, in his role as the chancellor of state universities, can advise the university to review and revise the perspective plan. Members of the senate, however, said no positive action has been taken by the state Governor previously when a similar dissent letter was sent by members in 2018 against the 2018-19 perspective plan.The university controls over 840 affiliated colleges across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (NMR), including Thane and Palghar as well as Raigad, Sindhudurg, Daman and Goa. The large area and number of colleges, coupled with an acute shortage of staff, often create administrative problems for the varsity, affecting the overall quality of education.According to the new perspective plan, the MU has recommended starting 46 new arts, science and commerce colleges, 15 law colleges, eight night colleges and three women’s colleges. While 12 locations have been identified in suburban Mumbai, five are in the city. Once the locations are finalised, applications will be invited from parties interested in setting up the college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-members-approach-governor-against-latest-perspective-plan-101630667781054.html
03-09-2021||Other||Man accused of attempted murder gets nabbed on his visit to family||After spending over two years on the run, a man accused of attempting murder was finally nabbed by the police straight in his attempt to see his family, officials said. According to the Vishnu Nagar police, the accused, identified as Sunil Bhandari (35), was involved in a deadly assault on Dombivali resident Hemant Bhoir (43), his brother Milind (42) and their friend Pramod Patil (39) in March 2019. The trio was on their way home after attending a pre-wedding ceremony of ‘haldi’ when Bhandari and eight others accosted them.“The victims and the accused had a long-standing dispute over a land deal gone sour. Both the parties were present in the ‘haldi’ ceremony where one of them had bumped into the other while dancing, which also led to a fresh quarrel. Subsequently, the accused lay in wait for the victims and attacked them with swords, sticks and a country-made pistol,” police inspector Rahul Khilare, Vishnu Nagar police station, Dombivli, Maharashtra, said.The assault was so serious in nature that Milind lost both his hands from the elbows downwards after the accused allegedly chopped them off with swords. He spent several days in a serious condition in the hospital but ultimately survived. Meanwhile, the Vishnu Nagar police registered a complaint of attempt-to-murder against the accused and arrested seven of them, while two remained at large.“Since the case was registered, we made repeated inquiries with Bhandari’s family, friends and associates. We also tried tracking his cell phone location but he had switched off his phone as soon as the crime was committed and there was no sign of him,” Khilare said.Over the next two and a half years, the investigating team, through repeated visits to the Devicha Pada area in Dombivli where Bhandari stayed, cultivated several informants based around his house. All of these were given a single task - to inform the police as soon as Bhandari was seen.The police’s efforts finally paid off in the last week of August when Bhandari came to meet his wife, aged parents and young son. He would later tell the police in his interrogation that he was unable to stay away from them any longer. Unknown to him, this was exactly what the police were banking on.As soon as they received the tip-off about Bhandari being seen in his area, the police sent a team to his residence and picked him up on August 24. After inquiries confirmed his involvement in the case, he was placed under arrest and was charged for an attempt to murder under the Indian Penal Code, officers said.“A chargesheet has already been filed against the seven accused arrested earlier and we will file one against Bhandari soon. Efforts are underway to trace and apprehend the last remaining accused in the case,” Khilare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-accused-of-attempted-murder-gets-nabbed-on-his-visit-to-family-101630665199931.html
03-09-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand Congress MLA praises Taliban for US pullout from Af; BJP hits back||Congress legislator and former working president of the party’s state unit Irfan Ansari on Friday expressed his support for Taliban by saying they have done a good job in forcing the US forces to leave Afghanistan.Speaking to reporters at Jharkhand assembly after the first day of the monsoon session, Ansari said, “They should be lauded as they chased the Americans away from Afghanistan. We all know the kind of excesses the American forces committed in Afghanistan,” said Ansari, a two-term Congress legislator from Jamtara. Also Read | Army jawan assaulted for not wearing mask: 3 Jharkhand cops suspendedTo a specific question if by saying so, he was not supporting a front which is widely viewed as a terrorist organisation, Ansari said, “Yes, they are a terrorist organisation but they have acted as revolutionary in forcing the American occupation out of that country.” The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hit back by saying such a statement shows the “Talibani mindset of the Congress”. “He is speaking this language because the Congress itself has a Talibani mindset. He is supporting a terrorist organisation that is know for cruelty against women and minorities. Women are fleeing Afghanistan because of their fear. Does Ansari want to see similar things happening here,” said Biranchi Narayan, chief whip of the BJP in Jharkhand assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-congress-mla-praises-taliban-for-us-pullout-from-af-bjp-hits-back-101630665079203.html
03-09-2021||Patna||With only 50% of total capacity of Gandhi Ghat, Ganga Arti allowed in Patna||With only 50% of the total capacity of the Gandhi Ghat at a time, Ganga Arti has been allowed on the banks of the river Ganga in Patna. Permission to resume Arti on Saturdays and Sundays was sought from the district administration by state tourism in response to the demands made by the locals, officials said. It was stopped in March 2020 following the total lockdown made effective across the country due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While the activists have ave been given a green signal, no visitor will be allowed without a mask and there will also be thermal screening of all the visitors at the entry point of the Ghat, officials said. Spitting will be strictly prohibited at the Gandhi Ghat. Tourism minister, Narayan Prasad, said that volunteers would be deployed at the Ghat to ensure that visitors follow the Covid-19 pandemic guidelines. “As only 50% of the total capacity of Gandhi Ghat has been allowed at a time, entry of the visitors need to be regulated. Also, the volunteers will also ensure no one enters the Ghat without thermal screening and sanitization,” he said. No one without the mask will be allowed an entry. There will also be proper arrangements for the disposal of masks, he added. To regulate the crowd at the Ghat and to maintain social distancing, there will be regular announcements. Posters regarding Covid-19 guidelines will also be put on display to make visitors aware of the do’s and dont’s, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/with-only-50-of-total-capacity-of-gandhi-ghat-ganga-arti-allowed-in-patna-101630663941177.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly meets to mark 400th Prakash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur||The Punjab assembly on Friday held a special one-day session to commemorate the 400th Prakash Purb (birth anniversary) of Guru Teg Bahadur, the ninth Sikh Guru. Addressing the House, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh called for sarbat da bhala (welfare of humanity) and lauded the Sikh community’s effort to reach out in crisis. “Whenever there is a crisis, Sikhs come forward to help. Our gurus were willing to lay down their lives for humanity. Serving humanity should be the prime objective in spite of diverse political thoughts,” he said. Also read: Taliban co-founder Mullah Baradar to lead new Afghanistan govt: ReportGovernor Banwari Lal Purohit, who visited the assembly for the first time after taking charge, said the teachings and sacrifices of all Sikh gurus were a lesson for humanity. “The saga of Guru Teg Bahadur ji offers the symbolism of the highest sacrifice and the finest expression of spiritual faith,” Purohit said. Former chief justice of India JS Khehar spoke on the contribution and philosophy of Guru Teg Bahadur. Assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh read out the greetings sent by Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama and vice-president Venkaiah Naidu. In his message to the House, the Dalai Lama said that the life, writings and principles of the Guru will always be source of inspiration.OBITUARY REFERENCES The session began with obituary references to 21 personalities who passed away after the last meeting of the House. State sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi later demanded an obituary reference for legendary athlete Milkha Singh’s wife Nirmal Milkha Singh, also a national-level sportsperson and a former director of sports, Chandigarh administration, besides former cricketer Yash Pal Sharma, who passed away recently. Sarabjit Kaur, the deputy leader of the AAP legislature party, demanded an obituary reference for farmers who died protesting the three farm laws on the borders of Delhi and farm labourers who committed suicide in the recent past. After the speeches, the House was adjourned sine die. SIDELIGHTS ENGLISH, THE FLAVOUR OF THE DAY Most speeches were delivered in English, barring Speaker Rana KP Singh and the leader of opposition, Harpal Singh Cheema. Former chief justice of India, JS Khehar, spoke in a mix of English and Punjabi. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and governor Banwarilal Purohit also spoke in English.BACK-BENCHERS BY CHOICEPunjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu and some ministers, who have opened a banner of revolt against the CM, chose to be seated on the back rows. This was even as the MLAs were free to choose their seats, not the standard protocol, due to the special session.THE UNEXPECTED HANDSHAKEBefore the start of the session, the CM moved around the well of the House, shaking hands with the MLAs sitting on the first row. Rural development minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa, who is leading a group of MLAs and ministers against Amarinder and has even demanded his removal, stood up to shake hands with him.KHAIRA’S BENCH HOPPINGBholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who has recently joined the Congress, was seen sitting on both treasury and the opposition benches. Before the start of the celebration session, Khaira was seen sitting with the Congress MLAs just behind the CM. As proceedings began, he went to the opposition benches. Other MLAs, who joined the Congress around the same time as Khaira, remained seated on the opposition side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-meets-to-mark-400th-prakash-purb-of-guru-teg-bahadur-101630663219326.html
03-09-2021||Lucknow||‘Has govt not learnt lessons from its disastrous Covid management?’: Priyanka Gandhi over dengue deaths in UP||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Friday targeted the Uttar Pradesh government over deaths linked to the suspected viral fever and dengue in the state. Taking to Twitter, Gandhi said the government should use all possible resources to treat the affected people on a war footing and immediately focus on preventing the disease from spreading.Quoting a media report, the Congress leader condoled the deaths due to the viral fever and said, “Has the UP government not learnt any lessons from the horrific consequences of its disastrous Covid-19 management in the second wave?”Also Read| Launch intensive sanitation drive across UP, CM tells officialsAccording to the government, the death toll due to viral fever and dengue in Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad district has climbed to 50. The deceased also include children. “So far, 50 people have died due to dengue. Ten areas -- nine blocks and a Nagar Nigam area -- in the district are affected,” Dr Dinesh Kumar Premi, the newly appointed chief medical officer (CMO) of Firozabad, said in a statement on Friday. Premi was chosen as Firozabad's CMO after chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday ordered the removal of Dr Neeta Kulshreshta.उप्र में वायरल बुखार से बच्चों समेत 100 से अधिक लोगों की मृत्यु की खबर चिंताजनक है।क्या उप्र सरकार ने कोरोना की दूसरी लहर के दौरान सरकार की लापरवाही के चलते हुई तबाही से कोई सबक नहीं लिया? 1/2 pic.twitter.com/szmXUQFXAAOn Thursday, three doctors in Firozabad were suspended by the administration on charges of laxity and warned government doctors of stringent actions for any negligence in providing treatment to the affected people.Also Read| Amid mystery fever in UP, Mumbai reports surge in dengue casesIn Mathura, people from the Kaunh village, which is the worst-affected area from the viral fever in the district, on Thursday staged a protest against the CMO and demanded a hospital in the village to prevent the fever from spreading. Mathura’s health department on Thursday said that a total of 14 people, including 12 children, have died in the past 23 days.Meanwhile, chief minister Adityanath directed authorities to run a widespread cleanliness campaign across Uttar Pradesh in view of the outbreak. Adityanath also told the authorities to assign a nodal officer in each district to monitor the spread of the fever. The rural development, urban development, women and child development, health and medical education departments will coordinate the cleanliness and health security measures, he said after holding a meeting with officials on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-gandhi-targets-yogi-govt-over-dengue-deaths-in-uttar-pradesh-101630662512265.html
03-09-2021||Kolkata||End stir by 3 pm: Calcutta high court to Visva Bharati students||Students of Bengal’s Visva Bharati university must end their agitation outside the residence of the vice-chancellor by 3pm, the Calcutta high court ordered on Friday after hearing a petition the university authorities filed on Wednesday, seeking the court’s intervention to clear the impasse. The agitators had been protesting since August 28 when three students were expelled on disciplinary grounds. The state’s only central university -- which was set up by Rabindranath Tagore at Bolpur in Birbhum district in 1921 -- said in its petition that security on the campus was breached by the agitators and vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty was confined to his quarters. In his order, justice Rajasekhar Mantha said the students must end the agitation by 3pm on Friday and move away. The V-C’s movement cannot be stopped and the district police authorities must provide three constables for his security, said the court. Also Read | Retired Calcutta high court CJ to head SIT probe Bengal post-poll violenceThe order also said that public address systems cannot be used on the campus and students may hold a peaceful agitation 50 metres away from the administrative building. The court asked the Visva Bharati registrar to file a report on September 8 when the students will also be heard. Justice Mantha observed that a student agitation cannot resemble a trade union movement, said advocate Jayanta Narayan Chatterjee who represented the university. “Justice Mantha also observed that the atmosphere on any campus must always be peaceful,” said Chatterjee. Lawyers representing the students told the court that the gate to the V-C’s residence was not locked by the students as alleged. The lawyers also said the students did not breach any security or pose any danger to the V-C. “We will decide our next step after studying the order,” said Rupa Chakraborty, one of the agitators, who were left with around three hours to abide by the order. Visva Bharati, of which the Prime Minister is the chancellor, did not make any statement till 1pm. Members of the Students Federation of India (SFI), the students’ wing of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), spearheaded the agitation. They regularly sent food items and vegetables for the V-C and his family but they refused to accept them. After Chakraborty lodged a police complaint on August 30, four constables and a sub-inspector were deployed outside his home. Aishe Ghosh, former student union president at Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University led the agitation on Tuesday. The three students, who were suspended in January last year, took part in agitations against several actions taken by Chakrabarty and visits by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders such as Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta in 2020 and Union home minister Amit Shah before the March-April assembly polls. The SFI alleged that the V-C was acting on behalf of the Rashtriya Shayamsevak Sangh (RSS). In January last year, there was a student unrest when Dasgupta was invited by the authorities to speak on the Citizenship Amendment Act at a seminar. A month after this incident, Chakrabarty triggered a controversy when he said those who gather at Delhi’s Rajghat donning white caps on Gandhi Jayanti are “the country’s biggest thieves”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/end-stir-by-3-pm-calcutta-high-court-to-visva-bharati-students-101630662139260.html
03-09-2021||Patna||Bihar MLA’s picture in undergarments on train goes viral||A picture purportedly showing Narendra Kumar, a lawmaker of Bihar’s ruling Janata Dal (United), moving on a New Delhi-bound train in undergarments has gone viral on social media. It was widely circulated after Kumar was accused of threatening fellow passengers when some of them objected as he went to the washroom in undergarments. The passengers alleged Kumar took off his clothes in front of women passengers and created a ruckus, abused them and also threatened to shoot them when they objected.Patna resident Munder Shah, who was travelling with his mother on the train, said Kumar got into heated arguments with his fellow passengers and some of them pulled the alarm chain while others recorded his misbehaviour.Also Read | Social leaders out of syllabus, Bihar varsity asked to make amends after rowRajesh Kumar, the chief public relations officer of East Central Railway, said the matter was sorted out when the train’s escort party and travelling ticket examiners pacified the passengers.Kumar was later shifted to another coach even as the train was stopped briefly at Dildarnagar because of the ruckus, said an official.Railway Protection Force inspector (Dildarnagar) Sanjiv Kumar said no action was initiated as no one lodged any complaint.Kumar claimed he was in a hurry to go to the toilet because of an upset stomach. He added he had to rush in his undergarments while insisting that no women passengers were travelling on his coach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-mla-s-picture-in-undergarments-on-train-goes-viral-101630661239046.html
03-09-2021||Other||One died, two women injured in house collapse in Bhiwandi||A 50-year-old man died and two women were injured after a portion of the ground and a load-bearing structure located at Azminagar slum in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra, collapsed on Friday around 10 am, officials said. As per the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC), the residential structure is dangerous, however, is not listed as one by the civic body. The two injured women were taken to the Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital, one of them was identified as Jubeda Khatun,48. “The structure is dangerous however is not listed as one. The entire area has several such dangerous structures. We have asked the nearby residents to move out for safety reasons,” said Sudhakar Deshmukh, commissioner, BNCMC.The local police and Bhiwandi disaster management team reached the spot and have initiated the demolition of the structure. On September 22, 2020, 38 people were killed, while 25 others were injured after Jilani building at Patel Compound, Dhamankar Naka, Bhiwandi collapsed.This marked the highest toll due to a building collapse in Bhiwandi. Rescue operations at the collapse site continued for more than 80 hours with the help of a team of over 100 personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-died-two-women-injured-in-house-collapse-in-bhiwandi-101630660701314.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||In a first, Navi Mumbai civic body to develop sports infrastructure under city flyovers||In an effort to protect the space under the city flyovers from encroachment, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has decided to develop sports infrastructure and open gyms in this space, officials said.The civic body has already developed an open gym along with a jogging track under the flyover that connects Nerul, sector 21 with sector 46. They are now planning to develop infrastructure for table tennis and volleyball along with an open gym under the flyover that connects Sanpada, sector 16 with sector 8. Sanjay Desai, city engineer of NMMC said, “The space under most of the flyovers in Navi Mumbai is lying unused and taking advantage of the situation some people have encroached on them for parking vehicles, running small shops among others. Some homeless people are also staying under a few flyovers and neither. We, nor the police department, have any idea about their background. So to beautify the place, we have decided to develop sports infrastructure and open gyms under the flyovers.”In the first phase, the NMMC has chosen two flyovers at Nerul and Sanpada. The work at Nerul flyover was completed earlier this week. “We are now waiting for the approval of the civic body for the work at Sanpada, we have set aside a budget of ₹60 lakh for it,” he said.Another senior officer from the engineering department said that they are now conducting a survey to finalise few more flyovers in the city. “In this survey, we will prioritize only those bridges which are in proper residential areas. Those on the highways will not be selected as that may not be safe for the users,” he said. Rajat Bose, 39, a resident of Nerul said, “During monsoon, we normally cannot go for a walk in the parks and gardens and hence cannot work out at all. Now, with these gyms and jogging tracks in place, we can go and work out under the flyovers even when it rains heavily. The NMMC should take such measures in other areas too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-a-first-navi-mumbai-civic-body-to-develop-sports-infrastructure-under-city-flyovers-101630658063112.html
03-09-2021||Other||Bihar Army recruitment scam: Fraud candidates nabbed by Military Intelligence||With the detention of six job aspirants on Thursday night, the Military Intelligence (MI) has exposed an Army recruitment scam in Bihar. The six youngsters, including one from Deoria in Uttar Pradesh, were duped by the accused identified as Sunil Kumar to the tune of ₹2.25 lakh, officials said. Kumar, who stays in Old Grand Bungalow (OGB), 13 in Danapur Cantonment area, gave them false assurances of recruitment in military engineering services (MES) and the Indian Army. People privy to the development in the MI disclosed that a sports quota/dependent recruitment rally is being scheduled at the premises of Bihar regimental centre with effect from September 5. Acting on a tip-off, the MI unit, Lucknow, intervened and searched the area. Upon receiving information about a dozen suspicious men staying in OGB, personnel of the Military Intelligence unit of Lucknow rushed to the spot and detained six youths identified as — Sanoj Kumar, Amrendra Kumar Yadav, Abhishek Kumar Mandal (all three from Munger), Manish Kumar (Araria), Rahish Kumar Yadav (Lakhisarai) and Manu Prasad (Uttar Pradesh). All six were interrogated. They were found hiding in OGB number 13 in front of Tweed Gate of BRC. Sunil Kumar and some other accused managed to escape from the spot. The six job aspirants told MI officials that they were desperate to get a job in the Indian Army. Five of them reached Danapur in the third week of August. Talking to HT, Manish, a 12th pass student, revealed that he was selected twice in the PET test but was declared unfit in the medical exam. This time, he would get the last chance. “Sunil sir promised that he is the only person who managed army officials for recruitments in any post. He sent a video that three people, including a woman, who were wearing army combat uniform and performed medical fitness test,” said Manish. An amount of ₹3 lakh each was demanded from the five youngsters for a ‘group D’ post at the MES in Danapur cantonment. Undergraduate’s job aspirants paid ₹30,000 each as an advance to Sunil Kumar through cash. Kumar asked them to stay in Danapur for a few days while their joining letters were sent to respective postal addresses. The MI also seized several incriminating documents like reporting forms, medical fitness certificates, appointment letters and family declaration certificates. According to the MI official, Kumar had contacted the job aspirants through WhatsApp. “The final amount of ₹7 lakh was to be given after their enrolment was done,” said an MI official on condition of anonymity. All candidates were provisioned for food by one Raju Kumar said to be a social worker affiliated with ‘Vaidik Samajik Sikhsa Uthhan Sangthan’. The MI unit is also on the lookout for such touts to stop fraudulent selections in the Indian Army. During the scanning of cell phones, the officials found that Sunil Kumar and his team members lured job aspirants from Haryana, Pathankot, Rajasthan, Aligarh and West Bengal. Hindustan Times also learned that a group of five people were seen in the video posing as a doctor, an army official, a woman and a man in army combat uniform, and another one posing as an army official. The video was shot to lure the aspirants and show them that the touts were close to the army doctor and officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-army-recruitment-scam-fraud-candidates-nabbed-by-military-intelligence-101630656140014.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Secret British-era tunnel found in Delhi assembly, leads to Red Fort||A tunnel-like structure was discovered at the Delhi Legislative Assembly on Thursday. Speaking to ANI, Delhi Legislative Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel said that the tunnel connects the legislative assembly to Red Fort and was used by the Britishers to avoid reprisal while moving freedom fighters."When I became an MLA in 1993, there was hearsay about a tunnel present here that goes till Red Fort and I tried to search for its history. But there was no clarity over it," he stated."Now we have got the mouth of the tunnel but we are not digging it further as all the paths of the tunnel have been destroyed due to metro projects and sewer installations," he added.Goel further informed that the Delhi Legislative Assembly, which was used as Central Legislative Assembly after shifting of capital from Kolkata to Delhi in 1912, was turned into a court in 1926 and Britishers used this tunnel to bring freedom fighters to the court."We all knew about the presence of a gallows room here but never opened it. Now it was the 75th year of independence and I decided to inspect that room. We intend to change that room into a shrine of freedom fighters as a tribute to them," he said.The assembly speaker added that in view of the history of the Delhi Legislative Assembly associated with the independence of the country, he intends to open the gallows room for the tourists by the next independence day and the work for the same has already started."This place has a very rich history in the context of the freedom struggle. We intend to renovate it in a way that tourists and visitors can get a reflection of our history," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/secret-british-era-tunnel-found-in-delhi-legislative-assembly-connects-to-red-fort-101630646451796.html
03-09-2021||Bhopal||Tiger carcass found in well in MP’s Bandhavgarh Reserve||A 14-year-old tiger’s carcass was found in a sack in a well in the buffer zone of Madhya Pradesh’s Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve, said a forest official on Thursday. All the body parts of T 32, popularly known as Amanalabali, were intact but grievous injury marks were found on its face, said Vincet Raheem, the reserve’s field director.Also Read | Stalker released on bail goes to house of woman who complained, guns her down“The carcass was stuffed in a sack and tied with two heavy stones before someone threw it in the well located near Tamna Basa village of Manpur buffer zone to hide the crime. One stone might have untied... that is why the sack surfaced and was found floating in the well,” Raheem said. “After a forensic examination of the area, the carcass was sent for post-mortem,” Raheem added. Raheem said a special team has been formed to probe the matter and to question residents of nearby villages.The reserve has 124 tigers, including at least 45 in the buffer zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/tiger-carcass-found-in-well-in-mp-s-bandhavgarh-reserve-101630643838289.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest firearms trafficker with 200 cartridges, five pistols||The Delhi Police’s special cell on Friday said they have arrested an illicit firearms and ammunition trafficker of Bihar and recovered five pistols and 200 cartridges from him. Also Read | Delhi weather: Cloudy sky with partial rain expected todayThe arrested man was involved in supplying illegal arms and ammunition to criminals of Bihar and Delhi-NCR in addition to Maoists in Odisha, and Gadchiroli in Maharashtra, deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said. He said the arrested firearms trafficker, Ram Kishan Singh alias Master, is a resident of Bhojpur in Bihar. “We have recovered five pistols of .32 bore and 200 cartridges from Singh. His further interrogation is still on,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrest-firearms-trafficker-with-200-cartridges-five-pistols-101630641978057.html
03-09-2021||Jaipur||Meet Rajasthan’s unique camel cart-bound mobile library for village kids||Kids in rural Jodhpur are joyous at seeing the library coming to them on a camel cart. At a time when the schools are closed for primary sections, the library with a storyteller has become an attraction for villages located in the remote desert areas of Rajasthan.A unique initiative of the mobile library on camel cart has been started for children in remote villages and hamlets of the state. Decorated with balloons and loaded with over 1500 books, the cart is probably the first such initiative.Joint director, school education, Prem Chand Sakhla said the department, along with NGO Room to Read, has started this initiative under the International Reading Campaign 2021. “The School for primary sections is closed, though online classes are running but to ensure their connection with reading, the program has been started. The reading habit of children should not discontinue,” he said.Sankhla said a camel cart was used as a library as other vehicles cannot reach remote desert areas.Program officer and additional district project coordinator, Samagra Shiksha, Jodhpur, Laxman Gehlot, said this mobile library will cover 30 villages in rural areas of Jodhpur. The theme of ‘Nahi Rukhenge Nanhe Kadam; Ghar Par Bhi Sikhenge Hai Hum; and ‘India Gets Reading at Home’, has been kept under the Room to Read campaign.He said a cart is accompanied by a rider, two members of the NGO, and a teacher of the nearby school. The children are given books according to their age and interest. The effort is not just to make the children read but to make learning interesting for them – the stories are narrated to them by the teacher, the NGO member, and even by the local educated villagers. “If the children are interested, then even the books are issued to them,” said Gehlot.He said it has been over one and half years, the children need to be brought into the mainstream and the initiative is a step to maintain the connect. “The parents are also asked to involve with children and conduct some activities of reading and writing for at least 15 to 20 minutes every day,” said Gehlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthans-unique-mobile-library-and-storyteller-on-camel-cart-for-village-kids-101630641077702.html
03-09-2021||Patna||Talab Bachao Abhiyan in Bihar expresses concern over ‘beautification’ of pond on LNMU campus||Talab Bachao Abhiyan (TBA), an outfit working for protection and restoration of ponds, has taken exception to the beautification and construction of ‘landscaping slope’ made with brick and mortar along the pond situated adjacent to the palatial administrative building of LN Mithila University (LNMU), HT has learnt.The convenor of the TBA, Narayan Jee Choudhary, has expressed shock over the laying of brick and concrete, without leaving space, around an old plant of Bhoj-Patra (Betula Utilis), which may be detrimental to the health of the tree and the environment.Widely found in the Himalayas, the Bhoj Patra is well known for use of its bark for writing in ancient India apart from its medicinal value, according to informed sources.Citing guidelines of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), and order of National Green Tribunal (NGT) for pond restoration and tree protection, the TBA convenor has submitted a memorandum to the LNMU vice-chancellor and registrar while seeking remedial measures to undo the damage to aquatic ecology.“Drawing your attention in this regard, I would like to underscore a significant aspect of the pond structure, which plays an important role in protecting the aquatic ecosystem. The slope that descends from the bank to the pond’s bed or belly on all sides is called the alluvium of the pond. The alluvium of the pond is the place in which its water level remains highest during the rainy season and lowest in the peak of summer. This alluvium is the habitat and breeding ground of hundreds of aquatic organisms including fish, snail, crab and tortoise”, said the memorandum. “The concrete works executed around the pond and a Bhoj-Patra tree, which is rarely found in plains will do irreparable damage to them,” Choudhary told HT over the phone on Thursday.Despite repeated attempts, LNMU officials, including registrar Mustaque Ahmad, were unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/talab-bachao-abhiyan-in-bihar-expresses-concern-over-beautification-of-pond-on-lnmu-campus-101630640419527.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Cloudy sky with partial rain expected today||Delhi is likely to see a generally cloudy sky with partial rain on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 25 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 32°C. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 24°C whereas the maximum stood at 32°C. Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 68.Also Read | Delhi to kick off campaign to spruce up parks, gardens in cityAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.Delhi experienced another spell of rain on Thursday, worsening the waterlogging problem in some areas and plunging road traffic into chaos.The national Capital has recorded 229.8mm rainfall since Tuesday morning, surpassing the September average of 129.8mm precipitation by a big margin. Usually, it gauges only 16.7mm rainfall on the first two days of the month.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-cloudy-sky-with-partial-rain-expected-today-101630638617917.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||As Maharashtra mulls reopening schools, here's what task force on children says||As Maharashtra is poised to take a decision in the next few days on reopening schools in the state, the Covid-19 task force on children has stressed vaccinating teachers and non-teaching staff must be prioritised among other things. Bachchu Kadu, Maharashtra minister of state for school education, said on Thursday the decision on reopening schools would be taken in the next two days. Kadu said a meeting in this regard will be held in the next few days. "Schools have started in other states of the country and should be started in the state as well. But the decision will have to be taken carefully considering the fact that Maharashtra has the highest number of active cases after Kerala,” Kadu said.Physical classes in schools were shut in Maharashtra in March 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the state. Schools in rural areas were allowed to resume physical classes for Class 8 to 12 students on July 12 but only in areas where Covid-19 cases are minimal.Also read | As festival approaches, Covid test positivity rate inches up in MaharashtraThe pediatric task force has discussed the plan with the state school education department officials to reopen schools in the state and wants to ensure schools are fully prepared and physical classes will not lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases.“We also want the schools to be reopened but with certain precautions as we are concerned about their health. Children are definitely suffering from mental health issues and nutrition and thus schools should be reopened but in a safe environment," Dr Bakul Parekh, a member of the pediatric task force, said.The paediatrician task force was formed by the Maharashtra government in May to prevent children from contracting Covid-19 amid fears of a possible third wave of the pandemic.The task force has recommended that teaching and non-teaching staff of schools should be vaccinated and there must be proper seating arrangements in classes and one bench should be reserved for one student only. "If possible, schools with online teaching infrastructure can simultaneously hold physical as well as online classes. Students can attend (in-person) classes by rotation,” Parekh said.Classes must be sanitised and there must be a monitoring system in place in all schools. The school staff should also be trained to deal in case of a medical emergency, Parekh added.Schools should divide students into two batches and they should be called for physical classes on alternate days, he said. "For example, half of the students can be called today and the rest tomorrow and at the same time online classes can also be continued,” he said.Also read | Maharashtra may bring curbs back to avert third Covid waveSports activities, which require close contact, should be avoided. Schools can also be started in a staggered manner by allowing some classes now and increasing them later based on the situation and if in case any rise is observed they can be stopped immediately. Parekh said vehicles ferrying school children should not have closed windows and they should have sufficient ventilation.“The task force has suggested the school administration to hold parent-teacher meetings before re-opening schools. At these meetings, parents should be apprised about precautions schools will be taking for the safety of students," Parekh said.Also read | Karnataka, Maharashtra tighten rules at airports over new Covid-19 variants Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that the state government planned to fully vaccinate all teaching and non-teaching staff before the reopening of schools. The state health minister Rajesh Tope also said on August 29 that they are working on vaccinating all teaching and non-teaching staff by September 5.Based on predictions by experts, the state government is expecting a rise in Covid-19 cases between September 15 and the first week of October, which could also be the beginning of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The steady rate of daily cases of Covid-19 has become a cause of concern for officials. Maharashtra still has more than 50,000 active cases and they are hovering around between 50,000 and 51,000 for the past week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-maharashtra-mulls-reopening-schools-here-s-what-task-force-on-children-says-101630630817873.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi to kick off campaign to spruce up parks, gardens in city||After kick-starting its project to redesign roads in the Capital along European lines, the Delhi government is now going to start a drive to beautify all parks and gardens of the national capital, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday.The campaign, to be called the “Chief Minister’s Park Beautification Scheme”, was first announced by CM Arvind Kejriwal in July 2018, but was halted due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“Delhi is like a family and every member has an important role in making this family beautiful. We want the contribution of all the citizens of Delhi in making the parks of this city beautiful. Let us all contribute together in making Delhi a vibrant city. The Delhi government is committed to make this a prosperous city. Beautifying all the parks will prove to be a big step in this direction. The atmosphere of these parks will become better and citizens will be able to enjoy getting out,” said Sisodia after the meeting.“Under this campaign, I will myself visit all the parks of Delhi and take stock of the situation. Along with this, suggestions will also be taken from the residents living around these green spaces on how they want the beautification to be carried out,” he said.After reviewing the suggestions, the entrances of the parks will be made attractive, there will be open gyms, tracks will be improved for people to walk, and new different species of flowers, fruits and shady plants will be put, the government said.The Capital has about 18,000 parks, and 250 resident welfare groups maintain nearly 1,300 parks at present, and the rest are managed by civic agencies and the Delhi Development Authority (DDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-kick-off-campaign-to-spruce-up-parks-gardens-in-city-101630627585607.html
03-09-2021||Noida||Greater Noida murder suspect nearly pulls off perfect getaway||Sensational details emerged of a Greater Noida family’s murder on Thursday, a day after police arrested a 38-year-old man who almost pulled off a perfect getaway.The man murdered his wife and two children three years ago as he wanted to settle down with a woman he was in an extramarital relationship with, zeroed in on another man who somewhat resembled him in appearance as well as build, murdered him and passed it off as his own death, police said after the arrest of five of his accomplices.Those arrested were identified as Rakesh, 38, his father Banwari Lal, 65, mother Indirawati, 62, two brothers Rajiv, 36, and Pravesh, 34, and a woman constable, Rubi, 30, who was in a relationship with the main accused Rakesh, police said.Rakesh, from UP’s Aligarh, lived with his family in Chipyana Buzurg in Greater Noida. Botre Rohan Pramod, superintendent of police, Kasganj, said Rakesh worked as a medical lab technician from 2011 to 2018 and he was aware of certain aspects of forensic investigations.“Rakesh married Ratnesh in 2012 and they had two children – a three-year-old daughter and an 18-month-old son. However, he was also in a relationship with Rubi, and he wanted to marry her. On February 14, 2018, he killed his wife and children with an iron rod and buried their bodies in their house’s basement and destroyed evidence,” he said.The suspect fled the spot after the crime. While Ratnesh’s family filed a complaint of abduction against her husband, Rakesh’s family members filed a counter-complaint of abduction against his in-laws at Bisrakh.To pass himself off as dead, Rakesh planned another murder. Pramod said Rakesh identified a vulnerable friend, Rajendra alias Kalua, who was similar to him in appearance and build, and took him on a motorcycle from Aligarh to Kasganj on April 26, 2018.“On the way, Rakesh offered drinks to Kalua and then killed him with a sharp weapon. He decapitated the victim’s head and hands to ensure the investigators would find no concrete evidence or fingerprints and threw the body near a railway track. The suspect wrapped the victim in his clothes and planted his ID in his pocket,” the SP said.Rakesh’s family members, who were aware of the conspiracy, allegedly reached the spot and claimed the victim was Rakesh. They also filed a case of murder against Rakesh’s in-laws. But police probed the matter and evidence and DNA reports revealed the deceased was Rajendra and not Rakesh.On the other hand, Rakesh made a fake Aadhaar card with an assumed identity as Dilip Sharma, a resident of Kushinagar. He shifted base to Panipat, Haryana, where he worked as a mason. “He underwent nose surgery in order to change his identity,” SP said. On Wednesday, Rakesh came to meet Rubi in Kasganj when he was arrested.Ankur Agarwal, additional deputy commissioner, Noida Central, said police excavated the burial spot and found some parts of skeletons. “The samples are being sent for forensic examination and DNA testing. A case of murder will be filed in Noida, too, once the report corroborates the murder theory,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-murder-suspect-nearly-pulls-off-perfect-getaway-101630623983604.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Yet another early rain spell slows Delhi down||A third straight day of rain in the national capital, between Wednesday night and Thursday morning inundated several areas in the city.The downpour caused partial waterlogging on many roads, including the stretch near the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Pul Prahladpur, Zakhir underpass, and Vikas Marg.However, Thursday’s rain was less intense and lasted for a shorter period than the rainfall on Tuesday and Wednesday. A 19-year record spell of rain for the month on Wednesday threw the city into chaos, bringing traffic to a standstill, and leaving few areas untouched.Several hospitals, schools, residential areas, shops and markets were flooded on the day after 112mm of rain till 8.30am and 75.6mm in the three hours after that.Between 8.30am on Wednesday and 8.30am on Thursday, Safdarjung recorded 117.7 mm rain, showed data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/yet-another-early-rain-spell-slows-delhi-down-101630621672466.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||North MCD trying to sell Dangal maidan: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led North MCD is planning to sell a piece of land in the Delhi Gate area at a cheap rate -- a charge that the latter denied, saying there was no proposal in any of the MCDs to sell plots.At a press conference, AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said a proposal to lease the 1,100 sqm property was brought to the North MCD’s standing committee on Wednesday. “But because of pressure from AAP, the proposal has now been put on hold... This land is colloquially known as the Dangal Maidan... It is a prime land behind Delite cinema... The BJP-ruled MCD is now preparing to sell this location as well at a throwaway price,” he said.Delhi BJP said the North MCD has no such plan. “A few properties are being leased for long-term at almost double the prevailing circle rates through tender...,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-mcd-trying-to-sell-dangal-maidan-aap-101630619514406.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt invites applications to set up oxygen plants in city||The Delhi government has invited applications from industries for setting up plants to augment the national capital’s oxygen generation and storage capacity by up to 1,900 metric tonnes (MT) by March next year, a notice issued by the state industries department said on Thursday. It also released a fresh set of guidelines for companies to avail of the new incentives and reimbursements being offered to boost oxygen production and storage.According to the order, the Delhi government is aiming to set up liquid oxygen generation plants with a targeted capacity of 100MT and a minimum load of 50MT at the latest by December 31, 2022. The same capacity has been set for installing non-captive pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants and air separation units (ASU), the deadline for which is March 31, 2022.Currently, 31 PSA plants are fully functional in Delhi, and 57 more are expected to be operational next month. These include 26 plants allotted to Delhi under PM-CARES fund, of which 17 have been commissioned so far, government data showed. Together, they are capable of producing and storing about 64MT of oxygen.The subsidy being offered by the Delhi government will be ₹20 lakh per MT and an additional electricity subsidy of ₹4 per unit for five years, the government guidelines stated.In addition, the stamp duty paid for the purchase of land for medical oxygen generation plants or non-captive oxygen generation plants will also be reimbursed. “We hope that the policy will encourage firms to set up new manufacturing units and expand the production capacity of existing ones for uninterrupted oxygen supply to hospitals and nursing homes and facilitate storage and transportation of medical oxygen in Delhi. There is a ₹3 lakh subsidy per MT capacity for cryogenic tankers; and a one-time subsidy of ₹1 lakh per MT for liquid medical oxygen storage for hospitals, nursing homes and refillers,” said a senior official involved with the project.The guidelines also state that if the deadlines are not met, or in case of any violation of terms, the incentives will be recovered from the beneficiary, with an annual interest of 18%.Thursday’s order comes after the Delhi government on August 26 notified the “Medical Oxygen Production Promotion Policy 2021”, which seeks to make the Capital self-reliant in the production of medical oxygen.The policy was approved by the Delhi cabinet on August 3.The government has set up a seven-member committee to screen all applications and recommend the approved incentives to the secretary, industries department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-invites-applications-to-set-up-oxygen-plants-in-city-101630618214216.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Monument to the bald||Standing atop a grassy mound, it has the remoteness of a tower. But it doesn’t look like a tower. It doesn’t even have a dome to which it could owe its name, Munda — the bald.This 13th century stone pavilion in south Delhi’s Deer Park overlooks the Hauz Khas lake on one side and the park’s grassy greens on the others. In the early hours, elderly morning walkers from nearby Safdarjung Enclave sit by its weather-beaten walls to catch their breath. Some daring young men climb to its roof—there’s a staircase—in a show of swagger, and loudly stamp their feet on the stones. The edifice is guarded by tall and beautiful trees on its four corners, much like the four marble minars of the Taj Mahal in Agra.This morning, the grass on the ruin’s low hill is drenched wet with the night’s rain. The darkened old stones have gone mossy in various places. Inside, the chamber is dark and dingy, and at least today the place is smelling of clothes when they have stayed humid for too many days. The chamber is filled with stacks of slim wooden twigs — they seem to have been used to block the stairways to the roof, but have been displaced. The daylight is streaming in through four arched doorways. Big makoras (ants) are marching along the floor as if in a military march. The walls are scrawled with declarations of love, and even post-love hatred. Shruti weds Mukul, says one of these scribblings.It’s a relief to emerge into the open air from this dim and musty chamber, and see the world afresh in daylight. Down the slope, the pedestrian track is busy with walkers and their pedigreed dogs (to whom they loudly command in accented English), and beyond it is the still water of the lake, with little ducks peddling along it. The sky is punctuated with birds. Underneath one of the four trees is a bench. It could be an idyllic place to read poetry; right now two girls have taken over the place, listening to Guru Randhawa’s High Rated Gabru on mobile.A tattered board informs that the MundaGumbad was built during the Khilji period, and was probably a double storey pavilion. It assumes that the missing second floor used to be topped by a dome.Meanwhile, a bunch of pigeons arewheeling about the gumbad repeatedly, as ifthey were waiting for the missing dome to reappear so that they can finally rest on that perching spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-monument-to-the-bald-101630617576223.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula polyclinic now offers C-section delivery services||The Panchkula health department has started offering caesarean (C-section) delivery services at the polyclinic in Sector 26, making it the fourth such health centre in the district to offer this facility.The purpose of this upgrade is to decongest the labour rooms of the Sector-6 General Hospital (GH) and to provide better facilities to those living on the other side of the Ghaggar river.Every month, 800-1,000 deliveries are performed at GH-Sector 6. Other than that, C-section is performed at Kalka sub-divisional hospital, community health centre in Raipur Rani and now at Sector 26.As far as normal deliveries are concerned, three urban health centres and nine rural health centres cater to the service. “C-section is completely free of cost for Haryana residents and minimally charged for people from other states. Deliveries are conducted free for all,” said spokesperson Dr Mankirat.“This is our initiative to improve health services at the polyclinic in Sector 26. This will help the pregnant women living in the areas located on the other side of the Ghaggar and Raipur Rani. Earlier, they all had to go to the Sector-6 GH and wait in long queues,” said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Mukta Kumar.She said that though separate staff had not been sanctioned for the clinic, she will try her best to get additional staff. “We have started other services like orthopaedics, ophthalmology, dermatology and paediatrics, gynaecology OPDs. Today, the first C-section was performed here. Both baby and mother are safe and sound,” the doctor said.The CMO added that earlier, the daily footfall at OPDs was around 150 per day, whereas the count had now increased to 450 per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-polyclinic-now-offers-c-section-delivery-services-101630617435270.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Road left dug up in Sector 21, Chandigarh MC officials get show-cause notice||A day after negligence was detected at a construction site of a road gully in Sector 21, MC commissioner Anindita Mitra has served a show-cause notice to the sub-divisional engineer (SDE) and junior engineer (JE) of the public health division of MC for dereliction of duty.The road gully work was awarded to contractor Vakeel Yadav, who had left the road dug up without putting up any kind of sign board around the area for cautioning the public, posing a hazard. A city resident had earlier tweeted pictures of the site, which was also covered in darkness.The show-cause notice was issued under Rule 10 of the Punjab Civil Service (Punishment and Appeals) Rules, 1970, to SDE Rajbir Singh and JE Bhupinder Singh. The contractor will also be issued one, it was directed. The commissioner added that no such negligence would be tolerated.As per sources, notices were issued to SDE Rajbir Singh and JE Bhupinder Singh. Mitra directed the engineering wing that every construction site should be visited at least once every day by either the JE or the SDE. She also issued directions that all works started within the city limits should be completed within time.Contractor put on notice for delaysActing on another complaint received on WhatsApp, Mitra directed the engineering department to initiate action in a case of delay in completion of work. Consequently, Greymarble Infra Private Limited was served a show-cause notice.The notice states that reconstruction of footpath inside a park at Hallomajra village, allotted in October 2020 at a cost of ₹13.41 lakh, was to be completed within three months.“Residents of Hallomajra are suffering due to non-execution of the paver block work in the streets as allotted to you,” reads the notice.The contractor has been given five days to respond to the notice. The contractor has also been given another 20 days to complete the work by deploying sufficient men and machinery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/road-left-dug-up-in-sector-21-chandigarh-mc-officials-get-show-cause-notice-101630616835108.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Discontinue work on Sukhna walk-in aviary: AIG forests to Chandigarh forest dept||The assistant inspector general (AIG) of forests of the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change has directed the UT forest department to discontinue the work on the walk-in bird aviary being constructed near the Sukhna Lake.In a letter, AIG Sunil Sharma said, “UT administration has purchased several exotic birds and is in the process of setting up and inaugurating a zoo in Chandigarh. The purchase, proposed setting up and inauguration of the zoo has not been done as per the laid down procedures. Hence, it is requested that they discontinue the process till such time, all necessary approvals are granted by the competent authority and also refrain from formal opening of the impugned zoo.”The move came after a city-based activist, RK Garg, highlighted the issue that the aviary would be like a cage for the birds. Animal rights activist and politician Maneka Gandhi had also raised her voice against the project. Besides, several high courts including the Punjab and Haryana high court had forbidden the caging of birds.Meanwhile on Thursday, Garg said, “The project has been stopped in view of the serious irregularities in the making of the bird aviaries. Also, irregularities can be seen in audit objections on the working of the forest department. Hence, we demand that all the contracts awarded by the forest department in the last four years be made public, so that all irregular practices are exposed fully.”Even though activists and environmentalists had raised concerns over the making of the aviary, the UT forest department had maintained that they had taken all approvals and had not violated any guidelines or laws.The exotic birds kept in the two walk-through aviaries will be those commonly bred in India, the UT forest department had said.The department had also said that the enclosure would be 58 feet high and spread over 3-4 acres, so it would have ample space for the birds, adding that the forest guards would ensure that the birds were treated well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/discontinue-work-on-sukhna-walk-in-aviary-aig-forests-to-chandigarh-forest-dept-101630616235129.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Nod from Delhi, Uttarakhand awaited for graduate constituency polls: Panjab University to HC||Panjab University (PU) has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that an approval for holding the elections of the graduate constituency for the varsity senate were awaited from the governments of New Delhi and Uttarakhand.Assuring the high court that it would make efforts to complete the poll process by the end of September, additional solicitor general Satya Pal Jain, who appeared for PU, said that it had got the nod from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh and Rajasthan.The information was given during the resumed hearing of the case by the bench of justice AG Masih and justice Ashok Kumar Verma: the varsity has challenged a March order of a single bench asking the varsity to hold senate polls in two months.The counsel for the former senators, who had initially taken the matter to court demanding senate polls in 2020, argued that polls should at least be held in the states where permission had been granted.PU had deferred the August 18 polls for the graduate constituency in view of non-availability of required polling booths. Registered graduates is the largest constituency with 3.6 lakh voters and 15 members are elected from it in seven states. On the last hearing on August 12, the court had observed that it had full faith in the vice-chancellor and appreciated his efforts for holding the elections. The matter will now be taken up on September 13 with PU seeking time to examine the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nod-from-delhi-uttarakhand-awaited-for-graduate-constituency-polls-panjab-university-to-hc-101630615755965.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Yashpal Garg is new Chandigarh health secretary||In a major reshuffle, the UT administration on Thursday appointed Chandigarh Housing Board CEO Yashpal Garg as the new UT health secretary. Punjab Civil Services (PCS) officer Palika Arora has replaced Rubinderjit Singh Brar as the director of school and higher education. As per the orders issued by UT adviser Dharam Pal, UT finance secretary Vijay Namdev Rao Jade will now have 21 departments under his charge, including the home department. Debendra Dalai has been appointed as CITCO chairman and tourism secretary in addition to his charge of chief conservator of forests. PCS officer Saurabh Arora has been relieved from municipal corporation and will now look after several departments of administration. Pradhuman Singh, registering and licensing authority, will also be director, transport-cum-(ex-officio) joint secretary, transport, and divisional manager, CTU. After completion of her inter-cadre deputation period, Radhika Singh, secretary, CHB, has been relieved to enable her to join her parent state of Haryana.The exercise came after home secretary Arun Kumar Gupta, MC commissioner KK Yadav and transport director Uma Shankar Gupta were relieved from UT and returned to their parent cadres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yashpal-garg-is-new-chandigarh-health-secretary-101630615641115.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||₹14 lakh stolen from two locked houses in Chandigarh’s Sectors 8, 18||Thieves struck at two locked houses and decamped with cash totalling 14 lakh, police said on Thursday.Mudit Gupta, an industrialist living in Sector 18, complained to the police that he and his family were out of station since August 29. On their return, they realised ₹9.5 lakh were stolen from a cupboard after breaking its lock. Police are questioning the family’s five domestic helps. Similarly, PS Bedi of Sector 8, reported that ₹4.5 lakh and some jewellery were stolen from his house while he was away at Bangalore from August 15 to 31. A lawyer, Bedi was informed about his house’s broken locks by a neighbour. Separate cases under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) and 457 (house-trespass) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) have been registered. Jewellery stolenIn another case, Mamta, a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas, complained that several ornaments were stolen from her house while she was away for an hour on Wednesday. The thieves broke the lock of her house, and took away two gold chains, two rings, two anklets, a pair of earrings, a pendant and some cash. A case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/14-lakh-stolen-from-two-locked-houses-in-chandigarh-s-sectors-8-18-101630615394924.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Untreated wastewater from Mohali IT City entering N-Choe||Even though the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada) had developed IT City (adjoining Airport Road) seven years ago, despite directions of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change, it has not constructed two sewage treatment plants (STPs) each with 10 MLD capacity. As a result, the untreated sewage is being discharged into N-Choe passing through the IT City. In 2019, the development authority had built a portable STP of 500 KLD, which is lying defunct since then. Residents allege that with untreated sewage being discharged in N-Choe, harmful waterborne pathogens and bacteria pose a high risk to human and animal health. N-Choe is a seasonal stream that originates in the north of Chandigarh and runs across the city before meeting the Jagatpura drain at Manauli village in Mohali. The water finally drains into Ghaggar river. The IT City is spread over 1,722 acres across sectors 66B, 82A, 83A and 101A adjoining the Airport Road and has major IT companies, industrial units, residential areas, one private school, and commercial units. Also, two major private universities have set up their campus there. The first housing scheme in IT City was launched in February 2014 with 325 residential plots, the second scheme in July 2016 with 750 plots, and the last scheme in April 2018. Ranjiv Mankatala, executive engineer of Gmada who is dealing with the STPs, admitted that portable treatment plant was not functional. “But we will make it operational in a few days as enough sewage is not being generated,” he added. Regarding the construction of the two STPs of 10 MLD each, he said the work would start soon. It is pertinent to mention that in February 2019, while giving the revised environment clearance, the ministry had clearly directed the Gmada to construct two STPs of 10 MLD each, but even after two years, nothing has been done. Ikesh Pal Singh, general secretary of RWA, IT City ( Block C), said, “Gmada has laid down incomplete infrastructure in the IT City. They were supposed to treat the waste water generated in the residential area and channel it back to the houses for irrigation and construction purposes. For this, dual plumbing has also been laid out in the area, but it is incomplete. There are more than 30 houses that have completed the construction and people are living there. Sewage is being generated and disposed of unscientifically in the choe.”Last month, the development authority had held a draw of lots for showrooms and booths for the land acquired in the IT City housing scheme at Aerocity in December 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/untreated-wastewater-from-mohali-it-city-entering-nchoe-101630615215219.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Defunct loo facility forces 150 families in Ambala to defecate in open||The only community toilet catering to at least 150 families living in a slum near Amba market of Ambala City is defunct for the past about one year, leaving the users with no other option but to defecate in open. Almost a kilometre away from deputy commissioner’s office, the facility was built a few years ago, but was renovated early in 2020. However, soon after its reopening, the sewer line got clogged and the toilet had to be closed for public, Mukesh, a vegetable vendor and a slum dweller, said. “We were glad to see its restoration, but didn’t know it won’t last long. The renovated toilet functioned merely for two-three months. Young people can manage to walk to use public conveniences almost a kilometre away, but the elderly can’t,” Ashok, another resident of the colony said. 60-year-old Devi Das is among numerous women living in the slums under the flyover leading to district courts, DC office and mini secretariat and are forced to walk up to the railway line early in the morning. “I’m aged and find it difficult to even walk to the toilet that’s shut now. I always wanted a loo just near our locality, but we don’t have one,” said Das, a widow, who is unable to walk without support. Mukesh said he had asked former councillor Pawan Aggarwal to resolve their issue, who then told the incumbent ward member Mithun Verma to look into the matter.“We have already written to the municipal corporation and our application was forwarded to the official concerned in May last year. We were told that the sewer line of the toilet was choked and there was no machine to clean it then,” he added. Councillor Verma had raised the issue during the zero hour of the second House meeting on August 16. “This is painful to know that the women in slum have to defecate in the open. In response to my issue at the meeting, MC commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata had assured of arranging a community toilet facility at the place,” he added. It is pertinent to mention here that Ambala MC is among 958 urban local bodies having already attained open defecation free plus plus (ODF++) status under the Swachh Bharat Mission.As per the union ministry of housing and urban affairs, ODF++ protocol adds the condition that “A city/ ward/ work circle can be declared as SBM ODF++ city/SBM ODF++ward/SBM ODF++work circle if, at any point of the day, not a single person is found defecating and/or urinating in the open, all community and public toilets are functional and well maintained, and faecal sludge/septage and sewage is safely managed and treated, with no discharging and/or dumping of untreated faecal sludge/septage and sewage in drains, water bodies or open areas.”Advocate Rohit Jain, who has filed a couple of petitions in the court regarding sanitation issues, claimed, “As per the definition, it seems that it is a clear violation of ODF++ status.”While comments of chief sanitary inspector Madan Lal could not be elicited, MC chief Dhirendra Khadgata refuted the violation claim. “Though there are one or two more toilets near the area, I will ensure that the problem is resolved within a week,” he added. “We are looking into the matter which had also come up during the House meeting. The problem pertains to the cleaning of a sewer line by the public health engineering department. I’ve already written to them,” Khadgata said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/defunct-loo-facility-forces-150-families-in-ambala-to-defecate-in-open-101630615155116.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||25-year-old biker crushed under truck in Chandigarh’s Industrial Area||A 25-year-old youth was killed and another man was injured after a truck collided with their motorcycles in Industrial Area on Wednesday night. The deceased, identified as Abhay Pratap Saroj of Dhanas, worked as a lab attendant in the department of geography at DAV College, Sector 10, Chandigarh. He hailed from Uttar Pradesh and had been working in the college for four years. Pardeep, a resident of Pinjore, who was also injured in the accident, told the police that he worked as plant head in a factory in Phase 1, Industrial Area. Around 9.30pm on Wednesday, he was riding his motorcycle on his way back home and another motorcyclist was moving besides him. As they crossed the cremation ground, a truck coming from Garcha light point hit their motorcycles. While Pardeep fell on one side and had a narrow escape, the other motorcyclist was run over by the truck’s rear wheel. The truck driver stopped to help the victims, while passers-by called the police. On reaching the spot, police rushed both the victims to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where Abhay was declared brought dead and Pardeep was admitted for treatment. The truck driver, Mohinder Singh of Dariya village, was arrested and booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/25yearold-biker-crushed-under-truck-in-chandigarh-s-industrial-area-101630615036370.html
03-09-2021||Other||89 new Covid cases, no deaths in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday reported 89 new positive cases of Covid-19, 16 from Jammu division and 73 from Kashmir division, taking the total number of infections to 3,25,618.As per the official figures, 88 Covid-19 patients have recovered and been discharged from various hospitals, including 48 from Jammu and 40 from Kashmir.Besides this, 67.63% of the population above the age of 18 has been vaccinated across the union territory.The bulletin released by the Government said that out of 3,25,618 positive cases, 1,320 are active, 3,19,889 have recovered and 4,409 have died.Srinagar with 546 active positive cases has the highest number of positive cases.Similarly, Jammu has 72 active positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/89-new-covid-cases-no-deaths-in-jk-101630615035150.html
03-09-2021||Other||Suspicious pigeon captured in Akhnoor sector||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Wednesday captured a suspicious pigeon, with blue and yellow rings tied to its legs, along the Indo-Pak international border near in Akhnoor sector of Jammu district. “The white-coloured pigeon was caught on September 1 around 6:15 pm. The BSF men, who captured the pigeon found a blue-coloured ring, bearing number 0315-7827659, on the right leg and “OK” written on the left leg in yellow colour,” said an official. The pigeon was around 300 metres from the BSF border outpost and it was around 800 metres away from Tibba Forward, a Pakistani post. It was later handed over to wildlife officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suspicious-pigeon-captured-in-akhnoor-sector-101630614914895.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Mohali district achieves 100% first dose vaccination||Nearly nine months after the vaccination drive against Covid-19 began in Mohali district in January, the district has immunised 100% of the eligible population with at least the first dose.A government spokesman said 7,46,119 people were eligible for vaccination in the district and the same number of people had been immunised as of Tuesday, while the number of first doses administered had reached 7,73,442 on Thursday, taking the coverage to 103.66%. As many as 34% people (2,59,213) have got both doses, as per the data uploaded on CoWin portal and Cova App. “We are proud to have vaccinated 100% of the eligible population of our district and a sizeable population of the tricity as well,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-mohali-district-achieves-100-first-dose-vaccination-101630614854916.html
03-09-2021||Other||With Geelani’s death, Hurriyat stares at a leadership void||The death of senior separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani is set to create a big void in the rank and file of the Hurriyat Conference that till last year was led by Geelani and separatist politicos.Geelani, during his prolonged illness, had resigned from the All Party Hurriyat Conference last year which he led for almost 17 years. Though the group had been grooming Mohammad Ashraf Khan alias Sehrai, Geelani’s close aide to take over the reins of the separatist amalgam after Geelani, Sehrai’s death last year at a Jammu jail due to Covid-19 has been a big blow to the group. Sehrai was leading the Tahreek-e-Hurriyat that was formed by Geelani, however, after Sehrai’s death nobody was announced as his successor.Even after Geelani’s resignation from the chairmanship of his faction, nobody was named in his place, though Abdullah Geelani, who is in Pakistan, claimed to represent Geelani by issuing statements on different occasions.“Geelani’s death is a big loss to the separatist politics of Kashmir. After his death, nobody of his stature is within the rank and file of his faction Hurriyat who can replace him,” said a senior separatist leader who wished anonymity. “The two deaths, first Mohammad Ashraf Sehria and now Geelani is big setback for the separatist movement in J&K. I don’t see any other leader having such capacity or capability to replace Syed Ali Geelani who had decades of political experience and a huge following, especially among youth.”Post abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of J&K into two UTs, the separatist leadership is under tremendous pressure and majority of the leaders are either in jail or have gone into hibernation. Occasionally, press statements were issued in Geelani’s name, which, police say, were being issued from Pakistan.With Geelani gone, now it remains to be seen who will replace him as there is not a single person in the separatist camp who holds sway on people like Geelani did.The faction will now look towards another jailed leader Masrat Alam, chairman of Muslim League, however, it will take years for Alam to reach to the stature of Geelani and under current circumstances, it’s very difficult for Alam to be released from jail. With the death of Geelani, all eyes will be focused on Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq who is under house arrest after the revocation of Article 370 and most of separatist leaders will look towards him.Pervaz Majeed, who teaches journalism at Amar Singh College, Srinagar, said that Geelani had an experience and was witness to three generations of political shift and in that respect, nobody could have been of his “stature” in separatist politics. “For Islamist separatists, it’s going to be a big and irreplaceable loss,” said Majeed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-geelani-s-death-hurriyat-stares-at-a-leadership-void-101630614734998.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab nod to policy for 50-acre townships in New Chandigarh||To meet the growing affordable housing demand of Chandigarh and Mohali, Punjab government has approved a policy for creation of 50-acre townships in New Chandigarh (Mullanpur).While chairing the 42nd meeting of the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Board in August, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had given his go-ahead to the policy, which has now been finalised by the board.“The policy was held up due to the proposal for 100-acre townships. Their size has been brought down to 50 acres and a notification will follow within a week,” said Sarvjeet Singh, principal secretary, housing and urban development, Punjab.He added that the amendment will help ensure proper utilisation of vacant land pockets to provide more housing infrastructure in New Chandigarh.Land developers hail decision“The policy reflects the government’s growth-oriented vision. Nod to 50-acre townships will allow quality developers to enter the region and enable a healthy realty market. The 200-foot PR7 road through Mohali will help connect New Chandigarh with the existing infrastructure of Mohali, including the airport,” said Umang Jindal, founder of Homeland Group.On other hand, MS Aujla, former director, town planning, local government, Punjab, said that when 100-acre townships were proposed, the idea was to include required health, education and other social infrastructure. “Reducing the size to 50 acres may compromise availability of accessible facilities. Now, with the changed policy, the authorities must ensure that the required peripheral road infrastructure is provided,” he said.New Chandigarh is located in close proximity to Madhya Marg in Chandigarh along the operational Chandigarh-Baddi road. As per the master plan, Mullanpur’s population is expected to rise to 2,00,000 by 2031 and 3,50,000 by 2056 with a gross residential density of 100 people per acre.Encashing the emerging opportunities due to the rising residential realty demand, leading developers have pumped in crores in Mullanpur alone within a short span of time.The Greater Mohali Area development Authority (GMADA) is also constructing an extension of the 200-foot PR7 road, commonly known as the Airport Road, which begins from the dividing road of Sectors 120/125 in Sunny Enclave and connects to the PR4 road in New Chandigarh. Expected to be ready by year-end, the road extension will reduce the travel time between Mohali and New Chandigarh by 15-20 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-nod-to-policy-for-50-acre-townships-in-new-chandigarh-101630614674898.html
03-09-2021||Other||Geelani buried at graveyard near his residence amid tight security||Prominent separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani was buried at a local graveyard close to his house in Hyderpora around 4:30am on Thursday, amid tight security. Geelani, 91, had passed away at his residence around 10.30pm on Wednesday night. Only close relatives and neighbours were allowed to participate in the funeral at the local graveyard that was completely sealed by the forces.Geelani’s family members told mediapersons that the police forcibly took away the body and carried out the burial even before their relatives could reach Srinagar. They also accused the police of misbehaving with them.Even mediapersons were prevented from covering the funeral and were stopped by police near Hyderpora.Apprehending trouble, authorities had imposed restrictions across Kashmir and snapped the internet and mobile phones.Only postpaid BSNL mobiles were working in Kashmir and forces were deployed across the district, with all roads leading towards Hyderpora completely sealed.Additional troops were deployed at sensitive places, especially in old city and north Kashmir. In the morning, police stopped vehicles on the national highway at several spots and didn’t allow them to move towards Srinagar or other major towns.The roads of Srinagar city presented a deserted look as people stayed inside their homes. Police and security forces were seen patrolling at different places even as bullet-proof mobile bunkers were paced at sensitive spots.Inspector General of Police, Vijay Kumar said that soon after Geelani’s death, restrictions were imposed across Kashmir as a preventive measure. For the past many months, police had been carrying out mock drills for the funeral of the separatist leader as many of his supporters wanted to bury him at the martyrs’ graveyard in old city.Family claims police forcibly took away bodyNayeem Geelani, the elder son of Syed Ali Geelani, accused the police of forcibly taking away his father’s body for burial, stating that even family members weren’t able to attend the funeral.Nayeem, who, along with other family members, was at Geelani’s Hyderpora residence when the separatist leader passed away, said that his father had developed breathing problems around 9.30 pm. “We put him on oxygen support but he passed away around 10pm,” said Nayeem.He said that soon after Geelani’s death, police officers approached them and told them that they had to bury the separatist leader at a local graveyard at night. “We told them about my father’s wish to be buried at Eidgah but the officer in-charge told us that there was pressure from higher officials to bury him at night.”Nayeem, who is a doctor by profession, said the police then forcibly took away the body at 3am. “The body was taken to a local Jamia Masjid and then buried after religious formalities. After police snatched the body, they had asked us to attend the funeral which we refused.”Nayeem said the family members only went to Geelani’s grave in the morning. “We had even requested the police wait till morning so that our relatives could reach the city but they didn’t pay heed to us.”He said that even after Geelani’s death, authorities were fearful of him. “They (govt) thought that this death could trigger upheaval.”Inspector General of Police, Vijay Kumar, refused to comment on the alleged forcible snatching of Geelani’s body from his house.A police spokesman said that the situation across valley remained peaceful and no any untoward incident was reported. “Pertinently, some vested interests tried to spread baseless rumours about forcible burial of SAS Geelani by police. Such baseless reports which are as a part of false propaganda to incite violence are totally refuted by the police. As a matter of fact, police facilitated in bringing the body from house to graveyard as there were apprehensions of miscreants taking undue advantage of the situation. The relatives of the deceased participated in the burial,” he said, adding that restrictions and internet shutdown will continue tomorrow. “We shall review the situation tomorrow afternoon and take further course of action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/geelani-buried-at-graveyard-near-his-residence-amid-tight-security-101630614554925.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Action on farmers in Karnal was pre-decided: Kumari Selja||Leading a protest against the recent lathicharge on farmers in Karnal, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja on Thursday claimed that action against the protesters was predetermined. Addressing the media, she alleged that on the orders of the state government, the administration had already decided to “break farmers’ skulls”. “No officer can issue such order without the support of the government. Now, we are demanding action against the officer concerned (then SDM Ayush Sinha) and those who attacked the farmers, severely injuring many,” the former Union minister said.On being asked about the difference of opinion between Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala on action against the officer, she said the government just wanted to confuse the people. “The Congress has already approached the National Human Rights Commission, initiated action and sought a report from the district administration,” she added. Selja also slammed Khattar for blaming the Punjab Congress for the protests and said that the CM should resign as he couldn’t handle his state. The party also handed over a memorandum addressed to Haryana governor to additional deputy commissioner Yogesh Kumar on the issue. She was accompanied by Congress MLA from Assandh Shamsher Singh Gogi, former Haryana assembly Speaker Kuldeep Sharma, former Haryana minority commission chairperson Tarlochan Singh and other local leaders.In Ambala, a similar protest took place from the city’s Manav Chowk to the DC office. Leading the protests, Mullana MLA Varun Chaudhary said with the Land Acquisition Amendment Bill, the government intended to end the existence of agriculture in the state and the farmers, who are already protesting against the three farm laws.In Yamunanagar, Sham Sunder Batra, district coordinator of the party, sought registration of a murder case against the SDM. Plea in HC seeking judicial inquiryMeanwhile, a plea has been filed in high court seeking judicial inquiry by a retired HC judge into the Karnal lathicharge incident. The plea has been filed by five persons, including an advocate, who have stated that scores of farmers, including petitioners, got injured in the police lathicharge effected on the instructions of SDM and other district administration officials, committed in violation of fundamental rights of petitioners and further to look into role of SDM Ayush Sinha; DSP Virender Saini and Inspector Harjinder Singh, among others. The plea also demands compensation to all the injured and direction to Punjab and Haryana governments to not to use bamboo sticks and opt for lesser lethal options. The plea is yet to be listed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/action-on-farmers-in-karnal-was-pre-decided-kumari-selja-101630614315023.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh PGIMER urges people to donate to ‘Poor Patients Welfare Fund’||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Thursday urged the people to make donations to the institute’s ‘Poor Patients Welfare Fund’, which helps in providing assistance to the needy patients. The poor patient assistance cell of the PGIMER has been working to provide financial help and guidance to needy patients for treatment for the last two decades. In 2019 and 2020, as many as 2,858 beneficiaries were provided medical assistance of ₹1.49 crore whereas during 2020-21, around 3,248 patients were helped with ₹1.39 crore. “Since April 1 till July 25 this year, at least 1,124 patients were helped with ₹45 lakh from the fund. We request more citizens to come forward and donate generously, either through online mode, cheque or demand draft, so that the institute can help more such patients,” said Professor AK Gupta, dean (research) and medical superintendent, PGIMER. Prof Vipin Koushal, additional medical superintendent, said, “Assistance in the form of medicines, surgical consumables is provided to patients who are holder of below poverty line (BPL) and Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) cards issued by various state governments or on the recommendation of treating doctors after assessment. The amount required for treatment is sanctioned after following the due process. The utilisation of this fund is done by procurement of medicines and surgical items through the central government’s approved agencies.” Dr Navneet Dhaliwal, officer in charge of poor patient assistance cell, said, “Funds are collected through several philanthropists, judicial orders, corporate social responsibility obligations, NGOs and trusts. They are eligible for deduction in the Income Tax Act. Also, large number of donations is being received online now. The Punjab and Haryana high court also directs those penalised by the court to deposit the fines or penalties in the poor patient fund.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pgimer-urges-people-to-donate-to-poor-patients-welfare-fund-101630614198720.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh railway station gets 5-star ‘Eat Right’ certificate||The Chandigarh Railway Station has been awarded a five-star ‘Eat Right Station’ certification for providing ‘high-quality, nutritious food to passengers’ by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), officials said on Thursday. According to a statement, the station is awarded a certificate upon a conclusion of an FSSAI-empanelled third-party audit agency with ratings from 1 to 5 and the five-star rating indicates exemplary efforts by stations to ensure safe and hygienic food is available to passengers. SK Lohia, managing director and CEO, Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) said, “This certification is a testimony of IRSDC’s sustained and collaborative approach to provide best-in-class services to passengers. We are thankful for this recognition and are committed to setting benchmarks in the operation and maintenance of railway stations in India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-railway-station-gets-5-star-eat-right-certificate-101630614197534.html
03-09-2021||Other||Tibetan President calls to end deadlock in Parliament-in-exile||Penpa Tsering, Sikyong (president) of Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), on Thursday called to end the impasse in Parliament-in-exile, which arose after the 22 newly elected MPs refused to take oath, stating that it may lead to the collapse of the Tibetan administration.The Sikyong was speaking at an event held to mark the 61st anniversary of Tibetan Democracy Day which commemorates the oath taken by the first elected representatives of Commission of Tibetan Peoples in 1960. Tsering said the present Kashag (cabinet) was carrying out its administrative works without any negligence.However, the inability of the Parliament to convene its session has been preventing it from carrying out its legislative functions. The Parliament is also not able to make use of the opportunities to plan activities and campaigns in accordance with the changing situation in China and the international community, said the Sikyong.The stalemate began in June when 22 MPs refused to take oath from the interim speaker stating that the Chief Justice Commission who appointed the interim speaker has no jurisdiction over the matter, as he was removed by the previous Parliament.He said the Kashag has been informed of several instances of the Chinese government exploiting this issue to spread falsehood inside Tibet, create division in the exiled Tibetan community and misuse it on the international platforms, said Tsering.As all of us know that there are people in our small community who are just venting emotions without careful thinking, he added.Tsering hailed the Tibetans inside Tibet for showing indomitable courage and determination in the face of China’s continued policy to exterminate the Tibetan identity and their efforts to protect Tibet’s religion, culture, language and tradition. “It is this strength that unites the Tibetans-in-exile and keeps alive the freedom struggle. It is the common wish in our heart to reunite in Tibet,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tibetan-president-calls-to-end-deadlock-in-parliamentinexile-101630614196454.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cop arrested for opening fire, smashing window panes of relative’s car||The Nayagaon police on Thursday arrested a constable of the Chandigarh Police for opening fire and smashing the windowpanes of his brother-in-law’s car at Shivalik Vihar in Nayagaon.The deputy superintendent of police (DSP) said, “The incident happened at around 1am on Thursday when constable Sikander Singh, who is posted at Punjab and Haryana high court, was having a party at his residence in Shivalik Vihar and his brother-in-law Ankit was also present.”At around 1am, Ankit took the cop’s car for a ride. After some time, Sikander called him and asked him to return his car. The two got into a verbal spat and abused each other on the phone. Sikander then went to the parking area, where Anikit’s car was parked. He smashed the windowpanes of his car and fired one gun shot from his licensed pistol at the car.The DSP said, “We have taken the damaged car and have recovered the licensed pistol of Sikander Singh. A case has been registered against him and he has been arrested. He will be produced before a court on Friday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-cop-arrested-for-opening-fire-smashing-window-panes-of-relative-s-car-101630614137772.html
03-09-2021||Bhopal||Stalker released on bail goes to house of woman who complained, guns her down||Bhopal/Sagar: A 24-year-old stalker out on bail in Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh on Thursday allegedly shot dead a 21-year-old woman on whose complaint he was jailed three months ago, police said.“The 21-year-old woman from Sagar was shot dead by the accused in front of her house. He was released on bail about a month ago. When the girl’s family tried to snatch the gun from his hand, he pelted stones at them before fleeing,” Sagar superintendent of police (SP) Atul Singh said.The woman was rushed to the district hospital where doctors declared her brought dead.“Police arrested the accused three months ago after the woman filed a complaint of sexual harassment against him. He was recently released on bail,” Singh said.The deceased’s brother, who informed police about the incident, said the accused lived in their locality and had been harassing his sister for quite some time. “He was pressuring her for marriage and even threatened her with dire consequences. My sister informed the family about the harassment three months ago, following which we filed the complaint at Moti Nagar police station.”When the stalker was granted bail, he said, the family still thought that he would not harass his sister anymore.“We didn’t know that he was planning to kill my sister,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/stalker-released-on-bail-goes-to-house-of-woman-who-complained-guns-her-down-101630613956126.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||THE World Rankings 2022: Panjab University 7th among Indian institutes||Panjab University has ranked seventh among 71 technical and non-technical Indian institutes in the 2022 Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings released on Thursday.Among global institutions, it continues to remain in the 601-800 ranking bracket.IISC Bengaluru is the only Indian institute in the top 350, while IIT Ropar has been placed in the 351-400 bracket.Panjab University’s overall score is in the 32.0 to 37.9 bracket, up from last year’s 30.2 to 36.3. It outperformed Aligarh Muslim University, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Anna University, Birla Institute of Technology and Science Pilani, University of Delhi, IISER Pune, IISER Kolkata, IIT Patna, NIT Rourkela, Savitribai Phule Pune University and Indian Institute of Technology Bhubaneswar.For PU, teaching remained the highest-ranked pillar with a global rank of 384, while international outlook is the lowest with a 1628 global rank. In research, its rank is 965.In 2014, the university was placed in the 226-250 bracket and slipped to 276-300 in 2015. It further dropped to 501-600 in 2016 and has been placed in the 601-800 bracket since 2017.“The varsity has, by and large, maintained its score and position over the last few years despite handicapped circumstances all around. As Panjab University is now gearing up for NAAC inspection, we are sure that the data submitted this time would be a lot more comprehensive and we shall see much better improvement,” said Dr Ashish Jain, PU’s director of internal quality assurance cell.PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said the varsity will continue to grow and make progress in the coming years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/the-world-rankings-2022-panjab-university-7th-among-indian-institutes-101630613954815.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||25 people rounded up for drinking in open, 11 vehicles seized in Ludhiana||After late night mock drills, police surprised motorists by carrying out a drive against drunken drivers and those consuming alcohol in the open or in their cars. Police rounded up 25 violators, seized 11 vehicles and issued four challans for drunken driving. A drive was carried at Sarabha Nagar, Sidhwan Canal Road, South City, Sarabha Nagar Puli (Hero Bakery Chowk) and Ferozepur Road.Police teams turned up outside eateries and started rounding up those drinking inside their cars. The police recovered liquor bottles, beer bottles, disposal glasses and eatables from the cars. Many violators tried to influence police officials using the names of senior officials and political leaders, but to no avail.“Many violators said they had just started drinking, some said they were drinking in the open for the first time and they would not repeat it in future,” an officer said. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said the police had received several complaints regarding people consuming alcohol outside eateries, following which the cops carried out the drive. The ADCP added the commissioner of police had already banned drinking in the open, as it leads to scuffles and causes mishaps. The ADCP said the eatery owners had also been asked to not serve eatables in cars. Officials say more drives will be carried out on other parts of the city as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/25-people-rounded-up-for-drinking-in-open-11-vehicles-seized-in-ludhiana-101630613355760.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||HT interview: Mistrust between Capt, Sidhu must end soon, says Punjab Cong affairs in-charge Harish Rawat||Even for a Congress leader as seasoned as Harish Rawat, the dual challenge is proving a tough row to hoe. As AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab, he has been busy for three months firefighting an internecine war between chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his bete noire Navjot Singh Sidhu that has only turned worse since the latter’s elevation as state Congress chief last month. At the same time, as the party’s tallest leader in Uttarakhand, Rawat is running out of time to focus on his own political sweepstakes in the home state that goes to assembly polls alongside Punjab early next year. Not surprisingly, former CM-five-time MP appeared to betray his sense of exasperation by asking the high command recently to relieve him of the Punjab responsibility. In Chandigarh for another round of parleys to defuse the Capt-Sidhu slugfest, Rawat, 73, sat down with Hindustan Times on Thursday for an exclusive interview. Edited excerpts:Who will lead the Congress in the 2022 polls – Capt Amarinder or Sidhu? The Congress has some established norms that are applicable to all states. Where we are in government, both the chief minister and the PCC president are there. The PCC chief is always there and represents the AICC. The CM runs the government and people want to see how you have governed the state. This is always the issue that centres round the CM and he has an important role. This is the standard practice. After the elections, MLAs sit together and almost always they resolve to leave the decision of selecting the leader to the Congress president. Therefore, who will be the face of the party is not an issue. These established norms can’t change for Harish Rawat or Punjab. But the party had named Capt Amarinder Singh as its CM face before the 2017 polls. We were not in the government then. Amarinder Singh Ji was PCC president at that time. He was named the chief ministerial candidate to boost the prospects. At present, we are in the government and have the PCC also. Both situations cannot be equated. Both are very important people and have their role and responsibilities. What about your statement last week that the party will go into the polls under Capt Amarinder’s leadership? My complete statement was not reported. I had made mention of the Congress tradition in this regard, but it was left out. It was unfortunate that some of my colleagues (in Punjab) made it an issue of public debate. Instead of talking to the media, they should have called and spoken to me. You have visited Chandigarh several times and tried hard to solve this crisis. Why has it not been resolved so far?Let’s look at the recent history of any political party in Punjab. The BJP was a small partner of Akalis, but they fought. There is no comparison between the Congress and the BJP. We are a democratic party, but they are not. As for the SAD, see how many Akali Dals have been formed by splinter groups. At least you should give us credit that we have stopped the situation from drifting to this level. People have high expectations from the Congress. I expect party leaders to resolve their differences and issues within the party and not go public. Still, we are far better in Punjab than our competitors. When the Congress high command made Sidhu the PCC chief, it was expected that it would solve the issue, but it hasn’t, and the party still has two centres of power.We were also hoping that with greater responsibility and a bigger platform under his feet, he will be able to resolve contradictions. I think he will learn by experience. We will have to understand one thing that Sidhu’s politics is based on anti-incumbency. When Sidhu was in BJP, he was criticising the SAD even though the two parties were in alliance. The issues he raised were also taken up by the Congress, but they are not so simple that you can resolve them by pressing a button. If someone who is saying that Bargari or drug issues should be solved, it is not that someone will resolve them just like that. Court is involved, greater interests are involved, and sentiments are involved. On top of it, political personalities of different parties are involved. In such a situation, I know how the chief minister has to walk on a razor’s edge on such issues. He has to ensure that there is no social or communal backlash. Can you be more specific? I have observed that in Bargari, Kotkapura cases, several senior officers have been chargesheeted or jailed. And it is unparalleled in the history of India. The government should have got credit but, unfortunately, I could not give credit to it. For one failure, the chargesheet struck down by the court, we have ignored successes. The same is true for drugs. Half of the convictions in drug cases in the country are in Punjab alone, half of arrests and recoveries are in the state. But some kingpins have managed to escape action till now. This does not mean the government doesn’t have the intention. Still, I am hopeful that having a very experienced and intelligent CM, some significant breakthrough will be achieved in a month or so. PPAs were also a criminal act of the Akali government. The problem is that once you enter PPAs, there is not much scope for exit. It is not just that you pass a resolution in the state assembly, and it all goes away. Despite this, there is option to force and bring them (companies) to the negotiation table and reduce the purchase price to pass on the benefit to people. Here I appreciate the concern shown by the PCC president. We cannot look at just one aspect of Sidhu’s statements. He is only being evaluated as CM’s opponent. I am looking at it from the angle that anti-incumbency is not built against us. But he is emerging as the biggest critic of his own government.There is difference in the way we look at it. On PPAs, electricity bill, bus permits, etc, I am as vocal as Sidhu is. Should I be seen as my own govt’s critic? You seem convinced that the Capt government is showing both intention and direction. Does that mean that this criticism is unfounded? These are very complex issues. We have to look at them in totality. Why can’t the chief minister convince Sidhu about all this? Sidhu is convinced. To certain extent, I will like him to stick on these issues. After all, I have to see everything with electoral angle also. We will find a solution to all these issues if not today, then tomorrow. If that’s so, what is behind the tussle between Sidhu and CM? I pray to ‘Waheguru’ with folded hands daily that mistrust between the two should end. This is significant and my role is important and critical. In politics, everything is not so easy. You have to deal with psychology of human beings. The CM has his own experience and Sidhu has his own style. When you have such people, it is difficult to make them bond, just like it is difficult with fine steel and not raw steel. It takes time. What is the root cause of this mistrust, temperamentally they are different or there is no chemistry? There are many things – background, personality and approach. These cannot be rectified in one day. I am quite hopeful that we will solve this problem before the elections, and everything will be in order. Isn’t the Congress losing out in the battle of perception? We are fortunate that our competitors are like lost gamblers otherwise we would have faced problems. I have no hesitation in admitting this. The opposition SAD and AAP are active and aggressive on the ground but the Congress is still grappling with infighting. Our graph was good till one or two months ago, but people have started criticising us. I think our leaders will take this changing perception as a warning bell and pay attention. I tell people that in Punjab we have plenty of experienced people, hundreds of them who are brighter than me. Do you see any justification in the demand made by some ministers and MLAs for the CM’s removal? It is their right to make a demand, but there is a way to convey things in the party. Sometimes, people get emotional and say things, like this demand that has come from unexpected quarters. It is not that we are ignoring what they have said. We are looking into it and will find a solution soon. We don’t want this abscess to get worse. Do you see any merit in Sidhu camp’s demand for a Congress legislature party meeting to know the MLAs’ views?I am not sure in what context he has said this. We do not want to be reduced to a debating forum on these issues. We are a party in government and do not want to keep debating all the time as it will not work. We are going towards the solution. That’s why I discussed with the CM on Wednesday the points mentioned by Sidhu in his memorandum. Are you convinced with what the CM has done so far? I am convinced that the CM is quite anxious to find the results. What about all this talk of cabinet rejig? In our meeting, we had no discussion on cabinet reshuffle. Our focus was entirely on action points. Whenever it (reshuffle) is to be done, it will require approval from the Congress president. This is not my mandate. What about apprehensions that some dissenters are being targeted by the district administrations in their constituencies? This issue has been raised. I have also discussed it very seriously. Such things cannot be allowed. We are in favour of neutral administration but any plotting against our ministers and MLAs in our government is not acceptable to us. This is a bad commentary on our rule. I understand no such thing is happening except one or two changes at some places. How do you look at Sidhu and his supporters repeatedly suggesting that Capt Amarinder is not taking action in sacrilege and drug cases because he is in collusion with the Badals? Circumstances have placed him in such a situation. Punjab is the only state where cases sent to CBI by the previous Akali government have been brought back by the state government. Tell me has this happened in any other state till now. He has not able to defend himself well (against such talk). It is the duty of the party to do this. But all this is being said by the Punjab Congress president. He (Sidhu) is saying that there is this perception, and we need to break it. I am also saying this. We have to break it together. I expect the PPCC chief and ministers to work with the CM in breaking this perception. There is strong perception that Sidhu’s elevation and 18-point agenda have eroded the Amarinder’s authority. We are an old party and I have been a chief minister myself. Do you think I do not understand that if the CM’s authority is eroded whom will it hurt? Circumstances were such that we needed to take a decision. Unfortunately, the CM took a public stand. I had advised him against taking a stand in public. If any decision was taken against his stand, it was not eroding his authority. In democracy, nobody is the last word. Sometimes, the Congress president’s decision is changed by the working committee. As Uttarakhand is going to polls with Punjab, what is happening on your request to divest you of this charge? The party has given me so much. I am committed to following the directions of the party leadership. I have left the decision to it. If we do not do this, the party will not survive. Unfortunately, some of our friends are not realising this factor. This is why the Congress is seen in bad light sometimes. When the party provides you a platform, it is your duty to deliver to the party. You have to come to Punjab again and again. Are you happy with the situation? Do you think it was resolved to some extent when Sidhu was appointed? In any religion, husband and wife are never asked are you happy or not. We have to do our duty. I am wedded to Congress. It is not even a contract marriage. It is a relationship of a lifetime. How do you look at first five weeks of Sidhu as president? It is mixed. He is learning fast. I have seen his statements. He has appreciated the government on fixing the sugarcane purchase price. He started as an anti-incumbency leader and he is moulding himself as the leader of a political party which is ruling the state. You once said that Sidhu is like a Rafale. Is he in control or gone out of control? Rafale is always in control. Its control system is excellent. I have not wasted my 55 years in politics. You should have some faith in my art. Our Rafale will hit the opposition. We are refining its weaponry system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/htinterview-mistrust-between-capt-sidhu-must-end-soon-says-punjab-cong-affairs-in-charge-harish-rawat-101630613176391.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||50 people booked for blocking Sukhbir Badal’s cavalcade in Mattewara||A day after farmers blocked the cavalcade of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president and former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal over the passage of the contentious farm laws, a case was registered against 50 unidentified persons on Thursday. The case was lodged on the statement of assistant sub-inspector Balbir Singh. In his complaint, the ASI said that ahead of a political rally in Mattewara some people had staged a protest on the Valipur-Machhiwara road and blocked traffic. Due to the protest, a traffic jam was caused, which inconvenienced commuters.A case under Sections 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) of the Indian Penal Code had been lodged against the accused. Earlier on Tuesday, police had booked 74 people, of whom 60 are yet to be identified, for threatening and assaulting Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders and damaging their vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/50-people-booked-for-blocking-sukhbir-badal-s-cavalcade-in-mattewara-101630612755536.html
03-09-2021||Other||FIRs registered against 54 proclaimed offenders in Ludhiana||The city police on Wednesday registered 53 cases and booked 54 people declared proclaimed offenders by the court. In two days, the police have registered 71 FIRs against as many accused. The accused had skipped court hearing after availing bail. Most of the accused who were booked were wanted in drug peddling cases.The Dehlon police booked two persons who were declared proclaimed offenders nearly three decades ago. They booked Gurmeet Singh of Amritsar, who was wanted in a drug peddling case. A case under Sections 9, 1 and 78 of the Opium Act was lodged against him on February 24, 1983. He was declared a proclaimed offender by the court on January 27, 1989.Similarly, the Dehlon police booked Pritpal Singh of Ambala. He was booked by the police under Sections 9, 1 and 78 of the Opium Act on October 5, 1979, and declared proclaimed offender by the court on April 19, 1982.The Division Number 5 police registered maximum cases — eight — under Section 229-A (failure by person released on bail or bond to appear in court) of the Indian Penal Code. Shimlapuri police have registered four cases while Basti Jodhewal, Salem Tabri, Division Number 6, Daba, and Model Town police have filed three cases each.At Daresi, Division Number 2, Division Number 3, Division Number 4, Dehlon, Sahnewal and Haibowal police stations, two cases each have been registered. At Dugri, Sadar, Sarabha Nagar, Division Number 7, Meharban, Focal Point, Jamalpur, Koom Kalan and Moti Nagar police stations, one case each has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/firs-registered-against-54-proclaimed-offenders-in-ludhiana-101630612458372.html
03-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Teachers’ body up in arms against edu dept officials||The teachers’ associations are up in arms against the primary education department officials after a school teacher fell unconscious after being allegedly reprimanded by them on Wednesday afternoon.The representative of various teacher associations of the district on Thursday held a press conference and demanded stern police action against the education department officials.Teacher Sapandeep Kaur, who was allegedly reprimanded was deputed at Government Primary School in Sahnewal and is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Doraha.According to Sukhdhir Singh Sekhon, the teacher was allegedly reprimanded so badly that she suffered a shock and is allegedly suffering from a paralysis attack. “A vaccination drive was going on at the school from Tuesday. Yesterday, when the school hours got over, Sapandeep and her colleague Ramandeep Kaur asked the area municipal councillor to arrange for a person to oversee the inoculation drive and ensure the safety of the school furniture and other equipment. In response to this, the municipal councillor told both the teachers that they can leave the school in the evening after completion of the drive,” said Sekhon.“In the meantime, DEO Jaswinder Kaur, deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh and office clerk Harminder Singh Romi arrived and threatened both the teachers that they will initiate a departmental inquiry against them and transfer them to a remote location. Sapandeep was snubbed so badly that she fell unconscious,” alleged Sekhon.On the other hand, deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh slammed the allegations as baseless. He said that he, along with his office employee Romi, had visited the school following the orders of DEO primary.“We got complaints that people who had arrived at the school for vaccination were left stranded as the campus was being locked post-school hours. I returned after resuming the vaccination drive. I had no conversation with the said teacher. She collapsed during the DEO primary’s visit,” said Kuldeep Singh.Despite repeated attempts, DEO primary was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-teachers-body-up-in-arms-against-edu-dept-officials-101630612455978.html
03-09-2021||Other||Himachal sees 205 new Covid infections, 1 death||Himachal Pradesh recorded 205 fresh Covid-19 infections on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 2,14,004 while the death toll mounted to 3,588 after one patient succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 58 were reported in Mandi, 51 in Kangra, 20 in Shimla, 19 in Bilaspur, 18 in Hamirpur, 12 in Solan, 8 in Chamba, 5 in Kullu, four each in Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti and Una and two in Sirmaur. Active cases have again climbed to 1,788 while recoveries reached 2,08,609 after 200 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district since the virus outbreak last year as its total case tally stands at 47,733 followed by Mandi and Shimla districts with 29,925 and 26,665 cases, respectively. Solan’s case tally reached 22,591 cases, Sirmaur 15,436, Hamirpur 15,347, Una 13,567, Chamba 13,483, Bilaspur 13,446, Kullu 9,502, Kinnaur 3,408 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,901.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-sees-205-new-covid-infections-1-death-101630612334642.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Nephew held for hacking 70-year-old man to death in Ludhiana||Two days after a 70-year-old man was found hacked to death, police arrested his nephew for murder on Thursday. The accused, Sher Singh of Googa Marhi Road, Raikot, said that he had been planning the murder for two weeks. The victim, Tula Ram of Prem Nagar, was found lying in a pool of blood in the nursery of his nephew Praveen Kumar. Tula worked as a caretaker at the nursery. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Raikot) Gurbachan Singh said preliminary investigation suggested that Tula had been hacked to death with blunt weapons in his sleep. Later, the police found that the victim and the accused had been involved in a fist fight with his nephew two weeks ago. “Sher Singh said Tula had a financial disagreement with his brother Praveen, in whose nursery Tula was employed as a caretaker, following which he asked the asked the victim to leave. However, Tula refused and the disagreement came to blows. Later, the matter was resolved after their relatives intervened,” said the DSP.“On Tuesday night, when Tula went to sleep the accused hit him repeatedly with a brick and fled after the victim died,” he added. Both the victim and the accused hail from Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nephew-held-for-hacking-70-year-old-man-to-death-in-ludhiana-101630612214720.html
03-09-2021||Other||Will not just win bypolls, but 2022 assembly polls too: BJP’s HP in-charge||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is all geared up for byelections to three assembly segments and one parliamentary constituency, in-charge of party affairs in Himachal Avinash Rai Khanna said on Thursday. He was addressing a press conference here after presiding over a Tridev Workshop of Dharamshala block.Khanna said the Election Commission of India (ECI) may announce the elections schedule anytime soon. “We are all geared up and will register an emphatic victory,” he said adding that the coordination between the organisation and government has benefited the common people immensely and atmosphere is in BJP’s favour.He said the BJP will not just win the byelections, but also repeat the government in 2022 general assembly polls. “We will surely break the myth that no party repeats the government in Himachal,” he said adding that opposition Congress stands nowhere.He said party has already started working for the Shimla MC elections too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-not-just-win-bypolls-but-2022-assembly-polls-too-bjp-s-hp-incharge-101630612094793.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Liquor being used to sway PAU Class-4 staff polls||Illegal distribution of freebies and booze is not endemic to the Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha Polls, and is also being used to influence the Punjab Agriculture University (PAU) Class-4 Employee Association elections scheduled for Friday. High drama was witnessed a day before the polls as the police raided the house of a Class 4 employee and recovered four boxes of liquor. Rajinder Kumar, the Class 4 employee who was rounded up, accused the Opposition of planting the liquor at his house. Ashok Kumar, who is contesting for the post of general secretary and whose poll symbol is a car, said, “We are fighting to secure more rights for Class 4 employees. The clerical staff sees it as a threat and therefore is using cheap politics such as planting liquor at the house of our group member in connivance with the Opposition.”On the other hand, Brinder Singh, who is fighting for post of president on the symbol of an agricultural tool, said the Opposition was using liquor to grease the electorate. “While they were stocking the liquor, someone informed the police,” said Rajinder Singh. There are 350 permanent Class 4 employees in the university. Both the unions are demanding better health facilities and increase in pay grades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/liquor-being-used-to-sway-pau-class-4-staff-polls-101630612034841.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||OTT parks in Maharashtra to make sector content?||In a push to the growing streaming services market, the Maharashtra government plans to unveil a series of sops for the sector. This is likely to include ‘over-the-top (OTT) parks’ to streamline post-production activities being catalysed on the lines of Information Technology (IT) parks in Maharashtra. The state may roll out a package of concessions for this industry as part of the policy for the IT and ITES sector that is in the works. This policy is expected to be tabled before the state government in a month. “We are planning to include the technology-oriented component of the OTT sector in the forthcoming IT policy,” said Dr P Anbalagan, chief executive officer (CEO), Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC). “They need buildings, connectivity, dormitories… the post-production consists of IT (functions) like visual effects, uploading,” he noted, adding that they would focus on promoting both, pre and post-production activities. These incentives will include flexibility in norms like Floor Space Index (FSI) and Development Control Regulations (DCR), stamp duty concessions and rules on lines of integrated townships that allow private land to be notified as such. This will ensure the setup of OTT parks on lines of IT townships to make it easy for industry players to function and streamline their activities. Like the film cities, where units shoot movies or serials, these space in the OTT parks can be offered on rent for production houses to undertake post-production work and streamline their activities. The IT policy is in the final stages and is expected to be submitted to the state government soon for approval by the state cabinet. Anbalagan added that if the need arose, they could also formulate a separate policy for the sector in the future. Nitin Vaidya, director, Indian Film and TV Producers Council (IFTPC), welcomed the move and noted that like the 1990s had seen the growth of the television sector, OTT platforms were the growth sectors for the future. He however urged the government to create state-of-the art infrastructure, including venues for shooting, post-production activities and data centres. “Despite the fact that Bollywood is one of the identities of Mumbai and Maharashtra, there has been little support from the government. In fact, in the recent years, the sector has developed sans any government aid. The last major government-led initiative for the film and television sector was the development of the Dadasaheb Phalke Chitranagari (Goregaon Film City) in 1977,” said Vaidya. He added that while the OTT sector was expected to grow fast, there was little infrastructure support from either the Central or the State Government. Inadequate infrastructure and high demand at the Goregaon film city and Kolhapur Chitranagari had led to producers scouting for locations at Malvani, Madh, Bhayander and Naigaon near Virar. The television sector, including Hindi and regional channels, had an estimated turnover of ₹40,000 crore in the current financial year. Explaining the employment generation potential of the sector, Vaidya said an estimated number of 143 shows were being shot for the small screen in Maharashtra. While Hindi shows employ an average of 150 people on the sets, the number was at a lower 70 for Marathi. Vaidya noted that considering an estimated 100 people per show, this translated into an average of 14,000 people. The number of those working in film and OTT post-production activities was also significant, and hence a growth in this sector would translate into significant job creation in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ottparks-in-maharashtra-to-make-sector-content-101630611739391.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Now, 7 categories exempted from paying pet registration fee in Ludhiana||With the pet registration drive garnering a tepid response, the municipal corporation has now exempted seven categories from paying the annual pet registration fee. The categories exempted from paying the ₹400 annual registration fee are blind, elderly and specially abled persons; non governmental organisations; security agencies, private and government; veterinary research institutes and hospitals; animal lovers and activists; those below poverty line; and foster homes for dogs. Nonetheless, those exempted from paying the fee will have to register their pets, which will be done free of cost. Officials say those applying for registration under the exempted categories will have to ensure that the anti-rabies vaccine is administered to their pets and that they are collared. NGOs sheltering dogs, and animal activists must also get their dogs sterilised, which will be done free of cost at the Haibowal Dairy Complex. The MC is also working on a project to administer free anti-rabies vaccines. Senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla said, “The finance and contracts committee of the municipal corporation has approved the proposal. The exemptions were incorporated on the request of a few NGOs. This will ensure that stray dogs that are sheltered by residents are vaccinated and sterilised. The pets can be registered online at www.mcludhiana.gov.in or at suvidha kendras.” The annual fee for the current financial year (2021-22) has also been exempted for the residents who registered their pets with the MC before March 31. The annual fee has to be submitted for the year 2022-23 before March 31. The pet registration project, which commenced in June 2020, has received a tepid response with only 2,165 residents getting their pets registered with the MC . No cat has been registered so far. The caveat of paying a 10 times higher fine also failed to boost registrations. Lax enforcement is also responsible for the delay in registration. Five months after the deadline, no action has been taken against defaulters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-7-categories-exempted-from-paying-pet-registration-fee-in-ludhiana-101630611738200.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Transfer drugs case to another high court: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday demanded the transfer of the drugs case from Punjab and Haryana high court to another high court. In a written statement, leader of opposition (LOP) Harpal Singh Cheema claimed that a report in the drugs case was lying in a sealed cover in the high court, but the state government had not made efforts to get it opened. He said the state government should immediately file a writ petition in the Supreme Court for transferring the case to high court of another state. “The case has got delayed for a long time for one reason or another and the government should ensure that it is heard on a daily basis and a decision is given within a specified time,” he said. Cheema inducted former judge and ex-chairman of permanent lok adalat Manju Rana into the party fold in Kapurthala on Thursday. Rana said her only purpose to enter politics was to serve the people of Kapurthala. Cheema also condemned the Congress government over the lathicharge by police on farmers in Moga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/transfer-drugs-case-to-another-high-court-aap-101630611735897.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Maratha quota: Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje seeks President’s intervention||A delegation led by Rajya Sabha member Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje on Thursday met President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking constitutional intervention for the restoration of Maratha quota. The delegation has requested the President for intervention to tweak the definition of the ‘extraordinary and exceptional’ situation in which the Maharashtra government can accord the reservation to any community, or removal of the ceiling of 50% on reservations.Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje – a descendant of Maratha king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj – has been leading the Maratha protests, demanding the restoration of the reservation for the community, which was quashed by the Supreme Court on May 5. The delegation also consisted of Bharatiya Janata Party’s Ranjeetsingh Nimbalkar, Nationalist Congress Party’s Vandana Chavan, Shiv Sena’s Vinayak Raut and Congress’s Sangram Thopate. After the meeting, Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje said that the President heard them patiently and assured to study the entire issue. “He said that he will inform us about the further course of action by studying the entire matter,” Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje said.He added that they have requested the President for immediate intervention. “While striking down the reservation given to Maratha, SC said that the community cannot be called backward as it does not reside in “far flung and remote areas” which define the extra ordinary and exceptional situation to establish the backwardness. Even if the recent constitutional amendment has given powers back to the state governments to give the reservation on the basis of backwardness, it cannot be of any avail in such a situation. We have requested to either change the definition of backwardness or remove the ceiling of 50% on reservation,” he said.In the letter given to the President, the leaders have stated that not only Maharashtra, but many other states have excluded the 50% reservation limit and are likely to face legal crisis due to the cap on quota. “The Jats in Haryana, Patidars in Gujarat, Kapurs in Telangana and Gujjars in Rajasthan have been demanding reservation as they have been left out of the mainstream. The 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment has deprived them from their right to quota. It is the need of the hour to rethink over the 50% cap to offer them respite. SC has overlooked the 10% reservation given to the economically weaker section recently though it has crossed the limit of 50%. In this view, you are requested to intervene to give respite to not only Marathas but other peasant communities from across the country,” it reads.SC on May 5 had quashed 12% and 13% quota given to Marathas in education and jobs under Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018. The state government is planning to file a review petition in SC as recommended by a committee of retired high court judge Dilip Bhosale to study the ruling and recommend a way forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-chhatrapati-sambhajiraje-seeks-president-s-intervention-101630611674763.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||As festival approaches, Covid test positivity rate inches up in Maharashtra||Maharashtra’s weekly positivity rate has increased marginally from 2.48% to 2.6% in the week between August 25 to September 1 compared to the week between August 18 and 24. Public health experts attribute to the rise in Covid-19 cases due to the lockdown relaxations starting the second week of August; districts such as Mumbai, Thane and Pune have recorded the highest rise. However, though the uptick is slight, it is still a matter of concern. Here’s why: the test positivity rate (TPR) has increased despite a decrease in testing. TPR is a function of the number of cases to every 100 tests conducted. If the disease spread were in check, a decrease in the number of tests would be accompanied by a corresponding decrease in the number of cases. Data provided by the state health department shows that 1,327,214 cumulative tests took place between August 18 and 24 of which 32,994 samples tested positive for Covid-19. In the following week, the number of tests between August 25 and September 1 dropped to 1,288,798, but the number of positive cases increased to 33,751. Weekly tests in Mumbai dropped from 273,794 (conducted in the week between August 18 and 24) to 264,731 in the week between August 25 and September 1. But the weekly positivity rate increased from 0.9% to 1.1%. Similarly, in Thane weekly testing dropped by 10.8% from 128,321 to 114,454 in the same two weeks. However, the positivity rate increased from 1.3% to 1.7%. A high TPR accompanied by decrease in testing indicates that the spread of the disease is still prevalent and is not under control. Lesser testing means that people who are being infected may be passing it on to others without realizing. Significance of testing Let’s take the case of Pune where the daily cases are rising. Together with Ahmednagar, Satara and Sangli, these districts have been recording some of the highest positivity rates in the state during the second wave. This continues to be the case: of the 44,366 patients registered during August 22-31, 70% are from these four districts. However, though the latter three have been registering a gradual dip in daily case numbers, the weekly positivity rate of Pune has surged to 6.3% in the last seven days from 5.6% that was recorded between August 18 and 24. However, in Pune, the number of tests has actually gone up. Pune conducted 113,026 tests between August 18 and 24, which increased to 115,914 in the last seven days. “With the identification of the Delta plus variants in the district, we have increased the daily testing which has also contributed to the rise in weekly positivity rate,” a senior health officer from Pune health department said. A total of 127 Delta plus variants have been recorded in the state – six in Pune. Increased testing – alongside other measures like contact tracing, mask wearing, physical distancing and ensuring effective ventilation – helps in controlling the spread of a pandemic. In the case of Pune’s numbers, the rise in cases is an indication of high prevalence; it’s also an indication that the spread isn’t going unchecked. Next 15 days crucial The roll out of relaxations from Covid-19 lockdown in the state is one of the factors responsible for the rise in numbers. Starting August 15, public places like shops, malls, and restaurants were allowed to operate till 10pm, while private offices were permitted to operate all days of the week with staggered shifts. Restaurants, gymnasiums and spas were allowed to operate at 50% capacity. The number of people allowed to attend wedding ceremonies was increased to 200 in open venues. Indoor games were allowed till 10pm to those who were fully vaccinated. The public health department is anticipating a rise in cases in two weeks after the commencement of the Ganesh festival on September 10. The department has cited the example of Kerala, which saw a rise in cases immediately after Onam. “Till now, the situation is under control. With festivals around the corner and the presence of Delta variants in the crowd, people need to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The next 15 days will be essential to understand the pattern of the pandemic. Meanwhile, the state government is focusing on boosting the vaccination drive across the state,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state Covid-19 task force. “It is too early to comment if the rise in weekly positivity rate is because of the relaxations. It is only after mid-September that we can confirm it. Rural districts like Washim that are recording a spike are because of a thick tail which is common in any pandemic,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, Maharashtra. Mumbai and Thane officials said that the slight uptick in positivity rates is something to keep a close eye on. “The slight rise in cases is expected post relaxation of the restrictions. Also, local train services have also partially resumed. But so far, we haven’t recorded any sudden surge in cases. Now, we have zero containment zones in slums,” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. “As there has not been a major spike in the positivity rate, we have not given orders to increase daily testing. However, the respective administrative authorities are monitoring the cases and if any particular pocket records an increase in cases, we will do the needful to curb the rise in cases. However we have fastened the vaccination process across the district. Currently, we have completed vaccination of 32% of the eligible population,” Dr Manish Renge, district health officer (DHO) Thane, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-festival-approaches-covid-test-positivity-rate-inches-up-in-maharashtra-101630611616070.html
03-09-2021||Other||Himachal Congress attacks BJP ministers over statements on crashing apple market||State Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Thursday hit out at horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur for advising apple cultivators to sell their produce in plastic crates along the roadside in pick-up vans. “It’s clear from his statements that the horticulture minister does not understand the core issues related to apple marketing,” said Rathore at a press conference in Shimla. “The horticulture minister had asked the apple growers to sit on roads and sell the produce. He is making haywire statements, he should apologise to the farmers or else the chief minister should sack him for hurting sentiments of fruit growers,” said Rathore. Mahender Singh Thakur had advised farmers that instead of using the cardboard cartons, the farmers should sell their produce in open. Rathore described the stance of the government as anti-apple growers. Rathore also trained his guns on urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj for his statement on the steep crash in apple prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-congress-attacks-bjp-ministers-over-statements-on-crashing-apple-market-101630611614616.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid case fatality rate on the decline||Despite the recent rise in the daily number of Covid-19 cases, there has been a decline in the number of deaths due to Covid-19 in Mumbai throughout August. While the daily case fatality rate (CFR) has also dropped to below 1% on several days of August, the average CFR for the city was 0.9% last month. For the first time since the beginning of the pandemic in March last year, zero deaths due to Covid-19 were reported on August 22. August saw a total of 88 deaths, in comparison to 438 in July, which had a CFR of 3.4%. August reported a total of 9,376 Covid-19 cases, compared to 12,557 in July. June recorded 625 deaths due to Covid-19 with a CFR of 3.6%, with 16,934 cases; May reported the highest number of deaths due to Covid-19 during the second wave (since March) at 1,701, with the CFR at 2.9%. April reported 1,435 Covid-19 deaths, with a CFR of 0.6%, and March reported 211 deaths. CFR is the total number of deaths in comparison to the total number of cases. ​ For example, Mumbai reported 323 new cases and 1 death on August 31; 333 new cases and 2 deaths on August 30, 345 new cases and 2 deaths on August 29. On August 28, Mumbai reported 4 deaths against 391 new covid-19 cases. Overall, during the second wave, from March to August, Mumbai reported a total of 4,498 Covid deaths and 417,348 new cases, with a CFR of 1%. This has brought down the average CFR for Mumbai since the beginning of the pandemic to 2.1%. Experts said deaths happen in two scenarios in maximum number of cases. First, as soon as the patient arrives in the hospital, as he or she may have ignored symptoms for a longer time before seeking medical attention; the second, after the patient is being treated in a hospital for a longer duration and succumbs to the complications. Dr Rahul Pandit, who is part of the Maharashtra government task force for Covid-19, said, “Over the months during the second wave, our line of treatment has evolved, and medical professionals have understood the nature of the infection. As the number of active cases has dropped, deaths are bound to decrease.” According to Dr Pandit, treatment protocols were set in place, such as how much oxygen is needed, when to put a patient on oxygen support, what medicines are working for what kind of complications, which has contributed to a decrease in the number of deaths. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s public health department, said, “Through the second wave, we optimised our treatment protocols, senior doctors were attending to severe or critical patients, and Mission Save lives was being implemented strictly.” “As number of daily cases decreases, a larger number of positive patients are able to get medical care at tertiary hospitals, due to the decrease in burden on medical infrastructure,” Dr Pandit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-covid-case-fatality-rate-on-the-decline-101630611494535.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||7 phones, tobacco sachets recovered from Ludhiana jail inmates||Seven mobile phones and six sachets of tobacco were recovered from eight jail inmates during a special checking at the Ludhiana Central Jail on Wednesday. Assistant jail superintendent Binny Tak lodged a complaint saying that during a special checking seven mobile phones and six sachets of tobacco were recovered from eight inmates – Amnakha, Munna Paswan, Hashrat Mohammad, Arshad, Haidar Ali, Sukhbir Singh, Ajmal Alam and Mohammad Osama. Assistant sub-inspector Karnail Singh, who is investigating the case, said a production warrant will be issued to ascertain how they managed to smuggle the contraband into the prison. A case has been registered under sections of The Prisons Act at the Division Number 7 police station. On August 7, four mobile phones were recovered from four inmates of the Ludhiana Central Jail during a special checking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7-phones-tobacco-sachets-recovered-from-jail-inmates-101630611374537.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Prepare plan for tap connections in rural areas, says CM Uddhav Thackeray||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday directed officials to prepare a time-bound plan to provide tap connection in rural areas on a war-footing by 2024. Of the 14,236,000 tap connections to be set up as part of central government’s Jal Jeevan Mission, Maharashtra has completed 65%, while 4.9 million tap connections are remaining.Chairing a review meetings on the Jal Jeevan Mission, Thackeray said the state will not let funds and required manpower fall short for the programme. “The objective under Jal Jeevan Mission is to provide over 14.23 million tap connections in the rural areas of the state by the year 2024. Though this goal is big, this work is virtuous and we have to do it. To achieve this goal of connecting pipes by 2024, a time bound programme should be drawn up and implemented by all agencies on war-footing,” he said as per the statement from CMO.By March 2022, the state plans to provide 2.75 million tap connections, where 13 districts, 131 blocks, and 12,839 villages will have 100% coverage of the scheme, the water supply and sanitation department said. This is expected to cost ₹12,950 crore. According to water supply minister Gulabrao Patil, the Centre has provided ₹7,064 crore, while the state too has allocated same amount of funds making ₹14,128 crore available for the project. In 2020-21, Maharashtra has provided 37.15 lakh tap water connections in rural areas.Of the total tap connections, 9.3 million or 65% work has been completed till August 31, 2021. The remaining 4.9 million connections are pending. The objective is to provide enough water to each household to supply 55 litres of water per person per day instead of 40, the statement from CMO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-prepare-plan-for-tap-connections-in-rural-areas-says-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101630611256069.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body asks hospitals, jumbo facilities to be ready for third Covid wave||Civic-run jumbo Covid-19 facilities, peripheral and super speciality hospitals and private medical institutions have been asked to be on alert in anticipation of the third wave in Mumbai. Civic commissioner IS Chalal has instructed all the facilities to take a stock of oxygen supply, medicine stock, manpower among other things in order to be ready if the number of hospitalisation rises. In a review meeting held on August 30, Chahal said all hospitals and jumbo facilities must conduct a thorough review of equipment, medicines and manpower that will be required if Covid cases surge further. He also said that all hospitals equipped with oxygen facilities should ensure that oxygen supply is connected to every bed that is designated as oxygen bed. Mumbai had seen a considerable dip in cases in mid-August. The city had been reporting less than 300 cases till August 29 when the number of cases jumped to 391. Earlier on August 16 daily cases stood at 195 and 196 on August 17. On Wednesday, cases jumped further to 415, and on Thursday the number stood at 440, worrying civic officials. “We have to be on alert in terms of identifying red flags and acting on them promptly,” said Dr Maharudra Kumbhar, officer on special duty at SevenHills Hospital who was a part of the review meeting. The 1,850-bed SevenHills Hospital currently has 40% occupancy. The hospital has used the past few weeks to train and re-train hospital staff in identifying red flags in patients who might deteriorate, treating paediatric patients and overall infection control. “The focus will be on reducing fatality,” said Kumbhar. Private hospitals to hold a meeting Doctors said many activities have resumed in the city which led to the surge in Covid cases. “But in case the numbers go up drastically, there should not be any shortage for our end,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali from Bombay Hospital who represented private hospitals in the review meeting. “All hospitals will be reviewing their situation in terms of oxygen and availability of drugs such as remdesivir, tocilizumab etc. The newer monoclonal antibody drugs will also be kept ready,” he said, adding that chief executive officers of all private hospitals would meet this week to discuss preparedness. Experts have said children may be highly vulnerable in the third wave as they are among the unvaccinated population. According to Bhansali, private hospitals are also likely to have internal paediatric committees to have seamless protocols to treat children. Good contact-tracing and use of masks are crucial in controlling the potential surge in new cases. Chahal has also mandated that any building with more than five Covid-positive patients should be sealed and all residents must undergo testing. Entry of outsiders and exit of residents from such buildings will be strictly prohibited. Civic officials and police will also be vigilant and stringent about wearing masks in public areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-asks-hospitals-jumbo-facilities-to-be-ready-for-third-covid-wave-101630611254870.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||‘Online friend’ rapes Ludhiana teen for 3 days, on the run||A man was booked for raping a 15-year-old girl, whom he had met on a social networking site, on the pretext of marriage on Thursday. The accused, Gurjit Singh of Talwandi Nauabad village, took the teenager to Ratia city in Haryana’s Fatehabad district and raped her for three days, after which he dropped her at Mullanpur Dakha in Ludhiana and fled. The victim, who lives in the same village as the accused with her mother and siblings, is a Class-9 student. Her father had passed away five years ago. She had come in contact with Gurjit on a social networking site and had established physical relations with him twice. On August 29, Gurjit came to her house and took her with him on the pretext of marriage. He took the minor to his maternal uncle’s house in Haryana and brought her back three days later on September 1. Sub-inspector Rupinder Kaur said that a case had been registered under Sections 376 (sexual assault) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. A hunt is on for the accused.Slum dweller held for raping, impregnating teen 
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad: Gautam Navlakha to be examined at Tata Memorial Centre||Taloja jail authorities on Thursday assured the Bombay high court (HC) that they will take Elgar Parishad accused Gautam Navlakha to Tata Memorial Centre at Kharghar in Navi Mumbai for a medical check up. The assurance came in response to an application by Navlakha seeking medical examination of a lump in his chest and urging that he be placed under house arrest in view of his advanced age and medical condition. The HC asked the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the case, and state prison department to reply to the application and posted it for further hearing on September 27. During the course of the hearing, the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar was informed by advocate Dr Yug Choudhry, for Navlakha, that his client had developed a lump in his chest which needed to be examined urgently. Choudhry further said there was a history of cancer in Navlakha’s family and hence there was an apprehension that the lump could be malignant. He added that as Navlakha’s sister was working at Jaslok Hospital, he desired to be examined there.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, for NIA, said while there was no opposition to taking a prisoner for treatment, it opposed Navlakha’s request to be examined at a hospital of his choice. Singh said Navlakha could be taken to a government hospital like Tata Memorial Centre which specialises in cancer treatment.Terming NIA’s objection as vindictive, Chaudhry told the court that Navlakha would visit the hospital at his own expense and there would be no financial burden on the state.The bench than asked Choudhry whether there was a mention of Jaslok Hospital in the application, to which Choudhry replied in the negative and accepted the offer of taking Navlakha to Tata Memorial Centre, saying he could not delay examination of the lump which could possibly be cancer.Thereafter the state confirmed referring Navlakha to the centre on Friday.In his petition, Navlakha has sought shifting him from judicial custody to house arrest on the grounds that he has an unblemished public service record and no criminal antecedents. He has also referred to his house arrest for 35 days prior to being brought to Taloja jail and stated the investigation had not been prejudiced in that period. Navlakha also said he was being denied basic medical facilities and other necessities in Taloja Central Prison and hence, was suffering hardships at his advanced age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-gautam-navlakha-to-be-examined-at-tata-memorial-centre-101630611074682.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Beautified Mahim beach now open for tourists||With the Mahim beach clean-up and beautification project now complete, Maharashtra Environment and Tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray on Thursday inaugurated the site, which is now open for tourists. The beautification project included cleaning of the beach, removing encroachments of parked heavy vehicles and hutments, filling up the beach with up to five feet of sand as which was lost due to soil erosion, planting of trees, setting up pavements, garden furniture, a play area for children, and a 30-metre high viewing tower for tourists, that gives a panoramic view of the Arabian sea and the Bandra Worli sea link.The project cost Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) ₹4 crore and was undertaken at the ward level, by the G-North ward, that has jurisdiction over this area.Before the BMC undertook the beautification project, the Mahim beach was defaced with piles of garbage, broken retaining walls around the beach, and unauthorised parking of heavy vehicles. The BMC evicted the hutments, and provided alternate homes to five families. To make up for sand lost due to coastal erosion, the BMC used sand generated from the construction work of the coastal road project, and filled up the beach up to 5 feet. It reinstated the retaining wall, which has now been painted with images depicting the culture of Mumbai. The BMC has also installed a mural, depicting trees in the palm of hands, to convey the message of environment protection and conservation, the civic body said in a statement on Thursday.As part of the tree plantation drive, 200 saplings of Suru tree which contribute to reducing wind speed have been planted, 300 saplings of bamboo, and 550 other seedlings have been planted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-beautified-mahim-beach-now-open-for-tourists-101630611015963.html
03-09-2021||Other||No one from my family will enter politics in near future: Jai Ram||With elections to Mandi parliamentary seat and three assembly segments round the corner, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur announced various developmental projects in Rampur Bushar, the home turf of deceased Congress stalwart former chief Minister Virbhadra Singh.Since Rampur assembly segments comprise Mandi parliamentary segment, Jai Ram Thakur paid rich tribute to Virbhadra Singh, who was the scion of erstwhile princely family of Bushar. The CM said he has always had special respect for former Virbhadra Singh though they had different political ideologies. He inaugurated and laid foundation stones of 21 developmental projects worth about ₹81 crore in Rampur Assembly Segment of Shimla district. Jai Ram said he comes from a humble background with no one in politics and no one from his family will enter active politics in the near future. He said that he has a good understanding of developmental requirements of poor people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-one-from-my-family-will-enter-politics-in-near-future-jai-ram-101630610963481.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Congress, Centre conspiring to disrupt Akali Dal gatherings in Punjab: Bikram Majithia||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Thursday claimed that the attempts to disrupt the party gatherings in Punjab were a conspiracy of the state’s ruling Congress and the central government to disturb peace in Punjab. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, Majithia, accompanied by party MLA NK Sharma, said the disruptive conspiracies were being hatched to postpone the assembly elections in the state and to defame the farmers’ movement. Senior farmer leaders were also wary of this conspiracy and that was why they had given clear-cut directions to take only BJP leaders to the task and not disrupt programmes of any political party in Punjab, he added. “The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has made it clear that protests against any other party except the BJP would only serve to help the central government and would harm the cause of the farmers,” said Majithia. He claimed that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers were also trying to disrupt the SAD events, including an attack on his car. Majithia said the same was happening during protests held against the “Gal Punjab Di” campaign led by Sukhbir Singh Badal. “The Congress activists who were leading the protests at Samrala have been identified,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-centre-conspiring-to-disrupt-akali-dal-gatherings-in-punjab-bikram-majithia-101630610962461.html
03-09-2021||Other||BMC kicks off public consultations for Mumbai Climate Action Plan||The civic body on Thursday kicked off the first of the six series’ public consultations as a part of the Mumbai Climate Action Plan (MCAP), which is being drafted by the World Resources Institute (India).Thursday’s consultation dealt exclusively with the issue of waste management in the city, and over the next five days the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will host similar online consultations to invite expert comments in the sectors of energy efficiency in buildings, sustainable mobility, air quality, urban greening and biodiversity and urban flooding and water resources management.According to data presented by WRI India during the online session, Mumbai produces at least 6,800 tonnes of municipal solid waste every day (does not include waste managed on site by structures or by BMC’s tree authority), which contributes to about 7% percent of the city’s greenhouse gas emissions.About 73% of this comprises organic wet waste, while around 17% is made up of sand, fine earth and stones and 4% is wood and cloth. Paper and other recyclables (including metal) make up 3%, while another 3% is made up of plastic.Though audience members were not permitted to take part in the public consultation, expert invitees in the field of waste management emphasised on the need for improving the existing waste management system in Mumbai. Swati Sambyal, a waste management specialist with United Nations (UN) Habitat, stressed that BMC needs to move away from the current system that is oriented toward disposal and incineration of waste, and find ways to ‘mainstream source segregation’.“We also need much better data management so that patterns of consumption and generation across income groups are brought out. This will help us plan for better collection and transportation, and also bring about a traceability of waste,” Sambyal said, adding that the waste-to-energy models should not be considered as part of MCAP.Other experts, such as Jyoti Mhapsekar of Sri Mukti Morcha, stressed on the need to include the informal sector while proposing solutions for waste management in the city, and also said that there is a large knowledge gap which needs to be addressed.“In my experience, ward officers themselves do not know what the overarching policies are. We have Central laws, but they need to be shaped into local-level guidelines for officials and citizens to understand in their own contexts,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bmc-kicks-off-public-consultations-for-mumbai-climate-action-plan-101630610955948.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||NIA team likely to reach Tarn Taran today to probe grenade seizure case||A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is likely to reach Tarn Taran on Friday to start probe into the case of recovery of two hand grenades from a man on August 30, a senior Punjab Police official said. Saroop Singh of Johal Dhai Wala village in Khadoor Sahib sub-division was arrested with two China-made hand grenades on the outskirts of Kakka Kandiala village, 4km from the district headquarters. Saroop had identified some locations in Amritsar and Ludhiana to execute terror attacks at the instance of his Germany-based handler, the police have claimed. A video of training module sent by his foreign handler explaining how to successfully explode a grenade was also recovered from the suspect’s mobile phone. “We have identified the Germany-based handler who transferred nearly ₹50,000 to Saroop through Western Union via two transactions for carrying out an attack at some location in Ludhiana,” said an official.Saroop Singh, who is on a seven-day police remand, has been lodged in a joint interrogation centre where various agencies are questioning him. The accused, the official said, came in contact with his German-based handler through social media a few months ago. “He was easily radicalised as he was a soft target being unemployed. Our teams are working to ascertain all linkages of the foreign handler,” he added. “We have got verbal information from the NIA and an order in this regard is likely to be received on Friday,” the police official added. The central agency is likely to take over the case from Monday when remand of the accused will come to an end. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) OS Ghumman, however, said they have not received any order so far on the NIA taking over the case. Saroop, who earlier worked a truck driver and is unmarried, lived with his mother and elder brother, a former armyman. His father died 13 years ago. The police said Saroop had sold his portion of the land to his brother a few years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nia-team-likely-to-reach-tarn-taran-today-to-probe-grenade-seizure-case-101630610954918.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP faction holding meets pressing on Kejriwal to declare Mann as CM face||A faction of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has started holding meetings, particularly in Sangrur and Barnala districts, pressing on party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal to announce state unit president Bhagwant Mann as chief ministerial candidate for the 2022 assembly elections. Though Mann is not saying anything on the issue, the move is being seen as a pressure-building tactic on the party high command by many. On Thursday, Kotkapura MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan and singer-turned-AAP leader Balkar Sidhu met Mann at his Sangrur residence. Also, the party volunteers, who had come to meet the Sangrur MP, raised slogans in his favour as the CM candidate. Sandhwan said Mann was fighting a relentless battle against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the corporate houses. “Kejriwal and the parliamentary affairs committee will take a call on this and our CM candidate will be announced before the Congress,” he added.Party’s Mehal Kalan MLA Kulwant Singh Pandori also held a meeting with workers in his constituency and appealed to Kejriwal to announce Mann as CM face. At Lehra, AAP workers held a meeting and asked the party high command not to delay announcing of Mann as the CM face. On Wednesday, over 300 workers held a meeting in Barnala raising a similar demand.“We held a meeting and demanded that Mann should be announced as CM face because he built the party in Punjab and worked hard to serve the state,” said Shishpal Anand who organised the meeting at Lehra.Baljit Singh, who is party ticket aspirant from the Barnala segment, said, “We have been working with the party for a long time. Bhagwant Mann is the first choice of volunteers.”Jagwinder Singh, who reached to meet Mann from Dharampura of Mansa, said, “There is a key issue in Punjab about who will be CM face of AAP. Those who wanted change in Punjab have a single hope from AAP and Bhagwant Mann. Everyone believes one person who can defeat the Badals, Capt Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu. That is Mann” Barnala MLA Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer said the party realised the CM face should be declared in advance. “The AAP will announce CM face on appropriate time,” added the Barnala MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-aap-faction-holding-meets-pressing-on-kejriwal-to-declare-mann-as-cm-face-101630610895894.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Rashmi Shukla report: Documents handed over to CBI, Maharashtra tells HC||The state government on Thursday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the documents related to IPS officer Rashmi Shukla’s report, sought by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for its investigation in corruption allegations against former home minister Anil Deshmukh, were handed over to the central agency.The counsel for the state informed the bench that they would consider the additional letter from CBI. The central agency, meanwhile, sought adjournment of the hearing for two weeks, which the court allowed. Thereafter the court said it was an issue between CBI and state, and hence should be resolved among themselves rather than coming to the court. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing the application by CBI seeking directions to the state to handover documents pertaining to its probe in the April 21 FIR, was informed by senior advocate Rafiq Dada that as per the assurances given by the state in the previous hearing, documents sought by the central agency had been handed over to them. Dada further informed the court that he had received a letter from CBI dated August 31 and would require time to go through it and added that if what was being sought by CBI was covered by the undertaking given by the state, they would hand it over as well. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for CBI informed the court that they had received some documents from the state government but requested the bench to keep the application pending for two weeks so that CBI was able to ascertain whether the order of the bench was complied with or not. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that the investigation into the FIR filed by CBI on April 21 was their exclusive jurisdiction and as the state had given the documents, CBI will have to check whether they are the proper documents, the court cannot intervene further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rashmi-shukla-report-documents-handed-over-to-cbi-maharashtra-tells-hc-101630610894546.html
03-09-2021||Other||PAU’s Kisan Mela to be held online for 2nd year in a row||Punjab Agricultural University’s Kisan Mela will be held online for the second year in a row to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection in the city.Earlier, it was decided to hold the mela online at Gurdaspur, Bathinda, Amritsar, Bathinda, Faridkot, and Patiala, and offline on PAU premises in the third week of September.While the senior officials are tight-lipped, sources in the department said the university authorities had sought permission from the district administration for the same but were denied.The biannual affair was cancelled in March last year due to the Covid-19 outbreak and was held virtually in September during the Rabi season. Similarly, the PAU had planned to hold offline mela in April for the Kharif season but cancelled it in the wake of the second Covid wave.As per PAU authorities, the virtual events held last year witnessed the participation of 2.66 lakh persons from India and abroad.JS Mahal, director of extension education, PAU, said that Kisan Melas are organised twice a year in March and September for Kharif and Rabi seasons, respectively. Due to the pandemic, they are being organised virtually, he said.Videos of field demonstrations, farm machinery, and the latest agricultural recommendations will be uploaded on the web portal of Kisan Mela. Farmers, farm women, and rural youth can participate by logging in on the website, he added.During a weekly PAU Facebook Live Programme, Mahal while in conversation with Tejinder Singh Riar, additional director, communication, divulged that the forthcoming mela at Ludhiana will be held on September 17-18.Dr Mahal also briefed about the online process to join the mela and its various attractions including farmer-scientist interaction, agricultural machinery, and display of more than 200 titles of PAU publications.Associate Director, Seed, Dr Rajinder Singh urged the farmers to participate in the mela and buy authentic, high-quality seeds of the Rabi crops, fodder, and vegetables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/paus-kisan-mela-to-be-held-online-for-2nd-year-in-a-row-101630610774594.html
03-09-2021||Other||UCPMA elections today: Candidates make last-ditch efforts to woo voters||With elections for the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) scheduled to be held on Friday, candidates of both rival groups made last-ditch efforts to woo the voters on Thursday. The voting will be held from 9am to 5pm at UCPMA office at Gill Road. It is mandatory for the members to carry valid identity cards issues by the association for voting.In their manifestos, both DS Chawla and Sachdeva groups assured the members that they will oppose the shifting of industries from the mix land use areas in 2023 as proposed in the master plan for the city.The groups also made promises to upgrade the local industry to manufacture high-end cycles and parts in the city industrial hub and reduce imports from China. The candidates also said that a help desk will be set up for the association, and recognition will be provided to the members and their products at the national and international level through the association’s website. The candidates and their supporters remained busy with door-to-door campaigning on Thursday and invited their supporters for cocktail parties that have been going on for the last few days as part of the campaign. They have also been taking a dig at the rival groups on social media sites. Avtar Bhogal, Sachdeva group’s candidate for the post of president, said, “The members should choose our group for the betterment and development of the industry which took a backseat during Chawla’s last tenure. We will work on upgrading the industry by working for the welfare of the members.”Meanwhile, DS Chawla, the current president and Chawla group’s candidate for the post of president, said, “I will continue to work for the betterment of the industry. After the members of the rival group resorted to violence during the annual general meeting (AGM) on August 18, I believe they will choose our team,” said Chawla.Chawla was allegedly thrashed and his turban was tossed by the rival group during the AGM. The police had also booked 31 persons of the rival group after the incident. The rival group had refuted the allegations. The current executive is divided into two groups. While current president DS Chawla and secretary Harsimarjit Singh Lucky comprise one group, the other group consists of the rest of the six executive members of the association led by general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva. Former presidents of the association including Charanjit Vishwakarma, Inderjit Navyug and senior members of the association have also formed United Alliance group in support of Sachdeva group.QR code on ballot papers To ensure fair conduct of elections, the elections committee has decided to have QR codes on the ballot papers to avoid bogus voting. Parupkar Singh Ghumman, the presiding officer for the elections, said that there are 1,668 eligible voters this year, and 2,000 ballot papers with QR codes have been printed.“Only the voters will be allowed to enter the voting area after thorough checking to avoid impersonation, bogus voting, etc. The candidates have been allowed to set up their tents at a certain area outside the association’s office,” he said. “After the voting process is over, the ballot papers that are not used will also be counted. If the total number of ballot papers increases from 2,000, we will be able to catch bogus votes. The police force and private security will also be deployed to avoid any untoward incident,” Ghumman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ucpma-elections-today-candidates-make-last-ditch-efforts-to-woo-voters-101630610773988.html
03-09-2021||Other||Dr NS Sharma retires from GADVASU||Dr Narinder Singh Sharma, professor of veterinary microbiology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, retired on attaining superannuation.The university teachers’ association organised a farewell function in his honour. Dr Inderjeet Singh, the vice-chancellor, presided over the function.The vice-chancellor appreciated Sharma’s services. Dr AK Arora, controller of examination, highlighted his academic, research, and administrative achievements.Dr Sharma joined the university as an assistant professor in 1988 and advanced up to become head of department and later controller of examinations.He also discharged the duties of public information officer, university librarian, and head of the department of livestock products technology.Dr Sharma during his service period spanning more than 32 years, guided 16 MVSc and 2 PhD students in the field of veterinary microbiology. He published 107 research papers in various journals of national and international repute.Under his tenure as HoD, the department earned nine extramural research projects funded by different national and international agencies. Dr Sharma is the recipient of several awards and fellowships.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dr-ns-sharma-retires-from-vet-varsity-101630610714692.html
03-09-2021||Other||Ayodhya airport: 107 families agree to relocate, admn allots alternate land||Lucknow: The long pending project of the Maryada Purushottam Sriram Airport in Ayodhya appears set to take off, as 107 families of two villages (where most of the land is to be acquired for the project) have agreed to relocate, according to the district administration. The Ayodhya airport project was stuck due to opposition by locals of Dharampur Sahadat and Janaura villages, who were not willing to hand over their land to the state government . But after 107 families of the two villages agreed to relocate, the administration allotted them alternate land within the limits of the Ayodhya Municipal Corporation. These families will construct houses on this land with money made available under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. After consent of these families, the Ayodhya administration also asked the state government to release fund for house construction under the PM Awas Yojana. “The state government has approved the proposal for extending benefits under the Pradhan Mantra Awas Yojana to 107 families who will be relocated for the airport project,” said Anuj Jha, district magistrate, Ayodhya. “After the villagers agreed to relocate, alternate land was allotted to them within the limits of the Ayodhya Municipal Corporation,” added Jha. According to the Ayodhya administration, ₹2.5 lakh will be given to each family for constructing a house. In the next 20-25 days, the first instalment of ₹50,000 would be transferred into to their bank accounts, while the second instalment of ₹1.5 lakh would be released after the foundation work of the house was complete, added the official. The third instalment of ₹50,000 would be released at the time of completion of construction work of the house. Families relocated for the airport project will also get benefits of various other schemes of the state government. According to the state government, ₹1001.77 crore has been approved for the purchase of 555.66 acres land for the construction of the airport. A budgetary provision of ₹101 crore has also been proposed for development work at the airport in the state’s budget 2021-22. On November 6, 2018, CM Yogi Adityanath had announced the development of the airstrip at Ayodhya for large aircraft such as A-320 and B-737 and the construction of a terminal building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ayodhya-airport-107-families-agree-to-relocate-admn-allots-alternate-land-101630610354392.html
03-09-2021||Other||PAU enters into agreement for brewed fruit vinegar technology||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) entered into an agreement with startup Sardara Organic Farms for licensing of fermentative processing technology ‘Brewed vinegar production from sugarcane and fruits’.Navtej Singh Bains, director of research, PAU, and Tisjot Singh Aujla, proprietor-cum-director, Sardara Organic Farms, signed the pact on behalf of their respective organizations.GS Kocher, principal microbiologist-cum-head and technical expert of the technology department of microbiology, said PAU has been actively researching fermented vinegar. Several fermentation technologies related to vinegar production from sugarcane, grapes, jamun, and apple have been recommended and commercialized by PAU. The research focuses on the increasing use of fermented/natural vinegar prepared from traditional fruits that carry nutritional and therapeutic values besides the value addition of the horticultural produce, he added.AS Dhatt, additional director of research, horticulture, and food science, said there is a need to encourage brewed vinegar among consumers as synthetic vinegar that is found abundantly in local markets poses health concerns due to its zero nutritional value.He further informed that PAU has signed seven MoAs for the commercialization of brewed fruit vinegar technology so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pau-enters-into-agreement-for-brewed-fruit-vinegar-technology-101630610173791.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||12 MLCs’ list: Has Maharashtra govt replaced Raju Shetti?||The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), led by Uddhav Thackeray, is said to have requested Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to replace one of the names from among the list of 12 people who were recommended for appointment as members of the legislative council (MLC). MVA has submitted a fresh list to the governor with one change. A delegation of MVA leaders headed by the chief minister (CM), along with deputy CM Ajit Pawar (Nationalist Congress Party) and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat (Congress), met the governor on Wednesday evening.Speculations are doing rounds that they have requested him to remove farmer leader Raju Shetti’s name from the list. Shetti is a former parliamentarian and heads political outfit Swabhimani Paksha. His name was recommended from NCP’s quota but the party is reportedly upset with him over his stand taken against MVA government.The name of the nominee to replace Shetti has been kept under wraps.The appointment of 12 MLCs has become a major friction point between Koshyari and the three-party coalition government. The state cabinet had approved the names last November, but they are yet to be appointed.On Thursday, Pawar said according to new information, a person, who was defeated in a recently held election, cannot be nominated for the Upper House, so they are verifying the same.“Some people said no person can be nominated if they are defeated in the election held recently. One can remember that after senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Arun Jaitely lost the 2014 general polls, he was made a member of Rajya Sabha but not from President’s quota,” the deputy CM said.“If there is any issue in appointing any of the 12 names recommended by the government, then the CM will take a decision,” he said.NCP insiders said the party is upset with Shetti as he is planning to contest Lok Sabha from Hathkanangale constituency with the help of BJP in 2024. “He had recently held a meeting in Walwa area (under Islampur Assembly constituency in Sangli district) from where state NCP president Jayant Patil is an MLA (Member of Legislative Assembly). The meeting was attended by Patil’s political rivals,” said an NCP leader.Currently, Shetti is staging an agitation against MVA government, demanding relief to the flood-hit people from Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli districts.When asked, Shetti said MVA was not doing him any favour by nominating his name and now he does not bother about the outcome of the governor’s decision. “No one has done a favour by nominating my name to the legislative Council. It was a part of an agreement between NCP and Swabhimani Paksha ahead of the general polls 2019. In a meeting in Delhi that was also attended by NCP chief Sharad Pawar, we have had agreed that Congress will leave one seat for Swabhimani Paksha and Hathkanangale will remain with my party, as I contest polls from there, while NCP will nominate a leader from Swabhimani Paksha to the legislative Council,” Shetti told reporters.“I have never followed up on the appointment and now I’m not interested. The governor is free to nominate whoever he wishes to. At present, I am fighting to provide relief to the flood-affected people and will not stop until it is done,” he added.The list submitted to the governor included the names of Vijay Karanjkar, Urmila Matondkar, Nitin Bangude-Patil and Chandrakant Raghuvanshi from the Shiv Sena; Eknath Khadse, Raju Shetti, Yashpal Bhinge and Anand Shinde from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP); and Rajni Patil, Sachin Sawant, Anniruddha Vankar and Muzaffar Hussain from the Congress.Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said they expect that Koshyari will clear the nomination of the 12 members to the Council soon. Raut added that the file is with the governor for eight months, suggesting that there is pressure on him not to clear it.He said the visuals of the meeting showed that Koshyari and the three MVA leaders were in a “cheerful” mood and that the governor should show “positive” intent through action now. Speaking to reporters on Thursday, Raut said all MVA leaders said the governor is positive and very soon the 12 nominations will be cleared.“Whether the governor will take a decision after this meeting or not will be known by his action. The governor has to merely clear the file on the decision made by the cabinet. If there is any political pressure on him then he must clearly say that he cannot do it,” said Raut.The Sena MP added, “The governor has not cleared the file for the last eight months because there is definitely pressure on him. They [the 12 nominees] aren’t goons or criminals or trained by the Taliban. They are people who have worked in the fields of social, education, arts, etc. How can you deny them their rights only because of political pressure? But looking at yesterday’s meeting, I think, soon, there will be a positive move.”MVA government and Raj Bhavan have been at loggerheads on several issues, including the nomination of the 12 people recommended by the state cabinet. Raut said Maharashtra does not have a “tradition of political conflict between government and Raj Bhavan”. Putting onus on the Raj Bhavan he asked why a conflict emerged on this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/12-mlcs-list-has-maharashtra-govt-replaced-raju-shetti-101630609874331.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Case against jaat panchayat for social boycott of family||A case was registered against 14 people by Pimpri Chinchwad police on Wednesday for social boycott of a family for not involving the jaat panchayat in a legal divorce matter. The complaint in the matter was lodged by a member of the “gondhali” community. The complainant divorced his wife in 2018 due to personal issues between them. However, the couple did not include the jaat panchayat, which operates like an extra-judicial community court, in the process. The complainant has lodged a plaint saying his family has been socially outcast for not consulting with the panchayat. Among those booked in the case are four are the heads of the panchayat and are immediate family members of each other, the others act as panch in the system. The law that came into effect in 2016 in Maharashtra makes it illegal to hold and issue community decrees to boycott anyone from the community. Multiple other cases have been registered in the past against jaat panchayats of other communities. In some cases, the panch ask for money in order to solve familial issues. A case under Section 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 5 and 6 of the Maharashtra Protection of People from Social Boycott (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2016 was registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-against-jaat-panchayat-for-social-boycott-of-family-101630609633695.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||2 days before exam slated to begin, Maharashtra CET aspirants await circular, details||Two days before the Maharashtra common entrance test (MH-CET) for admissions to engineering, pharmacy and architecture colleges is scheduled to begin, students are still waiting for an official circular on the exam. While the dates were tentatively announced by state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant last month, no official circular has been released to confirm the dates on the official CET cell website as on Thursday evening.“After the initial verbal announcement last month, no official confirmation about the exam dates has been made. The CET website has no new circular, and even the office number is of no help,” said Anirudh Nair, an MH-CET applicant. Nair, like many other students from Maharashtra, recently appeared for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Mains) and is preparing for MH-CET as well as JEE-Advanced exam, both scheduled to take place in the next couple of weeks.The state government recently announced that CET exams will take place in two phases this year – September 4-10 and September 14-20. Between these two phases, however, students have also pointed that the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) is scheduled to take place on September 12, while the entrance exam for the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is scheduled to take place on September 7, 8 and 13. Earlier this month, a representation of parents and students approached Samant seeking postponement of MH-CET. “Around the same time, Class 12 students from the Central Board of Secondary Education (CET exams ) also have their class improvement exam which is scheduled to take place between August 25 and September 15. If CET isn’t rescheduled, either students will be under a lot of stress to appear for all exams or they’ll end up dropping one or two of the exams, which is unfair,” said a student.As per figures revealed by the CET cell in June, registrations for the exam dropped from 500,000 last year to 430,000 this year. For years now, engineering faculties have been attracting fewer students and the fall in registrations could be due to the same reason, say experts. “A growing number of students are facing financial strain due to job losses in their family, and with the pandemic still very much in place, there’s a good chance that students are not applying for courses due to financial difficulties,” said the principal of an engineering institute in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-days-before-exam-slated-to-begin-maharashtra-cet-aspirants-await-circular-details-101630609575237.html
03-09-2021||Lucknow||Eying influential local leaders, BJP to launch membership drive||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has set a target of making at least 50 party members at the ward level ahead of the 2022 UP assembly polls. After the ongoing booth verification campaign, which saw UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev and other senior state leaders personally visiting various booths to verify booth committees, the BJP would launch a mega membership campaign aimed at adding more voters to the party, BJP leaders said.“Various party activities have been delayed due to the demise of Kalyan Singh ji. Then President Ram Nath Kovind’s four-day visit also kept chief minister Yogi Adityanath ji and other senior leaders engaged. Now, both the party and the government would be launching various campaigns,” a BJP leader said.The membership campaign would be carried out at the booth-level and is also aimed at connecting with influential local leaders from other parties. “There are local leaders in various parties who may not be that well known outside their ward or city but have local connect. We will try and reach out to them too,” a BJP leader said.A few days back, the BJP got former BSP coordinator Ajit Balyan from Aligarh and All India Congress Committee member Ajay Shanker Dwivedi from Jaunpur to join the party.“There are others too whom the BJP has been getting from other parties,” said a party leader indicating towards the likes of Priti Tiwari, former women wing chief of UP Congress and Murli Manohar Jaiswal, the former BSP candidate from Barhaj in Deoria. “We welcome all to the BJP where the respect of each and every one of you is assured,” UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev said.“On Wednesday, the Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav said in Hardoi that everyone was welcome in his party. We too are doing the same thing. The difference is that while the SP leader is trying to send out a subtle message to leaders of other parties to join his party, we are assuring those who have come to us get respect,” a BJP leader said while claiming that several leaders from various parties were in touch with BJP.“This is an interesting game of political one-upmanship being played out between two parties in UP. We recently saw how UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev met Mulayam Singh, the Samajwadi Party founder and patron, ostensibly to invite him to the memorial meet for Kalyan Singh and Mulayam Singh ji cleverly made a statement urging the state BJP chief to join BJP,” said veteran journalist Irshad Ilmi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/eying-influential-local-leaders-bjp-to-launch-membership-drive-101630609574185.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Man dies by suicide, in-laws booked in Pune||Pune: A case was registered against the wife, and three in-laws of a hotelier by Pune police on Wednesday for driving him to die by suicide in his house Dhankawadi, Pune. The 30-year-old man and his estranged wife had got married in August 2018. The accused woman suspected the man of having extra-marital affair and had informed her family about her suspicions and other issues in their marriage. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the man’s 58-year-old father. He submitted to the police that her relatives had called him for mediation and had assaulted him there. The police have not yet arrested anyone booked in the case. Assistant police inspector Umesh Londhe of Shakarnagar police station, who is investigating the case, said, “His father owned a restaurant and he worked there. His wife is a homemaker. We have not arrested anyone as of yet.” A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sahakarnagar police station in the matter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-dies-by-suicide-in-laws-booked-in-pune-101630609453616.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Consumer forum directs coaching centre to refund 50% fees to student||The additional district consumer disputes redressal commission, Pune, has ordered FIITJEE Limited to refund ₹36,738.50 out of ₹73,477 fee which was paid for national level entrance exams, IIT advanced preparation by the student who had left the course after a few months later. The student’s father, Pravin Thakare of Kondhwa had filed the complaint in July 2016 against FIITJEE Limited’s Swargate branch. His daughter had taken admission in August 2015 for the two-year course but she stopped classes after February 2016 as she was not interested in pursuing the said course. Thakare had approached the institute to get a 50% refund of the fee but FIITJEE had refused citing various clauses in the undertaking and declaration. After this, he filed the complaint before the consumer court. The forum relied on a Supreme Court judgement in which it has been stated that an institute can collect fees for one semester or one year at a time. However, FIITJEE had taken fees for two years. The consumer forum consisting of members Anil Javalekar , Shubhangi Dunakhe and President J V Deshmukh has ordered FIITJEE Limited to refund ₹36,738.50 with 8% interest since 28 July 2016. If the amount is not paid within 45 days, the rate of interest will be charged at 12% interest. Besides the fee, the forum has also ordered the institute to pay ₹6,000 as litigation cost and compensation for causing mental harassment and agony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/consumer-forum-directs-coaching-centre-to-refund-50-fees-to-student-101630609333611.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai corporators slam BMC over Ghatkopar flyover||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) standing committee on Thursday witnessed an uproar over the death of a 34-year-old biker on Monday as well as repeated accidents on the Ghatkopar-Mankhurd flyover. Corporators across party lines demanded that CCTV cameras be mandatorily installed for every new flyover. The y also questioned the administration over the quality of the work done and slammed BMC for opening it without proper work. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator and group leader in the standing committee Prabhakar Shinde said, “Last month, the flyover was inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. During the inaugural address, CM had asked BMC officials to work on the surface of the flyover. Despite this, it seems the work was not done, due to which accidents were reported.”“Even after the flyover was opened for traffic, the flyover was started only for light vehicles and did not allow heavy vehicles to ply. Why was there a rush to open the bridge when it’s not yet capable of carrying heavy vehicles? BMC ready to take action against the contractor responsible for this,” Shinde added. Meanwhile, Congress corporator and standing committee member Asif Zakaria said, “All political parties have raised the issue regarding the flyover, and we have been assured that a discussion will be conducted on it the next week.”The reactions came in the backdrop of BMC’s announcement to conduct maintenance work on the flyover, which has affected traffic movement on the stretch. BMC has decided to install CCTV cameras, additional speed bumpers and rumblers as well as to make the surface rough.On Wednesday, BMC shut the north side lane that led to stopping the traffic from Ghatkopar to Mankhurd to conduct maintenance work, which is expected to continue for five days. Those heading to Navi Mumbai as well as to south Mumbai and the eastern suburbs will have to use the Ghatkopar-Mankhurd Link Road that will result in traffic snarls.The civic body faced uproar over several accidents on the flyover, including the death of Yusuf Khan, who lost his life after his bike skidded on the stretch. The 2.9-km flyover, constructed by BMC for ₹713 crore, was opened on August 1, three years after its deadline and a cost escalation of over ₹300 crore. The flyover helps cut the travel time for motorists heading towards Navi Mumbai from Ghatkopar as the link road sees heavy traffic, especially at Baiganwadi Junction in Shivaji Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-corporators-slam-bmc-over-ghatkopar-flyover-101630609274380.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Eleven sandalwood trees stolen from Pune’s NCL premises||Around 11 sandalwood trees were stolen by unidentified persons from the premises of the high security National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) Pashan on August 21. Parag Chitanvis ( 53), NCL senior security officer and resident of Pashant has lodged an FIR with the Chatuhshrungi police. The police have booked the culprits under IPC 379 ( punishment for theft ) and Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Preservation and Protection of Trees Act, 1975 Act- Section 8 and Section 21. Police Constable Irfan Momin, the investigator in the case said that the crime had taken place over a period of time and investigation is ongoing in the case. On June 27, as many as seven fully grown sandalwood trees located at Boat Club road inside Ammunition Factory Khadki (AFK) were found hacked by unidentified persons Purushottam Kumar, junior works manager at AFK lodged an FIR against the unidentified thieves at Khadki police station. According to the police, the thieves gained entry into the high security Boat Club zone of the factory and chopped off the trees from the trunk and escaped at midnight. The investigation is still on and no arrest has been made so far. On June 19, eight sandalwood trees were stolen from the open premises of AFK. The factory’s junior works manager, Keshav Patange (59) had registered an FIR with the Khadki police stating that the thieves entered the premises from an internal road near Holkar bridge and used sharp weapons to chop the trees and steal them on the intervening night of June 19. The AFK manufactures small arms ammunitions, while the High Explosives (HE) factory produces explosives’ powders required for production of artillery and small ammunitions. They supply ammunition to the army, the paramilitary and police forces of the country. No breakthrough has been made in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/eleven-sandalwood-trees-stolen-from-pune-s-nclpremises-101630609213666.html
03-09-2021||Pune||2 men extort money posing as cop, bank official; in Pune police net||Two men were remanded to the custody of Pimpri Chinchwad police for posing as a police officer and a nationalised bank employee in order to extort money from people. The arrested were identified as Buddha Bhushan Ashok Kamble (27) a resident of Mitra Basti in Nigdi, Audumbar Bharat Jadhav (29) a resident of Kasarwadi. The two were remanded to police custody till September 6 by a local court. “The two were trying to take money from a paan kiosk owner. A crowd had gathered around the ruckus caused. The night round officials were passing by and found the crowd. When they saw the real police, they dropped the act and started running but were caught,” said Police sub inspector Santosh Yede of Sangvi police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the police who got the two during in night patrol round, according to officials of Sangvi police station. The two went to local shops and threatened the managers and owners with false police cases against them in order to take money from them. While one of them pretended to be a police sub inspector the other pretended to be the credit manager at the State bank of India, according to the police. A case under sections 170 (impersonating government official), 171, and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sangvi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/2-men-extort-money-posing-as-cop-bank-official-in-pune-police-net-101630609096250.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Pune: Thief tries to shoot nabber, bites him; held||A resident of Shukrawar Peth in Pune was injured after an armed thief, who tried to break into a house in broad daylight, bit and fired at him on Thursday afternoon. The incident happened at a building Henna Tower where the injured and his family resided on two flats. A female accomplice of the accused ran away while the shooter engaged with the injured man, according to senior inspector Shrihari Bahirat of Khadak police station. The arrested was identified as Vitthal Vaman Bhole (47). He has a history of housebreaking and theft cases in Pune, according to the police. In the past few months, Bhole is suspected to be involved in 4-5 cases in Pune district and has a murder case registered against him in 1994. The injured was identified as Abid Salim Ansari (22) who runs a snacks centre. Ansari’s family owns a flat on the first floor of the building from where the thief planned his escape. “I had come home in the afternoon. I came out of the house and saw the thief escaping. He took out a gun and fired shots before I could catch him, but I was close enough and nabbed him. He then tried to use a knife, but as he couldn’t use it, he fired three more shots but I held on to him before neighbours overpowered him. Soon, police arrived and took him away,” said Ansari. While the bullet did not injure Ansari, the man bit him and caused deep gashes on his arm while trying to wrestle out of his grip. “The injured came home to see that his brother was not at homem but the door was opened. Ansari suffered a bullet injury and the man bit him as well,” said PI Bahirat. The man has suffered injuries at two places on his left forearm. The police believe primarily facie that the man fired two shots. A weapon and a live cartridge were recovered from his possession. One of the shots that he fired landed on the security gate of the building, leaving a mark on the gate and a casing in the floor, according to the police. A case in the matter was registered at Khadak police station under Sections 459 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code as well as relevant sections of Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-thief-tries-to-shoot-nabber-bites-him-held-101630608976636.html
03-09-2021||Lucknow||469 children in Lucknow lost either one or both parents to Covid||LUCKNOW As many as 469 children lost either one or both parents to Covid in the state capital during the second wave of the pandemic and the count is expected to touch the 600 mark, said officials with Women and Child Welfare Department (WCD) that has been assigned with the task of rehabilitating such children. “The pandemic situation has been tough for all. But it was tougher for the children. So far, we have recorded around 469 such children from Lucknow district who got affected in the pandemic,” said Vikas Singh, district probation officer (DPO), while going through the list of pandemic-affected children. Of these 469 children, 19 were orphaned and remaining lost one of their parents, he said.“As of now, we have registered around 419 such children while the paperwork of another 50 is in progress. We expect around 100 more such cases,” said Singh. He said once the enrolment is done, then comes the rehabilitation part that is being done through WCD’s ‘Bal Seva Yojna’. Under the scheme, the department has also announced ₹1,01,000 for female beneficiaries at the time of marriage and tablet/laptop to affected children (enrolled in Class 9 or above, less than 18 years of age). Antigen report, positive RT-PCR report, blood report and CT scan would be considered as a proof of death due to Covid. Cases where the patient tested negative and succumbed to post-Covid complications would also be considered, he said. Highlighting the requirements for enrolment, he said the beneficiary should be a citizen of UP (whose parents died either on March 1, 2020 or after). The scheme would also help children who lost one parent to Covid and whose family income is less than ₹2 lakh. Under the scheme, a beneficiary in 0-10 age group would be given ₹4,000 per month, provided the beneficiary is enrolled in a recognised school. In case a beneficiary is an orphan, the child welfare committee would ensure enrolment in class 6 to 12 in Kasturba Gandhi Awasiya Vidyalay. NGOs and experts on the subject said apart from focusing on children in urban areas, children in rural pockets are more vulnerable. “There is a need for the department to strengthen the system in remote areas. Despite many welfare schemes, benefits are yet to reach beneficiaries. There is a need to sensitise newly elected pradhans that there is also need to identify vulnerable Covid affected children,” said Rajesh Mani, director Manav Sewa Samiti, an NGO working on cross-border child trafficking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/469-children-in-lucknow-lost-either-one-or-both-parents-to-covid-101630608974647.html
03-09-2021||Lucknow||Ensure full vaccination of teachers, school staff: Uttar Pradesh education directorate to BSAs||The education directorate Uttar Pradesh has stressed on the need for complete Covid-19 vaccination of teachers, staff and their families across the state. The directorate has written to district officials in this regard on Thursday. All schools across Uttar Pradesh (UP) have opened for students of classes 1 to 5 began from September 1. School for students of classes 6 to 12 began in August. In his letter, Ganesh Kumar, joint education director (basic) has asked all basic shiksha adhikaris (BSAs) in UP, to ensure that teachers and staff of schools are fully vaccinated. The BSAs have also been asked to ensure vaccination of parents of school going children too. Some officials claimed that a vast majority of teachers in both government and private schools have received at least one dose of vaccine and about half of them have also their second dose. “It must be ensured that in all government and aided primary and upper primary school teachers, officials, staff and their family members are completely vaccinated,” Kumar’s missive stated. The BSAs have also been advised to contact the chief medical officers (CMOs) of their district and, if needed, organise vaccination camps for teachers and staff. The BSAs have ordered to submit the details of vaccination to education directorate. Some officials said the primary and upper primary schools across the government have registered 25 to 60% attendance of children after resumption of normal teaching on school campuses. Simultaneously, online teaching too has continued to ensure social distancing in classrooms. Officials believe after ensuring full vaccination of teachers and staff, the student attendance on school campuses would go up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ensure-full-vaccination-of-teachers-school-staff-uttar-pradesh-education-directorate-to-bsas-101630608915509.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC panel nod for extending Kora Kendra flyover till Mumbai’s WEH||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s standing committee on Thursday approved a proposal for extending the flyover at Kora Kendra in Borivli. The decision will lead to an increase in the project cost from ₹160 crore to around ₹650 crore.The proposal of that will lead to over 300% cost escalation was brought in the standing committee for the third time on Thursday, when it was passed unopposed. Earlier, all political parties had opposed the proposal, citing that clear details were not given giving justification for the cost escalation.Currently, a 970-metre flyover is being constructed between Kora Kendra Junction on SV Road and Link Road, for which the work had started by the end of 2018. However, BMC now plans an extension of the flyover up to the Western Express Highway (WEH) to decongest Borivli’s arterial roads.According to the plan, motorists coming from Link Road will be able to skip the Kora Kendra Junction on SV Road as they will directly be able to head to WEH via a set of two flyovers. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator and standing committee member Bhalchandra Shirsat said, “The proposal was passed in the standing committee on Thursday. All political parties agreed for passing the extension proposal as the administration submitted proper details. We had made it clear earlier itself that we are not against development but had opposed the manner in which the process was not being followed.”Meanwhile, BMC said the cost shot up after it made technical changes in the construction. It said the escalation is not only due to extension but also because the guidelines for load bearing have been changed, mandating additional safety measures to be taken. In its justification submitted to the standing committee, BMC said, “Despite a cost escalation of ₹490 crore, BMC will save around ₹63 crore, considering it has not tendered the additional works, but allotted the construction to the existing contractor working on the 970-metre flyover.” BMC said the current contractor has shown intention in doing the work on old rates that will help the corporation save around ₹63 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-panel-nod-for-extending-kora-kendra-flyover-till-mumbai-s-weh-101630608914377.html
03-09-2021||Pune||‘Meet and Greet’ facility launched at Pune airport||To provide better facility to fliers travelling from the Pune airport at Lohegaon, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) Pune started “Meet and greet” facility centre within the airport terminal building. Airport director Santosh Dhoke inaugurated the facility on Wednesday. The “meet and greet” service at the Pune airport will be both at arrival (inside) and departure (outside) counters. At the arrival of the passenger, after landing a representative will help with completing the immigration process and with baggage retrieval will be provided at the luggage belt. And then the executive will escort the passenger till the terminal exit gate. The representative will also co-ordinate with the vehicle or driver. Dhoke said, “Passengers can use this paid facility for escorted assistance during departure and arrival for a fee of ₹200.”Welcoming the decision, frequent flier Harish Mehtani said, “This new facility of meet and greet will be useful specially for the elderly people who needs assistance or someone with infants travelling through the airport. The charges are also affordable and it is good to have such facility at the Pune airport.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/meet-and-greet-facility-launched-at-pune-airport-101630608793772.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Parivartan report card: Jute bag distribution top priority of elected leaders in Pune||Following the plastic ban imposed by the state government in 2018, most corporators gave priority to the purchase and distribution of jute and cloth-bags (Rs11.31 crore), besides drainage works (Rs15.31 crore) while spending ward-level funds over the past five years, according to a report card of elected representatives prepared by Pune-based NGO, Parivartan, for the period between 2017 and March 31, 2021.Earlier, priority was given to the provision of benches along with drainage works but this time around, benches were replaced by jute- and cloth- bags in the wake of the plastic ban imposed by the state government. The report card was prepared by Parivartan based on responses received from all 15 ward offices of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) under the Right to Information (RTI) Act and on information shared by the municipal commissioner.Tanmay Kanitkar, co-founder of Parivartan, said, “Earlier, benches were a favourite among elected members but during this term, corporators have given priority to distributing jute- and cloth- bags. It is interesting to see where they distributed all these bags.”“Ward-level funds are typically meant for prioritising citizens’ work. There is a provision in law to call a sabha (citizens’ meeting), place the facts before it and take suggestions. Despite follow-ups however, no such meeting was called. It shows that the demand for jute bags is not from the citizens but the elected members have taken the initiative on their own,” Kanitkar said.A majority of corporators also spent the maximum funds on repairing or replacing drainage lines in their wards. A former elected member said, “If the roads get dug up, there are drainage pipes all over the city. It is the easiest way to indulge in corruption as there is no auditing it. Looking at the pattern of spending on drainage works, for the last two to three decades, drainage work is right at the top of the list every year.”Another elected member pointed out that recently, a question was raised in the general body meeting as to why there were only chambers set up in Bhavani peth. “There were no drainage lines but only chambers. Instead of laying drainage lines, only chambers had been set up everywhere and charges were being recovered for laying the drainage lines,” the corporator said on condition of anonymity.As per the report card prepared by Parivartan, this trend was common among elected members from all parties.Indraneel Sadalage, president, Parivartan, said, “There is a need to carry out a social audit whether the work was really carried out on ground or not.”“Parivartan prepared the first report card in 2012 and the intention was to help voters understand their elected representatives and help them choose the right candidate. We also prepare the report cards of MPs and MLAs,” he said.How elected members utilised the ward development fundElected members’ attendance in general body meetingsAsking questions to administration is the key to keeping control; written questions raised by elected members in the general body meetingCriminal background of members but Parivartan did not get this data||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parivartan-report-card-jute-bag-distribution-top-priority-of-elected-leaders-101630608734782.html
03-09-2021||Other||AIMIM to launch UP assembly poll campaign from Ayodhya on Sept 7||Lucknow: All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi will launch the 2022 assembly election campaign from Ayodhya district with ‘vanchit-shoshit samaj’ (deprived and victimized communities) conference on September 7. Along with Muslims, dalits, backwards and upper caste Hindus have also been invited to the conference. “Not only Muslims but other communities too have been harassed and exploited by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the centre and in Uttar Pradesh. The AIMIM has decided to fight for the rights of the people suppressed by the BJP government by organizing a series of ‘vanchit-shoshit samaj’ conferences across Uttar Pradesh,” said AIMIM state unit president Shaukat Ali. On September 7, the AIMIM chief will address a ‘vanchit-shoshit’ conference in Rudauli area of Ayodhya district. The next day he will address the conference in Sultanpur and on September 9 in Barabanki. The AIMIM was not only fighting for the rights of the Muslims but all the communities victimized under the BJP government, Shaukat Ali said. In UP, Muslims, dalits, backwards and even upper caste people had realized that the BJP, the Samajwadi Party (SP) , the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress had been using them as a vote bank. The community was looking for an alternative and the AIMIM emerged as a hope and voice of the deprived communities. The AIMIM would call upon the people to support it in the 2022 assembly elections to form a government that worked for the welfare and development of all the communities, he said. The AIMIM has announced to field candidates on 100 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh. It has also joined an alliance of smaller political parties to form Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, which includes Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) led by Om Prakash Rajbhar, Jan Adhikar Party led by Babu Singh Kushwaha, Rashtriya Uday Party led by Babu Rampal, Rashtriya Upekshit Samaj Party led by Premchanda Prajapati and Janata Kranti Party led by Anil Singh Chauhan. The Morcha has invited the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bhim Army to join the pre-poll alliance. Earlier in July, Owaisi’s visit to Bahraich to pay obeisance to medieval Ghaznavid general Ghazi Salar Masud alias Ghazi Miya had triggered a war of words between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and leaders of Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha constituents. Shaukat Ali said the AIMIM had launched a movement for cleanliness in Bahraich, especially in the dargah area. A large number of pilgrims from across the country and abroad visited Bahraich to pay their obeisance at the dargah. The street leading to the dargah was full of filth and garbage. The fear of outbreak of diseases loomed large but the district administration had not launched a sanitation drive. The AIMIM would launch a protest if the district administration failed to clean the area, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aimim-to-launch-up-assembly-poll-campaign-from-ayodhya-on-sept-7-101630608616297.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Since 2019, Maharashtra spent ₹ 14K-crore as compensation for extreme weather events||Since 2019, Maharashtra has paid at least ₹14,000 crore – about 18% of the state’s fiscal deficit for financial year (FY) 2020-21 – as direct compensation to those affected by extreme weather events. This figure was brought out in a presentation made to the state cabinet on Wednesday by the environment department to highlight concerns raised in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) sixth assessment report released last month. The number is, however, a gross underestimation of the total cost of recent climate disasters in the state, officials and experts pointed out.A government official privy to the development, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The numbers presented to the state cabinet are an overview of the most prominent disasters since 2019, such as Cyclones Kyarr, Nisarga and Tauktae, last year’s floods in Vidarbha and the recent Konkan floods. An amount of ₹14,000 crore was the outlay in compensation that was directly paid toward the rehabilitation of affected persons. The real cost of the disasters is of course much higher because a lot of money has to also be allocated toward infrastructure repairs.”Last year alone, Maharashtra paid about ₹5,500 crore as compensation for extreme weather events, including hail storms, unseasonal rainfall, extended monsoon rainfall, cyclone, heat waves, lightning and cold waves, data obtained from the state disaster management authority and the environment and the climate change department has revealed.Most of this amount was disbursed to farmers for agricultural damages – losses of property and crops – after a delay in withdrawal of monsoon led to unseasonal heavy rainfall and damage of harvested crops such as cotton, sugarcane, gram and several fruit harvests. Official data shows that agricultural damage was witnessed over 700,000 hectares across 10 districts in central and western Maharashtra, and almost 89,000 hectares across 36 talukas in the Vidarbha region.But Maharashtra’s total cost incurred due to climate disasters for the year 2020 alone comes to a total of ₹13,000 crore, which includes at least another ₹4,000 crore spent toward fixing damaged roads, reinstating water supplies, refurbishing damaged power infrastructure and various other urban and rural infrastructure fixes, along with ex gratia payments made to victims of heat waves, cold waves and lightning strikes.It also includes at least ₹568 crore that was spent on disaster relief after Cyclone Nisarga hit last June, along with about ₹912 crore that was spent on stormwater drains and flood mitigation projects in Mumbai alone. The Mumbai civic body also spent an additional ₹36 crore for building water-holding structures under the sponge city master plan, disaster management data shows.This year, the state government has paid compensation of at least ₹227 crore directly to the victims of Cyclone Tauktae and Konkan floods, but the total cost of climate disasters in the ongoing calendar year is likely to be in excess of ₹11,500 crore (which is the strength of the relief package announced by the Maharashtra on August 2). “We will have to wait and see how things pan out over the rest of the year. If there are unseasonal rains in October again and crop harvesting is affected, the total cost of climate related disasters will be higher than in 2020,” said the government official quoted above.Even though experts were alarmed at the scale of these losses, they emphasized that the real cost of climate change-induced disasters are intangible. “The government of Maharashtra, which at the very least is cognizant of emerging climate science, may have allotted ₹11,500 as relief to flood victims, but that will only make up for calculable losses and provide relief to the poorest of the poor. That compensation is necessary of course, but try and imagine for a second the larger economic losses that are incurred when hundreds of thousands of people cannot make it to work for a few days, and when thousands of businesses are forced to remain shut because of flooding. It is exponential when compared to the losses we calculate. The cost of our inaction against climate change will only increase unless we first learn to adapt to these emerging trends of extreme weather,” said Dr Anjal Prakash, research director at the Indian School of Business (ISB), and a lead author of the ongoing 6th Assessment Report of IPCC (where he is involved in the chapter on cities, settlements and key infrastructure).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/since-2019-maharashtra-spent-14k-crore-as-compensation-for-extreme-weather-events-101630608614248.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Women entrepreneurs’ meet 2021 in Pune||Craft Your Wishes will organise “Swawlambini Women Entrepreneurs’ Meet 2021” at the Sheraton Grand, Bund Garden. The inaugural session of the event is scheduled at 2pm on Saturday (September 4). Shweta Shalini, chief evangelist Billennium Divas and advisor to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, will be the chief guest for the event; while Aneeta Sanas, founder of Healing Touch and past chair at FICCI Ladies Organisation will preside over as the guest of honour. Dr Priya Parekh, founder of Beautyesthetics; Neha Verma Madan, founder, Stage Bright events; Rommal Surana, founder, Nanha Gyan foundation; WICCI president Maharashtra Shraddha Kulkarni; WICCI president Uttar Pradesh Deepanshi Nandi; and Trishla Rana, vice-president, MH International human rights and crime control organisation will be special guests. Founded by Preeti Yadav, Pranali Vardam and Prachi Pawar, Swawlambini is a platform for women entrepreneurs to showcase their brands before business leaders. Preeti said, “Swalambini is a cautiously crafted platform designed by passionate group of free-spirited enterprising women, with a hope to reach out to all socially conscious, motivated and self-driven strong women of substance, enabling them to share their story of success with the world, facilitate their steps into the arena of global entrepreneurship, celebrating the spirit of true womanhood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/women-entrepreneurs-meet-2021-in-pune-101630608373616.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Volunteers suggest a more disabled-friendly Pune metro||To get to know first-hand whether the metro is adequately equipped for persons with disabilities (PWDs), the Maha Metro – Pune Metro on Tuesday organised a visit to the Sant Tukaram metro station at Pimpri for volunteers from various organisations for the specially-abled. Turns out the volunteers were satisfied with some arrangements even as they gave suggestions to modify others to make the metro more PWD-friendly.Hemant Sonwane, general manager of Maha Metro – Pune Metro, said, “The visit was to give them a first-hand look at the metro station and it is obvious that the station has all the facilities for the specially-abled. A wheelchair-bound person can easily board a train without anybody’s help. All facilities have been provided.”Whereas orthopaedically challenged Diksha Dinde, a national youth awardee who works on accessibility and inclusive education for PWDs, said, “It was very good initiative by the Pune Metro to invite all specially-abled people to visit and give their suggestions.”“I found my wheelchair stuck in the gap between the platform and train and that would be problematic for people who are visually impaired as chances are they will not see the gap which could lead to an accident. There is a need for signs inside the metro with big writing as people with low vision find it difficult to read small fonts. “The wash rooms were not accessible and should be built in such a way that a wheelchair can go inside. “There should also be supporting bars inside that will benefit the specially-abled,” Dinde said.Anita Iyer - accessibility, diversity and inclusion consultant and disability rights’ advocate and founder of the Ekansh trust – gave a few accessibility suggestions. “The Maha Metro – Pune Metro is taking very good initiatives for PWDs. The Ekansh trust has given a few more suggestions to make the journey easier for the specially-abled,” she said. The Ekansh trust is empanelled by the ministry of social justice and empowerment, government of India.Suggestions by Ekansh trustReflective flooring is confusing for those with low vision.Toilet doors open inwards.The gap between the train and platform can be corrected with a retractable ramp.More pictorial signage using standard international colour codes required for better visibility.Tactile strip inside the train needed to indicate entry and exit points.Signage on platforms needed to indicate the closest entry to wheelchair slots.People with hearing impairments noticed there was no emergency button for them while there was an emergency microphone for others to speak to the engine driver. Emergency button suggested next to the microphone.Areas below steps/stairways need to be blocked off||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/volunteers-suggest-a-more-disabled-friendly-pune-metro-101630608194791.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||HC stays defamation proceedings against Haryana ADGP Virk||The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed defamation proceedings initiated on complaint of a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) against Haryana additional director general of police (ADGP) Navdeep Singh Virk. The proceedings have been initiated by a Panipat court acting on the complaint of DSP Naresh Kumar Ahlawat. The HC bench of justice Lalit Batra acted on the plea from Virk and sought response from Ahlawat and the state government by October 29. He had told the court that a judicial magistrate court, Panipat, acted on complaint of Ahlawat filed in October 2018 alleging defamation and summons had been issued to him on January 14, 2020. As per the court notice, he has been summoned to face trial for the commission of offence under the Sections of defamation. The complaint was made on the basis of a news report on Virk’s communication of September 11, 2018, as additional director general of police, Karnal division, to the state DGP in which transfer and departmental proceedings against Ahlawat were recommended, his lawyer Sartej Narula had told court, adding that the report was in the public interest and cannot be termed as defamatory. The communication reportedly talked about Ahlawat allegedly influencing a probe in a cheating case and biased probe in a molestation case among others, when he was posted as DSP Panipat. Subsequently, Ahlawat was transferred out of Panipat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-stays-defamation-proceedings-against-haryana-adgp-virk-101630608194194.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Shatrujeet Kapoor is new Haryana vigilance chief||The Haryana government on Thursday posted 1990-batch IPS officer Shatrujeet Kapoor as director general (DG) state vigilance bureau.Prior to the orders issued by the home department on Thursday, Kapoor was holding charge of DG (prisons) and principal secretary (transport).DG (crime) Mohammad Akil was posted as DG (prisons) replacing Kapoor.Inspector general (IG), South Range, Rewari, Vikas Arora was posted as commissioner of police, Faridabad, replacing OP Singh.Singh was posted as additional director general of police, crime and director, state crime record bureau.Director of investigation, Haryana Human Rights Commission, M Ravi Kiran was posted as IG, South Range, Rewari replacing Arora.Hardeep Doon was posted as director of investigation, Haryana Human Rights Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shatrujeet-kapoor-is-new-haryana-vigilance-chief-101630608137232.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||JNU teachers, students protest as counterterrorism course gets EC’s nod||The executive council of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Thursday approved a course on counterterrorism, amid protests by teachers and students, even as it gave its nod to other projects, including setting up a medical college and observing Partition Remembrance Day on August 14, in accordance with the central government’s announcement.According to teachers the ‘Counter Terrorism, Asymmetric Conflicts and Strategies for Cooperation among Major Powers’ course — which will be taught to engineering students — had problems with the content and reading list. Student activists called the course ‘Islamophobic’.The course was passed by the Academic Council on August 17.On Wednesday, the university’s vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said that there was a “needless controversy” over the new counterterrorism course.Kumar said the controversy was being created “without going into the academic merits” of the course.“There is a need to further evolve India’s perspective in a balanced and objective manner. This course has the potential to build a strong narrative for India. An in-depth understanding of various global and regional terrorist networks is a part of the curriculum of this course,” said Kumar.Teachers raised issues during Thursday’s EC meeting on the counterterrorism course. “Courses like these will degrade the standard of the university. No critical scrutiny was allowed on the course even in EC,” said JNU teachers’ association secretary Moushumi Basu.Waseem RS, a member of Fraternity Movement JNU, said “The proposal of the course reflects upon the Islamophobia of JNU administration. The course will create a terrible situation for the Muslim JNU students as it will further the Islamophobic questions they face periodically in JNU,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnu-teachers-students-protest-as-counterterrorism-course-gets-ec-s-nod-101630608135765.html
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana chief secy reviews HCS exam arrangements||The Haryana government on Thursday said adequate measures have been taken to ensure a smooth, free and fair conduct of the Haryana Civil Service (HCS) and allied examination scheduled for September 12.At least 1.48 lakh candidates will appear for the exam at 538 centres in 13 districts across state.Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan held a meeting with deputy commissioners (DCs) regarding conduct of the examination on Thursday.The chief secretary directed the DCs to appoint magistrates or executive magistrates in their districts while joint team of magistrate and police will visit the exam centres and crosscheck the arrangements.Vardhan also directed the DCs to appoint a nodal officer for overall supervision of the examination.In the meeting, ADGP (law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk directed the SPs that checking should be done in the exam centres and surrounding areas on the day of the exam, and special attention should be given to ensure that no large gathering should be allowed outside the centres.The exam will be held on September 12 in two shifts. Haryana Public Service Commission chairman Alok Verma also attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-chief-secy-reviews-hcs-exam-arrangements-101630608075517.html
03-09-2021||Other||Won’t oppose CM’s visit to felicitate medallists: Farm leaders||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will attend two gatherings in Sonepat’s Khewra village on September 4 to felicitate Sumit Antil, who won gold medal at Tokyo Paralympics in men’s javelin; and the next day he will visit Khuddan village in Jhajjar to honour wrestler Bajrang Punia for securing bronze in the recently concluded Olympics.Sportspersons winning medals in international events seems to have come as a ticket for Khattar and other BJP-JJP leaders to enter Haryana villages who were otherwise struggling amid farmers’ protests against Centre’s three farm laws.Jhajjar deputy commissioner (DC) Shyam Lal Punia and superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Duggal visited Bajrang Punia’s native village Khuddan to inspect the site where the CM will felicitate Punia for winning bronze in Tokyo Olympics.A couple of days ago, residents of Khuddan village, accompanying Bajrang Punia’s father, had met Khattar and invited him to take part in the felicitation ceremony.Residents of Khewra and Khuddan villages said they had taken other locals and farmers in confidence to organise the gatherings to felicitate the Olympics and Paralympics champions.“The functions are being conducted to honour the medallists so no one has any objection to Khattar and other ministers’ presence at these events. Farmers are opposing Centre’s farm laws and have no personal enmity with the CM or other ministers,” said residents of both the villages.On August 18, Khattar and other party leaders had taken part in a public function to felicitate Tokyo Olympics silver medallist Ravi Dahiya at his native Nahri village in Sonepat.Later on the same day, Khattar visited Kurad village in district to felicitate Olympics bronze medallist hockey player Sumit Kumar.Two farm leaders, pleading anonymity, said they will not oppose the CM’s visit to honour the medallists but after that they will continue to lodge protests against the farm laws.“We had not protested his visits to Nahri and Kurad as he was there to honour Ravi and Sumit. And we protested his visit in Karnal last week as it was a party meet. We will continue to not allow him to hold party and government programmes,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wont-oppose-cm-s-visit-to-felicitate-medallists-farm-leaders-101630607954277.html
03-09-2021||Pune||Pune railway ticket checkers reunite two runaway teenagers with their family in Kalyan||Two ticket checkers of Pune railway division found two minor youngsters roaming at the Pune railway station and handed them over to their parents hailing from Kalyan. The officials asked the minors about their whereabouts as they were seen walking on the station premises on Wednesday early morning in suspicious manner. The teenagers said that they have run away from their home. “Their parents were alerted and the boys were handed over to ‘Sathi’, an NGO that works towards finding runway kids. The senior ticket checker Suresh Mishra and Sushil Jha helped the teenagers get back to their family and fall in the trap of anti-social elements,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. As per the information given by the railways, ticket checkers also observe public movement on the railway station premises. During the night duty at Pune station, Mishra and Jha found the two teenagers at around 3 am without ticket. “Since the Covid outbreak, teenage boys run away from their homes and come to cities like Pune and Mumbai in search of work. They come without informing their parents. Pune Railway Protection Force (RPF) has already formed ‘Savitribai Phule squad’ to identify such children and reunite them with their families. Till now, 235 runaway children were found by the squad in last ten months,” Jhawar said.According to the railway official, the runway kids hail from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Orissa, Goa, Karnataka, Telangana, Rajasthan and even Nepal. While the highest number of children coming from outside state to Pune is from Bihar which is 61.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-railway-ticket-checkers-reunite-two-runaway-teenagers-with-their-family-in-kalyan-101630607903535.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 4,342 new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra recorded 4,342 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing the count to 6,473,674 on Thursday. The tally of active cases reduced to 50,607 as 4,755 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. The state also saw 55 Covid-19 casualties, taking the toll to 137,551. Ahmednagar reported the highest toll with 14 deaths. It was followed by Satara with nine fatalities.While there are predictions that the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to hit the state this month, the steady rate of daily infections has become a cause for concern for officials. Maharashtra still has over 50,000 active cases and they are hovering between 50,000 and 51,000 for the past week. On August 24, the tally of active cases was 49,752.Meanwhile, the paediatric task force has discussed with the state school education department officials on reopening schools in the state. They want to ensure that schools are fully prepared and physical classes will not lead to a spike in cases.Bachchu Kadu, minister of state for school education, said that the decision on reopening schools would be taken in the next two days. “A meeting in this regard will be held in the next few days. Schools have started in other states of the country and should be started in the state as well. But the decision will have to be taken carefully considering the fact that Maharashtra has the highest number of active cases after Kerala,” Kadu said.Dr Bakul Parekh, a member of the paediatric task force, said, “We also want the schools to be reopened, but with certain precautions as we are concerned about their health. Children are definitely suffering from mental health issues and nutrition and thus schools should be reopened, but in a safe environment. To ensure the same, we have recommended that teaching and non-teaching staff of schools should be vaccinated; there must be proper seating arrangements in the class and one bench should be reserved for one student only.“The schools should divide students in two batches and they should be called for physical classes on alternate days. For example, half the students can be called today and the rest tomorrow and at the same time online classes can also be continued. The sports activities which require close contact should be avoided. Schools can also be started in a staggered manner by allowing some classes now and increasing them later based on the situation and if in case any rise is observed they can be stopped immediately,” he said.Most importantly, classes should be sanitised and there must be a monitoring system in place in all the schools. The school staff should also be trained to deal in case of a medical emergency, added Dr Parekh.Physical classes in schools were shut in Maharashtra from March 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the state. On July 12, schools in rural areas were allowed to resume physical classes for Class 8 to 12 students where Covid-19 cases are minimal. Nearly 17,701 schools resumed offline classes in rural areas where Covid-19 cases are on decline, the officials informed.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that the state government planned to fully vaccinate all teaching and non-teaching staff before the reopening of schools. “We have decided that until a decision is taken on school reopening, we will fully vaccinate teaching and non-teaching staff in schools that include all the zilla parishad or government schools and aided and unaided schools,” he said.On August 29, the state health minister Rajesh Tope also said they are working on vaccinating all the teaching and non-teaching by September 5, which will be their first step towards reopening schools in the state.Going by the prediction made by experts, the state government is expecting a rise in Covid-19 cases between September 15 and the first week of October, which could also be the beginning of the third wave.On Wednesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray during the presentation by the health department on the current Covid-19 situation told his cabinet colleagues that the central government had asked the state to take due precautions during upcoming festivals. He said that the state needs to take care to keep the spread of the Covid-19 under check. The CM is expected to hold a review meeting with the state-appointed task force of doctors and officials from health and other departments in the next few days to discuss the steps in the wake of the possibility of the rise in cases.He will also convene a medical conference with doctors across the state in the wake of the potential third wave on September 5. The state government and the members of the task force will guide the doctors over the precautions and line of treatment during the potential wave.The central government has projected the Covid-19 cases in the third wave to rise to 6 million from 4 million during the second wave, resulting in the oxygen demand to treat patients to rise to 3,500 to 4,000 metric tonnes a day.On Thursday, Mumbai clocked 440 cases and reported a total of 745,010 cases till date. It also recorded three fatalities, taking the toll to 15,984.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 172,579 samples and had a positivity rate of 2.51%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 11.92%, according to the data issued by the state health department.The state also vaccinated 69,909 people on Thursday and has administered a total 60,754,445 doses till date, according to the data available on Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-4-342-new-covid-19-cases-101630607897176.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Gangter’s death in Tihar cell: Delhi high court says injuries point to torture during custody||The Delhi high court on Thursday observed that the nature of injuries on Ankit Gujjar’s body, who was found dead inside his cell at Tihar jail on August 4, clearly suggested that it was case of “custodial violence and torture”.Justice Mukta Gupta, while hearing a plea by Gujjar’s mother who demanded a CBI probe into the alleged murder of her son, said the statements by the eye witnesses given to the police indicated that he was not only beaten, but CCTV was also shut by errant jail officials during the incident.“Nature of injuries clearly show that it’s a case of custodial violence/torture. It’s a very serious matter, how did the CCTV get closed… You see the manner in which the incident has taken place. He (deputy superintendent) not only beats but also gets the CCTV shut down... It’s not simply the case of a departmental enquiry. A life has been lost,” the judge said.The court, while reserving its order on demand for a CBI probe, said the incident involved a larger issue of extortion by jail officials.The post-mortem report describes “haemorrhage because of the cumulative effect of multiple blunt force injuries” as the cause of Gujjar’s death.The gangster’s family have named Tihar deputy superintendent Narendra Meena, three constables, and an assistant superintendent, in the FIR. However, the other accused have not been named in the report. HT has seen the copy of the FIR, in which police have also noted allegations of bribery and extortion by jail officers.According to jail officials, Meena and three others have been suspended a pending magisterial inquiry and police investigation.Deputy superintendent Meena told the investigating officer that they conducted an inspection inside Gujjar’s cell on April 3 afternoon and found a cell phone, data cable, and knife. Meena said Gujjar and two other inmates of the cell number 3 assaulted him and other officials, after which Gujjar was transferred to another cell, and the other two prisoners were sent to a different cell. The jail officers told the investigating officer that between 6am and 6.30am on August 4, when they went to check on Gujjar during the roll-call of inmates, he was found unconscious and was rushed to the jail hospital. Gujjar was declared brought dead by the doctors at the hospital.“The nature of injury clearly shows that it is a case of custodial violence... There is no escape to it. It is writ large that it is a case of custodial violence and who has done it is also very clear,” the judge said.Mehmood Pracha, the counsel for Gujjar’s family, contended that the alleged gangster was being harassed by the jail officials as he was “unable to meet their regularly increasing demands for money” and was murdered “as a part of pre-planned conspiracy”. Pracha argued that the “police was not conducting investigation in proper format” as the digital video recorder of the CCTV installed in the jail was yet to be recovered and the aspect of extortion of money by jail officials was not being probed.Prosecution’s counsel Ranbir Kundu said the investigation by the local police was going on in a fair manner. He sought two weeks to give a complete report on the progress of the investigation.In its status report, the jail administration has stated that four officials, including the Deputy Superintendent, have been suspended and eight others have been shifted from Central Jail No.3 and ordered to report to the Superintendent, PHQ till further orders.Until his arrest in August 2020, Gujjar, 29, was one of western Uttar Pradesh’s most wanted person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangters-death-in-tihar-cell-delhi-hc-says-nature-of-injures-point-to-custodial-violence-and-torture-101630607784235.html
03-09-2021||Pune||PMPML: No hike in fare, daily and monthly passes to be cheaper||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) during a meeting of its board of directors decided to reduce the cost of daily and monthly passes issued to commuters, beginning September 7. On the other hand, the board of directors also decided to strike down the proposal seeking an increase in daily fares of PMPML buses for ordinary commuters. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol who attended the meeting said, “We made a representation seeking the slashing of pass rates and also striking down of the daily fare hike. Both our requests were agreed to by the PMPML authorities.”The meeting of the board of directors took place on Thursday and was attended by PMC mayor Mohol, PCMC mayor Mai Dhore, PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne, PCMC standing committee chairman Nitin Landge, PMPML president Laxminarayan Mishra, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, PCMC commissioner Rajesh Patil, director Prakash Dhore and others.Mohol in his address said that the decision to give concessions to commuters was taken as a majority of citizens must use the PMPML bus transport facility for their daily inter-city and intra-city travel. “The decision has come as a major relief to the common man. While the work of strengthening the PMPML infrastructure is moving at a fast clip, at the same time, efforts are being made to provide relief to passengers. Taking into account the needs of commuters, the directors agreed to a reduction in the fare rate for passes and cancelled the fare hike,” he said.Mohol informed that the proposal for the fare hike was struck down even as solar energy projects will be developed on PMPML lands and sanction for the same has already been given. Also, the board of directors gave their approval for preparation of the ‘feasibility study report’ for the commercial development of PMPML properties and their utilisation for maximum benefit of the civic body. The PMPML board also gave its assent for the preparation of an official report on the issue of conversion of diesel buses operating over the last ten years into electric or CNG ones.Daily pass: Only in single corporation limit Rs40Both the corporations’ limit Rs50Outside corporation limits Rs70Monthly pass: Only in single corporation limit Rs900Both the corporations’ limit Rs1,200Outside corporation limits Rs1,400||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-no-hike-in-fare-daily-and-monthly-passes-to-be-cheaper-101630607653507.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Police probe in a Delhi riots case a ‘colossal waste of taxpayer’s money’: Court observes||A Delhi court on Thursday discharged three people in a vandalism case related to the February 2020 communal riots in north-east Delhi, saying it seems the police made no real effort to trace eye witnesses or the real accused persons and solved it “merely by filing the charge sheet”.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav, while dropping the charges against Shah Alam (26), Rashid Saifi (23) and Shadab (26) in connection with a case of loot and vandalism at a shop in Chand Bagh during the riots on February 25, said the “lack of supervision by the superior officers clearly depicts that the investigating agency has merely tried to pull the wool over the court’s eyes and nothing else”.The judge said the case was a colossal wastage of the hard-earned money of taxpayers as the investigating agency showed no intent to probe the matter. He said the police’s failure to conduct proper investigation will “torment the sentinels of democracy when the history will look back at the worst communal riots since partition in Delhi”.The court said the three accused were neither specifically named in the FIR, nor any specific role was assigned to them in the matter. It said the complainant, Harpreet Singh Anand, also did not specifically name or identify any of the accused persons either in his two written complaints registered on February 27 and March 1, 2020, or in his statement to the police that was recorded on March 3, 2020.“In my opinion, he has rightly done so, because when he was not present at the spot on the date and time of incident, therefore, there was no question of him having witnessed the incident,” the court said.The court noted that beat constable Gyan Singh never bothered to report about the incident/accused persons at Dayalpur police station, and it was only during the course of recording of his statement under Section 161 CrPC by the investigating officer on March 3, 2020 that for the first time he named the three accused in the matter.This, the court said, seems to give the impression that the constable was “planted” just to solve the case. “This silence and delay on the part of constable Gyan Singh is not only fatal to the case of investigating agency, but it also gives an impression that he has been planted or introduced to solve the case in hand,” the judge said. Terming it an “open and shut case”, judge Yadav slammed the police probe as “callous and indolent”.A senior officer who asked not to be named said charges were framed against the accused in 32 cases and they were discharged in only one among them. “There are 32 cases in which charges were framed by the courts against the arrested persons. Framing of charges in more than 20 of the 32 cases were done by the same court that today discharged three persons in the Dayalpur police station’s case,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-probe-in-a-delhi-riots-case-a-colossal-waste-of-taxpayer-s-money-delhi-court-observes-101630607537740.html
03-09-2021||Noida||Noida: Cyber police nab three for duping e-commerce firm of ₹2 crore||The cyber police arrested three persons for allegedly cheating an e-commerce firm of over ₹2 crore on the pretext of receiving defective goods, officials said on Thursday.Police identified the suspects as Rajkumar (31), Arvind Kumar (24) and Sitaram (20), all from Haryana. According to officials, they would purchase electronic goods from the e-commerce website and put in return requests claiming that they were defective. They made payments in both prepaid and cash on delivery modes, said police.“The suspects had joined hands with some delivery agents who used to take pictures of the products and show them to the management saying that the ‘customers’ returned the defective goods, when in fact they did not. The products were then sold in the open market,” said Vinod Kumar Pandey, investigating officer, Noida cyber police station.The suspects were nabbed from Hisar, Haryana, police said, adding that they recovered ₹26 lakh, six cellphones, some fake Aadhaar cards and several ATM cards from them.According to the officials, in March, a Meerut-based owner of an online goods pick-up agency had filed a complaint alleging that they had been duped of over ₹2 crore.“We probed the case and found that there were at least 20 others associated with the fraud. We are working on identifying them. Delivery agents associated with them and their buyers in Delhi’s wholesale markets will also be apprehended soon,” said Pandey.On July 26, the cyber police officials had arrested two persons in connection with the case.Police said that the suspects had opened 99 accounts on the website through multiple virtual numbers. Nearly 120 bank accounts belonging to the suspects have been frozen, they said. The suspects were booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document or electronic record), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 120B (whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death) and relevant sections of the IT Act at the cyber police station in Sector 36, which falls under the jurisdiction of the Lucknow headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-cyber-police-nab-three-for-duping-e-commerce-firm-of-2-crore-101630607479469.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Idol, ornaments stolen from temple in Kalkaji||Unidentified burglars targeted the Shri Raghunath Mandir in south Delhi’s Kalkaji and decamped with a silver idol and ornaments weighing around 9kg and worth around ₹6 lakh in the early hours of Thursday, police and office bearers of the temple’s management committee said.Police suspect that the thieves are from nearby areas who knew that the CCTV cameras and lights near the main gates of the temple were damaged in a short-circuit a few days ago.A case of trespassing and burglary was registered at the Kalkaji police station against unknown persons. No arrest was made till Thursday night.“The case was registered on the statement of the temple priest, Shiv Kumar Tiwari. Teams have been formed to probe the case,” said DCP (southeast) RP Meena.In his statement, the priest said the burglary came to light around 5am on Thursday, when he reached the temple for prayers and found several items -- a silver idol of Nag Devta, a silver umbrella attached to an idol of Lord Hanuman, and a silver ornament kept on an abstract image of Lord Shiva -- missing.“A portable ladder was found near the main wall. It appears the thieves scaled the boundary wall, cut the grille, and then used the ladder to escape with the stolen silver,” said the temple committee’s president KL Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiburglars-decamp-with-silver-idol-ornaments-worth-6-lakh-from-temple-in-kalkaji-101630607478902.html
03-09-2021||Pune||‘Rs42-cr security work tender given to agency run by BJP MLA’||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for allotting a Rs42-crore security project to an agency owned by BJP MLA. Speaking at a press conference on Thursday, Nationalist Congress Party city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given the security work contract to Crystal agency. The PMC is going to pay Rs42 crore to the agency. Due to pressure from BJP state unit president Chandrakant Patil, the ruling BJP has given the tender to this agency in the standing committee.” The NCP leader said that the Pune Municipal Corporation standing committee on Tuesday got delayed and started at 3 pm instead of 11 am as there was conflict within BJP office-bearers over giving the tender to the agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rs42cr-security-work-tender-given-to-agency-run-by-bjp-mla-101630607413483.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Steady uptick in flu cases sparks Covid fears in Delhi||Even as the Covid-19 caseloads continues to dip in the Capital, city doctors said they have reported an increase in the number of fever cases driven by seasonal influenza.These patients are tested for Covid-19, in accordance with central government guidelines, almost all of which return negative. Currently, doctors said, seven of 10 fever cases are caused by the flu.“Cases of Covid-19 have almost disappeared in the city. If someone comes to me with a fever at the moment, I would say they have seasonal flu. Out of 10 fever patients, seven have flu,” said Dr Rommel Tickoo, director of internal medicine at Max hospital in Saket.Dr Amitabh Parti, director of internal medicine at Fortis Memorial Research Institute in Gurugram, agreed. “There has been a 20-25% increase in cases of fever over the last two to three weeks; most of these are cases of seasonal flu. Other than that, we have started seeing cases of dengue and typhoid,” he said.He said the erratic weather in the National Capital Region — intense spells of rain, followed by rising heat and humidity — may be driving influenza cases up.Doctors said the flu this season is also, unusually, affecting entire families.“Entire families are coming down with flu together, just like we saw with Covid-19 during the second wave when the infectious delta variant was circulating. Most people are reporting high-grade fever (103°F to 104°F), sore throat, myalgia (body ache), head ache, and runny nose. Around 10% to 20% of the patients are reporting persistent coughing even after the fever goes down after four or five days,” said Dr Tickoo.The flu virus in circulation keep changing from season to season; experts from across the world predict the strains likely to circulate during a particular year based on which the flu shot is updated.Dr Parti added, “Almost all of the people are reporting upper respiratory tract symptoms; there is not much lower respiratory tract involvement such as pneumonia. There is a high awareness about fever and respiratory symptoms because of Covid-19 and hence more patients with flu are reporting to hospitals.”Dr Tickoo agreed that the numbers are definitely higher than last year as many people were not going to hospitals or getting themselves tested for conditions other than Covid-19.When to visit a doctor?Doctors suggest waiting for a few days for the fever to resolve on its own unless the symptoms aggravate. However, with the city still in the grip of a pandemic, they suggest that fevers not be ignored.“All fevers with respiratory tract infection must seek medical care. We are at a cusp of a third wave of Covid-19. In such a situation, fevers should not be ignored,” said Dr Parti.Fevers, especially those with comorbidities should not be ignored. “People who have comorbidities like diabetes, cancer, heart, liver, and kidney disease must consult a doctor if they have fever. Comorbidities not only increases the risk of death in Covid-19 patients, it can also increase the severity of flu,” said Dr BK Tripathii, professor in the department of medicine at Safdarjung hospital.“All the precautions observed for Covid-19, such as putting on masks, maintaining social distance, washing hands, avoiding crowded places helps in keeping seasonal flu at bay as well,” said Dr Tripathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/steady-uptick-in-flu-cases-sparks-covid-fears-in-delhi-101630607234241.html
03-09-2021||Noida||Metro corridor to link Capital, Jewar airport||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Thursday signed a memorandum of understanding with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to prepare a feasibility report of a Metro corridor to provide direct connectivity between Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport and the upcoming Noida International Airport at Jewar, officials aware of the matter said.This proposed Metro corridor is expected to start in Delhi from the Shivaji Stadium Metro station on the DMRC’s airport express line. It is likely to pass through Greater Noida’s Pari Chowk to reach the airport in Jewar.Yeida has roped in DMRC to work on this project in two phases, the officials said. The memorandum of understanding was signed at Yeida’s Sector Omega-2 office in the presence of authority’s chief executive officer Arun Vir Singh and DMRC’s business development officer Pramit Garg.“We have asked DMRC to first prepare a detailed project report of the 35.64km Metro project from Greater Noida’s Pari Chowk to Jewar, where Noida international airport is being developed. DMRC has also been tasked to prepare a feasibility report for a Metro link between Pari Chowk in Greater Noida and Delhi’s Shivaji Stadium. This corridor will provide smooth connectivity between Delhi’s IGI airport via airport Metro’s airport express line,” said Arun Vir Singh CEO of the Yeida after signing the MoU.Yeida has asked DMRC to prepare the project report and the feasibility report in the next nine months.“The work on the 35.64km Metro project will begin after nine months. And after the feasibility report of the second phase between Greater Noida and Delhi, this link will also witness further progress,” said Singh.The Yamuna International airport Private Limited has already started construction work at the airport project that is expected to be ready by 2024. Yeida officials said they were aiming to ensure that the Metro link and the airport should be ready at the same time. They said the financial modalities will be finalised once the project report is ready.“We want to provide multi-model connectivity from Noida airport to rest of Delhi-NCR so that the passengers can travel comfortably. The Metro project will prove crucial for the new airport as it will immensely benefit the commuters,” said Singh.The airport is billed to be the largest in India, and will be the NCR’s third, after the IGI airport and the civilian terminal at Ghaziabad’s Hindon airport. In December 2020, the Uttar Pradesh government approved the design of the airport at Jewar. The new international airport is expected to share the increasing passenger load at the Delhi airport.Yamuna International airport Private Limited -- a special purpose vehicle set up to undertake the airport project -- has begun constructing boundary walls and levelling the land. The airport project is expected to be completed by 2024 and will entail an investment of around ₹20,000 crore.The authorities also plan to develop a smart city on 1,400 hectares of land near the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/metro-corridor-to-connect-noida-airport-and-delhi-s-igia-101630607174187.html
03-09-2021||Pune||62% HCWs, 67% FLWs in Pune get vaccine jab yet||While the vaccination of healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) was started in January 2021 itself, the total coverage in the district so far is only 62% and 67%, respectively. Officials said that the second dose beneficiaries in these categories will be covered as the supply of vaccine gets streamlined.Commenting on the numbers, Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Hospital Board of India, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Pune, said that in January, HCWs faced the problem of registration. “Registration of HCWs was abruptly stopped on January 16 and later, there was no scope to register them. Also, so many HCWs were forced to take jabs along with the general population. Hence, these numbers are not getting reflected.”“Also, there were two new vaccines and so many people waited. As soon as the efficacy data for both the vaccines was released, many HCWs took the jab. In the beginning, HCWs were in a dilemma over which vaccine to take. There were many discussions internally. As soon as the efficacy rate was out however and vaccines were made available, HCWs took the vaccine on priority,” Dr Patil said.Dr Sachin Edke, district immunisation officer, said that many HCWs and FLWs have taken their first jab but may have to wait for the second jab as the supply is now being streamlined.“As the supply of both vaccines has been irregular, many beneficiaries are awaiting the second dose. “However, when the supply becomes regular, we will see many HCWs and FLWs taking their dose,” said Dr Edke.He said that so far, 79% HCWs have received their first dose in the Pune district with around 83% HCWs from Pune rural, 79% from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), and 74% from the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) having received their first dose. And after initial hesitation, 90% FLWs have now taken their first dose in Pune district with over 98% FLWs from Pune rural, 83% from PMC and 86% from PCMC having received their first dose.“On Thursday, a total of 130,970 doses of Covishield were delivered in the district: out of which, 50,000 were given to Pune rural; 48,000 to PMC; and 32,780 to PCMC. And a total of 9,920 doses of Covaxin were received by the district: out of which, 4,400 were received by Pune rural; 3,400 by PMC; and 2,120 by PCMC,” Dr Edke said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/62-hcws-67-flws-get-vaccine-jab-yet-101630606634087.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Sharjeel Imam challenged sovereignty of India, says Delhi Police||The Delhi Police on Thursday told a city court that Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam’s speech during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act tried to instil a sense of hopelessness in Muslims and also challenged the sovereignty of the country as he purportedly said “the Indian government cannot formulate the law (CAA and NRC)”.While arguing the framing of charges and the bail application of Imam, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and slapped with sedition charges, special public prosecutor Amit Prasad read out the speech Imam allegedly delivered in January 2020 in Asansol.“The issues [he spoke on] were triple talaq, Kashmir for which the mobilisation was happening. Also in past speeches, he has given a clear indication that everything is over, ‘as Muslims you have no hope’,” Prasad told the court of additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sharjeel-imam-tried-to-instil-hopelessness-in-muslims-through-his-speeches-police-tell-delhi-court-101630605976330.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: High court quashes four FIRs filed for ‘same offence’||The Delhi high court quashed four of five FIRs lodged over an alleged incident of looting and arson of houses in a single compound during the north-east Delhi riots last year, after holding that there cannot be multiple FIRs and several investigations into one and the same offence.Justice Subramonium Prasad, on September 1, allowed four petitions by a man named Atir, who is an accused in the five cases that were registered on the complaints by different members of the same family in connection to the alleged loot and arson of their houses in Maujpur area on February 24.“There can be no second FIR and no fresh investigation in respect of the same cognizable offence or same occurrence giving rise to one or more cognisable offence…The places which have been set on fire and looted are all in the same compound and are all enclosed by one boundary wall. There might be discrepancy regarding the width of the passage within the same compound or the exact place where the fire was set, but both sides agree that it is within one compound,” Prasad said.“It cannot be said that the incidents were separate or the offences different. As stated earlier, a perusal of the charge sheets filed in the respective FIRs show that they are more or less identical and the accused are also same,” he said.Police said they filed five separate FIRs because the complaints came from different members of the same family as the properties were distinct from one another. The police said the complainants have alleged that the arson and looting caused them a loss of articles worth ₹7-10 lakh.Atir, through his counsel Tara Narula, argued that consecutive FIRs could not be registered for the same offence as doing so would fly in the face of the principles laid down by the Supreme Court, which states that more than one FIR cannot be registered over a single offence.Delhi Police argued that the properties were distinct and the damages were suffered individually by residents and that the subject matter of each FIR is different from that of the others.But the court held that even if the properties were different or distinct from one another, they are located in the same compound. It also noted that most of the houses in the compound belong to the same family and were owned by different members of the family. “The entire incident took place when the mob entered the compound and set fire at different places within the same compound. Same truck bearing unique No.926225 came to the spot to douse the fire,” the judge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-high-court-pulls-up-police-for-lodging-five-firs-on-one-incident-quashes-four-101630605614208.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi airport launches doorstep delivery of excess baggage for flyers at Terminal 3||Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) on Thursday announced a “pocket-friendly” doorstep delivery service for excess baggage of passengers travelling through Terminal 3 of the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA).DIAL officials said the new “Avaan Excess” programme will deliver excess baggage of domestic and international passengers at their doorstep anywhere in the country at an affordable rate.“In these pandemic times, safe, convenient and stress-free travel along with heavy luggage is a real challenge for flyers. Our excess baggage delivery service will not only help travellers in flying stress-free but also save them from standing in baggage check-in and pick-up queues at the airports. All they have to do is book their baggage at an affordable price and fly hassle-free,” said Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO of DIAL.To avail the service, flyers can visit the Avaan Excess counter at Terminal 3 of the Delhi airport to book their excess baggage.Officials said that flyers can choose the option of getting their luggage delivered by air, which will reach within 72 hours, or by road, which will be handed over in four to seven days.Officials said the booked baggage will also be insured by the concessionaire.The service will be helpful for senior citizen or those shifting from one place to another, who may be travelling with a lot of luggage, said officials from the Delhi airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-airport-launches-doorstep-delivery-of-excess-baggage-for-flyers-at-terminal-3-101630594213022.html
03-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man shoots his elderly mother for trying to rescue daughter from beating||The city police are on the lookout for a 35-year-old man who allegedly shot at his 56-year-old mother for trying to shield his daughter during an altercation at their home in outer Delhi’s Mundka village on Wednesday.Police said the woman, Roshni, who was shot in the neck, is battling for her life in a private hospital in west Delhi.According to police, the suspect, Sandeep, who is unemployed, was angry as the victim had locked his five-year-old daughter in the bathroom to protect her from his beating. The suspect fled the crime scene after firing the shot.“We have registered a case of firing and attempt to murder against Sandeep. Our teams are conducting raids to nab him. He left behind his cellphone at home,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parminder Singh.Police said Roshni lived with her son and granddaughter at their home in Mundka village. Sandeep’s wife, Ritu, who runs a beauty parlour, started living separately a few months ago after marital disputes made life together impossible, said police.“Sandeep used to blame his mother and daughter for his separation with Ritu. He often had arguments with his mother over it and also used to beat up his daughter,” said a police officer associated with the case.Around 8pm on Wednesday evening, the officer said, Sandeep tried to assault his daughter but Roshni intervened and locked her in the bathroom. In the subsequent altercation, Sandeep allegedly fired a shot at his mother before fleeing the house.Neighbours, who rushed to the house after hearing the gun fire, found Roshni bleeding and her relative took her to a private hospital.She is on a ventilator support, the deputy commissioner of police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiman-shoots-at-56-year-old-mother-for-trying-to-rescue-daughter-from-beating-101630591932850.html
03-09-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh’s counsel held for ‘trying to influence’ probe: CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday arrested Anand Daga, a member of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s legal team, after day-long questioning for allegedly trying to influence the CBI probe into the corruption charges against his client.Daga and CBI sub-inspector Abhishek Tiwari, who was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly leaking the agency’s preliminary inquiry report into the corruption case, were sent to two-day CBI remand by a Delhi court.CBI, in a statement, said that Daga has been brought to Delhi on transit remand.“Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s lawyer has been arrested. He has been brought to Delhi on transit remand. Now, two people, including a CBI sub-inspector, have been arrested in the case so far...,” said CBI.The central agency on Wednesday registered a case after contents of the agency’s probe report, purportedly giving clean chit to Deshmukh, appeared in the media. It arrested Tiwari over the alleged leak and conducted searches at his residence and office. Tiwari is suspected to have taken bribe from Deshmukh’s team for allegedly manipulating the report.The agency on Wednesday questioned Deshmukh’s son-in-law, but he was later let off. The agency suspects Daga tried to scuttle the inquiry through a junior ranked CBI officer, said an official with the federal agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbiarrests-a-member-of-deshmukh-s-legal-team-101630563550748.html
