04-09-2021||Pune||Pune ZP ends contract of 594 staff on Covid duty||Zilla Parishad (ZP) Pune has ended the services of staff hired on a contractual basis during the second wave of the Covid 19 from September. This is the second time Pune ZP has curtailed the number of contractual staff. In June, the services of 957 contractual health workers had been terminated and now 594 workers, including doctors, nurses, staff, and technicians are being relieved of their duties. As this move will reduce the number of operational Covid care facilities, the active patients will be moved to the nearest government facilities which have regular staff. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune Zilla Parishad, issued the order of curtailing these health workers and it has been applicable from September 1. According to this order, the services of contractual workers hired for dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC), Covid care centre (CCC) and dedicated health hospitals (DHC) have been put to an end on August 31. “The number of active patients is assessed and they would be transferred to other government hospitals. I have instructed the health officials that this transition should not cause any inconvenience to patients,” said Prasad. Following rise in cases during the second wave, Pune ZP had conducted rapid recruitment drives. Almost 2,000 contractual staff were hired in March and April. Citing budget constraint, ZP had curtailed 957 health workers. According to sources, the state government has directed to let go the contractual staff as the Centre has not approved required funds. Officials predicted that the curtailing may create shortage of health staff in rural parts because currently there is also the additional responsibility of vax drive against Covid19. “Patients would be shifted to other government facilities but there would also need more workers. “Also, the health system would be short of workers. The Covid active patient number is under control for now. We will try to adjust now with regular staff and the workers under National Rural Health Mission. If the situation worsens or the patients’ number increases then I am sure the state government would make some other provision to recruit health staff on contract,” said a senior ZP official on condition of anonymity.As September is progressing, the caseload of active Covid patients is recording a gradual increase and rural areas are contributing to half of that number. On September 3, the number of active Covid cases in Pune district was recorded at 10,042 which had fallen to almost 7,600 in mid-August. On September 3, there were 5,714 active cases in rural areas. Pune ZP has already identified 91 villages as hotspots and district administration has also been instructed to give special attention to rural areas as the weekly positivity rate in this unit was recorded at 4.8% for the last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-zp-ends-contract-of-594-staff-on-covid-duty-101630780164247.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | Black kites, in a dream so blue||Nurturing stricken wild birds to good health and reintroducing them into the wilderness is no mean task. Ask Dimple Bedi Kamra, an English teacher residing in Chandigarh’s Sector 16 and one whose house is invariably booked with orphaned, abandoned or wounded birds. These winged waifs are delivered in boxes at her gate at unearthly hours, and sometimes even ‘gifted’ anonymously.For each species, the diet is different. Overfeeding a chick in a well-intentioned response to its incessant and piteous begging calls for food can lead to its death. Each species and each specimen of a particular species requires a subtle variation in handling. Kamra, who has nursed an estimated 2,000 wild birds, maintains a delicate balance. She consciously restrains the affection that wells up in her for distressed birds. She steadily widens the distance between her and the nurtured ones so that the birds do not get too familiar or dependant on humans and emerge relatively fitter for ‘re-voyaging’ the wilderness. In other words, one cannot love wild creatures to death.Two chicks of the black kite (cheel), a common raptor glimpsed as dark specks in the tricity’s blue skies, were recently placed in Kamra’s gentle hands by the NGO, Mowgli Aid. The chicks blossomed under her care and are five months old. Kamra has slowly eased them into the wilderness by ensuring they regularly fly away from her home. The kites named, Julius and Caesar, by Kamra come back to her for feeding but she has progressively reduced the feeds so that the kites learn to hunt and scavenge on their own. The complication that has arisen is that Julius and Caesar have found a wild companion kite. They bring the ‘Friend’ to Kamra’s abode to share the feed. However, what augurs well for their tryst with independence is that the human-reared kite siblings have managed to bond with a wild kite.“Unlike some other raptors I nurtured, the two kites displayed a gentle nature and not once did they attack me or anyone else in the house. They proved to be very playful and vocal about their demands, especially for food. One of their favourite playthings was my black hairband, which they tried to rip to shreds but fortunately did not succeed! Kites are very intelligent creatures and have proved their evolutionary resilience by breeding prolifically and adapting to diverse habitats and contingencies. I am confident Julius & Caesar will embark on a fulfilling life, high up and in the freedom of the blue skies. My heart has to let them go,” Kamra told this writer.The quill pigWere a naturalist to seek a ramble along the Leisure Valley before dawn, a chance encounter with an Indian crested porcupine would be on the cards. Porcupines rarely wander into bungalows, unlike snakes, and if they do, they are likely to be rescued from the Northern sectors fronting the scrubland jungles that extend from the Sukhna lake along Uttar Marg. The rescue team of the UT forests and wildlife department is called to remove and rehabilitate porcupines only two or three times a year. A porcupine surfaced in a Sector 4 bungalow on Tuesday leading to surprise and excitement. Porcupines typically forage at night and this one probably had lost its way by wandering afar from the jungles.Porcupines are reckoned as the prickliest of the rodents and have earned the sobriquet of ‘quill pig’ due to their pugnacious nature, fearlessly taking on tigers and leopards. Porcupines tend to flee rescue teams but on occasion, when cornered, flare their bunch of legendary quills (or spines) like an umbrella, produce an intimidating rattling sound with the quills, and charge in reverse gear at the target while mustering quite a speed. The hollow quills embed in the target’s flesh on impact and get detached. A rescue personnel was attacked in a defensive reaction but fortunately the thick jeans he was sporting deflected the quill. Rescue teams usually manage to pre-empt defensive attacks by throwing a blanket or gunny bag on the porcupine.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-black-kites-in-a-dream-so-blue-101630780045819.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Vexed with sewage spillage, Ludhiana resident sends complaint to CM’s office||Irked over the sewage accumulated in the streets and parks of Urban Estate, Sector 39 on Chandigarh Road, a local, Premjeet Singh, has filed a complaint with the chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s office on Saturday. He stated that sewer lines tend to get clogged in the area even after a short spell of rain. Despite repeated complaints, he claimed, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has failed to resolve this issue. The filth and mud remains accumulated in the parks and streets of the area, he mentioned, and added that foul smell is persistent while unhygienic conditions continue to take a toll on the health of residents. “We have been complaining against water accumulation and overflowing sewer lines in the area for years now, but the authorities have failed to find a solution to our problem. The accumulated rainwater and sewage even enter the houses of residents,” he added. “Last year too, I had submitted a complaint with the CM’s office and MC officials were directed to resolve the issue, but to no avail. Even the councillor and MLA concerned have failed to pay heed to our problem. If they cannot resolve the issues being faced by the public, then the public representatives should step down from their respective posts,” Premjeet said.‘Filth will be removed on Sunday’Meanwhile, area councillor (ward number 18) Vanit Bhatia said the work of cleaning the main sewer line on Chandigarh Road was going on with a super-suction machine, due to which the sewer lines of nearby areas, including Sector 39, were plugged to stop the sewer flow. The accumulated sewage has been drained out and the filth will be removed from the area on Sunday, Bhatia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vexed-with-sewage-spillage-ludhiana-resident-sends-complaint-to-cm-s-office-101630779984879.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Cabinet minister launches project to help heart attack victims||Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Saturday launched a project funded by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) focussing on the timely intervention in case of heart attacks in Ludhiana. The project aims to save precious lives from heart failure by initiating the treatment within golden hour (first 90 minutes) of the onset of symptoms. Accompanied by Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, director health services, Punjab, Dr GB Singh besides Dr S Ramakrishna, Dr Bishav Mohan, Dr GS Wander, Prem Gupta and others, the cabinet minister termed the project the biggest service to mankind under which clot-buster drug tenecteplase would be given free of cost to patients at 11 centres. Ashu said not everyone can afford to buy tenecteplase drug being used to dissolve blood clots in the heart because of its high cost (around ₹25,000- ₹30,000). He said in 70% of the cases, this drug cannot be administered because of late arrival.Deputy commissioner Sharma directed the health department to sensitise the public about the symptoms of the heart attack through its ground-level health workers as most of the victims are not aware of the signs and ignore by considering it a gastrointestinal problem. He said that the 11 centres included civil hospital, Krishna Hospital, Pahwa Hospital, RCH Pohir, Sarabha Hospital, SDH Jagraon, SDH Payal, SDH Samrala, Life Care Hospital and SDH Machhiwara, where best possible treatment for the patients suffering from heart attack can be availed. He said the doctors and paramedics of these hospitals have been trained at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) in the last one year. Dr Bishav Mohan from DMCH thanked director health services Dr GB Singh for playing a pivotal role in bringing this project to Punjab. He said that Dr Singh brought seven government hospitals which cover the majority of the rural areas of the district under the project’s ambit.He said that coronary heart diseases, especially ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI or heart attack), are leading cause of mortality globally and in India.“Punjab falls in the red zone with the mortality rate of 250 deaths per lakh of population,” he added. ‘Acidity, gastric issues could be signals of heart attack’In 33% of cases, a person who suffers a heart attack confuses sudden deterioration of health with acidity and gastric issues, said senior cardiologist Dr Bishav Mohan while speaking on the sidelines of the programme of ICMR-funded project of timely intervention in heart attack cases. In the majority of cases, people ignore such symptoms, he said, adding that 95% lives can be saved from heart attacks if the patient receives the treatment within three hours and 80% lives can be protected if the drug is administered within six hours. He said erratic lifestyle, pollution, genetic issues, stress, diabetes and obesity are some of the common reasons behind increased the number of heart attacks.“Fortunately, incidents of heath attacks in Punjab due to excessive smoking are less, but findings have shown that extreme workouts (in some cases body is not accustomed to it) and high intake of protein supplements (which also leads to thickening of blood) are also becoming the leading causes of heart attacks,” Dr Mohan said.Dr S Ramakrishna of ICMR stressed that ECG was quite important to get timely treatment. “ECG is the most cost-effective measure to detect such abnormalities. That is the reason why a lot of stress has been laid on the availability of ECG services. Early detection is an early cure,” he added. In many cases, it has been found that people are not aware of the cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and timely administering of tenecteplase, which could save lives in case a patient suffers a heart attack. Symptoms of a heart attackPain in the area between shoulder blades, arm, chest, jaw, left arm, or upper abdomen, dizziness, fatigue, light-headedness, clammy skin, cold sweat, or sweating. Heartburn, indigestion, nausea or vomiting anxiety, chest pressure, feeling of impending doom, palpitations, shortness of breath, or shoulder discomfort are also among the signs of heart attacks||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-cabinet-minister-launches-project-to-help-heart-attack-victims-101630779866032.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Waste piles up as Ludhiana’s first static compactor remains out of order||Amid municipal corporation’s tall claims regarding installation of new static compactors to compress solid waste collected from the city, the existing infrastructure seems to have been forgotten. Set up in 2016 at a cost of around ₹1 crore, the city’s first static compactor in Dugri has been lying defunct for over two months, causing garbage to pile up outside, much to the chagrin of people living in the vicinity. The compactor was meant to collect and compress waste, which was earlier dumped in the open at secondary points, before being shifted to the landfill on Tajpur Road. “Since the three units of the compactor were set up, they repeatedly developed snags until they stopped working completely. These could also not handle the garbage load directed here, leading to daily dumping of waste on the roadside. Apart from stench, it also poses hurdles in smooth traffic flow,” said Dilpreet Singh, a nearby resident.An MC official, requesting anonymity, said A2Z company, which earlier handled solid waste management in the city, was operating the compactor and hook loaders for handling the garbage from collection to disposal. But since the company’s contract was terminated in February, the compactor’s maintenance suffered.MC health officer Dr Vipal Malhora said since the compactor had developed snags, the corporation had decided to replace it under the Smart City Mission.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said the civic body was working on installing static compactors at two dozen sites in different parts of the city. “Also, detailed project reports are being prepared to hire contractors for solid waste management in the city, including transportation of waste to the main dump site,” he added.Under fire from the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the MC has been struggling to manage the nearly 1,100 metric tonnes of solid waste generated daily in the city, leading to the landfill on Tajpur Road gaining more height by the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/waste-piles-up-as-ludhiana-s-first-static-compactor-remains-out-of-order-101630779864824.html
04-09-2021||Other||People in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar avail of govt services via special camps||The Chhattisgarh government has claimed that the citizens in its Bastar region are able to avail of various government services via special camps – which are being organised for redressal of grievances pertaining to Aadhaar card, ration card, ayushman card and pension cases.In other districts such as Sukma, villagers made a beeline in similar special camps in Silger, Sarkeguda and Minapa, to avail of the government services, a statement by the Chhattisgarh government read.A facilitation camp was organised at village Sarkeguda with the aim to provide several facilities to the villagers. “Vehicles were also arranged by the administration so that the villagers do not face any problem in commuting to the campsite,” the statement added.The villagers of Minapa and Silger also informed the district administration about their problems, and these special camps are being set up in these areas as well for “quick redressal.” “Similar camps will be organised in other villages in the coming days,” the government statement noted.Bastar division has seven districts, and these are included in the list of “aspirational districts of the country.” “In the tribal-dominated districts of Sukma, Bijapur, Dantewada, Narayanpur, Kondagaon, Bastar (Jagdalpur) and Kanker, access to facilities in the hinterland has always been a challenge due to geographical complexities and Maoist activities,” the statement pointed out.To eradicate these issues, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel-led Chhattisgarh government decided to adopt a camp strategy as per the local conditions for the development of Bastar division – moving away from the traditional methods.“This new strategy of governance is based on the principles of development, trust and security. To ensure an environment of security in the Maoist-affected interior areas, security-force camps were set up at various places,” the statement read.Furthermore, these special camps paved the way for the establishment and functioning of other camps as well. With the usage of mobile clinics of ‘Mukhyamantri Haat-Bazaar Clinic Yojna’ – medical camps have also begun in the Haat-bazaars of the interior areas, where the villagers are getting the facility of free examination, treatment and medicines. Several schools that were shut down due to Maoist activities in the interior areas have also been successfully reopened.English medium schools have also started at various places along with teaching in local dialects. These schools are being run under the ‘Swami Atmanand English Medium School Scheme’, in which free education is being offered to every student with facilities like private educational institutes.Due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Chhattisgarh has gathered the maximum number of minor forests produces in the country. “Most of the minor forest produce in the state is collected in these seven districts of Bastar division. With better strategy, now the collection of minor forest produce is being done in a more systematic and organised manner,” the statement read, adding that forest dwellers do everything starting from collection to purchase.Self-help groups, in return, obtain these forest produces, and set up purchase camps in Haat-bazaars. “The enthusiasm of the villagers has increased due to the increase in the price of minor forest produce by the government and increasing the number of minor forest produce purchased on support price from seven to 52,” the government statement added.It said that after the minor forest produces are collected, they are processed locally, thereby helping in employment opportunities for the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-in-chhattisgarh-s-bastar-avail-of-govt-services-via-special-camps-101630778884185.html
04-09-2021||Noida||Illegal weapon racket busted, 4 held in Noida||Four people allegedly involved in the sale and purchase of illegal weapons in the last two years were arrested from Noida’s Phase 3 on Saturday. Two pistols, ten live cartridges, two knives, four mobile phones and a stolen motorcycle have been recovered from their possession, said police. The suspects have been as identified Chandan Kumar (30), a resident of Gurugram, Sudhir Kumar (32), a resident of Hardoi, Amit, a 28-year-old resident of Kanpur and Rajesh Jinger (30), a resident of Rajasthan.Virendra Singh, senior sub-inspector of Phase 3 police station, said police received information that four illegal weapons smugglers would be meeting near Gadhi roundabout in Noida on Saturday. “Two suspects were waiting there while two others arrived on a motorcycle. A police team reached the spot and apprehended the four suspects,” said Singh. Police said the suspects stole the motorcycle from Niwari bus stand parking in Ghaziabad on August 29. The complainant, Sunil Kumar Sharma, said he parked his motorcycle at the bus stand and went to meet someone. When he returned after half an hour, he found his bike missing. A case of theft under Section 379 of the IPC was registered against unknown persons at Niwari police station in Ghaziabad. During interrogation, the suspects revealed they bought pistols from some people in Bhind in Madhya Pradesh. “The suspects used the stolen motorcycle to develop networks among people in villages. They used to strike a conversation with people and convince them to buy the weapon,” said Singh. Sometimes, police said, the suspects also connected with buyers on social media. “The suspects frequently changed their mobile numbers to escape surveillance. They used to buy each pistol for ₹14,000-20,000 and sell them for ₹35,000 – 40,000. They kept no record of the weapons sold to the people. They have been involved in this illegal activity for about two years,” said Singh. A case has been registered against them under Sections 4 and 25 of the Arms Act. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/illegal-weapon-racket-busted-4-held-in-noida-101630778605294.html
04-09-2021||Noida||8-foot-long python rescued from Noida’s Sector 127||An eight-foot-long adult Indian rock python was rescued on Thursday night after it was found crossing a busy road near Tech Boulevard in Noida’s Sector 127, said officials on Saturday. According to officials, a commuter informed about the python to the animal rescue and rehabilitation organisation Wildlife SOS. By the time a two-member team reached the spot, the snake wound itself around the branches of a tree on a road divider in Sector 127. One of the rescuers climbed up the tree to safely extricate the distressed snake, said officials. “The python is currently under observation centre in Delhi and will soon be released back into its natural habitat once deemed fit. We have decided to release it in an urban forest of Chhatarpur,” said a statement from Wildlife SOS. One of three subspecies of pythons found in India, the Indian rock python is the most common yet is a ‘near threatened’ species as per the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)-- an international organization working in the field of nature conservation and sustainable use of natural resources. This indigenous species of python is fast losing it’s habitat due to urbanisation and is poached for exotic pet trade or skin for fashion industry, said experts.The python is protected under Schedule-1 of the Indian Wildlife act 1972 and it is illegal to poach or kill the animal.According to the forest department, there are many rock pythons in Noida. “The reason why they are frequently spotted is because the region has several natural habitats for the python We urge people not to engage personally or harm them and inform the officials instead,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastav, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Earlier too, in November 2019, a 12-ft long Indian rock python was rescued by the forest department from Sector-88. The python was later released in its natural habitat at Surajpur wetland.According to experts, Indian Rock Python can grow upto 24 feet and are an indicator species.“If it’s there, it indicates that even at a micro-level, there was a habitat to support it, along with prey. The Indian rock python feeds on large rodents, that also includes large rats. It’s a very non offensive species that won’t attack unless cornered. It may bite if one engages too much with it,” said Kartick Satynarayan, wildlfie expert and co-founder of Wildlife SOS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/8footlong-python-rescued-from-noida-s-sector-127-101630778424132.html
04-09-2021||Noida||5 held for running illegal arms factory in Ghaziabad||The Ghaziabad police on Saturday arrested five people, including a woman, for allegedly running an illegal arms manufacturing factory out of a house in Muradnagar and have formed teams to nab the two prime suspects, who are at large. Among those arrested were Mohammad Mustafa, Mohammad Aslam Alam and Kaifi Alam --all natives of Munger in Bihar. Prime suspects Mohammad Zahiruddin and his nephew Mohammad Fayyaz, who is also Zahiruddin’s business partner, are on the run, said police. Police have also arrested Zahiruddin’s wife Asgari and another nephew, identified as Mohammad Salman, for allegedly supplying illegal arms to nearby districts. “Mustafa, Aslam and Kaifi are natives of Munger in Bihar, who were employed by the prime suspects for manufacturing illegal arms at the factory in Muradnagar. The workers said while they manufactured the arms, the two other arrested suspects supplied the weapons in nearby districts, especially to criminals,” said Pawan Kumar, senior superintendent of police (SSP). Police said the factory was operated out of a house, which belongs to Zahiruddin, and that the manufacturing work was carried out in the basement of the house. Zahiruddin and his relatives brought in raw materials for manufacturing illegal arms and took the finished product for supplies, said police. “Zahruddin obtained anticipatory bail in connection with a case registered against him at Meerut after a reward of ₹25,000 was announced for his arrest. He started this factory a couple of months ago and the workers started manufacturing arms in July,” said Kumar. Following the arrests, police seized five pistols, 20 semi-finished pistols, 55 barrels used for making guns, 13 magazines, 77 cartridges of different bores and other manufacturing equipment from their possession. Police said they are trying to get more details from the five suspects about the people who purchased the weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/5-held-for-running-illegal-arms-factory-in-ghaziabad-101630778184125.html
04-09-2021||Noida||Two arrested for snatching cab from driver in Greater Noida||Police arrested two men on Saturday for allegedly stealing a cab after booking it on August 29, 2021 in Greater Noida. Police identified them by single names as Arun (28) and Amit (30), residents of Simbhawali in Hapur. Their accomplice, 25-year-old Vikas was absconding, said police.Greater Noida additional deputy commissioner of police Vishal Pandey said the suspects had booked the cab over an app from Tigri Roundabout to Tilapta in Greater Noida at 5pm that day. Cab driver Buddu Khan reached the pickup point where he picked up Amit and Arun. “The suspects asked me to stop on the way to pick up their accomplice. At the destination, the three asked me to drive to Dadri’s Rupwas village. There the suspects tried to choke me with a rope. I managed to escape and exit the car when one of them moved to driver’s seat and drove away with the car, ” said Khan. Based on his complaint, a case was registered against three suspects under section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. Pandey said police got a tip that the suspects would be travelling in the same car from Hapur to Delhi. “They had changed the vehicle’s registration number plate and were on the way to sell the car to someone,” Pandey said. The police intercepted the suspects near Sector Zu – 1, he said. Police said that the suspects attempted to escape and fired at the police team. In retaliatory firing, Arun suffered a bullet injury to his right leg, while Vikas managed to escape and Amit was arrested. Police said they recovered the cab, two countrymade guns, one rope allegedly used in the crime and a stolen mobile phone used in making the booking from The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-arrested-for-snatching-cab-from-driver-in-greater-noida-101630777944139.html
04-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Two women stabbed in 26 hours during sleep, police on lookout for ‘disturbed’ man||Panic has set in the Maharajpur locality in Sahibabad after two women, while they were sleeping, were allegedly attacked with a knife by an unidentified man over a span of 26 hours. Police have beefed up security in the area as they suspect a ‘psychologically disturbed’ man is on the rampage. According to police, in both the incidents, the assailant inflicted deep injuries to the faces of two women -- Shahnaz, 32, and Hasnuma Khatoon, 30. While Shahnaz sustained injury to the head in her ground floor house around 3.15pm on Thursday, Khatoon suffered a deep cut near her eye in her house on the third floor of a building around 5pm on Friday, police said, adding that both the victims are out of danger.Police said that they have registered an FIR under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder) following an assault on Shahnaz, while they lodged an FIR under IPC section 324 (causing hurt by dangerous means or weapons) in the second case. Both FIRs were lodged at Link Road police station. “The man entered my house quietly, picked up a knife and inflicted injury to my head before fleeing. The knife got stuck in my head. Locals rushed me to a doctor who referred me to a hospital in Vaishali. My husband was out for work when the incident took place,” Shahnaz said. Her husband Aslam Ansari, an e-rickshaw driver, rushed to the hospital when he got a call about the incident. “I almost fainted after seeing my wife bleeding profusely. But the doctors at the hospital pulled out the knife. I had left my house at 3.08pm as per the footage from a nearby CCTV camera. Nearly 15 minutes later, the assailant arrived and stabbed my wife,” he added. The family is from Banka district in Bihar. The second victim, Khatoon, a native of Madhepura in Bihar, is scared and not stepping out of her house. “I was sleeping in the bedroom when I felt a sharp pain. I thought that my children might have hurled something. Soon, I realised that it was a deep cut to my face with a knife... I could see the assailant fleeing. He had brought the knife with him and left it in my house,” Khatoon added. “I was taken to a doctor. At the clinic, people told me about the similar incident a day before. I am very scared now.” Mohammad Makhdoom Alam, Khatoon’s husband, said that the assailant tried to inflict deep injury before fleeing the spot. The couple stays in the house along with their two sons aged five and seven years. Police said they initially suspected some personal rivalry in the first case, but after the second similar incident in the same locality, they changed the line of investigation. “We suspect that the same unidentified man seen in the CCTV footage could be the assailant in both the cases. In both incidents, he assaulted the women when they were sleeping. It seems that the man is psychologically disturbed and he did not want to kill them. The two houses are located within a distance of about 250 metres. We have formed five teams to nab the suspect,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). The officials said that they have deployed policemen in plain clothes in the area and have also roped in informers to trace the suspect. “We are trying to trace the suspect. All the CCTV cameras in the area are being scanned,” said an officer from Link Road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-two-women-stabbed-in-26-hours-during-sleep-police-on-lookout-for-disturbed-man-101630777884250.html
04-09-2021||Noida||GB Nagar DM to play for gold glory at Tokyo Paralympics||As soon as he got back from the stadium after making it to the finals of the men’s singles class SL4 badminton event at the Tokyo Paralympics on Saturday, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar and Indian shuttler Suhas LY called up his wife with a victory roar. Ritu Suhas, the DM’s wife, said that the world number 3 ranker screamed at the top of his lungs over a video call as he could not control his excitement of having secured a medal for India at the games.Suhas LY, who has been in action at the Tokyo Paralympics since September 2, conveniently sailed through his first two matches in the badminton group play, securing a position in the semifinals. On Saturday, he defeated Indonesia’s Fredy Setiawan by 21-9 21-15 during the semifinals, securing a medal for India. Now, the 38-year-old has set his sights on gold as he faces France’s top seed Lucas Mazur in the finals on Sunday. Even if Suhas loses the match, he will still bring home a silver medal.“I never watch any of Suhas’s matches live as it makes me very nervous. Today was very special as he secured a medal for India which has always been his dream,” said Ritu.Speaking to HT about her husband’s performance at the Paralympics, Ritu said it is the result of the sacrifices and struggles that her family has made in the last six years. “It has been Suhas’s dream, since the past six years, to represent India at the Paralympics. All the tournaments and championships he has played so far have been so that he could get selected for the global event,” said Ritu, who also holds the title of Mrs India 2019.Last year, when the outbreak of Covid-19 postponed the Games that were supposed to be held in 2020, Suhas, the 2007-batch IAS officer, felt that he has lost his chance, said Ritu.“Suhas had taken a six-month long leave from his administrative work in 2019 to train himself for the 2020 Paralympics and when they were postponed, he was very disheartened. Then he was given the charge of Gautam Budh Nagar district, where he discharged his duties with sincerity. When he got the chance to represent India at the Paralympics this year, he gave his all to get selected,” said Ritu.The couple has a six-year-old son and an eleven-year-old daughter. “Suhas used to go for his trainings late at night after wrapping work. Juggling in the two fronts affected our children as it meant they had to sacrifice their time with him. My son does not sleep without meeting his father and keeps asking when will he be back home,” she said.Narrating an incident, Ritu said once she was involved in a car accident in Lucknow but did not inform her husband about it as she did not want to disturb him during his training.“When he left for Tokyo, we did not discuss anything about what medal he will bring back. Badminton is his passion and we did not want to put any stress on him. However, I am proud of all that he has achieved for himself,” she said. Residents in Gautam Budh Nagar are also cheering for the DM ahead of his match on Sunday.“Residents’ whatsapp groups are buzzing with cheers for Suhas LY’s match on Sunday and the residents feel very proud of the district magistrate. As he has already secured a medal, our federation is organizing a felicitation event for him on September 19. No matter which medal he brings home, he has made the whole district very proud of him,” said Rajiva Singh, president of Noida Federation of Apartment Owner’s Association (NOFAA).At the DM’s camp office in Noida, officials are excited to watch the finals on Sunday. “The DM is an inspiration to not just the people of GB Nagar but the whole country. We are excited to watch his match on Sunday and will cheer him on,” said Vandita Srivastava, additional district magistrate (finance), GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-dm-to-play-for-gold-glory-at-tokyo-paralympics-101630777764122.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana lawyer lighting up slum children’s lives with education||Once a ragpicker, 12-year-old Munni wants to don the hat of deputy commissioner of Ludhiana. Braving all odds, this slum dweller now is an inspiration for people around her, courtesy Hariom Jindal. The 53-year-old lawyer from Kitchlu Nagar has managed to bring a radical change in the lives of at least 500 slum children he has taught for free since 2013. As one meets Munni, the unpleasant surroundings may once give a picture of her sorry state of living but only until she greets the person in fluent English. Such has been the impact of Jindal’s relentless efforts to impart free education to slum children. Passing by a garbage dump, Jindal had first seen a group of children collecting plastic from trash on Hambran Road eight years ago. Moved by their miseries, Jindal, who had an international shipping business, pledged to work for the poverty stricken kids and give them a bright future. “I shut my business down after meeting those poor kids and pursued a degree in law. I was resolved that I would dedicate my life to impart education to underprivileged children who remain deprived of basic life amenities. Today, these kids are as smart as any other student of their age,” Jindal said.He added that the group of ragpickers he had met then were now well-trained computer experts, well versed with their fundamental rights, functioning of the government and even the Constitution of India. Jindal is currently running three slum schools in Ludhiana’s Hambran Road, Sai Baba Mandir Road and Nau Gaja Peer Road areas, where he teaches over 150 students with the help of five more teachers. He is also running a computer centre to make his students tech-savvy. He teaches students up to Class 8 through the National Open School and is willing to help those who want to pursue further education. “Young kids are begging on the streets, but no one bothers. The administration makes tall claims of working with various children organisations, but things move only on papers and these kids continue to remain deprived of their basic rights. I wish to see India free of poverty before I die,” Jindal said. Sunny, who passed Class 5 this year, said, “I want to change the fate of my family by becoming a police officer. I am grateful to Jindal sir for saving our lives and pulling us out of the darkness.”On the occasion of the Teachers’ Day, Munni, who studies in Class 5, said she would clear the civil services examination and that would be the best gift to her teacher. “Now, my neighbours ask me to teach their kids and I am a star among them,” Munni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-lawyer-lighting-up-slum-children-s-lives-with-education-101630777705364.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Worker rapes colleague’s minor daughter at Ludhiana factory||A 30-year-old man has been arrested for raping the 14-year-old daughter of his co-worker at a factory in Jugiana, Sahnewal.Police said the Class-8 student and her father lived on the factory premises, with the accused occupying an adjacent room.Her mother was away at their native place in Uttar Pradesh since the lockdown in May. Even the girl had returned from her native only recently after her school resumed physical classes. As such, the father relied on the accused to pick and drop her from school while he was unavailable. On Friday, while he was at work, the accused barged into their room and raped his minor daughter. He fled after threatening her to keep mum.When the complainant returned home in the evening, the girl narrated the matter to him, following which they approached the police.“The accused was arrested while he was trying to escape to evade police. He has been booked under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,” said inspector Balwinder Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sahnewal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/worker-rapes-colleague-s-minor-daughter-at-ludhiana-factory-101630777465183.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana woman loses ₹70,000, mobile phone to snatchers||Two motorcycle-borne men snatched a bag containing ₹70,000 cash and mobile phone from a woman in Grain Market, Salem Tabri, on Friday evening. The victim, Kulwant Kaur, 45, was returning home on a cycle rickshaw when the accused targeted her.In her complaint, Kaur said she was going from Bhora village to Maskeen Nagar with a bag containing ₹70,000 in cash, a mobile phone and a debit card. On the way, two men on a bike snatched the bag and sped away.ASI Jagjeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had lodged an FIR under Sections 379-B (snatching using force) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified accused. The police are scanning CCTV camera footage from the area for leads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-woman-loses-70-000-mobile-phone-to-snatchers-101630777166559.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||If we don’t plan today, we won’t be able to produce even a toy plane, says Suresh Prabhu||For quarter of a century, India has been working towards indigenously manufacturing passenger aircraft with little or no success despite the country’s large aviation market.This ambition once again got a boost in February this year when Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) received a modification document of its manufactured 19-seater multipurpose light transport Dornier-228 (upgraded) civil aircraft from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) for UDAN scheme. The aircraft is currently being used by the defence forces. Recently, the aviation regulator gave ‘certificate of airworthiness’ to this aircraft paving the way for its civil use.India is home to the world’s ninth largest $16-billion civil aviation market. Prime Minister Narendra Modi while addressing the joint Indo-US business conclave in July last year had said India needs at least 1,000 medium-capacity aircraft for regional air connectivity and invited investors to come forward.Before this, former civil aviation minister Suresh Prabhu had in early 2019 announced that India would roll out a road map for manufacturing aircraft in the domestic market, and was open to join hands with top global players.Aviation experts said the idea to produce local passenger aircraft has become all the more significant given the Centre’s thrust on local manufacturing with missions like Make-in-India and Aatmanirbhar Bharat.However, a former DGCA official said the main issue is that the country till date does not have a design for any narrow-body or medium range turboprop except the Dornier aircraft. “Manufacturing of an aircraft is a later stage, firstly we need to come up with a prototype. Take the design approval from DGCA, build the prototype, get it certified and then start manufacturing,” he said. “Cost is also a major issue as each Dornier 2 certified aircraft (of HAL) came up at a massive cost of ₹55-crore, an amount in which a scheduled or non-scheduled operator can bring in three aircraft,” the official said.Moreover, HAL-produced aircraft was unpressurised which means it had height restrictions for flying. “So even if the aircraft performance is good and it is fuel-efficient, there would be issues in case the aircraft has to fly over hilly terrains. These were its drawbacks. Hence we need pressurized aircraft to start with 70-90 seater turboprop followed by Jet.”Even as a section of experts say this is the best time for the country to take a plunge and realise its long-cherished dream of having its aircraft, another section is of the view that the plan will not pay-off unless India achieves critical mass for such a high-capital intensive industry.“It (domestic manufacturing of aircraft) is a great idea but there are numerous challenges. It is important to build the Indian civilian aerospace industry by removing a large number of entry barriers which are a big challenge,” said Dhiraj Mathur, former partner at PwC, a global consultancy firm. “We have tried to manufacture these planes. Various efforts have been made over a period of time by NAL or National Aerospace Laboratory (to make a passenger plane) but the attempts have not been successful as designing and manufacturing aircraft is not easy.”Story of India’s indigenous aircraft developmentThe idea of giving a thrust on aircraft development in the country was mooted by former President late Dr APJ Abdul Kalam during his association with the premier Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).The project took of the ground in 1991 with NAL teaming up with a Russian partner. The foreign entity however pulled out of the project mid-way, leaving it in a limbo. In 1999, the then Government gave its go-ahead to NAL, under Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) to build on its own a multi-purpose aircraft, Saras, named after an Indian bird.NAL designed and developed the first prototype of the aircraft from scratch, which made its first flight on May 29, 2004. This marked the beginning of the indigenous civil aircraft program in the country. However, after an improved version of the aircraft met with an accident in 2009, the project was once again put on a pause button.In 2010, the then Government set up a 15-member high-level committee under former ISRO chief G Madhavan Nair to explore feasibility of manufacturing a passenger aircraft locally, which submitted its report in 2011.In 2017, the government announced a programme for development of a 90-seater aircraft in two phases- design and development, and manufacturing with private sector participation with an estimated budgetary requirements of ₹7,555 crore, reviving Saras project after approving certain modifications to the cockpit and cabin formation.On January 2, an upgraded Saras undertook high-speed taxi trial at Bangalore’s HAL airport. According to the revived plan, Saras will be used as a test aircraft for the development of Saras Mk2, a 19-seater transport aircraft. CSIR has already started working on the design of the indigenous next-generation commuter transport aircraft to be used for the Government’s UDAN scheme.What will it take to manufacture an indigenous aircraftAccording to Prabhu, the aviation ministry had prepared a roadmap in 2019, presenting a broad overview on how aircraft manufacturing should happen in India because Boeing had said it might manufacture aircraft in India. Admitting that manufacturing aircraft is not an ‘easy task’ as millions of components go into it, he said, “The idea was that we need to develop an ecosystem in the form of manufacturing various parts of an aircraft which finally get into the end-product. The plan, to begin with, was that original equipment manufacturers would be manufacturing the components at the companies overseas and may sell them too.”Prabhu added,”Once that critical mass comes in, then the eventual assembly will happen for a simple reason that the market is here,” he said. Prabhu said he had personally gone to Airbus in France to discuss the plan in detail with them, adding, “It (these talks) needs follow up actions, but I am not aware if it was done,” he said.Emphasising that the government without private sector participation can’t manufacture an aircraft, former DGCA official said, “Inputs from airports and private entities will have to be taken into consideration to successfully manufacture an aircraft. Even if we start in 2022, I don’t think that an aircraft will be available for airlines in the next 8-9 years as the certification process itself takes five years for big aircraft and three years for smaller ones and this is defined in all the country’s regulations.”Emphasizing that not all countries are in the business of aircraft manufacturing , Mathur said that one way of doing it is to talk to (existing) aircraft makers for manufacturing and outsourcing. More than being complicated, the main thing is that one needs demand and the market for these planes. “But the market has always been the same,” Mathur said. He said that the general slowdown in the last 5-6 years coupled with the ongoing pandemic is going to be a major gap creator.“Aircraft making needs 10-15 years of planning as the ecosystem has to be developed. So, the present state of the economy cannot be looked at if you are looking at 10-15 years ahead in time. If you don’t plan today, knowing today’s economic situation, then you will never be able to manufacture even a toy aircraft,” Prabhu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/if-we-don-t-plan-today-we-won-t-be-able-to-produce-even-a-toy-plane-says-suresh-prabhu-101630776986566.html
04-09-2021||Other||Haryana DGP reviews preparations ahead of farmers’ Karnal protest||As farmers under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) are scheduled to gherao Karnal mini-secretariat on August 7 (Tuesday), director general of police (DGP) PK Aggarwal on Saturday reviewed law and order preparations in Karnal.The protest comes days after clashes between farmers and police in Karnal and Moga left several injured on both sides. The SKM will also hold a mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday, pressing for their demands including action against officials responsible for the clashes.Accompanied by Karnal range IG Mamta Singh, SPs of Karnal, Panipat and Kaithal along with other officials, the DGP chaired a meeting at the secretariat.Interacting with the media, he said issues like crime, and law and order will be reviewed along with the protests. He added that as intimated earlier, the protests should be peaceful.“The farm unions are in touch with the Karnal DC and SP. We are preparing for the protest,” the DGP said.Ambala farmers head for MuzaffarnagarMeanwhile, scores of farmers from villages in Ambala are moving for Muzaffarnagar on Saturday to take part at the mahapanchayat on Sunday.BKU (Charuni) district vice-president Gulab Singh said the UP rally will be historical. “Whatever is decided unanimously at the mahapanchayat will be implemented. A repeat of Bengal elections where BJP lost will be seen in the UP assembly elections,” he said.Farmers from different districts of Punjab crossed the Shambhu border for the mahapanchayat venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-dgp-reviews-preparations-ahead-of-farmers-karnal-protest-101630776985339.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Attacked with chilli powder, Ludhiana man foils trio’s robbery bid||An alert trader thwarted three men’s bid to rob him of ₹4 lakh after throwing chilli powder in his eyes near his house in Maya Nagar, Ghumar Mandi, on Friday night. Police said as Rajesh Kumar, 48, was wearing spectacles, the chilli powder didn’t reach both his eyes, allowing him to drive his scooter away to safety.His brother Amit Kumar, told the police that Rajesh ran a readymade garment store in Hindi Bazaar in old city area and was returning home with ₹4 lakh made from sales when the attack took place.During investigation, police found that the trio was tailing the trader since he left the shop. CCTV footage showed them lurking near the shop in wait and also consuming liquor. As Rajesh left the shop, they started following him.Amit suspected the involvement of one of Rajesh’s employees who was hired 10 days ago. He left the shop around 7pm on Friday and did not report to work on Saturday.Sub-inspector Rajinderpal Singh, station house officer (SHO), Division Number 8 police station, said they were trying to trace the employee for questioning and working to identify the other accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/attacked-with-chilli-powder-ludhiana-man-foils-trio-s-robbery-bid-101630776864609.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 4th railway line between Kalyan and Asangaon on CR cards||To boost local train connectivity of Mumbai with the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Central Railway (CR) will begin construction work of a fourth railway line between Kalyan and Asangaon railway stations.Construction work for a new railway platform to accommodate 15 compartment local trains, along with extension of the existing platforms and construction of a new foot overbridge will be undertaken by the Central Railway post-monsoon.The 26km of new railway line from Kalyan to Asangaon railway station is a part of the Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP) 3A. The project is expected to cost ₹1,759 crore.Once completed, the Central Railway will be able to operate additional local train services along with 15 compartment train services between Kalyan and Asangaon railway stations. The zonal railway will also be able to increase local train services between the two railway stations as presently only two railway lines are operational. “The construction work will be carried out in connection with the 15 compartment work beyond Kalyan railway station,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.The existing railway lines operate local, outstation and freight trains. Kalyan railway station on the Central Railway is a busy station as it operates both suburban and outstation trains. Before the pandemic 500,000 commuters travelled daily from Kalyan and 200,000 passengers commuted daily from Asangaon railway station.“Segregation of outstation and local trains will be possible once the construction work is completed and crossovers have been laid. This would help in decongesting the train traffic at Kalyan railway station significantly,” said a senior Central Railway official.Urban planners have stated that as the population has moved towards north of Mumbai, the railway line corridor will help in decongestion of the existing stressed railway network.“The commencement of the work on the railway line is a positive step as the population has shifted from south Mumbai towards the northern part of the city. The railway lines will help in segregation of outstation and local trains and reduce congestion. However, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) should undertake land development either industrial or commercial around the area to create jobs for people residing there,” said urban planner Sulakshana Mahajan.Passenger associations have cited that the construction of the railway lines should be done speedily. “Mumbai is overburdened and it is the need of the hour to construct the new railway lines as people are shifting outside the city. The work on the project should be done quickly,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.Meanwhile, a MUTP approved project for segregation of outstation and local train traffic by creation of two railway lines between CSMT and Kurla railway stations has hit a roadblock. The project — fifth and sixth railway lines that was approved in 2010 has not yet been completed and has land acquisition issues ahead of Parel railway station. The Central Railway is undertaking construction for the additional railway lines between Kurla and Parel and reconstruction work of a bridge near Sion railway station. The zonal railway has now written to the Maharashtra government to assist in the construction work of the railway line beyond Parel railway station.“Construction work on phase one of the project up till Parel is going on. However, we have written to the state government seeking assistance for the railway lines ahead of Parel. Land acquisition issue is a concern for the construction of railway lines ahead of Parel. If the acquisition issue is cleared the railway lines will likely be brought to the P’D Mello entrance of CSMT.” said a senior Central Railway official.Transport experts have stated that the railways should look into the requirement of having the fifth and sixth railway line up to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT).“As people are unable to afford housing in the city, the construction of the fourth railway line will help ease the bottleneck for people residing ahead of Kalyan, Asangaon and Kasara. The railways should look into the requirement of the fifth- sixth railway line up till CSMT. Trains on the Central Railway could terminate at Kurla and on the Western Railway at Bandra. Terminating all outstation trains in the island city should be restricted. A thorough geographic study and checking of commuting patterns needs to be undertaken.” said transport expert AV Shenoy.Passenger associations have stated that they have raised the concern for the construction of the railway lines between CSMT and Kurla and have asked the railway officials to complete the project soon. “We have discussed with the railway officials on the pending construction work of the railway lines that would segregate the local and outstation train traffic. The project should be completed soon in coordination with the state government.” added Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-4th-railway-line-between-kalyan-and-asangaon-on-cr-cards-101630776804633.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: FYJC second merit list out, no major dip in cut-offs||The second general merit list for first-year junior college (FYJC) seats was announced on Saturday morning with overall cut-off in top colleges dipping by 0.2% to 1.5%. A total of 60,037 students have been allotted seats in the second admission round and these students have time until September 6 to submit appropriate documents and confirm admissions.“Of the 60,037 students allotted seats in the second merit list, 13,282 have been allotted colleges of their first preference, 11,075 students have been allotted seats in the second preference college and 8,398 students have been placed in colleges of their third preference,” said an official statement released by the office of deputy director of education, Mumbai region.Cut-offs across popular colleges in the city remained on the higher side, with many witnessing less than a percent point dip compared to the first merit list. At Narsee Monjee College in Vile Parle, the commerce cut-off ended at 93.4%, which is 0.6% point less than the first merit list. At St Xavier’s College, the arts list dipped by 1.2% point whereas the science list ended at 91%, which is 1.8% point lower than the first merit list. Similarly, at VG Vaze College in Mulund, cut-offs in science and commerce streams dipped a percent point or less compared to the previous list. But surprisingly, cut-offs for arts shot up by one percent point, from 89% in the first merit list to 90% in the second. “Student were given the choice to change their college preference list after the first round, so our second merit list ended at a higher cut-off,” said an official from the institute.“Cut-offs were going to stay above 90% across top colleges because Class 10 students have scored very well this year across various school education boards. While students are confirming admissions at present, colleges are all worried that withdrawal of admissions will begin once common rounds are over and students will get the chance to approach individual colleges for admissions,” said the principal of a south Mumbai College.A total of 1.17 lakh FYJC hopefuls were allotted seats in the first merit list on August 27. However, over 50% of these students, including a large chunk of those who were allotted colleges of their first preference did not confirm admissions after the first round this year. After the first round of seat allotment, students were given another chance to re-fill their college preference forms and become eligible for the second merit list.“Surprisingly, even those students who have been allotted seats in colleges of their first preference are not accepting admissions, and this is a worrying trend. We are hopeful of cut-offs dipping in the third merit list, so students should not lose hope,” said Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind College, Churchgate.Due to rising Covid-19 cases, many school education boards decided to scrap Class 10 board exams this year and instead promoted students based on their performance in the current academic year as well as their performance in Class 9. This helped push the overall score of lakhs of students across boards to a higher bracket and several schools highlighted an increase in students scoring 90% and above in their batches. As per information shared by the Maharashtra state board, the number of students scoring 90% and above stood at 6.34% (1.04 lakh) in the state, as compared to 5.08% (83,262) in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fyjc-second-merit-list-out-no-major-dip-in-cutoffs-101630776744962.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 44 held for forging passports and visas this year||In the first eight months of the year, Delhi airport police have arrested 44 men from across Delhi for forging passports/visas and duping people by charging them for the fake documents.Police shared this data after three men were recently arrested for allegedly duping four people. Deputy commissioner of police (airport) Vikram Porwal said the three were arrested when police was investigating a case of four men from western Uttar Pradesh, who were deported from Armenia last week. “On the intervening night of August 25 and 26, four passengers were deported from Yerevan, Armenia. After scrutinising their passports, we found that they had left from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport for Armenia on the basis of e-visas of the Republic of Armenia. They were refused entry at Yerevan airport on the grounds of holding other persons’ visas. We registered a case and arrested the four men,” said Porwal. The four men-- from Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh--was lured by one Mehboob Khan, who is also originally from UP. During questioning, the four men said that they got the visas from an agent named Saif after paying ₹1.50 lakh. “We arrested Saif from Delhi’s Okhla, who disclosed the names of his accomplices-- Mahesh Kumar from Gurugram and Mehboob Khan from Muzaffarnagar. Khan runs a ticketing a shop in Delhi’s Taimoor Nagar,” said Porwal. Police said so far, they have arrested 44 men for forging documents and cheating and have launched a drive to find such suspects, who dupe people looking for jobs abroad. “Last year, police arrested 55 such agents, who specialised in passport and visa fraud,” said Porwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi44-held-for-forging-passports-and-visas-this-year-101630776684927.html
04-09-2021||Other||Sonepat village rejoices as local boy Manish Narwal wins gold in Paralympics||As soon as 19-year-old Indian shooter Manish Narwal won gold in the mixed 50m pistol SH1 finals at Asaka Shooting Range in Tokyo Paralympics on Saturday, celebrations broke out at his native Kathura village in Sonepat and his home in Faridabad.Manish created a record as he amassed 218.2 points to win the gold. Kathura residents erupted with joy after Narwal bagged the medal.Residents gathered at Narwal’s home where they garlanded his 95-year-old grandfather Choudhary Dalip Singh Narwal.Manish’s father had shifted to Faridabad along with his family in 1993. But they have a house and land in Kathura village and Manish’s family makes frequent visits to their native place.Manish’s grandfather said, “This is the happiest moment for me. The residents of our village have decided to felicitate my grandson once he returns from abroad.”Manish is among five of his siblings. His younger siblings - Sikha Narwal (17) and Shiva (15) are also shooters and are practicing to take part in the world championship. Manish is a Bachelor of Arts second year student at a Faridabad college.Talking over the phone, his elder brother Manjeet Narwal said his brother has made the country proud by winning gold.“My grandfather and other family members are excited after his brilliant performance. My brother and two other siblings used to go to Ballabgarh in Faridabad everyday for practice. Manish had problems in his right hand since birth and we taken him to many hospitals but to no avail. He is a courageous boy. We have been receiving calls after calls from our friends, relatives, and others since is win,” he added.Gold medallist Sumit Antil gets grand welcome in SonepatA convoy of vehicles and people showering flowers was how residents of Khewra village in Sonepat welcomed their hero Sumit Antil who won gold in the Paralympics.He was welcomed at more than 25 places and it took over five hours for him to reach his native Khewra village from Sonepat.Sumit said his sister had sought gold medal from him on Rakshabandhan and he is feeling glad to have fulfilled her wish.“I never expected such an amazing welcome. I’m happy to have won gold but am pained that I cannot join the Indian Army like Neeraj Chopra. My father was in the Indian Air Force and I hoped to join the defence services. I thank my coaches Virender Dhankar and Naval for supporting me in tough days. They are my heroes,” he added.“I was doing wrestling before meeting with a road accident in 2015 when I was returning from tuition. I was inspired by wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt after he had won a bronze medal in the Olympics. After the fatal accident, I had switched to javelin and with god’s grace, I won gold for the country,” he added.Meanwhile, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar attended a felicitation programme at Kherwa village and accepted all 27 demands of the villagers.“We will provide a stadium and set up public health centre in Khewra. We have also decided to allocate a budget of ₹14 crore for sewage and ₹3 crore for potable water facilities,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sonepat-village-rejoices-as-local-boy-manish-narwal-wins-gold-in-paralympics-101630776629363.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Kidnappers demand ₹10 lakh ransom to release 18-year-old Ludhiana youth||An 18-year-old shopkeeper was kidnapped by some unidentified persons who have demanded ₹10 lakh ransom from his family.The kidnappers also sent a video of the victim, Nitish Kumar, to his parents, showing him tied and beaten up.The couple told the police that their son ran a mobile phone shop in their village, Iraq, located on Machhiwara-Kohara Road. On Friday evening, he did not return home as per routine, so they went looking for him. Soon after they received a voice message from Nitish’s mobile number, stating that he had been kidnapped and the kidnappers wanted ₹10 lakh for his release.In the voice message, Nitish told his parents that he had been taken out of Punjab and that they should transfer ₹10 lakh to his bank account so he could fulfil the kidnappers’ ransom demand. He said he will be killed if he did not pay them and also urged his parents not to inform the police. The video showing him tied and beaten up followed the voice message.The parents immediately sounded the police, following which deputy commissioner of police (DSP, detective) Varinder Singh and DSP (Samrala) Harvinder Singh Khaira reached the victim’s shop and initiated investigation. Khaira said the police were investigating the matter from all angles and were trying to trace the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kidnappers-demand-10-lakh-ransom-to-release-18-year-old-ludhiana-youth-101630776624552.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Pocso court sentences 30-year-old to 5 years in jail||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) court on Friday sentenced a 30-year-old to five years of imprisonment and fined him ₹15,000 for assaulting a minor girl by kissing her in a lift.According to the prosecution, the incident took place on December 27, 2016 at 8.30pm when the 10-year-old girl was heading to a friend’s residence on a lower floor of the same building.Special public prosecutor Geeta Sharma pointed out that when the minor took the lift from eleventh floor to visit a friend on the ninth floor, the accused was already present in the lift and as soon as the lift door closed he pulled the girl towards him by touching her back and kissed her.In the CCTV footage, the girl was seen struggling to release herself from the clutches of the accused who stayed in the same building.The accused had argued that he had kissed the child out of love and affection and there was no sexual intention behind it as he was impotent. After going through the CCTV footage, the court, however, said the accused did not deserve any leniency as the victim was dejected, frightened and hurt after the incident.Defence counsel Shakuntala Sharma had tried to prove before special Pocso judge Bharti Kale that the accused was mentally ill, impotent and was taking treatment. He had also taken a stand that when the incident happened the man had beard and moustache and it was not him.However, the special court after going through the CCTV footage noted that the accused had held the girl very tightly and the minor was seen struggling and opposing. The court also took into consideration medical report that showed that the accused had no major mental conditions and was conscious, oriented to time, place and person. As regards to the claim of impotency, the court said his medical record showed no physical abnormality in him. The court held the accused guilty of the offences punishable under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Pocso Act and sentenced him to five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pocso-court-sentences-30-year-old-to-5-years-in-jail-101630776504760.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court acquits biker accused in hit-and-run case||A metropolitan magistrate court at Vikhroli has acquitted a biker booked for rash and negligent driving and causing death by negligence of a senior citizen in view of the fact that there was no direct evidence linking the accused to the accident and that the victim had not used the zebra crossing while crossing the road. The court observed that it was question of common knowledge that pedestrians are not supposed to cross roads unless there is a zebra crossing.The incident took place on August 10, 2017, when Mudrika Harishchandra Kamble, 60, was trying to cross Eastern Express Highway near Kamraj Nagar and a vehicle hit her and fled from the spot.Kamble was first taken to Rajawadi Hospital and later shifted to Rubi Hall Clinic in Pune, where she died three days later.Pant Nagar police had registered a case in the matter against unknown accused under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.The police later traced the driver of the scooter as Hemant Hatkar and arrested him.Metropolitan magistrate SS Parave of Vikhroli court acquitted Hatkar mainly in view of absence of direct evidence against him. The court, however, observed that the prosecution has not placed on record any evidence to show that the accused had hit Kamble.The court observed that the spot panchnama shows that the incident took place in the middle of the road when Kamble was crossing the road and there was nothing on record which makes clear that at the spot of incident there was a zebra crossing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-acquits-biker-accused-in-hit-and-run-case-101630776386071.html
04-09-2021||Other||Might announce formation of third front on Sept 25: Chautala||INLD supremo Om Prakash Chautala on Saturday said he could announce the formation of a third front on September 25 at a rally in Jind. He spoke to the media after addressing a public meeting at the Anaj Mandi near the DC office in Yamunanagar.“We’ve invited national and state leaders except those from BJP to the Jind rally. We’ll discuss the current situation and might make the announcement,” he said.The party will celebrate the birth anniversary of former deputy PM Devi Lal on September 25. Chautala is pressing for a third front since his release from Tihar Jail in July and has met many leaders over this.On scoring 88 marks in his English compartment exam, he said, “There was a break due to some reasons when I was lodged in Delhi jail. Every student should score well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/might-announce-formation-of-third-front-on-sept-25-chautala-101630776384791.html
04-09-2021||Other||FIR on disappearance of youth : No relief to ex-cops from HC||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed pleas from at least nine cops from Punjab against criminal proceedings initiated against them for alleged disappearance of youths in Punjab from 1992. They had challenged the jurisdiction of the Jammu branch of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to register FIRs and probe these cases. The petitions were dismissed, with the court holding that the CBI had acted on the directions of the Supreme Court. The CBI had charge-sheeted the cops for alleged abduction and killing of innocent persons in Punjab during that period. The cases were registered in 1997 on incident of disappearance of a youth in Amritsar, with the charge-sheet being filed in 1999. The trial got held-up with these cops challenging the proceedings. With this, the trial would resume at Mohali CBI special court now. The main argument was that CBI did not have territorial jurisdiction to register the case in Jammu as all the alleged incidents were related to Punjab. The complainants had argued that they are habitual of filing repeated petitions, only to delay the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-on-disappearance-of-youth-no-relief-to-ex-cops-from-hc-101630776324610.html
04-09-2021||Other||Farmers ready for dialogue with SAD, says Rajewal||Chandigarh A day after Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced the formation of a three-member committee to hold talks with farmers due to ongoing protests against his party, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU-Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal on Saturday said farmers were ready for a dialogue as well. On Friday, the SAD had suspended its 100-day election outreach programme ‘Gal Punjab di Lok Lehar’ campaign till September 10, after violent protests against it in Moga. At least, 50 farmers and seven policemen were injured in clashes which erupted after farmers, allegedly, tried to disrupt the party’s election rally.“The main concern of farmers and all our unions is to maintain peace in Punjab. For this, we will participate in meetings, if Sukhbir wants to start a dialogue with us,” said Rajewal, on the sidelines of an event at the Chandigarh Press Club on Saturday, where he released the Rotary Club’s poster for ‘Free Limbs’ Camp.The SAD’s panel comprises Balwinder Singh Bhunder, Prem Singh Chandumajra and Manjinder Singh Sirsa with their brief being to talk to farmers’ organisations to resolve all misunderstandings. Sukhbir has also said that the election campaign will resume from Amloh, district Fatehgarh Sahib, on September 10.Rajewal added that farmers were planning to start a ‘Mission Punjab’ campaign in the state, ahead of the assembly polls on the lines of ‘Mission Uttar Pradesh’. “Farm unions will soon make a formal announcement on this,” he added. Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the stir against the Centre’s three agriculture laws, has announced a ‘Mission Uttar Pradesh’ that will begin from Sunday (September 5), ahead of the 2022 assembly elections there, with the aim to mobilise support for their cause in the BJP-ruled state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-ready-for-dialogue-with-sad-says-rajewal-101630776149578.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||History sheeter kills mother-in-law as wife remarries in his absence in Mumbai||Vile Parle police arrested a 42-year-old history sheeter for allegedly killing his mother-in-law after discovering that his wife had married someone else while he was serving jail term. The accused has been named in 28 criminal cases and convicted in at least eight cases, the police said.The arrested accused, Iqbal Abbas Shaikh, was released from Pune’s Yerwada jail after serving three years sentence on September 1, following which he went to his mother-in-law Shamal Shigam’s house in Pitalewadi, Vile Parle to meet his wife Leena and two children.Shaikh was informed by his wife that she had married another person, who could take care of her and the children. Shaikh said he wanted to restart afresh with her and the kids and left, saying he would come again on Thursday.“When he came back next day, he found that Leena had left the house along with the children. When Shaikh asked Shigam about her whereabouts she did not tell him anything. This angered Shaikh who then started beating her. Shaikh smashed her head with a tile block and attacked her with a knife and had fled the spot,” said a police officer. Vile Parle police detection officers suspected Shaikh’s role in the crime owing to his presence in the area on Thursday and launched a manhunt for him. He was subsequently arrested from Pune. He has been charged under section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code, another officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/history-sheeter-kills-mother-in-law-as-wife-remarries-in-his-absence-in-mumbai-101630776145178.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Central agencies were never used like this against opposition leaders, says Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government over alleged misuse of central investigation agencies. He said central agencies were never used in the past the way it is being used now to silence opposition leaders in many states across the country. He said the problem is not limited only to Maharashtra and opposition leaders in many states have been targeted.Pawar was reacting over the action of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against ministers and leaders from Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA). “Central agencies were never used like this in the country in the past. It appears that the existing (BJP) government is using them to silence the opposition parties; hence not only Maharashtra but Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and many states in southern India are facing similar situations. We are talking here since we know people related to our state but the problem is not limited to Maharashtra,” Pawar said.Many senior leaders such as transport minister Anil Parab, MP Bhavana Gawali and MLA Pratap Sarnaik (Shiv Sena), former home minister Anil Deshmukh, Eknath Khadse (NCP), among others have got notices from ED. In the case of Anil Deshmukh, both the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and ED are investigating allegations of extortion against him.He also criticised the BJP for demanding reopening of temples in the state. Pawar said they were expecting consonance from those who follow the BJP-led government at the Centre as they directed the state to take precautions in the backdrop of potential third wave threat looming large. “The Central government has issued guidelines and directed the state to take precautions for some more time, which the state government and chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) decided to follow. Others may have a different opinion, and in a democratic set up, it is their right to raise their voice. But those who follow the Central government should have shown consonance as the state government is following their directives. I don’t want to say more on this,” the veteran leader said.The former Union agriculture minister added that the lathicharge on farmers in Haryana is a serious matter. “But more than that, the farmers are on agitation for the past 14 months, regardless of winter, summer and monsoon season. If our rulers were sensitive, they should have taken a cognisance of this, but unfortunately the agrarian community is neglected,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/central-agencies-were-never-used-like-this-against-opposition-leaders-says-sharad-pawar-101630775904709.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||Covid: Kejriwal govt's move to reopen schools 'premature', says Delhi Cong chief||Delhi Congress chief Chaudhary Anil Kumar on Saturday termed the Delhi government's decision of reopening schools a "premature move", saying the protection of students' health is "paramount" especially at a time when experts are warning about a possible third Covid wave.Kumar urged the state government to "resist the pressure from the private schools lobby for reopening the schools", claiming that the states which allowed reopening of schools have witnessed a jump in the number of coronavirus cases among children."The chief minister (Arvind Kejriwal) should have a rethink the government's rush to reopen the schools, as the government's concern on the education of children should be applied in their safety as well, as presently, protection of the health of students is paramount."The states where schools have been opened, corona cases among children have gone up," said a statement quoting Kumar."A decision to reopen the schools can be taken after watching the situation for another three months," he suggested.After remaining shut from March last year, schools in the national capital were allowed to reopen in a phased manner from September 1.Warning that the state cannot bear another lockdown, Kumar also asked the ruling AAP government to show "more pro-active attitude" in the strict implementation of the Covid-19 guidelines."Delhiites would not be able to bear with another lockdown, as the past lockdowns have virtually wrecked the economy of the national capital, and therefore, prevention is better than cure."With the festival season about to set in and people expected to crowd markets and shopping centres, the government should show a more pro-active attitude in the strict implementation of the Covid-19 guidelines," he said.Delhi had faced a brutal second Covid wave earlier this year, prompting the city government to impose a lockdown from April 19 to May 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-kejriwal-govt-s-move-to-reopen-schools-premature-says-delhi-cong-chief-101630774731402.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra vaccinates record 1.191 million beneficiaries in a day: Health dept||Maharashtra on Saturday set a record of administering the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to 1,191,921 eligible beneficiaries, a health department official told news agency PTI. With this, the cumulative coverage in the state has climbed to 62.7 million. Before this record, authorities had administered over 1.104 million vaccine doses to beneficiaries in a single day on August 21.“The administration of 1,191,921 doses on Saturday is the figure recorded till 7 pm. The vaccination drive continues in several parts till late night. The final figure will be out tomorrow,” Dr Pradeep Vyas, the additional chief secretary of the public health department said.Also Read| Maharashtra records 4,130 new cases, sees rise in active Covid casesThe health department, meanwhile, said that Maharashtra is second in the country with regard to total vaccines administered, but it is still on the top in terms of the number of beneficiaries who have taken both the doses. A total of 17.1 million beneficiaries are fully vaccinated, i.e given both doses.Being one of the worst-hit states from the Covid-19 pandemic, Maharashtra, in recent months, has reported a shortage of vaccines which has led to suspension of vaccination drives in districts and cities for several days. The vaccination rate has also been affected due to the suspension of these drives. Previously, the Maha-Vikas Aghadi government had urged the Centre to supply 30 million doses per month to vaccinate beneficiaries at the earliestAmid the increased spread of the Delta variant in Maharashtra and fears of the upcoming third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, experts have pointed out that a robust vaccination program is crucial. Dr Rahul Pandit, director of critical care, Fortis Hospital, and member of state’s Covid-19 task force, told Hindustan Times in August that the available vaccines in the country “have shown good response to the predominant variant, which is the Delta variant”, adding it is important that people take both shots of the vaccine for better immunity.Maharashtra has so far recorded 6,482,117 cases, 137,707 deaths and 6,288,851 recoveries due to Covid-19. On Saturday, 4,130 new infections were recorded while 2,506 patients recovered and 64 succumbed to the viral disease. The active cases in the state have climbed to 52,025 on Saturday from 50,466 on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vaccinates-record-1-191-million-beneficiaries-in-a-day-health-dept-101630774145742.html
04-09-2021||Patna||DA case: Raids against suspended DSP continue||A team of the Economic Offence Unit (EOU) continued raids on Saturday in connection with a disproportionate assets (DA) case against suspended DSP Pankaj Rawat. The EOU sleuths raided three places, including Rawat’s ancestral house in Nalanda, flats in Patna and shops in Danapur.Additional director general of EOU Nayyar Husnanin Khan said a DA case was lodged against Rawat with the EOU police station on Friday. Later, warrants were obtained from the concerned court for conducting the raids.Rawat has been suspended for alleged negligence in curbing illegal mining and shielding the mafia. He has come under the scanner for allegedly flouting rules and collecting the hefty amount from the sand mafia and transporters. Sources in the EOU said that illegal mining was happening under the nose of Rawat.The teams have so far detected two commercial shops in Shatabdi Mall near Saguna More (Danapur); one flat each in Faridabad, Haryana, Patna; a residential plot in Digha (Patna); land at Daroga Kuan in Nalanda, and a marriage hall in Danapur.According to the officials, the DSP amassed huge properties in his wife, brothers-in-law and sisters-in-law’s names.Assets like bank passbooks, gold ornaments, platinum, and diamond were currently being estimated. The EOU also recovered documents related to investments in the share market, real estate, bank passbooks and lockers, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/da-case-raids-against-suspended-dsp-continue-101630772604436.html
04-09-2021||Patna||Vaishali village erupts in joy after Pramod Bhagat’s gold||Shubhai village in Vaishali erupted into celebrations after shuttler Pramod Bhagat created history at Tokyo Paralympics on Saturday. With badminton making its debut at the Paralympics this year, Pramod Bhagat, the current world No. 1, thus became the first Indian to win a gold medal in the sport.The four-time world champion defeated Great Britain’s Daniel Bethell in the finals of the men’s singles SL3 category. “I cannot tell you how worried I had been for his future. He got affected with polio at the age of four. I used to cry all the time. But today I am a proud mother. He has brought laurels for the family and also for his state and the country,” Malti Devi, mother of Pramod Bhagat, said. But the real credit for Pramod’s success goes to my husband’s sister and her husband who took away the child to Odisha for treatment, she added. Former village mukhiya Suresh Patel distributed sweets in the entire village, she added. Rama Paswan, father of Pramod Bhagat said, “We were concerned for Pramod as he had developed polio at an early age. But today he has made the family proud,” he added. Former mukhiya of Shubhai said the success of Pramod has proved that talent knows no boundary. “It’s a proud moment for the village, he added. Kiran Ranjan and Shakti Kishore, the JD (U) members from Vaishali said, the boy has made the district proud. “Vaishali is once again on the world map because of Pramod Bhagat,” Ranjan said. Pramod was congratulated by the Paralympic Committee of Bihar on his success. Shivaji Kumar, the former disabilities commissioner who is heading the Indian delegation at Tokyo Paralympics said, the success of Pramod has brought yet another proud moment for the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/vaishali-village-erupts-in-joy-after-pramod-bhagat-s-gold-101630772424475.html
04-09-2021||Patna||Teachers’ day: Bihar man who painted a universe on classroom walls set for award||Not only books, but walls are also one of the learning aids for students at Government Middle School at Ramgarh in Kaimur district, thanks to its officiating head teacher Haridas Sharma who transformed the school’s appearance during Covid-19 induced lockdown.On the occasion of Teachers’ Day, Sharma and a Madhubani-based teacher Chandana Dutt will receive National Teachers Award 2021 on Sunday. Sharma, 51, wants to change the impression that government schools have poor infrastructure and dull teaching methodology. He has painted science diagrams, solar and lunar eclipses and mathematics shapes on walls of the school for encouraging students to learn in an innovative way along with tagging QR codes on plants and creating a library for enriching knowledge of students.“During lockdown, we used to visit school in the absence of students. Utilising leisure time, I painted walls of schools and turned them into teaching-learning material. The creative art attracts students and has created a distinguished identity of my school,” he said. Dutt has been selected for the award in recognition of her efforts made for promoting girls’ education. She is an English teacher at Government Middle School at Rajnagar in Mahbubani. Recalling her initial years of career, Dutt said, “When I joined the school in 2005, there was no girl student in the class. When I enquired the reason, I learnt that villagers were reluctant to send their daughter to schools owing to their poverty and illiteracy.”“I started paying visits in nearby localities after school hours to encourage minority communities and poor families to send their girls to schools. My hard work paid off with time. At present, of 900 enrolled students, 60% are girls”, said Dutt, who is also a writer.“I stay in touch with students who have graduated from the school. Some girls have started their own coaching centres while some have qualified competitive exams. I feel satisfied that despite studying with limited resources, my students are doing well”, she said.The state education department has selected 20 teachers for state-level award this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/teachers-day-bihar-man-who-painted-a-universe-on-classroom-walls-set-for-award-101630772244533.html
04-09-2021||Patna||NAAC grading: Bihar considers fixing accountability on laggard institutions||The Bihar State Higher Education Council (BSHEC) has recommended strong measures for boosting accreditation of state institutions of higher learning, which includes fixing accountability on laggard ones and linking performance with promotion and development funds from the state. It has also advocated that Bihar’s state universities must have representatives of industries/employment agencies as members of the board of studies and implement the much-delayed choice-based credit system (CBCS) and semester system.An expert committee constituted by BSHEC over a month ago and headed by Lalit Natayan Mithila University (Darbhanga) pro vice chancellor Dolly Sinha, in its report submitted a few days ago, has said that lack of accountability was a cause of concern and linking it with promotion or any other suitable measure was necessary to increase involvement of institutions for certification from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). The report also advocated a state-level accreditation council and compulsory SWOT (strength, weakness, opportunities and threat) analysis by all institutions and submission of reports to the NAAC committee of the BSHEC for further action.Under the New Education Policy (NEP), accreditation is a basic requirement, linked to funding. Since 2013, when the central government linked accreditation as a mandatory requirement for (Rashtriya Uchchtar Shiksha Abhiyan) RUSA funding, there has been a rush by institutions to get accredited, but Bihar has been slow on this count. Under the NEP, a new body called National Accreditation Council (NAC), instead of NAAC, has been planned, with several accreditation institutions at the regional level. Many institutions in Bihar got poor grades in the past due to severe shortage of teachers, poor student feedback, inadequate infrastructure and lack of research.The state continues to fare poorly in the ranking of institutions by NAAC despite the fact that all institutions have to get accredited by next year. At the start of 2021, the total number of NAAC-accredited colleges was less than 100 in the state. This includes just six in the A-grade. The number of accredited colleges was 107 last year. Bihar has 250 constituent colleges and an even higher number of affiliated or private colleges.The committee has recommended that there was a growing need to do classification of colleges as per their accreditation status and make institutions go in for assessment l either by motivation, incentives or punitive action.If development fund is linked to NAAC report and grading, majority of the state institutions today will be deprived of it or may witness substantial reduction due to poor grading and just absence of assessment. At present, just one of the state universities, Patna University, is accredited. Accreditation of six other universities has lapsed.One can well imagine the state of higher education when the 156-year old Patna College, the oldest institution under Patna University, and 132-year-old BN College have been ranked ‘C’ by NAAC. Many institution ranked ‘A’ earlier have also slipped due to stringent NAAC framework. The BSHEC had to recently request NAAC for giving six-month extension to Bihar institutions for applying in view of Covid disruptions, as many of them could not even apply on time.According to figures available with the BSHEC, the number of accredited colleges in Bihar as on December 31, 2020, was 96. The committee has recommended that institutions be categorised on the basis of NAAC - first comprising those which have never applied for accreditation, second including those with expiry of first, second or third cycle and third comprising those which have their accreditation due.“The current status of NAAC accredited institution is very low, with very few institution completing third cycle. Majority of the institutions have completed just first cycle, while many have done not even that due to hesitancy. Some colleges got ‘A’ grade in 2014 but never went in for the second cycle, while several other big colleges ended up with very poor grade, indicating lack of preparedness, adaptation and modernisation. Under revised framework of NAAC, many colleges for degraded.there is an urgent need to change this trend and it requires proper coordination between the state government and the institutions. Accountability also needs to be fixed on part of laggard institutions and it could be linked to promotion to ensure better involvement,” said the committee report.With an aim to improving the gross enrolment ratio (GER) and quality in higher education centres, the BSHEC was constituted as a basic requirement under the Rashtriya Uchchatara Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA). The BSHEC has been given the responsibility of suggesting a roadmap for implementation of the new education policy (NEP) in the higher education sphere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/naac-grading-bihar-considers-fixing-accountability-on-laggard-institutions-101630772064540.html
04-09-2021||Other||Five mystery deaths in a family in Bihar village triggers panic||Mysterious death of five members of a family in five days at a village in Bihar’s East Champaran, including of two children on Saturday, has sent district officials into a tizzy and triggered anger and panic among locals.According to officials, the deaths occurred in a family at Sirsa village under Mufassil police station. Of the five deceased, four are children. They were identified as Ravindra Prasad (40), Deventi Kumari (12), Anshu Kumar (10), Kallu Kumar (6) and Priyanshu Kumar (5). On Saturday, agitated villagers blocked Motihari-Pakaridayal road for hours in protest. “Before these two children, two other children and an adult member of my family suffered similar complications, including pain in stomach, and died before they could be taken to the hospital,” said Sarita Devi, aunt of the deceased children. Dr Sharvan Paswan, in charge of public health centre at Motihari, while talking to reporters, confirmed four deaths in the family, two on September 1 and two on September 4, while pleading ignorance about the exact date of the fifth death. “The family members put faith on exorcists,” he said, adding that food poisoning or snake bite could have been possible reasons. However, Dr Anil Sinha, deputy superintendent (in-charge), Sadar hospital at Motihari, said it could well be a mysterious disease. “Blood clots were noticed on the nasal passage and mouth of the deceased. The autopsy report is still inconclusive. We have preserved the viscera of the deceased for examination by forensic experts,” he said. A team of doctors has been sent to the village for further investigation, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-mystery-deaths-in-a-family-in-bihar-village-triggers-panic-101630771888273.html
04-09-2021||Lucknow||8 arrested in UP over illegal conversion charged with waging war against country||Eight people arrested over alleged illegal religious conversion in Uttar Pradesh have been charged with conspiring to wage war against the country.Special judge Ram Gupta allowed a plea by the anti-terrorist squad, which had arrested the eight in June, seeking the addition of sections 121 A (conspiring to wage war against the country) and 123 (concealing the existence of a design to wage war against the government) in the FIR.While allowing the plea Thursday, the court also extended the judicial custody of the accused till September 14.The accused against whom the offences were added are -- Mohd Umar Gautam, Mufti Kazi Jahangir Alam Kasmi, Irfan Sekh alias Irfan Khna, Salahudin alias Jainuddin Sekh, Prasad Rameshwar Kanware, Bhupriya Vindo alias Arslan, KausarAlam and Dr Faraj Babullah Shah.The accused were taken in judicial custody under sections 417 (cheating), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence), 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) among other sections of the IPC, alongside those of Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act 2021.The ATS had filed the plea in the special court, seeking the addition sections 121A and 123 of the IPC.The ATS alleged the gang was involved not only in illegal religious activities but also conspired to disturb the population ratio in the country to promote enmity among different religions, thereby posing a danger to the unity, integrity and sovereignty of the country."The gang aimed to establish Islamic state in the country," the ATS said on Saturday."During investigation of the case, such evidence has been collected which disclose commission of offences under section 121A and 123 of IPC against the accused and hence it is necessary to take remand of the accused under the added sections also," ATS investigating officer Mohan Prasad Verma said.The ATS had lodged the FIR in the case on June 20 at its special police station in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/8-arrested-in-up-over-illegal-conversion-charged-with-waging-war-against-country-101630771365421.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||Police commissioner tells new recruits to remain updated on latest crime trends||Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana on Saturday exhorted the newly-recruited constables to remain updated on latest crime trends and make optimal use of technology in conducting investigation, gathering evidence and for prosecution procedures.He was addressing the passing out parade at Police Training College, Jharoda Kalan.The 116th batch of 312 constables completed their training and will now be joining various districts and units of Delhi Police, officials said.According to a statement released by police, among them, 171 candidates have been appointed on compassionate grounds in the place of their blood relations, who lost their lives while discharging duty.There are 11 post graduates, 116 graduates, three people with B Tech, one with BBA and one BCA among these recruits.They come from different parts of the country -- 93 from Delhi, 88 from Haryana, 39 from Rajasthan, 60 from UP, four from Maharashtra, two from Himachal Pradesh, one each from Uttrakhand, Punjab, Telangana, Bihar, West Bengal and Jharkhand and 20 from northeastern states, the statement said.Asthana took the salute and inspected the ceremonial parade.He also congratulated all the fresh recruits and lauded the drill instructors and Police Training College staff for imparting excellent training to the newly inducted constables.“Welcoming them in the force, Asthana exhorted them to remain updated on latest crime trends and make optimal use of technology in conducting investigation, gathering evidence and for prosecution procedures,” the statement said.Underlining the importance of community policing, the CP said, “Ninety-nine per cent people of the society strives to live in peace and only a few want to disturb the tranquility. Take those 99 per cent in confidence and maintain harmony with their cooperation.”The image of police should instill a sense of confidence in public, but at the same time, criminals must fear it. He pressed them to strengthen the constitution and law of the land by performing their duty with bravery and balanced nature, with a neutral overview, the statement stated.Woman constable Ankush Devi and constable Piyush Kumar were selected as ‘All-Round Best Cadet’, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-commissioner-tells-new-recruits-to-remain-updated-on-latest-crime-trends-101630769506547.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||CBI arrests RCF Kapurthala principal chief engineer for graft||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday arrested a principal chief engineer posted at Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala, for allegedly accepting ₹1 lakh in bribe from a contractor. The accused has been identified as Suresh Chand Meena, who oversees works related to buildings and workshop. The accused was produced in the court of special CBI judge in Mohali and sent to 14-day judicial custody. In a press statement, the CBI said the complainant contractor undertakes works related to civil and horticulture of RCF, Kapurthala. He met Meena in connection with a tender and payment of some works and the accused allegedly demanded 1% of gross payments received by complainant’s firm and also for future contracts, the CBI said. The complainant filed a complaint against Meena with the CBI. After verifying the allegations, the agency laid a trap in the wee hours on Saturday and caught him red-handed with ₹1 lakh he had taken in bribe. The CBI also conducted searches at the office and residential premises of the accused in Kapurthala and Jaipur, which led to recovery of incriminating documents, officials said. The senior RCF officials denied any specific information related to the tender works for which the money was sought by the accused. They said a departmental probe will be launched into the matter, adding that they were yet to receive any communication from the CBI regarding the charges and arrest of Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbi-arrests-rcf-kapurthala-principal-chief-engineer-for-graft-101630770024345.html
04-09-2021||Ranchi||Lost in UP, Jharkhand woman rescued from Nepal after 12 years||A Jharkhand woman has been rescued from Nepal 12 years after she had gone missing in Uttar Pradesh and now she is being brought to her home state, an official statement said on Saturday.Family members of Aitbariya, who had abandoned all hopes to see her again, are now waiting eagerly for her return from New Delhi where she had reached on Friday. A tweet from someone in Nepal saying that she was staying at an ashram in Kathmandu has set the ball rolling and an official of the Jharkhand government has been deputed to bring her back.She will take a train from Delhi to Ranchi on Sunday."Aitbariya, who is now 32, had gone to Uttar Pradesh with her father, to work at a brick kiln. From there, she went missing. This incident happened almost 12 years back. A case was filed in the Gorakhpur police station of UP. But, Aitbariya couldn't be found anywhere," the Jharkhand government statement said.Aitbariya is a resident of Masmona village under the Bhandara police station of Lohardaga. As per the details, from UP she was taken to Haryana and later sent to Nepal.The development comes close on the heels of the Jharkhand government rescuing a septuagenarian, identified as Fucha Mahli, after he spent 35 years working as a virtual bonded labour in Andaman and Nicobar islands."Our government is committed to rescue every single child. We have suffered enough with this menace but not anymore. If the case is related to trafficking, I warn traffickers to stay away from our state otherwise, they will be dealt with the strictest action," chief minister Hemant Soren said.The statement said the state government took immediate steps to bring her back after information about her staying at an ashram in Nepal emerged through a tweet by someone in Nepal.Minister Champai Soren brought the tweet to the notice of the Jharkhand State Migration Control Room and the chief minister who released a strict order to work on the issue with utmost priority.The state government coordinated with the embassies of Nepal and India to ensure her safe return, the statement said adding after video conferencing and calls to her mother and elder sister, it was confirmed that she is the daughter of Late Birsa Oraon.Her father is no more, while her mother and other members of the family had lost all hopes of her return.After making all arrangements, the Lohardaga district administration was directed to arrange for her return from Delhi to Lohardaga.A district official, accompanied by Aitbarya's elder sister and brother-in-law, has gone to Delhi. They will take a train to Ranchi on Sunday.Aitbariya's elder sister said, “We had lost all hopes of her return. She was lost in UP. Since then, we could not contact her. In the past also, we had sought help but nothing worked. A few days back, government officials contacted my mother and informed her about my sister. Thanks to Hemant Soren Ji, an officer from the government took us to Delhi. This Family reunion was not possible without the government’s support.”Lohardaga Deputy Commissioner Dilip Kumar Toppo said on the directions from the chief minister, the State Migration Control Room contacted the district administration with the details of the family.A team was sent to the family and after the identification process, the elder sister of Aitbariya along with her brother-in-law was sent to Delhi with the Labour superintendent.“We were informed that rescued Kumari Aitbariya has been administered with both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine. For precaution, we will get her and her family members tested for Covid-19. Additionally, we will also cover her with various benefits of state government-run schemes. I have sought a report from the respective BDO about her house condition. If required, she will be provided with a house and ration card," Toppo said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/lost-in-up-jharkhand-woman-rescued-from-nepal-after-12-years-101630767542139.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 4,130 new cases, sees rise in active Covid cases||Maharashtra on Saturday added 4,130 fresh Covid-19 cases, while the state’s active case count saw a jump, taking it tally to 52,025 from 50,466 on Friday. Mumbai, for the fourth day, has reported over 400 fresh cases with 413 new infections.Experts warned that though overall the curve may have stabilised, the fresh cases are going up in some urban centers, including Mumbai and Pune. They also said these are “early signs” of a possible third wave of Covid infection and the state must impose some restrictions looking at the festive season.Meanwhile, Maharashtra administered over 1.1 million doses in a day on Saturday, the state health department said. “Today we bettered our previous best and in a single day [with] 1,161,141 doses of Covid vaccine administered till 6pm. Final figures could be still more,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary (health). Data on the Co-Win portal showed that Maharashtra had administered 1,192,556 doses till 7pm. The state could go past 1.2 million doses, health department officials said. However, the final numbers are awaited.The state reported 64 deaths on Saturday due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 137,707. Mumbai, meanwhile, added four deaths, taking its toll closer to 16,000 at 15,991. Cities and areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region added 538 fresh cases with Kalyan-Dombivli topping with 113 cases, followed by Navi Mumbai (86), Panvel (68), Thane rural (56), and Thane city (54).A look at the state’s Covid-19 data of the past seven days showed that the daily positivity rate is creeping up gradually. On August 28, the daily positivity rate was 2.41%, while increased to 2.44% on August 30, 2.56% on August 31, 2.69% on September 3.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, technical advisor to the state on Covid-19, said that the state is at a “critical stage” now and the municipal and district administration must step up the surveillance to detect cases faster before spread increases.“We. as a country, and particularly Maharashtra, are in a critical stage now. The cases are increasing in the state, especially in Mumbai, Pune and some other cities. We need to intensify surveillance and contact tracing. Even if the numbers are less, we must increase surveillance so that it does not spread in more areas. Testing also should be targeted,” Salunkhe said.Salunkhe also blamed citizens for the rise in cases. “People have started moving out and are taking things casually. Despite understanding the seriousness of the situation, we see people not wearing masks. Social distancing has now gone for a toss,” he said.The state government is concerned due to the forthcoming Ganpati festival as there are indications that the numbers may surge during the festive season. However, there is no plan to introduce any fresh restrictions before or during the Ganeshotsav festival in the state.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said that there is no plan for any new lockdown in Maharashtra in the coming days. He, however, said that all residents should continue to follow safety protocols. “There is no possibility of fresh lockdown in the near future. I appeal to people to avoid crowding while celebrating the Ganesh festival. The celebration should be simple,” Tope said.Salunkhe said that the state must look at early signs and introduce some restrictions during the festive season. “Looking at early signs, which are indicative of a third wave soon, we must introduce some restrictions. We must not allow people to come out in large numbers during festivals like Ganpati, Navratri, and then Diwali,” Dr Salunkhe said.Meanwhile, on the occasion of the centenary year celebration of Topiwala National Medical College and BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced ₹100 crore for the civic-run hospital. Thackeray lauded the efforts of the hospital management through the pandemic and said that it has been able to keep up with the changes in medical science and provide effective health services by adapting to modern technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-4-130-new-cases-sees-rise-in-active-covid-cases-101630767984608.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: WR operated hospital to get oxygen plants||One of the first among Indian Railways, the Western Railway operated Jagjivan Ram Hospital at Mumbai Central will get oxygen plants. Two medical oxygen plants are likely to be operational in October and will provide 500 litres of oxygen per minute.The plants are being constructed at the cost of ₹2 crore and are expected to provide oxygen to 200 patients everyday.Initially the medical oxygen plants will be used to provide oxygen to patients admitted in the hospital. If there is a shortage of medical oxygen in the city, the railway authorities will provide oxygen to other hospitals.Railway officials have stated that incase of a third wave, the oxygen plants will be of help as there will be no shortage of medical oxygen.“The oxygen plants will be ready and functional in the first week of October. Whenever there is a next Covid wave, the oxygen plants will be able to cater to all patients and there will not be a shortage. It is part of an overall Indian Railways plan to set up medical oxygen plants across zonal railways,” said a senior Western Railway official.Jagjivan Ram Hospital serves as a special Covid-19 treatment facility in the city. The hospital also has a dedicated Covid testing laboratory.Intubation boxes for Covid patients are also available at the hospital.Further, the hospital also has medical robots that are used to monitor Covid patients including checking of temperature, blood pressure, heart rate and oxygen saturation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-wr-operated-hospital-to-get-oxygen-plants-101630767864232.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||For fourth straight day, Delhi reports no death due to Covid-19||Delhi recorded no fatality due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for a fourth straight day on Saturday, according to the data available on the health bulletin. The national capital reported 55 fresh cases and 63 new recoveries, taking the respective cumulative tally to 14,37,929 and 14,12,493, the bulletin data revealed.The number of single-day cases has, however, witnessed a marginal rise as 35 infections were logged on Friday. In fact, today’s figures are higher than Thursday and Wednesday as well when 39 and 36 cases were recorded, respectively.After reporting no deaths for four consecutive days, the death toll in the national capital continues to stand at 25,082, the bulletin data showed. Furthermore, the case fatality rate of the city stands at 1.74 per cent. The virus was found in 55 samples of the total 70,303 tested in the last 24 hours.Meanwhile, Delhi has conducted as many as 25,932,413 tests since the pandemic struck. A total of 217 patients are currently hospitalised due to coronavirus in Delhi, while 80 people are under home isolation. Only two patients are undergoing treatment at the dedicated Covid care centre, the health bulletin stated.As far as vaccination is concerned, 141,693 people were inoculated with coronavirus vaccine jabs in the last 24 hours. Of this, 93,971 people were administered the first dose while the remaining 47,722 were given the second dose. Delhi has so far vaccinated 13,911,640 beneficiaries, of which 99,223,66 have been inoculated with the first dose while as many as 39,89,274 have been administered the second dose.This development comes after Delhi schools – which have been closed since the start of the pandemic, reopened on September 1 for classes 9 to 12. The physical classes for students of standard 6 to 8 will resume on September 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/for-fourth-straight-day-delhi-reports-no-death-due-to-covid19-101630766502305.html
04-09-2021||Pune||Rs3 crore vegetable market in amenity space in Pune’s Kondhwa Budruk lying unused for two years||PUNE The Punyashlok Ahilyabai Holkar Vegetable Market and Multipurpose Centre, constructed in the amenity space of survey number 41 near VIT chowk in Kondhwa Budruk at a cost of Rs3 crore, has been lying unused under lock and key for the past two years. The vegetable market has 32 mini stalls or shops for vegetable vendors and five state-of-the-art auditoriums. As none of the stalls has been allotted, vegetable vendors are not allowed to sell vegetables at these shops, causing severe losses to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) exchequer.Local resident Sangita Shinde said that the market was constructed to cater to the needs of the residents while the auditoriums were built so that people could assemble for academic and other cultural programmes. “Currently, however, no vegetable vendor is allowed to sell vegetables as the stalls are yet to be allotted. We demand an early completion of the process as it is already two years and citizens have to go a long distance to buy vegetables despite having a vegetable market that is very near and convenient to us.”Ever since the market and multipurpose centre was inaugurated by the then state minister Bala Bhegade at the time of the 2019 assembly elections, not a single transaction has taken place, according to residents. What’s more, the vegetable vendors currently occupying the road in Kondhwa gaothan have emerged as a major bottleneck due to vehicular traffic and two-wheelers parked by buyers on both sides. So much so that residents have threatened agitations if the vegetable market is not commissioned at the earliest.Meanwhile, PMC vegetable market inspector for the Kondhwa and Hadapsar divisions, Ashwini Bhagwat, said, “It is a newly constructed market in Kondhwa Budruk and the process of allotment of stalls is currently in progress. Within one month, the official process will be completed following which the stalls will be allocated to vendors. All efforts are being undertaken at the administrative level to solve the issue.”The issue of misutilisation of amenity spaces in Pune has come to the fore after the PMC general body led by the BJP passed a resolution to lease amenity spaces for a term of 99 years. The decision has been vehemently opposed by opposition parties and in particular by civil society and citizens’ rights groups that have gone to the high court seeking a stay on the decision. Also, the BJP has levelled allegations that the actual privatisation and leasing of spaces began under the former Congress government where their leaders stand accused of not paying rent over Rs53.30 crore while others have taken public amenity properties at very nominal rates due to their strong political standing in former municipal body amenity spaces as per the Act.Amenity spaces, as per development control (DC) rules, are statutory spaces kept in the layout to be used for amenities such as open spaces, parks, recreational grounds, playgrounds, sports complexes, gardens, convenience shopping, parking lots, primary and secondary schools, nurseries, health clubs, dispensaries, nursing homes, hospitals, sub-post offices, police stations, electric substations, ATMs of banks, electronic cyber libraries, open markets, garbage bins, assisted living and hospice together, senior citizens’ housing and orphanages together, project-affected persons’ housing, auditoriums, conventional centres, water supply, electricity supply and other utilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rs3-crore-vegetable-market-in-amenity-space-in-pune-s-kondhwa-budruk-lying-unused-for-two-years-101630767084187.html
04-09-2021||Other||Emblems of empowerment| Sowing seeds of innovation and gender parity in Valley’s orchards||They say farming isn’t for women, more so, for city women. Breaking all such stereotypes, Sanna Masood, 35, a biotechnologist with a Masters in Business Administration, has been helping orchardists in remote areas of Kashmir adopt progressive farming and maximise their profits. Currently serving as the chief executive officer and managing director of the post-harvest division of Farm2U, a leading cold storage chain in Kashmir, Sanna puts into use her knowledge of plant biotechnology and plant tissue culture to guide the farmers.She also leads a team of 300 people, who specialise in high-density plantation and work towards bringing innovation in the horticulture sector, which is the Valley’s largest trade. “I guide orchardists about fruits they can put in coldstores. Many of them are surprised when they see a young woman give tips on establishing high-density orchards. But for women farmers, my presence is reassuring,” says Sanna, who has been encouraging more women to take up horticulture and agriculture, a trade that has been largely dominated by men until now, in the Valley. In 2013, she founded Seed Solutions, to help empower women in fields, but suffered a setback due to floods in the Valley. “We have started the project again and successfully trained three women in progressive farming. Their success is encouraging more women towards this field. But there is still a long way to go.” The 35-year-old has also been part of several women’s initiatives in Kashmir, such as the launch of scooty scheme, Hunarmand, an embroidery cluster for more than 114 women, and Zainab scheme, flood rehabilitation for more 150 craftswomen. “Despite being part of a big group, I have continued to work in women’s initiatives, especially in rural Kashmir. My initiatives have helped hundreds of women and made them self-reliant in the field of agriculture and horticulture. “Under two schemes, Thimram and Vestaun, we have established women clusters in medicinal plants --70 women in Shangus Anantnag and 57 women farmers in four villages of Pulwama district-- to help them earn a livelihood.” Daughter of renowned artist Masood Hussain, Sana grew up in the post locality of Jawaharnagar. “Though there were no farms or orchards where I grew up, my first tryst with plants was in the small garden in my house. Even as a child, I was fascinated with plants, seeds, flowers and anything that was close to nature.” She credits her parents and sister for all her success. “My family has always stood by me. Sometimes, my parents used to accompany me when I had to go far-off places in the mountains to learn organic farming.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/emblems-of-empowerment-sowing-seeds-of-innovation-and-gender-parity-in-valley-s-orchards-101630766724221.html
04-09-2021||Pune||65 PMC-owned flats encroached; civic body instructs trespassers to vacate flats within a week or face police action||At least 65 flats owned by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have been illegally occupied by people and the civic body has issued a public notice and instructed such trespassers to vacate the flats within a week or face police action.PMC has currently undertaken a survey to identify such trespassers.Rajendra Muthe, head of PMC estate department, said, “PMC owns 3,000 flats in the city under various reservations. Some of these flats have been given on minimal rent for citizens who are affected due to various development projects like road widening or other civic projects.”“Currently, we are conducting a survey and found that 65 flats are occupied by people illegally. The survey is in progress and we are expecting the number will increase,” he said.“We have issued a public notice to all such people and instructed them to vacate the flats within a week. PMC would file police case as well and if need be we will take help from police and forcefully vacate flats,” he said.Recently, PMC came up with a proposal to sell all these flats to increase their revenue.Hemant Rasne, standing committee chairman, had said, “We are giving priority to sell these flats to tenants. It will help to increase municipal corporations’ revenue.”Opposition parties blamed that this proposal is in the interest of few builders and had opposed the suggestion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/65-pmc-owned-flats-encroached-civic-body-instructs-trespassers-to-vacate-flats-within-a-week-or-face-police-action-101630766484260.html
04-09-2021||Other||AAP should declare CM face early, based on ground realities, says Mann||Sangrur Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) president and local MP Bhagwant Mann has said that the party not announcing a chief minister candidate for the Punjab assembly polls in 2022, early enough, was a big hurdle for party workers in their daily interactions with the public. “The party should know the ground reality and listen to volunteers before declaring the CM candidate for Punjab,” Mann said in an interaction with a select group of reporters at his residence. After Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal’s Gurdaspur visit on August 26, Mann has been camping at his Sangrur residence. Here, an average of around 1,000 workers a day, including party MLAs and ticket aspirants for assembly polls, have been meeting him. “A large proportion of these people see me as CM candidate,” he claimed Mann added, “AAP is a party that has risen from the grassroots. When it comes to naming the CM face in Punjab, then too the party must decide on the ground reality of workers’ demand. When we meet people, we have no answer to their question of our CM face. MLAs have also informed the party high command about the issue.”Mann claimed that AAP volunteers had appealed to the high command to declare him as the CM candidate. To a question on how other parties were faring, the two-time MP said, “The BJP’s culture is to contest elections without a CM face, Punjab has a different culture. I think the party should declare a CM face for the state. If AAP makes an announcement on CM candidate, volunteers will work with four-fold enthusiasm. I have also been a volunteer, so I know this.” On whether he has taken up the feelings of workers with the party high command, Mann said, “It is my responsibility to inform the high command about ground reality; they can also check facts. Volunteers want to work with more commitment, but they wish for a candidate of their own choice.”On AAP inducting the rich and the affluent into its fold, even as it claims to be a common man’s party, he said, “Some people are joining the party, but tickets will be distributed after asking the public.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-should-declare-cm-face-early-based-on-ground-realities-says-mann-101630766366493.html
04-09-2021||Pune||Pune ADRM Neelam Chandra’s new book launched||Neelam Saxena Chandra, additional divisional railway manager (ADRM), Pune railway division, has recently released her book titled “Splinters of a Broken Mirror.”The book is a collection of fifty poems written by Chandra.“When the mirror of life breaks, it leaves you devastated. However, what you fail to notice is the light emanating from each splinter. Let that light reach your heart and let it glow with happiness. With the strength of that light, a renewed mirror can appear miraculously and give you the courage to let your grief pass,” said Neelam.Neelam, who is currently working as the ADRM at the Pune railway division, is an author, poet and holds Limca Book of Records -2015 for authoring the highest number of publications in a year in English and Hindi.She is an engineering graduate from Visvesvaraya National Institute Of Technology (VNIT) and has done her post-graduation diploma in IM&HRD and also in finance.She has authored five novels, one novella and seven short story collections, 34 poetry collections and 14 children’s books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-adrm-neelam-chandra-s-new-book-launched-101630766124301.html
04-09-2021||Other||Teachers’ Day: Bitter and disappointed aspiring govt job teachers to intensify stir||Sangrur As the country will mark Teachers’ Day on Sunday, a segment of them in Punjab will learn to live with the bitter lesson of being unemployed, despite having the qualification and degrees. Intensifying their stir for jobs, these unemployed teachers, in a symbolic gesture, have decided to ‘offer their blood’ to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and ministers in the state government. These teachers belong to specialised categories like BEd or Physical Training Instructors (PTIs) etc. Many of them are into their mid 30s, with some even postponing their marriages, in the hope of a government job. Before the 2017 state assembly polls, the Congress had promised ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ (a job for every household). Unemployed BEd Teachers’ Union chief Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan alleged that the Congress government was using lathis on unemployed youth, and trying to suppress their voice when they seek jobs. “The government is thirsty for our blood. We have, thus, decided to offer a chalice of blood to cabinet ministers, Vijay Inder Singla and Manpreet Singh Badal and Navjot Singh Sidhu on Teacher’s Day on Sunday,” he added. Their union has been holding a dharna opposite school education minister Vijay Inder Singla’s residence since December 31, 2020, forcing the minister to hold his meetings with the public at the PWD Rest House. One of them, Munish Fazilka, even climbed atop a water tank inside the Sangrur civil hospital on August 21. The protest of New Unemployed PTI Teachers entered its 14th day on Saturday. Baljinder Singh, 25, of New PTI Teachers Union said that they have been holding protests on roads for the past 18 months for their demand of government recruitment in government primary schools.Partinder Kaur, 36, said the government had failed to provide employment and forced them to hold protests on roads. “The government has not recruited teachers as required in government schools. We have been fighting for a long time and have no option, but to win,” she added.Hardeep Kaur, 32, said despite clearing all exams with good marks, they are still unemployed. “I decided to become a teacher and cleared the TET and other tests. The government, however, is not ready to fill vacant posts in government schools. This government, which promised to provide Ghar Ghar Rozgar, is killing our dreams.”Singla, who has been facing regular protests over the issue and was also opposed on Saturday, said, “The government has held a meeting with all unions and tried to resolved their issues. We are doing everything possible for teachers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teachers-day-bitter-and-disappointed-aspiring-govt-job-teachers-to-intensify-stir-101630766004330.html
04-09-2021||Other||100 busloads of farmers leave Sangrur for UP mahapanchayat||Sangrur Over 100 busloads of farmers from the Malwa area departed for Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh (UP), from the Kalajhar toll plaza on Saturday to participate in a ‘mahapanchayat’ to be held on Sunday (September 5).Farmers, all under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), claimed before leaving for the show of strength that they will motivate more UP farmers also to oppose the anti-farmer laws of the Central government. Jagtar Singh Kalajhar, a senior leader of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), said, “Farmers will attend a mahapanchayat in massive numbers in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday. Punjab’s farmers have been holding protests opposite the offices of corporate houses and toll plazas. Now, we will motivate UP residents to fight against the anti-people policies of the BJP government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/100-busloads-of-farmers-leave-sangrur-for-up-mahapanchayat-101630765404233.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||Mock sleeves are a thing now!||Statement sleeves never go out of style. They can make a minimal dress a memorable one. Sleeves have always added stage worthy drama to outfits. Bell, gigot, puff, dolman and pagoda were some of the most loved styles in the Victorian era. Princess Diana’s iconic wedding gown designed by David and Elizabeth Emanuel for her July 1981 wedding also had exaggerated puff sleeves. The global runway has also showcases the most jaw dropping versions of sleeves.Though every dress can’t have statement sleeves, they can stand out with false sleeves. And in a pandemic affected world, the idea is getting a thumbs up from fashion lovers as it makes fashion sustainable, economical and more fun.Detachable sleeves can be paired with numerous outfits. “These sleeves are also called false or fake sleeves. They can be used as an add on sleeve in a shoulder-less or shoulder-strap dress. Available in styles such as bell, balloon and puff, they come in a variety of fabrics and can be solid, printed, lacey and ruffled. I find them very purposeful and alluring. They transform the look and feel of the garment instantly. They also help reduce the carbon footprint,” says Gautam Gupta, fashion designer.With people keen to ditch fast fashion, detachable sleeves become a great choice. “These sleeves are very popular among GenZs and millennials. They have the potential to transform traditional Indian wear, kids clothing and even menswear,” says Chandni Khattar, founder of Heart Up My Sleeves, a homegrown brand started by sister duo Riya Khattar and Chandni Khattar amidst the lockdown. “It’s a great investment as one pair of sleeves can be worn with a number of outfits and styled imaginatively in myriad ways,” says Riya Khattar.You can pair them with a basic tank top and jeans to elevate a casual look. They add drama and elegance when paired with a saree or a lehenga. One can also pair it with a tube or strapless dress. You can also transform a simple daytime jumpsuit look into one for a night out with detachable exaggerated sleeves.Super-model Sonalika Sahay finds these sleeves fun and utilitarian. “It’s a great way to recycle your outfits and create brand new looks. I love pairing a simple tube dress with white flounced sleeves for a party look. I even style my saris with simple blouses that I team with exaggerated detachable sleeves for a funky look,” she says.The fashion accessory accentuates attire without burning a hole in your wallet. “Detachable sleeves meet the demands of today’s fast-paced society. Everyone wants to look stylish but does not want to invest too much. The concept of detachable sleeves is both practical and fashionable at the same time,” says fashion designer Kavita Gupta who customises detachable sleeves according to the taste and personality of her clients.So take predictability and boredom out of your wardrobe and give your simple outfits a partyworthy makeover with detachable sleeves. Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mock-sleeves-are-a-thing-now-101630763007576.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Blast in Boisar textile unit: 2 workers killed, 5 injured||A huge blast was reported at Jakharia Textiles, at Boisar MIDC on Saturday morning. Two workers were killed and five were injured in the incident and are undergoing treatment at private hospitals in Vasai and Boisar. The blast is said to have taken place in the boiler section. The Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health (DISH), Vasai, are yet to ascertain the cause. The unit manufactured blended polyester cotton and viscose fabric, yarn dyeing, cotton linen, fabric yarn processing, fabric and other textile products.Manish Sawant, station officer of Boisar MIDC fire brigade said the fire was reported at around 6am. “We reached the spot and with the help of three tenders, we doused the fire. Cooling operations are on. The dead workers have been identified as Mithilesh Rajwanshi, 35, and Chottelal Saroj, 35,” said senior inspector Suresh Kadam. The injured are Mukesh Yadav, Amit Yadav, Murli Gautam, Ganesh Patil and Umesh Ram, said Kadam. Boisar MIDC police have registered a case of accidental death and have sent the two bodies or post-mortem. “We will summon Nitin Keshavji Shah, managing director of the Bhiwandi-registered company and then register a first information report,” said Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/blast-in-boisar-textile-unit-2-workers-killed-5-injured-101630758383875.html
04-09-2021||Lucknow||Pandemic has given people opportunity to nurture their talent: Dr Pramod Agarwal||Lockdown and pandemic have brought forward the hidden interest of Lucknow-based medical professional Dr Pramod Agarwal.In the due course the medico decided to helm a film project and give his long-lost passion a chance to surface. In his spare time on weekends, the dermatologist shot Tumse Mil Kar with city-based artistes. Now, the film is streaming on a popular OTT platform. This is his first directorial but his interest dates back to early 80s when he was pursuing MD from Banaras Hindu University. “I was very active in the field of theatre. I had directed and acted in many popular plays such as Spartacus, Hera-Pheri, Sangtarash and also made Ek Kadam Aur, a short film on adult education, in those days. I also wrote plays like Samanantar, Tabiyat Kharaab Hai for Doordarshan while many were aired on radio. Then I got busy with my job as a doctor. Now I have written, produced and directed this film after a hiatus of nearly 40 years. Pandemic surely has given people opportunity to nurture their talent and hobbies,” he says. In between his stint in Mumbai, he learnt the art of film making while assisting others. “I was part of the team that made a feature film Tulsi Sohe Hamaar Angna and Den, a tele-film by Satyen Bose, and few other projects as well.” After that, his interest took a back seat. “Besides, my clinics I used to practice in Faizabad every Saturday. After lockdown, I discontinued that clinic so this gave me some spare time, so I took up writing. From my own resources I managed everything and roped in actors to shoot the film on Saturdays and partially on Sundays. Then every weekend I used to get its editing and post-production,” he tells. The 35-minute film stars Som Ganguly, Adwitya, Satish Bhartiyam, Mamta Praveen, Shikha, Rashi and others. “The story revolves around a young working couple having a difference of opinion about extending their family. The story is quite contemporary and explores the limit of love and mutual trust,” he says. Dr Agarwal says it’s because of OTT as a platform that he can think of coming up with another project in future. “Being a busy practitioner, I hardly get time. But I would surely like to take-up something soon. I have written two scripts but let’s see how things shape up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pandemic-has-given-people-opportunity-to-nurture-their-talent-dr-pramod-agarwal-101630757664083.html
04-09-2021||Other||‘Please wait while we connect you to...’: Customer service takes a back seat with interactive voice response systems||I am yet to come across a consumer who likes those automated answering services that businesses employ in the name of customer service. Yet, I do not see an end to this interactive voice response (IVR) system. In fact, I have begun to believe that businesses put up these automated responses with the sole objective of discouraging their customers from calling them or complaining about their products or services.The IVR systems can be particularly frustrating when you urgently want to talk to a human being or a ‘customer care executive’ at the other end to resolve your problem quickly , but in order to get to that executive, you have to manoeuvre through endless options that offer you no solution, but only waste your time and test your patience.Going through the IVR menu is sometimes like going through an endless maze - within each option in the menu, you come across more choices and finally, after what seems like a marathon hurdle race, when you come to the human interface stage, either the line gets cut off or you have to be ready for another long wait before you can talk to the human being at the other end. Or you discover, after a lengthy struggle with a complicated and long IVR menu, that there is no human interface at all and that you have just wasted a lot of time. Who can remain calm and composed at the end of such experiences?Companies may be saving on salaries by using these IVR systems but they are certainly not earning the respect or loyalty of their customers. In fact, they might well be losing their customers to competitors.Here is an example, narrated by a reader. Following a serious health issue, he was advised by his doctors to get a particular test done every three months. He was using the same laboratory recommended by his doctor and this time, he noticed that they had sent him the result of the previous quarter’s test. Upset, he called the laboratory technician who had come to take the blood sample and when he failed to help, he called the laboratory to ask for the latest report. That one call changed his perception of the laboratory and he says he does not want to patronise them ever again.He says he had to wade through eight or nine menu options, none of which could help him with his problem. Finally, when he reached the stage where his call would be connected to a human being, he had to wait for over half an hour to finally speak to the company representative. Thus, what could have been resolved in half a minute, took almost an hour, thanks to the IVR.Interestingly, several surveys conducted in the United States have shown consumer displeasure, anger and frustration over the IVR system. A study commissioned by Interactions Corporation and conducted by an assistant professor of communications in the New York University in 2011, for example, showed an overwhelming consumer dissatisfaction -- 83 per cent -- with the IVR systems.The situation has not changed much over the years. A more recent research, published in September 2019 by Vonage, revealed that IVR menus had prompted 51 per cent of consumers to move away from a business altogether, resulting in a loss of about $262 per customer per year. The research, involving 2010 respondents in the United States, also showed that over 60 per cent of consumers felt the IVR system provided a poor customer experience. Another study conducted in the US in February and March this year by eGain reinforced the view that IVRs frustrated customers on account of long hold times and their inability to resolve queries. It’s time businesses took this issue seriously and provided customer care that actually delivers what it promises, without wasting their customers’ time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/please-wait-while-we-connect-you-to-customer-service-takes-a-back-seat-with-interactive-voice-response-systems-101630757063965.html
04-09-2021||Other||SC order on filling up consumer forums a welcome intervention||At a time when public confidence in the consumer justice delivery is at an all time low and consumer courts in the country are plagued by huge vacancies and infrastructural deficiencies, the Supreme Court’s suo motu intervention and direction to the Union and state governments to fill up all vacancies in eight weeks, brings a ray of hope.Of course this is not the first time that the apex court has hauled up the governments on poor enforcement of the Consumer Protection Act. In the initial years after the enactment of the consumer protection law in 1986, there was such resistance from state governments to constituting the consumer courts that the Supreme Court had to constantly step in, regularly monitor and ensure that the states established the redressal agencies contemplated under the Act. “It is such indifference which renders a well meaning legislation, intended to protect a large body of consumers from exploitation, ineffective,” the Supreme Court had commented in its order in 1993 (Common Cause vs Union of India)Even after three decades, there is not much of a change in the attitude of the state governments. The working of the consumer courts continue to be stymied by inadequate infrastructure, absence of secretarial staff, besides huge vacancies in the posts of judicial and non-judicial members (presidents and members ) that adjudicate over consumer disputes. So much so that in the last three decades, the Supreme Court and several high courts have interceded to ensure uninterrupted running of the consumer tribunals, but the consequent reliefs have only been short lived. Thus, closure of consumer courts on account of the absence of adjudicating members is now part of the ground reality of consumer protection in the country.It is also not uncommon to find state governments resorting to ‘jugaad’ to comply with the directions of the Supreme Court and putting one judicial member in charge of three consumer courts or appointing part-time members. So technically, the vacancies are filled up and the courts are functioning, but the truth is that their working is restricted to just about a few hours in a day. Ironically, if you look under the acronym “FunNFun” on the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission’s (NCDRC) website, you will see the list of functioning and non-functioning consumer courts. Interestingly, in the last three decades, the slate has never been wiped clean of non-functional forums.The vacancy positions are even more revealing - as per the data on the NCDRC website, dated June 30,2021, state governments had to fill up a total of 788 posts in district commissions and 81 in state commissions. Of course some states contributed more to these staggering numbers. For example, Uttar Pradesh had to fill up 153 vacancies in district commissions as on December 31, 2020, Madhya Pradesh had to appoint 74 adjudicating members as on May 31, 2021, and Tamil Nadu had 79 vacancies as on April 30, 2021.That’s not all, a comprehensive study on the working of these courts, sponsored by the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs and published last year by the Indian Institute of Public Administration, showed that 85.6 per cent of the consumer forums suffered from inadequate infrastructure, while 85.6 per cent lacked adequate staff.Now the new Consumer Protection Act of 2019 provides for online filing of complaints and e-hearing, besides mediation facilities to overcome the delays in the adjudication process. But here again, most consumer courts in the country do not have the required IT infrastructure nor facilities for mediation. IIPA study said 96.5 per cent of the forums had computers, many of them outdated, and 87.6 per cent had internet connections that were often poor.The crumbling infrastructure and the recalcitrant attitude of the state governments are only one part of the story of the failing consumer justice system in the country. The other part is the poor enforcement of the law by those adjudicating over consumer disputes and the failure of the new law to deal with these issues. I will write about that in my next column.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scorder-on-filling-up-consumer-forums-a-welcome-intervention-101630757063142.html
04-09-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka Covid rules to be relaxed? Minister gives a timeline||Karnataka law minister JC Madhuswamy said on Saturday chief minister Basavaraja Bommai will take a decision over easing Covid-19 restrictions in a couple of days as the state’s infection tally rose to 29,53,064 and the death toll to 37,380. “We have not taken any decision yet. After consultation with DCs of those villages which are still under Covid-19 restrictions, the CM will take the decision and announce it within one or two days,” Madhuswamy was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier in the day, Karnataka chief minister Bommai said the government is yet to consider reopening schools for classes 1 to 5 and that guidelines will be issued once again to restrict organising large-scale events and rallies, in view of the violation of Covid-19 protocols. "We will see how things will function with classes 6,7 and 8, and based on that we will take further decisions," Bommai told reporters in response to a question on reopening school for classes 1-5.Also read | Karnataka: 19-year-old receives both doses of Covishield vaccine in a gap of twoThe government has already allowed the reopening of schools for students from classes 9 to 12 since August 23, and classes 6,7 and 8 will reopen from September 6.Meanwhile, the Karnataka government has decided to impose anight curfew from 9pm to 5am and the weekend curfew from 9pm on Friday till 5am in the Dakshina Kannada district till September 13. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner KV Rajendra issued an order on Wednesday, saying essential services will be allowed during the curfew and the shops selling essential items will be allowed to remain open from 6am to 2pm.According to a health department bulletin, Karnataka reported 1,220 fresh Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths on Friday. The positivity rate for the day stood at 0.68 per cent and the case fatality rate (CFR) was 1.55 per cent, the bulletin also showed.Also read | Covid vaccine drive falls behind in Karnataka rural areas: DataBengaluru Urban accounted for the most number of Covid-19 cases at 319, as the city reported eight deaths, the highest in the state. Dakshina Kannada followed Bengaluru Urban with 232 cases, Udupi 150, Mysuru 86 and Hassan 81, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district has the most number of positive cases at 12,38,834, followed by Mysuru with 176,344 and Tumakuru with 119,370 infections. Behind Bengaluru Urban in the number of deaths was Dakshina Kannada, which reported four fatalities, and two in Uttara Kannada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-covid-rules-to-be-relaxed-minister-gives-a-timeline-101630755465221.html
04-09-2021||Patna||Monitoring flood situation in Bihar, rescue work underway: State minister||Bihar water resources development minister Sanjay Kumar Jha on Saturday said the state government is continuously monitoring the flood situation and relief, rescue work is underway with full readiness."For the flood-affected people of Bihar, relief and rescue work is being done by the Bihar government with full readiness. At present, 161 community kitchens are running in the state, in which a total of 151,369 people were served food till the evening of September 2," tweeted Jha in Hindi.The Ganga, Gandak and Kosi rivers in Bihar have crossed the danger level in several areas of the state due to heavy rainfall. The Ganga River is flowing 12 cm above the danger mark in Patna. The tributaries of the Ganga River are also witnessing a rising trend in the water level. Kosi, which is known to be the sorrow of Bihar, is also flowing above the danger mark in various areas.On August 31, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar conducted an ariel survey of the flood-affected areas of Darbhanga and informed that financial aid of ₹6,000 is being provided to affected families.Nearly 16 districts in Bihar have been affected by floods due to incessant rainfall including Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Muzaffarpur, Vaishali and Patna.Earlier on Wednesday, the East Central Railway suspended the rail movement between the Darbhanga and Samastipur section as the flood water has almost touched the rail bridge between Hayaghat and Thalwara station of the Samastipur division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/monitoring-flood-situation-in-bihar-rescue-work-underway-state-minister-101630755607418.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab in poll mode: Maluka falls in line, to contest from Rampura Phul||Former Punjab minister Sikander Singh Maluka on Saturday finally gave in and agreed to contest from Rampura Phul assembly segment after Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Sukhbir Singh Badal turned down the demand to field his son Gurpreet Maluka from there. Also read: Paralympics: Pramod Bhagat clinches gold medal in men’s singles (SL3) badmintonSukhbir met the Malukas at his Chandigarh residence over lunch. To placate the sulking two-time MLA, Sukhbir appointed Gurpreet, a former Bathinda zila parishad chairperson, as the SAD general secretary. Reposes faith in Sukhbir’s leadershipAfter the meeting, Maluka reposed full faith in Sukhbir’s leadership and added that the party is united. “Maluka sa’ab agreed to the decision (of ticket allocation) of the party. I have urged them to make a collective effort on all (six) seats of Bathinda district,” said the SAD chief. Maluka contested on five occasions from Rampura and won only twice, in 1997 and 2012. He remained cabinet minister both times. Maluka, once a blue-eyed aide of SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal, had been in dissent mode after the party on Sunday announced his candidature from his traditional seat of Rampura Phul. Maluka was keen to contest from Maur and wanted the Rampura Phul seat for Gurpreet. Jagmeet Brar to contest as SAD nominee from Maur Jagmeet Brar has been declared as the SAD candidate from Maur. As Brar’s candidature from Maur was expected, last week Maluka had demanded the party to desist from fielding him and advised it to take feedback from the party workers on winnability chances of him (Maluka) and Brar. Maluka had gone to the extent of saying that the unannounced norm of ‘one-family-one ticket’ was selectively thrusted upon the Maluka family to adjust an outsider. Political analysts said it’s surprising how Maluka, once a powerful Akali leader in Malwa, was cornered. “He was calling the shots in the SAD and was an aide of Parkash Singh Badal. It evoked much political interest the manner in which his candidature was announced last Sunday against his wishes and then the nomination of Brar, a party-hopper, was announced. Maluka had to take back his resolution made in the public last week that only Gurpreet would contest from Rampura Phul. It shows the new political strategy of the Badals in their traditional electoral bastion of Bathinda,” says a political analyst.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-in-poll-mode-maluka-falls-in-line-to-contest-from-rampura-phul-101630755023519.html
04-09-2021||Real||Supertech says towers built as per law, to file review petition against SC order||Supertech Ltd chairman RK Arora said on Saturday they will file a review petition against the Supreme Court order to demolish the company's two 40-storey residential towers in Noida as he stressed that the buildings were constructed according to the law and with approval of the competent authority. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court ordered the demolition of the two towers of Supertech’s Emerald Court project in Noida over grave violation of building norms. The court said the violation was a result of “nefarious complicity” between the Noida Authority and the real estate developer."While we respect the Hon'ble Supreme Court order, we have decided to re-present the matter before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in a review application as the towers were constructed as per the approval of the competent authority conforming to the Building bye-laws," Supertech chairman RK Arora said in a statement, adding that Apex and Ceyane towers are not linked to or are part of any ongoing project of the company.Also read | UP govt forms SIT to probe Emerald Court caseSupertech Group is developing 10 crore square feet across its projects and Apex and Ceyane towers only constitute a mere 6 lakh sqft which is 0.6  per cent of the total portfolio, he added. "While we have already refunded most of the customers in this project after the Hon'ble High Court, Allahabad decision passed in 2014 – we will further comply with the Hon'ble Supreme Court directions as per the order passed," Arora said.Also read | Supertech Emerald Court demolition order in Noida: Key facts and timelineArora also said that the Supremo Court order will not have any adverse impact on Supertech as every project has its own independent RERA Account and cost centre. "Supertech is a financially stable and strong group. Work is going on at all our project sites as scheduled. We would like to reassure all our customers, bankers, vendors and other stakeholders that we will deliver all our projects in the scheduled time frame," Arora said.A bench of Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice MR Shah said that the April 11, 2014, verdict of the Allahabad High Court, which directed the demolition of the two towers, does not deserve any interference. The bench said the construction of Supertech's twin 40-storey towers with 915 flats and shops was done in collusion with Noida authority and the high court was correct in holding that view.Also watch | Supertech twin towers demolition in Noida: Yogi govt forms SIT, SC orderThe Supreme Court bench directed that Supertech will have to demolish the towers at its own expense and complete it within three months under the supervision of the Noida Authority and an expert body such as the Central Building Research Institute. The top court also ordered that Supertech will refund money to all the existing homebuyers in Emerald Court’s Apex and Ceyane towers within two months, along with an interest of 12% per annum from the date of their deposits.Supertech was also ordered to give ₹2 crore to the Emerald Court Owner Resident Welfare Association (RWA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/real-estate/supertech-says-towers-built-as-per-law-to-file-review-petition-against-sc-order-101630752495957.html
04-09-2021||Pune||Marginal rise in Pune’s RT-PCR positivity rate||As the city gears up to the festive season and Covid-19 norms have been relaxed, the weekly positivity rate and RT-PCR positivity rate has shown a marginal increase as compared to that of the state average.As per the district health department, the weekly positivity rate in the Pune district was 4.4 per cent on August 17, and 5.8 per cent and 6.3 per cent on August 26 and September 2. While during the same period for the state it was 2.4 per cent, 2.5 per cent and 2.6 per cent respectively.The RT-PCR positivity rate was 5.9 per cent on August 17, and 6.6 per cent and 7.3 per cent on August 26 and September 2. During the same period for the state, it was 3.1 per cent, 2.9 per cent and 3.2 per cent.Though the data suggests that the rise is marginal, the increase in the RT-PCR positivity rate shows that the infection is spreading in the area. Whereas a combined positivity rate includes Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) which may also show false negatives.Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Hospital Board of India, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Pune, said that the numbers are bound to increase due to the unlock process.“As more people are going outdoor for work and other activities, they will come in contact with others. In such a situation, it is important to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. As the city unlocks the positivity rate is bound to increase,” said Patil.“To save themselves from the third wave, it is important to wear masks, follow social distancing and maintain hand hygiene at all times. Only then the third wave can be delayed,” said Dr Patil.Other districts, unlike Pune, show a decrease in the RT-PCR positivity rate.As per the data furnished by the health department, on August 17, Ahmednagar district reported 7.1 per cent to 6.5 per cent on September 2. During the same time, Solapur district reported a 5 per cent RT-PCR positivity rate on August 17 which was reduced to 4.2 per cent on September 2. Similarly, districts like Sangli and Satara have also reported a decrease.Dr Dnyaneshwar Mote, a member of the Pune city Covid-19 task force for social action said that as Pune district has better contact testing and that’s why the rate is more.“Pune district has more population and medical infrastructure is also better and so many patients prefer coming to the city for testing. This is the primary cause for the rise in numbers,” said Mote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/marginal-rise-in-pune-s-rt-pcr-positivity-rate-101630753103740.html
04-09-2021||Pune||Startup Mantra: Pune-based PhiCommerce ready to roll out an end-to-end tokenisation solution||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines which are going to prohibit online merchants, payment aggregators and payment gateways from storing customers’ card details is bound to disrupt the digital payments ecosystem. Tokenisation (replacement of actual card details with an alternate code called ‘token’) is the next high-tech thing to happen in next five to six months in the payments segment of fin-tech space. Pune-based startup PhiCommerce is one of the few players in the Asian continent that are ready to roll out an end-to-end tokenisation solution. Founded in March 2015 by Jose Thattil, Tushar Shankar, Anil Sharma, Rajesh Londhe and Ramkumar Subbaraj, PhiCommerce is a new-age financial technology company that addresses evolving needs of digital payments infrastructure. Its payments processing platform PayPhi enables businesses to embrace the digital payments ecosystem with smart interventions to automate, integrate and streamline payment transactions across an omni-channel and instrument-agnostic platform. In the beginning After completing his BE Electronics from Mumbai University, Jose went to the Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies and completed his Masters in Management Studies in 1997. Says Jose, “I started my career with ICICI Bank. I was AVP Technology at the organisation and responsible for launching India’s first VISA Debit Card. That was my first real exposure to payments. What I realised then is that payments are going to be a requirement through all sectors in India. That’s when I decided to focus on digital payments as a career.” Jose moved to a Pune-based company named ElectraCard Services. He was one of the founding members of the company which was one of the earliest software product companies in digital payments. That’s how Jose’s association with Pune began. “We built payment solutions and deployed them for very large banks and institutions – both on payment acceptance and issuance side. Acceptance side operations were ecommerce, point of sale (POS), m-commerce, ATMs, Kiosks etc, while issuance side operations were to build and roll out very large debit card programmes, credit card programmes, wallets and other facilities. We did this in India and 22 countries across the globe,” Jose said. “As part of that 15-year journey, we were able to see how payments was evolving in countries like North America, Africa, Middle East, South Asia and South East Asia region. We realised it was not just peculiar to India, but globally also there was a lot of action happening in the digital payments space. In 2013, ElectraCard was acquired by Mastercard,” he said. In 2015, Jose along with Tushar, Anil, Rajesh and Ramkumar, decided to quit their jobs and start PhiCommerce. Jose is the chief executive officer, while Rajesh heads the payments business and Ani heads the soon-to-be-launched credit business. Tushar heads the sales and business development across both these business units while Ram is the chief technology officer. Says Jose, “I have known them for about 15 years and we have worked together. We are virtually a family. Each one of us have our own strengths or core areas/skillsets.” “In 2015, we were focussed on product development. In the early part of 2016, we were aware that digital payments are undergoing a revolution. There were three basic philosophies under which we started PhiCommerce,” says Jose. Omni-channel and instrument agnostic platform Says Jose, “For last 40-50 years, the payments space was largely led by card-based payments. However, in the last 5 to 7 years new payment methods originated. QR, mobile-based/wallet-based payments, biometric payments, IoT based payments started coming in. Most payment processing platforms globally were designed for a card-first transaction. To handle these newer payment instruments, there was a lot of programming and coding done on top of these card-based platforms. But it made these platforms lose the nimble nature. It was like getting patched on a core platform. If you build on top of a legacy stack then you will lose the benefits.” “In payments world, there are two basic concepts – Push or Pull payments. So, you should have a platform that can do both PUSH and PULL. You should have a platform that can process cards, or QR codes, or biometric or ECS type of transaction – all with the same ease. And you should be able to do online (ecommerce) platform or an instore platform or a doorstep platform. The whole world is now moving to an online-to-offline-to-online scenario. If you have different platforms or solutions to handle these channels, it is not going to work. As a business, there is increasing premium in having a singular view of your customer, and not having siloed systems. We realised that the world really requires a complete rethink on a payment processing stack. And we need to have a technology or platform that you would throw any sort of payment at it, it will be able to process. Thus, we decided to make PayPhi omni-channel instrument agnostic,” Jose said. Built in India and deployable anywhere in the world Commenting on the RBI and central government stance regarding payments data, Jose says, “Globally, lot of central banks and government are becoming very possessive about their payments data. Central banks and governments are insisting that payment infrastructure needs to reside on their soil. The data should not go out of the country. Which means that thinking from a payment processing stack perspective, it has to be ‘passport-able’ to any part of the world. Whatever be the application you develop, has to be such that it can be actually shipped out to a different location to be installed there very easily.” “Large payment processers globally had developed large and fragmented platforms which made it extremely difficult to replicate or deploy them it in any other part of the world. We came from a product background. We realised that anything that we do has to be largely productised with a view of deploying in any part of world at short notice.” Largely use-case driven approach to payments Jose has a “controversial” view about payments. Contrary to certain people who view payments as a commodity – involving only a debit and credit or a sender and receiver – Jose and his team believes that each industry has its own nuances of payments. He says, “The moment you treat payments as a commodity then the payment platform only takes care of the debit and the credit. As a result, whole lot of processes around it get manually done. For example, originating a payment, invoicing a payment, collecting payment, distributing payment at the backend, all of this is then manually done, since from a payment processors perspective you will be only responsible for the debit and credit. Whereas we believe that it is not so.” Jose also gives an example of an ecommerce marketplace transaction. “An e-commerce marketplace is expected to collect money from a consumer. Now that money doesn’t end with the marketplace. The marketplace then has to pass on a large portion of it to the sellers at the backend, to various logistics providers. This splitting between various service providers and sellers at the backend, is also according to us a part and parcel of the payment transaction. You cannot say that the payment ends with money having coming into the marketplace as account. What happens to the onward distribution of funds? So, we believe that there could a core that is common but every industry will have a certain requirement of some subtle nuances around payments. That is where we set about designing various APIs drive functionalities to cater to various large industries. Once we went live, we work with very large merchants across the country. We are present across all channels, all instruments in the country,” Jose says. Demonetisation and Covid influence Since its inception, PhiCommerce has witnessed three major developments which has propelled it growth. Demonetisation (2016), Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown (2020-21) and the rise of direct to consumers (D2C) brands. Says Jose, “Demonetisation was a wake-up call for country emphasising that the shift from cash to digital has to happen. A lot of transactions, across industries, got converted from cash to digital almost immediately. But Covid-19 has forced people to adopt digital as a way of life. Cash-On-Delivery (COD) has converted to ‘Digital Payment On Delivery’.” Sharing his experience while working with one of their biggest client – a government-owned gas company – Jose said, “We see transactions coming from very rural distant places. People are making Aadhaar-based transactions for their LPG gas cylinders. These are people who have probably done their first digital transaction in their life. Now they have adopted to that. The pandemic has taught us that there is no going away from digital payments.” Doorstep Commerce – Next Big Thing Jose believes that doorstep commerce is going to become huge. He said, “PhiCommerce is among the pioneers to convert COD to digital payments at doorsteps. We see that today consciously or unknowingly you end up doing a lot of transactions at your doorstep. And largely all of that is in cash. We believe that with utility payments, food delivery, ecommerce payments, recovery of loans, insurance premium payment going digital at footsteps, doorstep commerce is going to become huge.” “India with all the action that we see in payments today, is hardly 25 per cent digitised. Almost 75 per cent people are still dealing in cash and 75 per cent of consumer payments still happen in cash. So much growth is still going to happen, over the next 8 to 10 years in India. As a payment solution provider, we are blessed to be in a country like India which is leading the world as far as new innovation in digital payments are concerned,” Jose said. Team expansion PhiCommerce is headquartered in Pune with a 45-member team. Jose said, “The last 5 years were the first phase of growth for us. Our entire energies have been focussed on the product development, building the whole stack and bringing the enterprise clients. Almost 60 per cent of our team is on the tech side and the rest comprising sales and operations. Now we are in process of expanding the sales team across the country, including Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru. In the next 12 to 18 months, our focus would be on growth both domestically and internationally.” Future Plans Says Jose, “We are in the process of expanding in the overseas as well. We will be launching in the Middle East in the next six months from now and we are also looking at Africa and South East Asia as two other markets.” Revenue and Funding While refusing to disclose the revenue and sales figures, Jose said that they are going through a funding discussion. He says, “Today from market perspective, by end of this financial year with close to 20 thousand merchants across the country, we will be processing payments for them. We will be doing transactions of ₹15 thousand crores.” “Last year, we closed a series A round where we were privileged to have BeeNext as an investor. Now we have some incoming interest from various investors. We are in the process of evaluating them. We hope to culminate a round in next 4 to 6 months. The funding raised will largely go toward product development and tokenisation solution development,” Jose stated. -------- BOXBehind the Scenes Online authorisation •Business reaches out to PhiCommerce or vice versa •Documentation – Know Your Customer (KYC) is done •Technology integration of PayPhi platform with the business happens (usually takes 2 or 3 days •Transaction start Settlement •Customer goes on the website to make a payment, chooses to pay •Customer is transferred on PayPhi portal •Transaction generated •Transaction processed through the payment networks like VISA, MASTERCARD or AMEX, and NPCI or others. •Transaction completion confirmation send. •At the end of day or next day – for the transactions happened earlier day – PhiCommerce receive funds from bank •PhiCommerce processes it to settle with the business •Business gets a conformation that payment will get done right then (Real time confirmation) Says Jose, “We choose to work with larger businesses, we don’t focus on the SME space. We are building something where the complete value of the platform will be derived by larger or medium-sized businesses.” -------------- Charges Each payment instrument has its own fee mechanism. •Debit Card – can be 50 basis points to 1 percent •Credit Card – 1 to 2 per cent •UPI – no charge associated with UPI •NEFT – fixed fee per transaction ------------ Statistics •Daily transactions - 5 lakh transactions •To process over $2bn worth of payments in Middle East Asia by 2023 •Funding – total – over $5 million •PayPhi is used at 18000 pin codes across country by customers of the largest government LPG gas distributor. --------------------------- Competitors •Pay Nearby Technologies (Mumbai) •Paytm Payments Bank (Noida) Fin-Tech India •$10 billion in equity capital funding over the past decade •India is home to the third-largest set of unicorns globally, behind the US and China, which command a total valuation of $90 billion. •Unified Payments Interface (UPI), digital payments are growing almost 10.5 times over the past five years to an annual payment run-rate of $450 billion, constituting close to 30% of retail transactions •Digital payments in India continue to grow, with over 200 million active users and acceptance at more than 30 million merchants Source: ‘100 Unicorns: India’s changing corporate landscape’ Report by Credit Suisse *Customers (names not disclosed due to non-disclosure agreements) Doorstep payments category – e-Commerce, Logistics companies Recurring payments – Schools, housing societies, etc ------------------ Other News Pune-based industrial robotics startup Peppermint raises ₹5 crore Pune: Venture Catalysts and Indian Angel Network have led a funding of ₹5 crore in Peppermint, an industrial robot manufacturing company that makes and deploys commercial housekeeping and service robots. The round also saw participation from Vinners Group and a group of angel investors led by Naveen Kumar Kshatriya. The Pune-based startup will utilize the fresh capital infusion to enhance the current production facility and ramp up its production capacity. A part of the funding will be dedicated towards R&D. Peppermint will also allocate the investment in scaling its business across India and the Middle East. Peppermint was incubated at IIT-Bombay’s Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship. Runal Dahiwade – CEO and Founder, Peppermint, commented, “We have the first-mover advantage in the commercial robotics space in India and our robots have been tested and deployed in various sectors including pharmaceuticals, logistics, manufacturing and hospitality. This fundraise will enable us to ramp up our production, invest heavily in R&D and scale the business across India and the Middle East.” Dr. Apoorva Ranjan Sharma, President and Co-founder, Venture Catalysts, said, “The organized Facility Management Services market in India and UAE has crossed $30 billion as of 2020 and is expected to record exponential growth in the coming years. We believe the Peppermint team is well-equipped to bank on this growth opportunity and scale rapidly on the back of its state-of-the-art, avant-garde, made-in-India robots.” LoanTap launches LIMITLESS Credit line backed Cards Pune: LoanTap has launched a range of LIMITLESS Credit line backed Cards in association with SBM Bank (State Bank of Mauritius) and Rupay network. The LIMITLESS Prepaid Card offers to turn purchases into easy EMIs and charges interest only on the borrowed amount. The pre-approved credit limit can also be used at POS, ECommerce platforms, and ATMs. The card also comes loaded with limitless rewards, offers, and discounts on 100+ brands. It also offers accidental insurance up to a limit of INR 10 Lakhs. LoanTap’s Co-founder and CEO Satyam Kumar said, “We are taking necessary steps to empower every Indian to pursue their lives and dreams without worrying about the financial burden. With this credit line backed card, we are offering millennials with a financial instrument that offers easy credit with flexibility in terms of usage and limitless privileges. Our vision is to tap into India’s 300 million millennials residing in small towns and rural areas.” Agri startups engage with NABARD and government officials Pune: Agri start-ups in the country got together to interact with the policy framers and share their aspirations and growth strategies. The virtual meeting was organized by NABFOUNDATION. The meeting saw the heads of top agri start-ups share what they desired from the system. The meeting was chaired Dr. G R Chintala, Chairman, NABARD while Anil Agrawal, Additional Secretary, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Ministry of Commerce and Industry delivered the inaugural speech. NABARD, through NABVENTURES, has provided venture capital assistance to agri startups and today is the largest supporter in the agri sector. Dr. Chintala remarked that leveraging the power of convergence was the need of the hour with some 1500 agri start-ups on one hand and some 4500 Farmer Producer Organizations set up by NABARD on the other. Convergence between NABARD, NABFOUNDATION, NABVENTURES and agri-start-ups, he added, can bring in the much-needed youthful dynamism and technological expertise which rural India needs so desperately. The biggest need expressed by agri start-ups across the country was access to farmer communities and self-help groups to broad base their areas of operation. Equally significant was the need for building backward linkages. The meat industry aggregator for instance would want to have more organized goat rearing among more rural communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-pune-based-phicommerce-ready-to-roll-out-an-end-to-end-tokenisation-solution-101630752744001.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana announces rewards of ₹6cr, ₹4cr for shooting stars||Haryana’s Manish Narwal won the gold medal and Singhraj Adhana the silver at the mixed 50-metre pistol event at the Tokyo Paralympics on Saturday. Congratulating the winners, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced rewards of ₹6 crore and ₹4 crore along with government jobs to the medal winners. Also read: Paralympics: Gold & silver won by Manish Narwal, Singhraj Adhana in shootingBoth the medal winners are from Faridabad district. “Not only the residents of Faridabad district but the entire nation is proud of their achievements,” he said. According to its sports policy, the Haryana Government awards government jobs and other facilities to Paralympic players on a par with other sportspersons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-announces-rewards-of-6cr-4cr-for-shooting-stars-101630752443628.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||BSF opens fire on drone at border village in Punjab’s Tarn Taran||The Border Security Force (BSF) opened fire upon a drone flying into Indian territory along the border with Pakistan near Rajoke village of Bhikhiwind sub division early on Saturday. Also read: China with Pak support has advantage in Taliban ruled AfghanistanIn a release, the BSF said that alert personnel of the 103 Battalion heard a humming and buzzing sound in the air near Rajoke border out post (BoP) at 2am. They fired towards the flying object though a search of the area did not yield anything suspicious. Rajoke was in the news in 2019 when Punjab Police found for the first time that drones were being used by Pakistan to smuggle arms and ammunition through the BoP. KZF module busted, four heldPolice busted a Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) module in September 2019 with the arrest of four persons. Five AK-47 rifles along with 16 magazines and 472 rounds of ammunition, four China-made pistols along with eight magazines and 72 rounds of ammunition, nine hand-grenades, five satellite phones along with ancillary equipment, two mobile phones, two wireless sets and ₹10 lakh in fake currency were recovered from the accused. The border state of Punjab is already on high alert after a tiffin box bomb, packed with over 2kg of RDX, was recovered from a village in Amritsar that was allegedly dropped by a drone flying in from Pakistan last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-opens-fire-on-drone-at-border-village-in-punjab-s-tarn-taran-101630751963496.html
04-09-2021||Kolkata||Bhabanipur by-polls announced. Why is it crucial for Mamata Banerjee? 10 points||The Election Commission announced on Saturday it will hold by-polls in three assembly constituencies of West Bengal, including the Bhabanipur seat where chief minister and Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee intends to contest, and one seat in Odisha on September 30. "While the commission has decided not to hold bye-elections in other 31 Assembly Constituencies and three Parliamentary constituencies (across India), considering the constitutional exigency and special request from the state of West Bengal, it has decided to hold bye-election in 159-Bhabanipur AC," the Election Commission said.The Election Commission said in a statement that the by-elections will also be held in Samsherganj and Jangirpur of West Bengal and Pipli in Odisha. Counting of votes will be held on October 3.1. The by-poll on the Bhabanipur seat in West Bengal will give Mamata Banerjee a chance to become a member of the state assembly.2. She needs to win from any assembly seat within November 5 if she has to continue as the chief minister of West Bengal.3. Mamata Banerjee fought from Nandigram during the 2021 West Bengal assembly elections but lost to her former close aide Suvendhu Adhikari, who contested on a BJP ticket.Also read | What explains Mamata Banerjee’s Nandigram entry?4. She lost by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes to former TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari. Adhikari is now the Leader of Opposition in the West Bengal assembly.5. Mamata Banerjee won from Bhabanipur in 2011 and 2016.6. Mamata’s party, the Trinamool Congress, has been mounting pressure on the ECI to hold the polls saying that the Covid situation in the state has been under control.7. On the other hand, the BJP is against holding polls citing law and order problems and post-poll violence. 8. The Election Commission has said in a press note that the West Bengal chief secretary has informed that bye-elections for Bhabanipur, from where CM Mamata Banerjee intends to contest elections, may be conducted in view of administrative exigencies and public interest and to avoid a vacuum in the state.9. West Bengal’s agriculture minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay resigned from the state assembly in May so that Banerjee can once again contest the seat she represented twice since 2011. Chattopadhyay won from the Bhabanipur constituency in south Kolkata in the recent polls.10. Elections to the Samsherganj and Jangipur constituencies in West Bengal will be held after polling was deferred in April due to the death of the candidates from these seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bhabanipur-by-polls-announced-why-is-it-crucial-for-mamata-banerjee-10-points-101630750163679.html
04-09-2021||Other||Congress leader Tariq Anwar to visit Kerala amid growing rumblings within state unit||HT CorrespondentCongress general secretary Tariq Anwar will visit Kerala next week amid growing rumblings in the party’s state unit.A Congress leader, who did not want to be named, said Anwar will reach the state capital on September 8 to talk to senior leaders. He said his visit comes in the wake of several complaints that Congress chief Sonia Gandhi has received against the new state leadership.Rahul Gandhi, who is a member of parliament from Kerala, reminded the state leadership about the “spirit of collective leadership” while inaugurating the new party office in Kannur virtually on Thursday.Former chief minister Oommen Chandy said he is ready to talk to anyone to end the present crisis. He reiterated his displeasure over a lack of proper discussion before the names of district office-bearers’ were finalised. He added the issues can be settled if someone takes the lead. “There are no big issues as portrayed and they can be settled through talks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-leader-tariq-anwar-to-visit-kerala-amid-growing-rumblings-within-state-unit-101630750344208.html
04-09-2021||Bangalore||Will Karnataka reopen schools for classes 1-5? CM Bommai answers||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Saturday that his government has still not considered reopening schools for students of classes 1 to 5 amid the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. Since August 23, the Karnataka government has allowed students of classes 9 to 12 to return to schools after a gap of five months in districts where the Covid-19 test positivity rate is below 2 per cent. On the other hand, students of classes 6 to 8 will be able to resume physical classes from September 6.“No, we have not considered it yet (reopening schools for classes 1-5). We will see how things will function with classes 6,7 and 8, and based on that we will take further decisions,” chief minister Bommai said while addressing a press conference.Also Read| Karnataka: 19-year-old receives both doses of Covishield vaccine in a gap of twoBommai earlier pointed out that children were facing a lot of problems during online mode such as communication and internet issues, while in physical classes, they could interact with teachers in a better way. He also urged students, teachers and other school staff members to adhere to all Covid-19 related protocols upon reopening of schools.Till now, Karnataka has recorded nearly 3 million cases, 2,897,254 recoveries and 37,380 deaths due to the coronavirus disease. On Friday, 1,220 people were detected as Covid-19 positive while 19 more patients died and 1,175 were discharged. The active cases in the state stand at 18,404, according to the health department’s bulletin. Karnataka is one of the worst-hit states from the pandemic apart from neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra.Also Read| Karnataka, Maharashtra tighten rules at airports over new Covid-19 variantsAmid fears of the third Covid-19 wave, Karnataka has been seeing large-scale events, rallies linked to political parties taking place in recent days despite the restrictions imposed. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has come under fire for organising the “Jan Ashirwad Yatras” across the state, which has led to a large gathering of people and with gross violation of Covid-appropriate behaviour.During Saturday’s press conference, chief minister Bommai also said the government will “once again announce guidelines” for such large-scale events, adding only a few of them have taken place till now.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-karnataka-reopen-schools-for-classes-1-5-cm-bommai-answers-101630748775943.html
04-09-2021||Other||Manipur’s RIMS director among 20 top medical teachers to be felicitated by FOGSI||Director of Manipur’s Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Dr A Santa Singh, is the only medical teacher from the northeast among India’s top 20 practitioners and medical teachers to be felicitated by one of the largest membership-based organisations of specialized professionals, Federation of Obstetric and Gynecological Societies of India (FOGSI). Singh will be felicitated during its historic Teachers Day observation to be held n virtual mode on Sunday.“On the occasion of Teachers Day, FOGSI is happy to celebrate and felicitate the medical teachers for their diligent work and devotion in teaching and spreading knowledge making the impact on clinical practice,” FOGSI’s president Dr S Shantha Kumari and secretary-general Dr Madhuri Patel said in a congratulatory message to Professor Santa Singh.“We are privileged to honour you on this day for your exemplary for the medical community as a teacher,” they said.On getting the news, Singh, the former director of North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health & Medical Sciences and Executive member of National Sports University, said, “It is a proud moment for the northeast. Very happy to share that FOGSI, the largest obstetrician and gynaecologist body in the world has chosen me as one of the teachers to be felicitated on Teachers Day this year along with stalwarts of obstetricians and gynaecologists, including my teacher Prof P Rajaram.”The other top practitioner of obstetrics and gynaecology in the country to be felicitated during the occasion include Dr Kamal Bukshee, Dr Veena Acharya, Dr Raj Baweja, Dr Lakhbir Dhaliwal, Dr CN Purandare, Dr Rohit Bhatt, Dr SN Daftary, Dr Shrish Seth, Dr Vilas M Mehta, Dr A Debdass, Dr Biman Chakraborty, Dr Manju Gita Mishra, Dr P Rajaram, Dr Belamba O, Dr Indira Devi, Dr PK Shekhran, Dr BR Desai and Dr Pratap Kumar.Dr Kamal Bukshee is former professor and head department of obstetrics and gynaecology, AIIMS, New Delhi while Dr Lakhbir Dhaliwal is former professor and head department of obstetrics and gynaecology, PGIMER, Chandigarh. Dr CN Purandare, is former president of FOGSI (2009) who conducted the first foetal surgery in India while Dr Rohit Bhatt is former professor and head of the department of obstetrics and gynecology at Medical College Baroda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manipurs-rims-director-becomes-first-medical-teacher-in-northeast-to-be-felicitated-by-fogsi-101630747584192.html
04-09-2021||Bhopal||107 cases of dengue seen in Bhopal so far this year, no death||As six persons were found infected with dengue in Bhopal district of Madhya Pradesh in the last 24 hours, the number of such cases recorded there has gone up to 107 so far this year, an official said on Saturday.However, no death has been reported due to the infection this year, he said. "Since January 1 this year, a total of 107 people have been found infected with dengue, a mosquito-borne viral infection," district malaria officer (DMO) Dr Akhilesh Dubey told PTI.Most of the cases were reported in Bhopal city."Out of the 85 wards in the city, 10 wards account for 85 per cent of these dengue cases. These places are Teela Jamalpura, Halalpura, Peergate, Budhwara, Kamla Nagar, Saket Nagar, AIIMS hostel, Katara Hill, Berkheda Pathani and Harshvardhan Nagar," he said, adding that these areas were closely being monitored.A total of 39 teams, each comprising two to three doctors, have been formed to check the areas where more number of such cases were reported, he said.Dr Dubey said that the mosquitoes that cause dengue primarily bite during the day and they typically live in and around houses, breeding in stagnant water.This viral infection is mainly reported from urban areas, but now it is being detected in rural areas too, he said."In urban areas, these mosquitoes thrive in standing water accumulated in objects like coolers, money-plant pots and trays. But now since people in rural areas also have these appliances, this infection is being reported from there as well," the DMO said.Dr Dubey advised people to take a number of measures to prevent dengue, like using mosquito nets while sleeping, wearing full-sleeved clothes, changing water lying in containers at homes after every seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/107-cases-of-dengue-seen-in-bhopal-so-far-this-year-no-death-101630745083114.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||‘No one needs to panic’: Cops amid evacuations at Mumbai airport as flyers fume||Mumbai airport's Terminal 2 was evacuated on Saturday morning for a mock drill, police said, urging people not to panic as several photographs on social media showed passengers being moved out of the area. “A mock drill is being conducted at Mumbai international airport. No one needs to panic," an official of the Mumbai Police was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Even as authorities assured that the mock drill was not expected to affect the flight schedule, several passengers did not know about the evacuation process. Later, officials at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) said they conducted a “simulated mock drill exercise as per scheduled security protocols.” “The mock drill was held this morning at Terminal 2 location in collaboration with (the) CSMIA’s multiple stakeholders," CSMIA said on Twitter. “After all successful assessments and checks, the terminal was continued to be declared safe with the drill completed at 11:48 hours,” it said.Also read | New Covid-19 norms in place for international passengers arriving in MumbaiSeveral passengers, including television show consultant Siddhartha Basu and journalist Cyrus Dhabhar, said the Mumbai airport evacuation led to chaos and alleged that Covid-19 protocols were flouted during the process. “Total chaos at T2 Mumbai airport with sudden announcement of mock drill with total evacuation. Stuck & suffocating in a crowded bus on tarmac for last 30 min, along with about 15 other buses. No AC, no information. Complete Covid trap. Irresponsible & dangerous,” Basu tweeted.Shambolic ritual of going through the motions with Covid protocols thrown to the wind, jostling melees everywhere, & duplicate security check with unending queues tho none had left the secure perimeter. Poor planning & ill executed, exposing all to high risk https://t.co/5BPLAbhlHQArcelorMittal Nippon Steel’s chief marketing officer, Ranjan Dhar, also asked authorities about the delay. “@CSMIA_Official can you inform if the operations are normal now ? My senior citizen parents are traveling and they are anxious - communication helps,” Dhar tweeted.Some of the passengers also tweeted that there was a threat to Mumbai airport. CSMIA replied to all complaints and concerns through its Twitter handle about the completion of the Mumbai airport evacuation drill.
04-09-2021||Other||Clampdown imposed in Kashmir following Geelani’s death eased||The clampdown imposed on communications and movement following separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s death was eased on Saturday as mobile calling and broadband internet services were restored while other restrictions were partially removed in parts of Kashmir. Internet services on mobile phones were yet to be restored.Barricades put up to block roads in Srinagar were in place and the security forces were deployed in large numbers. But people were allowed to move around, and private vehicles were back on the roads. Most of the shops and businesses remained shuttered and public transport was off the roads.In the Kulgam district, strict restrictions on movement remained in place following incidents of stone-throwing on Friday.Police said that the situation across the Kashmir valley remained peaceful and no untoward incident was reported from anywhere on Friday.“People are yet again requested not to pay any heed to the rumours being maliciously spread by the anti-national elements especially across the border with an objective to disturb the prevalent peaceful atmosphere in the valley,” said Vijay Kumar, inspector general (Kashmir).Geelani, the face of separatism in Kashmir for over three decades, died on Wednesday after a prolonged illness at 91. The separatist leader, who spent around two decades in jail, was largely confined to his residence because of ill-health since 2010.Geelani was on Thursday buried in a quiet funeral at a graveyard near his residence in Srinagar’s Hyderpora around 4.30am with his family alleging that the police forcibly took away his body.The police action was likely prompted to avoid a mass gathering, which may have turned restive or violent....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/clampdown-imposed-in-kashmir-following-geelani-s-death-eased-101630742365024.html
04-09-2021||Other||Two new ant species found in Arunachal Pradesh||A team of scientists from Bengaluru’s Ashoka Trust For Research In Ecology And The Environment (ATREE) has discovered two species of rare ants, parasyscia ganeshaiahi and syscia indica, at Arunachal Pradesh Eaglenest Wildlife Sanctuary.Priyadarsanan Dharma Rajan, who led the team, said they found the species during their study at the sanctuary in the Himalayan foothills 1,400 m above sea level. So far, they have discovered over 60 species of insects including ants, dung beetles, fig insects, parasitic hymenoptera over the last decade and a half. They also collected information on over 200 species of ants or almost 25% of Indian ant fauna from the sanctuary. Around 850 ant species have been reported in India.Of the two newly discovered ant species is named parasyscia ganeshaiahi after eminent ecologist K N Ganeshaiah. Parasyscia ganeshaiahi, small, cryptic ants usually nest in decaying logs or under rocks. It is different from all congeners in India with its yellowish-brown coloured body and 11-segmented antennae. All other parasyscia species in India have 12-segmented antennae.“This is the first time, the genus has been recorded in Arunachal Pradesh, Northeast India,” the researchers said in a press release. “Syscia are rare ants usually encountered in leaf litter, rotting wood, and soil habitats.”In Asia, syscia are found in China, Japan, Sri Lanka and Thailand. The genus lacks any verified record in India. Hence, the discovery in Arunachal Pradesh marks the first record of this rare ant genus from India....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-new-ant-species-found-in-arunachal-pradesh-101630741644306.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi teenager’s book on coding aims to bridge the digital divide||The pandemic drove many youngsters into worrying about what future holds for them. But some, rose above that challenge, to not just keep themselves engaged, but also help their peers. And 17-year-old Paarth Arya is one of the latter! “Last year while pursuing my 11th grade I felt some of our text books, though written with the right intent, could be made much simpler and less cluttered. I had done some online courses, like CS50 from the Harvard University, where they explained everything in a manner that was easy to understand,” says Arya, who is in std XII now, and adds, “The pandemic and the situation around me made me notice that while I was getting quality education online, some of the underprivileged students of my age were deprived of these opportunities. I felt I should do something to resolve this, and that’s why I wrote the book!” With an aim to spread his knowledge and love for coding, Arya wrote the book, The Python Champions of Coding, for those who are 10-12 years old, and interested in coding. And besides including lots of activities and relevant information, Arya has made sure to explain the concepts in an uncomplicated manner. “I tried to make it as easy as possible so that the readers don’t need a teacher and are able to understand it all on their own,” he says recalling how his love for coding goes back to when he was in class six. “I had a keen interest in coding and did some hackathons in school, and got the confidence to explore my abilities. I then started searching about online courses in coding, and gathered some knowledge. Of course last year we had so much time because of online education, and I even did many online courses in artificial intelligence, machine learning and so on, and realised that since I do have basic knowledge of the subject, I should do something in my own little way... I spent around five months writing the book, gathering knowledge from everywhere, going through the drafts again and again to include as many activities as possible, and showing the book to my parents and friends to ask for their advice to make sure that I present the information in a simple way. I even asked my teachers for advice. And when I approached my principal, she was so proud of me!” The young gun believes in the need to use technology for the good of youngsters. “Technology has many advantages all over the world... But it’s a very important to understand that technology itself has the power to be inclusive, and we should be sensitive and aware enough to harness it so that everyone can have access to advantages like knowledge and learning. This would also bridge the digital divide that’s deprived to a large part of our population,” says Arya, who has decided to donate the earning from the sale of his book for a good cause. “All my earnings from the book will be used to enable education for the underprivileged. It’s an NGO called Bring a Smile Foundation in Hyderabad, which works in education and health. A major premise of writing the book was also to be able to bridge the digital divide, to whatever extent possible. That is why, the content is available as a physical book, an e-book, and even as videos on YouTube,” he concludes.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-teenager-s-book-on-coding-aims-to-bridge-the-digital-divide-101630738583497.html
04-09-2021||Other||India Post celebrates Darbhanga airport's success||India Post’s endeavour to release a ‘special cover’ on Darbhanga airport on Friday was not merely a coincidence. Rather, it turned out to be a unique opportunity to promote tourism while propagating and highlighting the potential of Darbhanga airport to provide convenient connectivity to people with the help of the regional connectivity scheme (RCS), launched by the government in 2016.These views were expressed at the inaugural ceremony of a three-day ‘philatelic exhibition’ organised under the banner of the Darbhanga postal division on Friday.“We decided to release ‘special cover’ on Darbhanga airport to celebrate its successful launch and provide air connectivity with ease to people in this part of the region,” said Superintendent of Post, Umesh Chandra Prasad, while explaining the reason behind the department’s endeavour to hold such a programme.“With daily passenger volume flowing through Darbhanga airport consistently showing up impressive numbers in terms of flight occupancy, the airport crossed four lakh passengers footfall in less than 10 months on September 2. This happened since flight operation under UDAN scheme began on November 8, 2020,” the members of the audience at Postal Training Centre were informed.The event was graced by LN Mithila University (LNMU) vice-chancellor SP Singh as the chief guest of the ceremony. Retired postmaster general ME Haque and Darbhanga airport director Manish Kumar also attended the programme as special guests.Director, postal services (Northern Region (Muzaffarpur) Shankar Prasad appreciated diverse activities conducted by Darbhanga postal division. Braj Nandan Trivedi, assistant director, postal services proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/india-post-celebrates-darbhanga-airport-s-success-coinciding-with-over-4-lakh-footfall-101630738164235.html
04-09-2021||Lucknow||UP’s Covid-19 tally at 17,09,401. These districts have zero infection||As many as 24 out of 75 districts in Uttar Pradesh do not have a single case of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported on Saturday citing the chief medical officer (CMO). UP’s Covid-19 tally rose to 17,09,401 on Friday after 18 cases were reported in the state, according to the health department. The department also said that no death due to the disease was registered on the day.“Zero active cases in Aligarh, Amethi, Amroha, Ayodhya, Baghpat, Ballia, Banda, Basti, Bijnor, Chitrakoot, Deoria, Fatehpur, Ghazipur, Gonda, Hamirpur, Hardoi, Hathras, Lalitpur, Mohoba, Muzaffarnagar, Pilibhit, Rampur, Shamli and Sitapur,” ANI quoted the CMO as saying.According to the health department’s bulletin, four cases of Covid-19 were reported from Gautam Buddh Nagar, three from Rae Bareli, two each from Lucknow and Kannauj, and one each from Varanasi, Agra, Auraiya, Kanpur Dehat, Sant Kabir Nagar, Jhansi and Sultanpur. Twenty-one patients have recovered from the disease in the state, taking the number of recoveries to 16,86,308 so far. The bulletin said the death toll due to the disease stood at 22,854 and that there were 239 active cases of Covid-19 in the state. More than 75.8 million vaccine doses have so far been administered in the state, it added.Also read | Ensure full vaccination of teachers, school staff: Uttar Pradesh education directorate to BSAsOn Wednesday, schools for primary classes reopened with little attendance in Uttar Pradesh for the first time since March 20 last year when the government imposed a lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease. Scholls for classes 9 to 12 and 6 to 8 restarted from August 16 and 24, respectively.UP has also seen as many as 50 deaths due to dengue and viral fever in Firozabad. “So far, 50 people have died due to dengue and viral fever. Ten areas—nine blocks and a Nagar Nigam area—in the district are affected,” Firozabad CMO Dinesh Kumar Premi was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The UP government also said that people in Firozabad are not suffering from any mystery disease but dengue. “In some districts, including Firozabad, cases of dengue and seasonal diseases were reported. The state government has deployed 15 more doctors in Firozabad and a special cleanliness drive will be conducted in the entire state from September 5 to curb mosquito-borne diseases,” Uttar Pradesh’s additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal said at a press conference on Friday.Also read | Covid R-value rises amid threat of third wave: All you need to knowMeanwhile, India's Covid-19 infection tally rose by 42,618 to push it to 32,945,907 and the country’s death toll climbed to 440,225 after 330 people succumbed to the viral disease, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday. The number of active cases touched 405,681—they have been on the rise for the fourth consecutive day, data also showed.According to the health ministry’s data, the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.50 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was at 2.63 per cent. It has been below 7 per cent for more than two months now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-s-covid-19-tally-at-17-09-401-these-districts-have-zero-infection-101630737003828.html
04-09-2021||Patna||Bihar villages to be illuminated with solar lights||After towns, villages across Bihar will be illuminated with street lights. Unlike the urban settlements, street lights in rural areas will be powered with solar energy, officials said. Emboldened by the assistance allocated by the Centre under the 15th Finance Commission to enhance basic infrastructure in rural areas, the panchayati raj department has proposed to set up at least 10 street lights in each ward across the state. The state government has recently received a sum of ₹1,100 crore on the recommendations of the finance commission. “While the department has used a part of the grant to provide supply water to each household, a certain portion of it would be allocated for installing street lights,” said panchayati raj minister Samtrat Chaudhary, adding that estimates were being made to launch the work immediately after the panchayat elections in December.The department has recently made a presentation in front of chief minister Nitish Kumar and got his nod to launch the Mukhyamantri Gramin Solar Light Yojna. During the meeting, the CM asked the officials to be particular about the selection of places so that no locality deserving the street lights should be left out.Additional chief secretary, panchayati raj, Amrit Lal Meena said that a survey to identify suitable places across 1.14 lakh wards of over 8,000 panchayats was underway. “Once it is complete, the department will seek the cabinet nod on the proposal,” added Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-villages-to-be-illuminated-with-solar-lights-101630736783440.html
04-09-2021||Kolkata||Visva Bharti resumes admission process, publication of results after HC order||The Visva Bharati (VB) University resumed the publication of results and admission process after the Calcutta high court passed an interim order on Friday banning demonstrations anywhere within 50 metres of the campus at Santiniketan in West Bengal. “The university has resumed the process of publication of results of the students, admission of students for the academic year 2021-22, NAC-related works with immediate effect,” said a notification issued by the VB authorities.On August 30, VB authorities suspended publication of results stating that Bidyut Chakrabarty, the vice-chancellor of the university, was “under siege” and that publication of results would not be possible till the situation becomes normal. Set up in 1921 by Rabindranath Tagore, Visva-Bharati is Bengal’s only central university, and the Prime Minister is its chancellor. The agitation began on August 28 when three students were expelled on disciplinary grounds. Chakrabarty was confined to his campus residence since then as the students blocked the gates.A section of the faculty members of the university wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a probe against the vice-chancellor.The university authorities on Wednesday moved the high court seeking intervention in ending the impasse created by the agitation. The students ended their agitation outside the campus residence of Chakrabarty on Friday afternoon after the high court passed a strongly worded order asking the local police to remove the agitators.The students said there is no bar on continuing with their peaceful demonstration beyond 50m of the campus. The high court will hear the matter again on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/visva-bharti-resumes-admission-process-publication-of-results-after-hc-order-101630736423901.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai becomes first district to administer 1 crore Covid vaccine doses||Mumbai became the first district in the country to reach the milestone of 1 crore Covid-19 vaccination mark. According to data uploaded on the CoWIN portal, Mumbai has administered vaccine doses to 1,00,63,497 people. Out of these, 72,75,134 have received the first dose, while 27,88,363 have got both.The portal further showed that the vaccination drive is being carried out at 507 sites in Mumbai district. Out of these, 325 are government centres, while 182 are being operated by private hospitals.In the last 30 days, the highest number of Covid-19 vaccines were administered on August 27 when 1,77,017 people were inoculated. This was followed by 1,63,775 doses on August 21 and 1,53,881 doses on August 23, according to the CoWIN portal.Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 422 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, the third straight day of more than 400 infections, and three fresh fatalities. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said with these additions, the overall tally rose to 7,45,434, while the death toll jumped to 15,987.On September 1 and 2, the city had reported 416 and 441 Covid-19 cases, respectively.Mumbai has been witnessing a steady rise in Covid-19 cases since recording 190 infections on August 16, the lowest daily count since April 2020. As the daily infections dipped, the case doubling rate improved to more than 2,000 days.According to BMC official, Mumbai is left with 3,532 active Covid-19 cases.This year, Mumbai had reported the highest daily cases at 11,163 on April 4, while most deaths at 90 were recorded on May 1 during the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-becomes-first-district-to-administer-1-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-101630733854547.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Four arrested for abducting, selling 10-month-old||The Mumbai Police on Friday arrested four people, including a woman, for allegedly abducting a 10-month-old baby and selling it to a couple for ₹1.50 lakh.They said a pavement dweller identified as Mumtaz Khan, 40, approached them on Wednesday, complaining that her son was abducted by someone while they were asleep.During the probe, Khan told police that for days, a woman and her daughter had been coming to the causeway where they lived to distribute alms.The police got their description and started searching for the woman and her daughter. They eventually succeeded in tracing the woman, Farhana Shaikh, 33. On questioning, Shaikh told police she abducted the child and sold it to Paramdam Gundeti for ₹1.50 lakh. When the police detained Gundeti and questioned him, he told the police that he had sold the baby to two people named Nakka Narsingh, 35, and Rajarao Dharmarao, 50, in Telangana.The police then arrested all four and seized ₹35,000 in cash from Shaikh. “We suspect that this is a larger child trafficking racket. We are investigating to find out whether Shaikh has stolen any more babies...in the past,” said Manohar Dhanavade, a senior police inspector of Bandra police station.The police rescued the child and handed him over to his mother on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/four-arrested-for-abducting-selling-10monthold-101630732223433.html
04-09-2021||Patna||Bihar govt to provide ETS machines to amins for speeding up land survey work||The state government will soon provide electronic total station (ETS) machines for measurement of land and survey work being undertaken in 20 districts to newly recruited amins as part of the revenue department’s plans to digitise the land records and speed up the survey work, officials said. The ETS machines used in survey work are considered accurate in land measurements and removes manual interference in the measurement of land, which is one of the major reasons for land disputes. Amins are those appointed by the government to measure land. They have knowledge of land measurement and survey work.“Amins will be doing the land measurement at the village level with ETS machines. We are in the process of providing these machines in bulk so that there is more transparency in the measurement of land and corrupt practices are weeded out,” said revenue and land reforms department minister Ram Surat Rai. He said the process of purchasing the ETS machines was in the final stages and the distribution would start from October onwards. In Bihar, the special survey of land records being held in 20 districts is at different stages like Kistawar (mapping), Khanapurthi (filling the blanks), Tasdiq (attestation). The Kistawar and Khanapurthi are the two main stages of field survey where surveyors and amins are put on duty to measure the land as per the records for their update based on new sale and purchase of the property. There is already a process underway to digitise the record of rights (Khatiyan) by updating the records of actual owners of the land. People privy to the matter said the revenue department is also working on a proposal to introduce the system of slot booking of getting one’s land mapped by surveyors. It will help in the transparency of land mapping and provide the landholders with some flexibility in getting their land mapped at an appropriate time of their choice and save them from not having to depend on others to stay at the fields when the mapping work is being done. “The proposal is under consideration,” said the minister. Keeping in mind the pending legal dispute cases, mainly those related to petty disputes, the revenue department has already asked the circle officers and station houses (SHOs), as well as sub-divisional officers, to hold weekly meetings on each Saturday to review the pendency of cases and take measures for resolving them. The home and revenue departments, along with Bihar Prashashanik Sudar Mission, have now started working on a plan to segregate all land dispute cases by assessing its nature and complexity by providing a unique code like whether the dispute is related to a personal land dispute, government land encroachment, disputes over land measurement and cases pending at various courts. Officials said the process would be implemented soon and software is being developed for it. “The weekly meetings at the level of circle officers and SHOs as well as higher officials to review land dispute cases and take necessary steps is going on and giving good results,” said one official in the revenue department. In Bihar, land dispute is one of the major reasons behind heinous crimes like murder and rape. As per the National Crime Records Bureau, 2019 data, out of 3,138 murder cases reported in 2019, 782 cases were those in which property/land dispute was the motive. The revenue minister said the government will be soon posting 566 revenue officers at the block level to assist circle officers in handling revenue related matters. “ The posting of new revenue officers would lessen the load of circle officers who are often put on law and order duty and other works, which affects disposal of land-related cases,” Rai said. New law New legislation to resolve matters related to land disputes and fixing accountability on officers to dispose of mutation petitions in a time frame is being mulled by the revenue department. People privy to the matter said the proposed law would enable families facing disputes among coparceners (parties holding right in property) to go for mutation by consensus even if one of the parties is against it. Like, if in family, there are four brothers of which three brothers want to divide their ancestral land but one of the brothers is against it, the rest of the three brothers could move to get the land mutated if there is a consensus and majority view for it. The idea of this new law is to check land-related cases and also update the land records. Non-division of land or partition and mutation continues to remain one of the major obstacles in the updation of land records because of disputes among families over division and sale of ancestral land. “We are working on this idea and a new law could come. We are taking a legal view on it and necessary action will follow,” said revenue minister Ram Surat Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-to-provide-ets-machines-to-amins-for-speeding-up-land-survey-work-101630731804227.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||Honey Singh’s wife gets court nod to collect belongings||Delhi court on Friday permitted Shalini Talwar, the wife of singer Hirdesh Singh, alias Yo Yo Honey Singh, to visit her matrimonial home on September 5 to collect her belongings, without indulging in any “unhealthy conversation” in connection to the domestic violence case filed against him and his family. The court asked the counsels of Talwar and Singh to be present during the visit to the matrimonial house, and asked them to prepare a list of belonging and make arrangements to videograph the same.Representing Talwar, advocate Sandeep Kapoor, from Karanjawala law firm, said that on the last date of hearing, the court had granted three reliefs: directions to Singh to not sell or create any third party entity for the matrimonial house; bar on selling the dowry articles mentioned in the list; and instructions to not contact Talwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/honey-singh-s-wife-gets-court-nod-to-collect-belongings-101630703028015.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A quarantined bazar||A bunch of people in a tailor’s shop are attentively listening (see photo) to a breaking news on the mobile— a “din dahare” murder has taken place this morning at 10 outside Gurugram’s Sheetla Mata Mandir. A young man has been shot dead. The murderer has escaped.Otherwise things are peaceful, at least in this corner of the so-called Millennium City. Cool and shaded, Girdhar Kaushik Market is a long passageway connecting two market streets in Old Gurugram. The place lies like a person in isolation, cocooned within its own private world. A self-contained bazar, it is lined with garment shops and tiny tailoring establishments. Though one of its ends opens into Sadar Bazar and the other to Naya Bazar, its personality is distinct from the chaos of both these markets. On entering the laid-back lane, you feel distanced from the chaos. There’s that sense of being quarantined.This afternoon, the market is marooned in what feels like perpetual darkness. The sleepy corridor reminds one of the slow-moving time in the lockdown. The ambiance is so quiet that even a shopkeeper’s sudden laughter seems to create unrest in the air. Passing footsteps echo. The sound of rickshaw bells coming from outside appears as if originating from a remote world. Each shop is steeped in individuality. One establishment is decked with shirts and denim pants suspended from hangers. In another, a tailor is sitting on the floor and patiently ironing a white fabric. While Vinay Jewellers is wide open, the shop’s stately metal tijori is perched behind the counter; its owner—the sunar—is lounging outside in the “fresh air.”Inevitably, some people are using the lane as a shortcut to cross from one bazar to another. Many of them are familiar with the shopkeepers, and ‘Ram-Ram’ greetings are being tossed around generously.The extremely polite Tilak Raj of Bombay Tailors expresses relief that the market has returned to “normalcy” after the second surge of the coronavirus. A few shops are shuttered but that has nothing to do with the pandemic, he clarifies. “Some shopkeepers have gone out of town, some others have other reason to be absent… but no place has closed for ever,” he says. However, a few businesses here are running their operations with a reduced number of workers, says Mr Raj. “Some employees who left for their villages during the second surge have yet to return.”On stepping out of the market corridor and entering into the blinding sunlight, the calmly sensations produced by the passage instantly vaporize.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-quarantined-bazar-101630702738010.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||Major revamp planned for 7 key stretches in Delhi||To ease traffic movement and improve the aesthetics of roads in the city, the state Public Works Department (PWD) has begun work on streetscaping seven stretches on arterial roads in Delhi, a plan which, officials said, if successful, will be extended to 540km of roads across the Capital.PWD officials said work on the stretches will be completed by mid-2022 and, once approved by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, work on the remaining 200 will begin.The seven identified stretches are — on Ring Road from Mayapuri to Moti Bagh junction; on Narwana Road from Mother Dairy to Panch Mahal Newas; Vikas Marg’s Laxmi Nagar Chungi to Karkari Mod; on Shivdaspuri Marg and Patel Road from Moti Nagar T-point to Pusa roundabout; on Ring Road from AIIMS to Ashram crossing; Wazirpur depot crossing in Netaji Subhash Place to Rithala metro station; and Britannia Chowk to Outer Ring Road.The identified stretches span 36km, and are traffic hot spots, with officials saying that the project to decongest them is inspired by the work in Chandni Chowk, which was recently revamped.PWD estimates it will need at least ₹250 crore to carry out work on the seven stretches, including ₹50.3 crore which has already been sanctioned by the Delhi government’s Expenditure and Finance Committee for revamping the stretch between AIIMS and Ashram crossing. The rest of the funds will be approved soon, officials said.The planOfficials said they will install plants, street furniture, toilet blocks and solar-powered streetlights in the roads, and provide ample space for pedestrians and hawkers in the seven stretches.The plan also envisages improving the geometry of the roads by removing hurdles in its path, widening roads wherever required, and strengthening it by laying fresh asphalt layers.PWD officials also said they will improve streetlighting and decongest intersections by improving road geometry and installing proper signages.For redesigning the Vikas Marg stretch, PWD has estimated an expense of ₹37 crore.The road, which connects east and central Delhi, is one of the busiest stretches in the city, and is punctuated by important market and residential areas in east Delhi such as Laxmi Nagar, Preet Vihar, Karkardooma, and Anand Vihar.“Under the plan, PWD will strengthen the road, widen it wherever required, create separate lanes for non-motorised vehicles and remove encroachments,” an official said.The official said that Narwana Road has many transformers and poles that will be removed.Speaking about the Ring Road portion from Moti Bagh to Mayapuri junction, another official said that encroachment and roadside parking are the major causes of congestion.“In order to remove the encroachment, PWD plans to increase the size and number of lanes... The existing four lanes will be replaced by six lanes,” said the second official.The 9.2-km stretch has four flyovers, three Metro stations and three major intersections, and the revamp aims to create sufficient space for both motorised and non-motorised vehicles.“The service lanes will also be renovated to make space for cyclists and pedestrians,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/major-revamp-planned-for-7-key-stretches-in-delhi-101630701963636.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||Major drains, lakes will be beautified: Jain||State irrigation and flood control minister Satyendar Jain on Friday directed officials to draft a beautification plan of lakes and drains in Delhi.“All major drains like Najafgarh, supplementary and Shahdara drains will be converted into clean water channels again... after which only clean water will flow into the drains that empty into Yamuna... Cleaning the Yamuna is the prime target of the Delhi government...,” said Jain in a statement released after a meeting with officials.In a separate meeting on Tuesday, Jain asked DJB to install biological odour control systems in all sewage treatment plants to stop the stench emanating from Yamuna river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/major-drains-lakes-will-be-beautified-jain-101630701418660.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sangrur land grab case: HC directs police to file affidavit on preserving call details of 18 persons||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the police to file an affidavit annexing a communication sent to telecom companies for preservation of call details of 18 persons in the alleged case of abduction of a trustee of the Bhai Gurdas Group of Institutions in Sangrur. Nimrat Kaur Mansahia (35) had filed a petition in the high court against group chairman Guninderjit Singh Jawandha and 21 other people, alleging that her husband Preetinder Singh Manshahia was abducted by them to grab his property with the help of the police.The bench of Justice Amol Rattan Singh, in an order dated September 1, said the state counsel submitted that a communication was sent by the Sangrur city police station in-charge to telecom companies that the call records of the mobile phones of 18 respondents be preserved.The next hearing in the matter is on September 10.“A gazetted officer should file an affidavit annexing the communication sent to the companies or the Sangrur senior superintendent of police (SSP) shall be summoned to the court,” read the orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sangrur-land-grab-case-hc-directs-police-to-file-affidavit-on-preserving-call-details-of-18-persons-101630700660864.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula tribunal awards ₹31 lakh to kin of 2 accident victims||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Panchkula, has awarded about ₹31 lakh to two families from Punjab and Assam, which lost their members in a road accident in 2018.The family from Punjab comprises Nagina Parsad and his wife Durga from Harbanspur village in Kapurthala. The couple had lost their 23-year-old son Paramjit Parsad. The Assam family includes Sampa Sarkar, wife of the other victim Durlov Sarkar, 42, her two minor children, and mother-in-law. They had filed a complaint against truck driver Vishal Chauhan, owner of the truck Kuldeep Thakur from Himachal Pradesh’s Bilaspur, and vehicle’s insurance company Shri Ram General Insurance Company Limited, Jaipur, Rajasthan. As per the petitioners, on December 21, 2018, Paramjit and Durlov were going to Baddi in Himachal Pradesh on a motorcycle. Paramjit’s father Nagina was following them in a separate vehicle. Around 7am, as they reached near Kona village Panchkula, a speeding truck hit their motorcycle, resulting in the death of Paramjit and Durlov. While Paramjit was employed in a factory in Kalka and earning ₹35,000 per month, Durlov was working as a supervisor at ₹40,000 per month salary. Both the driver and owner of the truck denied any accident and claimed that a false FIR was registered. The insurance company stated that the driver of the vehicle involved was not holding a valid and effective driving licence at the time of alleged accident and that insured had violated the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. It was also pleaded that the alleged accident had taken place due to sole negligence of the driver of the motorcycle.After hearing both the parties, the tribunal awarded total compensation of ₹30.78 lakh to the two families, of which ₹14.03 lakh will go to the family of Paramjit and ₹16.75 lakh to the family of Durlov. The tribunal directed that all the respondents being driver, owner and insurer of the offending vehicle are jointly and severally liable to pay the compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-tribunal-awards-31-lakh-to-kin-of-2-accident-victims-101630700482368.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab roadways contractual staff to go on strike from Sept 6||The contractual and outsourced employees of the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), Punjab Roadways and Punbus have announced to observe strike for an indefinite period from September 6. Inderjit Singh, a member of the outsourced and contractual employees action committee, said the government had assured to bring a policy for regularisation of their services in 2017 but has failed to fulfil the promise till date.“The employees are being exploited as they have no choice but to work on meagre wages. Not only conductors and drivers, even contractual staff on administrative duties are observing a complete pen-down strike,” he said.Sehajpal Singh, another member of the committee, said most of the employees are working on contractual and outsourcing basis for past 15 years but the government is not paying any heed to their demands.“Besides, we are demanding a stringent check on the transport mafia, implementation of equal work and equal salary and stopping unnecessary harassment of employees on the pretext of day-to-day reports,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-roadways-contractual-staff-to-go-on-strike-from-sept-6-101630700361011.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Focus on BJP, don’t heckle leaders of other parties: Farm unions make fresh appeal to volunteers||With protesters opposing leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Congress in Punjab despite repeated appeals of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), farmer unions on Friday asked their volunteers to focus just on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and not heckle others. They, however, said the activists may question the non-BJP leaders but it must be done “in a democratic way” so that it does not turn ugly. In a video message, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), one of the largest farmer organisations, on Friday cleared the union’s stance, saying they will gherao the BJP leaders during the Punjab assembly polls. “The BJP is the ruling party at the Centre which is not repealing the three black laws. Though other political parties are also the same, we will not treat them in the same manner. We will give a call to boycott the election rallies of these parties in villages till the agitation is over,” said Ugrahan.The union, in a press statement, condemned the lathicharge on farmers during a rally of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal in Moga on Thursday. BKU (Dakaunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh said their cadre will strongly oppose the BJP and its allies. “Other parties will be questioned as they failed to fulfill pre-poll promises. Their leaders should be questioned in a respectable language,” added Jagmohan.Leaders of the Kirti Kisan Union, whose activists were among those opposing Sukhbir in Moga, said the farmers hold protests only when they are not allowed to ask questions from political leaders.Bhupinder Longowal, state committee member of the union, said, “We are following the directions of the SKM and are questioning the SAD, Congress and AAP leaders whenever they are holding political functions. It is the SKM’s call to oppose political rallies and ask questions from politicians. We reach the rally venues to question the politicians but they refuse to answer.” SAD spokesman Winnerjit Singh Khadial said, “A delegation of farmers may question a leader but how can it be done when there are over 1,000 people. Our party never escapes any discussion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/focus-on-bjp-don-t-heckle-leaders-of-other-parties-farm-unions-make-fresh-appeal-to-volunteers-101630700061703.html
04-09-2021||Other||Ambala tops Haryana in vaccination coverage: Anil Vij||As Ambala nears 50% target of second dose inoculation against Covid-19, Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday said that his home district has vaccinated the highest number of beneficiaries in the state.A district task force constituted last month to study overall vaccination coverage in the district has submitted its report to the minister.According to it, till September 2, 91% healthcare workers have received the first dose and 98% have received the second dose. Also, 92% frontline workers have received the first while 90% have completed the vaccination cycle. Among senior citizens, 99% and 68% have got the first and second jab , respectively. As many as 77% in the age group of 18-44 years have got the first dose, while 21% have got both doses. In the 45-59 age group, 93% and 57% have received a single and two doses, respectively.Meanwhile, on Friday, the health department conducted a mega vaccination drive and administered 30,925 doses at nearly 200 camps in the district. According to the office of the civil surgeon, overall 91.99% have received the first dose and 46.33% have got the second dose till September 3 in Ambala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambala-tops-haryana-in-vaccination-coverage-anil-vij-101630700002296.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 10 to get state award on Teachers’ Day||The UT education department has named 10 teachers this year who will receive a state award by the department on Teachers’ Day celebrated on September 5.While every year a function to honour the teachers is held by the department at Tagore Theatre in Sector 18, this year a small ceremony will be held. The winners include principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Sector 37, Rajan Jain; lecturers Deepak Kumar of GMSSS Dhanas and Pushpanjali of GMSSS, Sector 18; TGT teachers Pardeep Kumar of GMSSS, Sector 10, Parveen Kumari of GGMSSS, Sector 20B, and Gurjeet Singh of GMHS, Sector 43; JBT teachers Kamini Rawat of GMHS, pocket number 1, Manimajra, and Hardeep Singh of GMSSS, Sector 33; and Amandeep Sahni of GMHS, Sector 49D, and Neetu of GHS, Sector 38D, who are both on deputation from Punjab.Eight teachers also received commendation certificates including Renu Gupta of GMSSS, MHC, Manimajra; Gurpreet Kaur of GGMSSS, Sector 18; Satinder Kaur of GMSSS, Sector 16; Shashi Kumar of GMSSS Manimajra Town, Narendra Singh of Institute for the Blind in Sector 26, Anju Rani of GGMSSS Sector 18, Mohammad Intzaar of GHS Pocket 1 Manimajra and Shashi Bhushan of GMSSS Sector 46.Each state awardee will be given a cash prize of ₹21,000 while those being awarded the commendation certificate will be given a cash prize of ₹5,100.The education department has also included 10 special appreciation awards for those who helped prepare students for the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) exams to be held in 2022. The recipients include UT deputy director 2 of school education Ravinder Kaur; mission coordinator of Samagra Shiksha Chandigarh, Manjit Kaur; principal of DAV Model School, Sector 15, Anuja Sharma; principal of St Johns High School, Sector 36, Kavita Das; principal of Delhi Public School, Sector 40, Reema Dewan; principal of GMSSS, Sector 22, Rajiv Kumar; principal of GMSSS, Sector 21, Sukhpal Kaur; principal of GMSSS, Sector 35, Davinder Singh; physics lecturer at SCERT, Sector 32, Pooja Sharma; and TGT at SCERT, Sector 32, Serbjeet Kaur.No teachers from Chandigarh have featured in the list of 44 who are being conferred national awards by the Union ministry of education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-10-to-get-state-award-on-teachers-day-101630699941032.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: History-sheeter, aged 22, held for robbery||A 22-year-old resident of Mauli Jagran, who is named as an accused in 11 cases, has been arrested for robbing a high court employee at knifepoint, the police said on Friday.Sandeep, alias Vicky, was drunk when he and his juvenile accomplice had robbed complainant Jagannath of Mauli Jagran Complex on August 11. The accused was produced before a court and remanded to one-day police custody. The juvenile was apprehended on August 12 and sent to juvenile home in Sector 25.Jagannath, who works as a gardener at Punjab and Haryana high court, had reported that two unknown persons had dragged him and attacked him with a knife near railway boundary, Shani Mandir, on August 11. A mobile phone and purse containing ₹250 cash, Aadhaar card, Pan Card and identity card were reported stolen.The police said accused Sandeep was also booked for attempt to murder after he along with others had injured nine police officers by pelting stones at them in the wee hours of August 12 at Rajiv Colony, hours after he had committed the robbery. The police had to fire in the air. A case under Sections 379B, 394 and 397 of the Indian Penal Code and under the Arms Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-history-sheeter-aged-22-held-for-robbery-101630699700744.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||SAD constitution ‘forgery’ case: Hoshiarpur court directs Sukhbir Badal to ‘surrender’ before Sept 13 to get bail||The Hoshiarpur district and sessions court has directed Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal to “surrender” in the trial court on or before September 13 to get interim bail in a case of alleged forgery of the party constitution. The direction comes days after the Punjab and Haryana High Court dismissed a plea of Sukhbir, his father and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and party’s senior vice president Daljit Singh Cheema in the case filed against them in 2019 under Sections 420, 465, 466, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code. Seeking quashing of the case, Sukhbir had moved an application for interim bail. He had submitted that since no custodial interrogation was required, he be granted anticipatory bail. He also referred to the bail granted to co-accused Cheema in 2019. Additional sessions judge Jatinder Pal Singh Khurmi, however, directed him to surrender in the trial court on or before September 13 and stated that if he did so, he would be released on interim bail, subject to his furnishing a personal bond of ₹1 lakh with one surety of similar amount. The SAD leaders had approached the high court in 2019 seeking a stay on trial after Hoshiarpur additional chief judicial magistrate had issued them summons in the case. The high court had stayed the trial. On Friday, the court maintained that there was sufficient material on record with the Hoshiarpur court to summon the Badals and dismissed their 2019 petition. Social activist Balwant Singh Khera had filed the complaint that the SAD possessed two constitutions – one that it had submitted with the Gurdwara Election Commission and the other with the Election Commission of India (ECI) to seek recognition as a political outfit. He has alleged that the SAD had given a false undertaking to the ECI that it had amended its constitution to incorporate the principles of socialism and secularism whereas it continued its activities as a ‘panthic’ party and openly participated in the gurdwara elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-constitution-forgery-case-hoshiarpur-court-directs-sukhbir-badal-to-surrender-before-sept-13-to-get-bail-101630699580719.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||UGC pay scales: Teachers protest over delay in Punjab, Chandigarh||Teachers under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFUCTO) on Friday went on a mass casual leave and ceased work to protest against the unwarranted delays in the implementation of UGC pay scales in Punjab and Chandigarh.Around 2,000 teachers participated in the rally. Afterwards, the teachers marched towards the house of Punjab chief minister, but were stopped by the police. Teachers raised slogans till an officer on special duty of the CM, SS Brar, reached the spot. A memorandum was handed over to Brar who assured them that the CM would solve their issues.In a statement, general secretary, PFUCTO, Jagwant Singh said, “The Punjab government had notified the 6th Punjab Pay Commission award and Chandigarh had also endorsed it for its employees. But the UGC pay scales that were to be announced are nowhere in sight. The teachers are the only ones now whose pay scales are yet to be revised. This is causing immense anxiety and hardship to university and college teachers.”HS Kingra, president of PFUCTO, added that Punjab was the only state that was yet to implement UGC pay scales notified in November 2017 and UGC regulations notified in 2018. This had also adversely affected the implementation of UGC pay scales in Panjab University, colleges of Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh, which adopted the notification of the Punjab government.Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) president Mritunjay Kumar said that it was unfortunate that despite a positive response in discussion, no progress had been made: “We have been impressing upon the Punjab government and the Chandigarh administration to do the needful, but to no avail. This has baffled the teachers, raising grave concerns about governance in general.”Research students and scholars from universities also joined the protest stating that the decision to delink from the UGC directly hurt them and they planned to join the protest in large numbers in the days to come.The teachers will go on a fast on Teachers’ Day at Panjab University. Thereafter, teachers will protest daily for two hours by boycotting classes. However, in the interest of the students, admission work will not be interrupted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ugc-pay-scales-teachers-protest-over-delay-in-punjab-chandigarh-101630699522819.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||HC rules against live-in relation between adult male, minor girl||The Punjab and Haryana high court has ruled against the live-in relationship between a minor girl and adult male. “Since sexual relationship forms an essential part of a live-in relationship in the nature of marriage and there cannot be any sexual relationship with a girl child less than 18 years of age by any person even with her consent, a girl child less than 18 years of age will not be entitled to a live-in-relationship in the nature of marriage with a person of her choice,” the bench of justice Arun Kumar Tyagi said. The court was seized of a protection plea from a 19-year-old boy and 15-year-old girl from Sangrur, who claimed they liked each other and wanted to stay as live-in partners till the time of majority as they are not of marriageable age. The court had sent the girl to a protection home in June and sought response from various parties, taking note of the fact that courts are getting a large number of such pleas. The court said that a minor girl aged above 15 years who has not attained marriageable age of 18 years may solemnise marriage with a person of her choice but such marriage cannot be legally enforced to allow consummation and custody too cannot be given to her husband. The minor girl is also not entitled to reside with a person of her choice in live-in-relationship in the nature of marriage and nor a minor girl can give consent to any person of her choice for her removal from lawful guardianship of parents, the court said, adding that sexual relationship with her for the consummation of marriage or live-in relationship and her consent for the same is immaterial. The court in the case has interpreted various laws with respect to marriage, crime against women and guardianship etc. The court further said that the fundamental right to protection of life and liberty of a minor girl does not extend to she residing with her husband or a person of her choice in live-in-relationship. Her life and liberty have to be protected by sending her to child care institution or she remains with her parents, the court added. In the case in hand, the girl has been sent to a child care home till attaining of majority but her family and boy’s family have been allowed to meet her, if she wishes to. The court has issued a slew of directions to Punjab, Haryana and UT to take steps for the welfare of such girls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-rules-against-live-in-relation-between-adult-male-minor-girl-101630699461147.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: DGP holds first open house with police force||Issues faced by women cops in discharge of their duties, red-tapism holding up welfare of the whole force, government houses crying for repairs and delay in promotions hitting the morale — these were some of the issues voiced by the police personnel during the first “Sampark Sabha” of Chandigarh director general of police (DGP) Praveer Ranjan. Held at the multipurpose hall of the police lines in Sector 26, the open house gave the DGP a forum to address the whole force and also listen to their grievances. The cops raised the issue of hardships faced by them, especially the female staff, in discharge of law and order duties. “Long duty hours in wake of agitations of different organisations from Punjab and Haryana are taking a toll on our health. There is no toilet or drinking water facility near the protest sites. The female personnel face a lot of hardships; so the department should make mobile toilets available for the force,” a cop urged the DGP.The suggestions included making tea and snacks available for four-hour duty and meal for eight-hour duty besides tents, chairs and tables for the personnel. They also sought separate investigation, law and order and beat duties so that daily work hours can be decreased to eight with provision of weekly rest to all. The police personnel urged the DGP to do away with “whims and fancies” in house allotments and cut the delay. They asked for house allotment on merit with the aim to provide government accommodation to maximum number of personnel. The issue of dilapidated condition of government quarters was also raised. The cops said when it comes to welfare of the force or service matters, red-tapism should not cause any hindrance and decisions should be taken in a timebound manner. They also sought implementation of the recommendations of Police Reform Commission in a timely manner. Shun corruption, be polite to people: DGP Meanwhile, the DGP encouraged the force to stay away from corruption and perform their duty with utmost dedication. The police chief also asked the men on ground to talk politely and be courteous while dealing with the public. “Focus on public complaints and improve behaviour. Don’t trouble people for small things; instil fear in criminals not the public,” said the DGP, while also asking the cops to adopt new technologies. The DGP also asked for removal of junk vehicles, mostly case properties, from police stations to ensure the premises are kept clean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-dgp-holds-first-open-house-with-police-force-101630699400954.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cop held for opening fire in Mohali suspended||Chandigarh Police have suspended the constable who was arrested by the Mohali police for opening fire and smashing the windowpanes of his brother-in-law’s car at Shivalik Vihar in Nayagaon on Thursday.A statement issued by the department said that constable Sikander Singh was posted in the security wing and was absent from duty. A regular departmental inquiry has also been initiated against him.The incident had happened around 1am on Thursday when the constable was hosting a party at his house in Shivalik Vihar, where his brother-in-law Ankit was also present.After Ankit took the cop’s car for a ride, he called him up and asked him to return his car. The two got into a verbal spat and abused each other on the phone, following which Sikander went to the parking area and smashed the windowpanes of Ankit’s car and also fired one gun shot at the car from his licensed pistol.Following the incident, the Mohali police had arrested the cop after booking him under Sections 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code besides under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-cop-held-for-opening-fire-in-mohali-suspended-101630699160945.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Woman held for cruelty to her minor kids||A 27-year-old woman has been arrested after a nine-month-old video surfaced that showed her dangling her six-year-old daughter from the roof at their house in Gharuan’s Kheri village. Among other charges, she has been booked for attempt to commit culpable homicide.Station house officer, Gharuan, Himmat Singh said that after the video of the incident was shared on social media, police conducted probe and found that the woman used to regularly thrash her minor children, aged 4, 6, 7 and 9. Some villagers had also lodged a complaint against her. Her husband, who worked as a labourer, is at large in some other criminal case. The woman was arrested on Friday and will be produced in court on Saturday. She has been booked under Section 75 (punishment for cruelty to child) of the Juvenile Justice Act besides Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt, 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohaliwoman-held-for-cruelty-to-her-minor-kids-101630698980961.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Panchkula records no new case for second day||The tricity on Friday reported eight fresh cases of Covid-19, with four each surfacing in Chandigarh and Mohali. Panchkula reported no new case for the second consecutive day. On Thursday, the tricity’s tally had stood at six. Meanwhile, no fatality was reported in the tricity for the second day in a row.While Mohali city accounted for all the cases in the district, Chandigarh reported cases from Sectors 11, 40 and 45. The active caseload in the tricity saw an uptick to 99, with 50 patients in Mohali, 40 in Chandigarh and nine in Panchkula.So far, 65,114 people in Chandigarh have tested positive for the virus of whom 64,260 have successfully recovered while 814 have succumbed to the disease. Of 68,624 cases in Mohali, 67,514 have been cured and 1,060 have ended in fatalities. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 30,687. While 30,301 patients have been cured, 377 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covidpanchkula-records-no-new-case-for-second-day-101630698862541.html
04-09-2021||Lucknow||Power distribution network: UP asked to ensure discoms hand over 33 kv system to state transmission utility||The 33 kv system power distribution network in Uttar Pradesh, like in other states, may soon be merged with the transmission network under a joint venture (JV) with POWERGRID, a Central government entity, with a view to curtailing high distribution losses and improving services, a senior official aware of the issue said.The move is, however, also being seen as part of the larger plan of ending the state-owned power utilities’ (UP Power Corporation Ltd in UP’s case) monopoly by opening the power distribution sector for multiple players, including private companies. “The Union power ministry has written a letter to the chief secretary and the additional chief secretary (energy) asking them to take steps to ensure that the discoms hand over the 33 kv system to the state transmission utility (STU),” the official said.The 33 kv substation systems are distribution substations that take electricity from transmission substations and then supply the same to the end consumers after stepping down the high voltage to a safe level.The letter written by joint secretary (transmission) Mritunjay Kumar Narayan on August 2 says that while the sub-transmission system plays an important role as in interface between the distribution and the transmission systems and is critical for reliable power supply, sub-transmission system (distribution network) is beset with the problem of higher losses and inefficient performance.The letter refers to a high-level committee constituted under the chairman and managing director, POWERGRID, sometime back. The committee, according to it, recommended, among other things, bringing 33 kv distribution system under the state transmission utility for improvement of performance of 33 kv networks, including robust planning.The state governments, as per the letter, have been asked to facilitate handing over of 33 kv substations to state transmission utility (STU) in a phased manner, provide financial assistance to the state transmission utility for upgrading and modernising their 33 kv assets.“In the event, the state government is not in a position to provide financial assistance to the STU, then the STU can be asked to form a JV (joint venture) with the POWERGRID on 50:50 equity basis for moblising their financial resources,” the letter said. Power employees have claimed the move is nothing, but part of the larger design aimed to hand over the distribution system to private players. “Bringing the 33 kv system under transmission and forming a joint venture company with POWERGRID is encroachment of the Central government on a state subject and the move is aimed to finish government discoms to facilitate private suppliers,” said Shailendra Dubey, chairman of the All India Power Engineers’ Federation.Forming JV with POWERGRID, he claimed, would be the beginning of end of both state transmission utilities as well state discoms.“Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021 has a provision that seeks to de-license the power distribution activity and allow multiple private companies to supply electricity in any area using the network of government discoms. After formation of JV company, this network will also be snatched from the state discoms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/power-distribution-network-up-asked-to-ensure-discoms-hand-over-33-kv-system-to-state-transmission-utility-101630698860841.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Apple cultivators gherao HP agri, horticulture ministers, block NH near Theog||Irked over steep fall in the wholesale prices of apples, fruit cultivators ‘gheraoed’ Himachal’s agriculture minister Virender Kanwar and horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur for more than three hours outside a rest house about 28km from the main town of Shimla .Kanwar and Thakur were on their way to Parala fruit market when a group of apple cultivators stopped their cavalcade. BJP’s Chopal legislator Balbir Verma and APMC chairperson Naresh Sharma were also accompanying them. The farmers raised slogans against Thakur, who drew flak over his statement asking the apple growers to sell fruit on the roadside in plastic crates . The fruit growers had gathered at Theog to attend a meeting of Samyukt Kisan Manch that had announced a protest against the “corporate loot” on September 13. The farmers also had a scuffle with the policemen who tried to clear the way for ministers. After the situation became tense, the police deputed quick response teams as the traffic on the national highway was blocked for more than half an hour. Seeing the situation escalating, Kanwar and Thakur tried to pacify the agitating farmers, while Chopal legislator Balbir Verma intervened and convinced the farmers to talk to the ministers at a PWD resthouse in Theog . Thakur clarified that his statements were misunderstood and he had only suggested alternatives to sell the crop.Farmers had already been expressing resentment over the fall in apple prices and Thakur’s suggestion agitated them further. Leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Manch, Harisha Chauhan and Sanjay Chauhan, along with Sandeep Verma , Mahendra Verma, and Sohan Thakur, had gathered in Theog to draw strategy for the agitation. The horticulture minister said the government will ensure that 23% storage capacity at the CA stores will be given to the locals. The prices of the apples in wholesale market began to drop three weeks ago and further slipped after the corporate-run agriculture stores announced fresh prices. Adani Agri Fresh that has three controlled-atmosphere stores is Shimla district is purchasing apples for ₹72 for premium quality apples, while last year the same quality fetched ₹88. The farmers of state threatened to boycott Adani Agri Fresh and have constantly been blaming the cartelisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/apple-cultivators-gherao-hp-agri-horticulture-ministers-block-nh-near-theog-101630698802247.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cong is against privatising strategic and core assets: AICC spokesperson||The Congress is not against the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), but privatising strategic and core assets which may result in monopoly, All India Congress Committee (AICC) spokesperson Ragini Nayak said on Friday.Addressing a press conference here, she said previous the Congress government had also privatised several public-sector assets, but only those which were in losses and had no strategic or core value. “The Prime Minister should explain as to how the ₹6-lakh crore revenue fetched through NMP would be able to fund ₹100-lakh crore NIP,” she added. The Congress spokesperson feared that the privatisation of the Railways will lead to domination of big corporate houses. The SC/ST population will also be hit at they will lose job opportunities as the reservation will go once these assets are privatised, she added. Questioning the NDA government’s move to monetise national highways, Nayak said while the Union minister Nitin Gadkari bragged of good performance in the sector, why did the Centre want to privatise it. She also urged the Centre to pay heed to former AICC president Rahul Gandhi’s advice on NMP. Responding to allegations of nepotism in the Congress, Nayak said no party is bereft of phenomenon and referred to the leaders like Anurag Thakur, Pankaja Munde and Dharmendra Pradhan. Condemns attack on party’s former MLA The Congress launched a scathing attack on BJP-led Himachal government on Friday over law and order situation in the state after former MLA and CPS Jagjeevan Pal was assaulted by alleged saffron party workers. The incident took place on August 31 at Rada village in Sulah assembly segment but came to the fore on Thursday after a video was widely circulated on social media platforms. In the 10-second video, Pal is seen being slapped by a man and pushed around amid the chaos. State Congress spokesperson Rajesh Sharma in a press conference held at Dharamshala alleged that the former MLA was assaulted during a foundation-stone laying ceremony of new panchayat building. “Pal was slapped and pushed around by the BJP workers,” he alleged adding that BJP was setting a wrong precedent and the Congress will not allow Himachal to become UP and Bihar. He said the BJP was in intoxication of power and was resorting to violence. Sharma said the Sulah incident was an attempt to trample voices of dissent. He feared that the BJP may adopt the similar violent tactic to win the election in 2022 assembly polls and advised people to be cautious. Meanwhile, district Congress president Ajay Mahajan said the incident was an example of deteriorating law and order situation in the state. He said the Congress will stage a protest on the issue on Saturday and submit a memorandum to the deputy commissioner. Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri also condemned the incident, saying such things happening in Himachal were harmful for the democratic setup and the image of the state. “Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur should take cognisance. This goondaraj will not be tolerated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-is-against-privatising-strategic-and-core-assets-aicc-spokesperson-101630698800880.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||BJP will form next govt in J&K with absolute majority: Raina||The BJP will form the next government with absolute majority in the union territory and J&K will have chief minister from the saffron party, said party’s J&K president Ravinder Raina on Friday. He was addressing media after Danish Mishra, a prominent businessman and eminent social worker, along with his supporters joined the BJP here. Slamming the opposition, he said, “People have developed robust faith in the BJP in these years and are keen to root out selfish dynastic parties for better development and strong nation.” “The people know that Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas can only be achieved by BJP government. With their support, the BJP will form the next government with an absolute majority,” he reiterated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-will-form-next-govt-in-j-k-with-absolute-majority-raina-101630698743811.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||BJP government sold national assets: J&K Congress||J&K Congress on Thursday staged a protest against the BJP government for ‘selling national assets’ besides inflation and other issues. The Congress workers led by senior leaders Raman Bhalla and Yogesh Sawhney held a protest at Shaheedi Chowk against the Centre to oppose the ‘selling’ of Indian national assets to private companies and continuous price hike across the country. The protesters raised slogans and held placards criticising the government. They also marched towards the governor’s house to express their resentment over the government’s policies. However, roads were barricaded and heavy deployment of police personnel was made to stop the demonstrators from continuing their march. The protesters also demanded immediate restoration of statehood to J&K. Bhalla claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was only committed to the welfare of his “crony friends”. He alleged that the government was keeping the interest of the countrymen at a bay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-government-sold-national-assets-j-k-congress-101630698742716.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: NHM employees end protest after admn okays pay hike||Up in arms for the past 12 days, over 300 National Health Mission (NHM) employees in Chandigarh ended their protest on Friday after the UT administration gave them a written assurance of increasing their salaries. The NHM employees had started their indefinite protest against the central government and Chandigarh administration on August 23, to push their demand for equal pay for equal work. The protest had hit various services at government health and wellness centres, especially in rural areas. NHM employees working under the UT health department as paramedical staff and managerial employees include nursing officers, pharmacy officers, auxiliary nurse midwives, lab technicians, dental technicians and other Group-4 staffers. They have been working for salaries lower than the approved minimum wages since 2013.“The protest has been called off after the administration gave us a written assurance about hiking our salaries. This demand for respectable wages has been pending since 2013. The staff was elated as they got justice after several years,” said Amit Kumar, general secretary, NHM Union.Will pay out of own budgetAfter the central government refused to increase the annual NHM budget for Chandigarh, the UT health department had sent a proposal to the finance department to increase the salaries of the protesting staff from the state budget. On Friday, the finance and planning officer of the UT administration wrote a letter to the principal secretary, health, stating that the finance department has no objection to the proposal to meet the additional expenditure of ₹3.92 crore per annum from the state budget to pay salaries to NHM staff in Chandigarh as per the DC rates. However, the health department has been advised to consider rationalisation of human resources deployed under the NHM in near future, as advised by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the letter stated.Director, health services, Dr Amandeep Kang said: “The NHM staff has contributed their effortless services in the pandemic. They were getting low salaries even while doing equal work as the other staff. Thanks to UT adviser Dharam Pal and the administration, their long-pending demand has been fulfilled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-nhm-employees-end-protest-after-admn-okays-pay-hike-101630698741501.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Army foils infiltration bid by armed terrorists in Poonch||The army foiled an infiltration attempt by a group of well-armed terrorists believed to be three to four in number along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. “Heavy exchange of fire took place between three to four terrorists and army troops in Gulpur area of Krishna Ghati (KG) sector in Poonch,” said officials. Locals from Gulpur said a heavy exchange of fire that included mortars and rocket launchers started around 10.30pm and lasted till 3.30am. Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “Last night, there was an infiltration attempt along the LoC in Poonch sector. The infiltration bid has been foiled by effective fire by the troops on own (Indian) side of the LoC.” He also said there was a ceasefire violation. “The infiltration attempt of Pakistani terrorists was detected by alert troops of Indian Army. The infiltrators were challenged and heavy firing ensued. Owing to undulating terrain and heavy undergrowth, the terrorists managed to break contact and escaped back towards Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir under the cover of darkness. A thorough search of the encounter site was carried out and huge quantity of administrative stores left behind by the terrorists was recovered to include clothing, packaged food items and medicines with Pakistani markings,” he added. This was the second infiltration attempt foiled by the army in the last five days. On August 10, DGP Dilbag Singh had said that “after a brief lull following renewed truce deal between the two DGMOs on February 25, infiltration into Jammu and Kashmir resumed” and had added that “terror camps across the border were still intact”. In recent times, there were four encounters in Rajouri sector — Daddal in Nowshera, Sunderbani and Pangai in Thannamandi and Karyote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-foils-infiltration-bid-by-armed-terrorists-in-poonch-101630698682164.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: DS Chawla elected UCPMA president again||Amid tussle between two groups of the current executive committee, DS Chawla was again elected the president of the United Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) on Friday.The elections for eight posts of the executive committee were held on Friday and Chawla defeated Avtar Singh Bhogal to win the post of president by a margin of 44 votes.Majority of the other executive committee members were also re-elected to their posts, of which six of the total eight seats went to the Sachdeva group while the Chawla group managed only two. Valaity Ram Durga defeated Sukwinder Singh Megson to the post of joint secretary, Rajinder Singh Sarhali defeated Rajesh Bansal to the post of propaganda secretary and Varun Kapoor defeated Achhru Ram Gupta to the post of finance secretary. Gurcharan Singh Gemco defeated Prince Bansal to the post of senior vice-president, Satnam Singh Makkar defeated Gurcharan Singh Deol to the post of vice-president, Manjinder Singh Sachdeva defeated Harsimarjit Singh Lucky for the post of general secretary and Rupak Sood defeated Kulpreet Singh (Bunty) Malhotra for the post of secretary. The team has been elected for a tenure of two years.Despite rain during the voting hours, 1,361 voters out of the total 1,668 turned up. The elections were held in the presence of heavy police force as both groups entered into a scuffle during the annual general meeting of the association held on August 18. The current executive was divided into two groups. While current president DS Chawla and secretary Harsimarjit Singh Lucky comprise one group, the other group consists of the rest of the six executive members of the association led by general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva. Presiding office Parupkar Singh Ghumman said six persons were found involved in bogus voting during polling and they were shown the way out with the help of police and private security personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianads-chawla-elected-ucpma-president-again-101630698680900.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rates fixed for prepaid cabs at Chandigarh airport||After several complaints about cab operators fleecing travellers at Chandigarh International Airport, the Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Mohali, has approved fixed rates for prepaid taxi service. The destinations have been divided into four zones distance-wise, with rates fixed for each of them depending upon the type of vehicle. The new rates will be implemented from September 6. The four zones are 1-10 km (Mohali’s Sectors 66-A, 67, 80, 81, 82, Aerocity, ISB and ISSER), 11-20 km (Mohali’s Phase 1 to 11, Sectors 76-79, Dhakoli and Baltana in Zirakpur, Chandigarh’s Sector 41- 56 and ISBT-43), 21-25 km (Chandigarh’s Sector 1-40, ISBT-17 and railway station, Panchkula’s Sector 1- 21, Dera Bassi and Manimajra) and 26-30 km (Kharar, Landran, Sector 90-116 and 127, Panchkula’s Sector 22-30).Ajay Bhardwaj, the airport’s chief executive officer, said: “We had requested the Mohali administration to fix the rates for cab operators after receiving several complaints from passengers.” Umang Jindal, who is a frequent traveller, said in the absence of any regulation, cab operators had been charging whatever they felt like. “Most of the time, foreign travellers felt that they had been cheated. The authorities should now put up the rate list at the entry and exit points,” he saidGet car towed for exceeding 20 minutes at departureThe airport has also slashed penalty charges in case a car exceeds the free 10-minute drop facility at the departure. However, if 20 minutes are exceeded, the vehicle will be towed and handed over to the traffic police, said Bhardwaj.Now, a car will have to pay up ₹170 instead of ₹340 for spending 11-20 minutes while dropping off a passenger. In the case of a SUV, the penalty will be ₹200 instead of ₹400.Meanwhile, there has been no change in the parking fee. For 30 minutes, it is ₹30 for cars and ₹10 for two-wheelers. For parking up to two hours, the charges will be ₹85 and ₹20, respectively.Traffic marshals have been appointed for lane management, such as ensuring that vehicles headed to drop off passengers and those wanting to park their vehicle enter the right lanes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rates-fixed-for-prepaid-cabs-at-chandigarh-airport-101630698441731.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||ICMR project to limit heart attack deaths to start in Ludhiana||In a major initiative to save precious lives from heart attack by starting treatment within the golden period, an Indian Council of Medical Research-funded project for timely intervention will be launched in the district on Saturday.Under the programme, tenecteplase drug, used to dissolve blood clots in the heart, will be given free to patients at 11 centres.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the project was being carried out in 12 districts of the country and two of these were in Punjab, including Ludhiana where 11 well-equipped centres have been set up for treatment of heart attack patients within the golden period.The centres are at the civil hospital, Krishna Hospital, Pahwa Hospital, RCH Pohir, Sarabha Hospital, Life Care Hospital, and sub-divisional hospitals in Jagraon, Payal, Samrala and Macchiwara. Doctors and paramedics of these hospitals have undergone a one-year training at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH).Dr Bishav Mohan from DMCH said these 11 centres were ready to handle cardiac patients, and after diagnosis and initial treatment for three hours, the patient will be referred to higher centres for further treatment.“Tenecteplase is usually not available at primary and secondary health care centres because of its high cost ( ₹25,000- ₹30,000). Besides, in 70% of the cases, it cannot be administered because of late arrival and to change the scenario, awareness about the symptoms are being created by these centres in their area,” the doctor added.Further, DMCH, Christian Medical College and Hospital, and Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, will coordinate for management of these centres.He said a WhatsApp group had been created where specialists will be available round-the-clock for consultation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/icmr-project-to-limit-heart-attack-deaths-to-start-in-ludhiana-101630698380806.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Counterfeit pesticides, fertilisers seized in Ludhiana, six booked||The district department of agriculture and farmers welfare raided the warehouse of a fertiliser trader on Lakhowal Kuhara Road in Koom Kalan on Friday and seized large quantities of counterfeit pesticides and fertilisers.Narinder Singh Benipal, chief agriculture officer, Ludhiana, said the department had received complaints that counterfeit material was being sold at the warehouse using various brand names.Therefore, on the orders of the agriculture director, a team, comprising Pradeep Singh Tiwana, Girjesh Bhargav, Jatinder Singh and Gaurav Dhir, raided the warehouse.The trader was found selling fake chlorpyrifos, hydrochloride, fipronil and triacontanol using the name of Orchid Agro Systems, Universal Specialty Chemicals Private Limited. “Due to this, not only was the company suffering huge losses, but farmers, who were purchasing the fertilisers, were also being duped,” said Benipal.The department seized and sealed the material, and booked Rahul, Rajiv, Hakim, Manish Gupta, Amit Kumar and Pradeep Kumar under Sections 7, 8 and 9 of the Fertilizer (Control) Order, 1985; Sections 3, 7 and 9 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955; Sections 13, 17, 18 and 33 of the Insecticides Act; Section 9 of the Insecticides Rules as well as relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Benipal said the department had also informed the Koom Kalan SHO for further action. He appealed to farmers to purchase medicines and fertilisers only from registered dealers, get a fixed bill and notify any suspicious businesses to agriculture department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/counterfeit-pesticides-fertilisers-seized-in-ludhiana-six-booked-101630698200696.html
04-09-2021||Other||Debate: Chandigarh can’t go on a solo ride for MRTS||Tricity a collective unitIf we take a cursory glance, the neighbouring cities are considered to be a part of Chandigarh and collectively make the tricity. Even the bifurcation of sectors in Mohali seems to be an extension of Chandigarh. A large number of persons commute to and fro from all three cities for various reasons, causing traffic snarls. So, involving the two neighbours in the mass rapid transit system plan would solve half the problems. Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliTricity’s traffic woes may soon match NCR’sThe traffic scenario in tricity is getting complicated and in the next decade or so, may become similar to the National Capital Region. So, a new public mode of transport such as a ,ass rapid transit system should be put in place now, keeping in view all three cities and not just Chandigarh. It is a much-needed step and involvement of Panchkula and Mohali is a must.Kampreet Gill, ChandigarhMake up for the delayIt appears that wisdom has finally dawned upon the UT bureaucracy to opt for a metro rail project after losing more than a decade in red tape. This delay has further aggravated the traffic problems on city roads. Now, instead of going it all alone, Chandigarh would do well to involve its neighbours in the plan for the benefit of tricity commuters. More so, when Haryana and Punjab already stand committed to bear the expenditure for their respective portions. SC Luthra, ChandigarhMRTS has to be a collective initiativeThousands of residents commute to and fro on inter-city roads in the tricity on a daily basis for official or personal work. Therefore, a mass rapid transit system (MRTS) will be able serve its purpose fully only if the project is taken up collectively by Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana. This will also help bring down the vehicle density on city roads and encourage residents to adopt an environment friendly mode of commuting.Ramesh Aggarwal, MohaliNeed to fast-track MRTS in view of population riseWith an increase in population in Mohali and Panchkula, the need to fast track the transport system has also risen multifold. Housing societies in Pinjore are also adding to the need for a better transport system. A well-coordinated approach to a transport solution is the need of the hour. Chandigarh’s mass rapid transit system has been a good idea but Panchkula, Mohali and the periphery should be included by working in unison.Garv Bhupesh, PanchkulaExclusive MRTS for UT a wasteChandigarh city has a floating population equal in size of its residents, if not more and has become overcrowded due to increasing crisscrossing of vehicular traffic and lack of point-to-point buses and overbridges. It will be a wasteful expenditure for Chandigarh to have MRTS exclusively for UT without engaging Mohali and Panchkula administrations. The proposed MRTS should be financed by Punjab, Haryana and Centre, covering 40 km radius up to Ambala Cantt, Morinda, Ropar and Kalka since employees and visitors in thousands travel back and forth to Chandigarh and surrounding areas on a daily basis. Buses should also run from point to point e.g. one bus from Ambala Cantt linking Sector 17 whereas another connecting high court and a third going to PGI/university. MRTS should consist of buses, metro train and autos. Col SK Aggarwal (Retd), PanchkulaProjects announced, shelved with change in dispensationFor years, Chandigarh has been mulling on starting a mass rapid transit system but so far, it has not seen the light of the day. Many projects are announced but changed with the change in government. For instance, in 2009, when Pawan Kumar Bansal of the Congress was elected the MP of Chandigarh, he announced the metro rail project for Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula very soon. But later, when Kirron Kher became the city’s MP, she declared it unfeasible. Several other projects such as the Tribune Flyover have been hanging fire as residents continue to suffer amid the political tug of war. Gurpreet S Malhotra, KansalCity too small for an independent MRTSChandigarh is a modern and beautiful city but small in size. No doubt, the mass rapid transit system can prove to be a game-changer but it will be useful only of the neighbouring cities are involved. UT administration must discuss with Mohali and Panchkula regarding the MRTS plan.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliFresh mobility planDue to an increase in population and vehicular density, tricity roads are seeing frequent jams. To find an effective solution to this, the UT administration must include Mohali as well as Panchkula for a fresh study on the mobility plan for the tricity, and then decide on whether to go for a monorail project, sky bus, metro or any other mode of transport.Prabhjot Nagpal, ZirakpurBring down vehicle densityWith over 12 lakh people and 15 lakh registered vehicles, Chandigarh has the highest density of vehicles per household in the country. Inter-state routes cross the city on a daily basis. People from Panchkula and Mohali commute to Chandigarh and the vice-versa on a daily basis. Both Mohali and Panchkula have grown rapidly in terms of population over the last few years, thanks to a spurt in housing societies and BPO industry but the cities have not been able to keep up in terms of infrastructure. The representatives of the three cities should discuss a workable strategy to fix the gaps.Usha Verma, ChandigarhLackadaisical attitude of local leadershipThe tricity, particularly Chandigarh, has the highest ratio of vehicles per person in the country but we are unable to work on traffic management for the next 25 to 30 years. While the situation is bearable in Chandigarh, its neighbours Mohali and Panchkula are grappling with traffic issues. The local representatives are still struggling to decide on whether to go for a metro or monorail. Consultants are appointed, a hefty fee is paid and after a meeting or two on the reports, the report is put in cold storage for regime change. The basic problem, we don’t have a railways minister or an influential minister in centre to push the case for approval or funding. Suresh Verma, ChandigarhDecongest city roadsThe mass rapid transit system is a good plan to decongest the city roads, besides helping commuters save on fuel expenses. Both Panchkula and Mohali should be involved in the projects as Chandigarh residents cross over to its neighbouring cities and vice-versa for work, personal and social purposes.Vijay Garg, ManimajraLight metro is the right optionAs per the previous detailed project report (DPR), the metro is to run underground within Chandigarh and emerge thereafter to connect adjoining areas. In addition to tricity traffic, thousands of commuters visit daily from Haryana and Punjab daily. Due to this there is tremendous increase of traffic on roads, causing severe vehicular/ dust pollution, traffic jams, and accidents. Chandigarh as a Smart City must accept change, improve the quality of life and usher in efficiency. We must go for a light metro which is fast, comfortable, uninterrupted and non-polluting.Sateesh Dadwal, ChandigarhPunjab, Haryana must contributeDue to denial and monetary non-cooperation by two states, Chandigarh administration had to go alone for MRTS. With a surge in population and number of vehicles per person, it is only reasonable to come up with an MRTS. In the past, due to too much interference by bureaucrats, councillors, ministers, and initiatives taken by residents to protect the legacy of Le Corbusier, the metro project and flyover were put in limbo. A large chunk of population from the city commutes daily to peripheral towns for job or daily work. To make them at ease and decongest the roads, administration should expedite the MRTS project. Punjab and Haryana should also contribute to the project. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliNeed reliable public transport systemTricity has no reliable public transport system and most residents prefer to use their private vehicles or cabs for daily commute. A pan-tricity MRTS project will help bring down the traffic congestion and prove beneficial in the long run. If not a metro, the tricity should look at least improving its bus connectivity. If the tricity does decide to go ahead with an MRTS, it must formulate a solid plan for underground metro rail network.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliOne transportation system for 3 citiesIt is essential for the Chandigarh transport authorities to involve its two neighbouring cities, Mohali and Panchkula in its MRTS project. These three cities share porous borders with each other and therefore must have an integrated transportation system. A resident who is travelling between these three cities should be able to travel around using one transportation system only. The three cities are together and should always work together. Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhWill solve commuting woesIt is great that the UT administration us contemplating to switch to MRTS to decongest city roads, but the plan will be a futile exercise if the neighbours Mohali and Panchkula are not involved. Punjab and Haryana should also understand their responsibility towards a wholesome development of the tricity. A metro is any day better than autos etc, which charge commuters as per their will.Kundan Lal, MohaliCombined planningChandigarh can’t be separated from the tricity. Not treating the three cities, which are codependent on each other, as one unit is nothing but lack of vision. Hence all development in the three cities must be planned together.Anju Mohan, Panchkula A comprehensive approachThe study on Chandigarh’s Mass Rapid Transit System will be unrealistic and incomplete without involving Mohali & Panchkula. Chandigarh UT, Mohali and Panchkula form a large urban complex with multiple traffic and transportation problems and hence the MRST study should be comprehensive to achieve the desired results. Moreover, the Chandigarh inter-state capital region plan studies carried out in the past by the town and country planning organisation, also envisaged proper coordination between these three constituents.Hardaman Singh Bhogal, MohaliDecision seems to have been taken in hurryThe decision of the Chandigarh administration to go solo on the new study - mass rapid transit system (RTS) –is lopsided and seems to have been taken in a tearing hurry. The administration needs to revisit the decision and reverse the same in the larger interest of the people. It should, instead of going all alone, mull over bringing the two satellite townships, namely Panchkula and Mohali on board to make the envisaged project a huge success and reap good dividend out of it. Ramesh K Dhiman, Chandigarh Come up with a logical, workable solutionSince Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula constitute the tricity, a combined MRTS plan for the tricity would be logical and workable. Planning MRTS only for Chandigarh would be meaningless and actually a waste of money because a large number of commuters travel daily from Mohali to Panchkula and from Panchkula to Mohali. AK Sharma, ChandigarhUT’s problems also reflect on its satellite townsThe decision of Chandigarh administration to go for a fresh study on mass rapid transit system for City Beautiful is well-received. The population and number of vehicles in Chandigarh have increased manifold leading to traffic congestion. In addition, over two lakh vehicles on inter-state routes cross the city daily. Mohali and Panchkula, the satellite towns of Chandigarh, also have the same problem. Hence, UT Chandigarh must involve the two in its MRTS plan.Subhash Chugh, via emailProblem of floating populationAn MRTS Plan without involving Mohali and Panchkula will be inherently faulty, since the UT is servicing the population of both states and the traffic situation is already worsening. The MRTS should be a holistic plan which should see us through another 100 yrs. The MRTS should come up on all major axis so that people from these towns and cities do not need a car/bus to come to the major service points of the high court, PGI, secretariat, Panjab University. A metro will also help prevent the floating population from commuting to Chandigarh in their personal transport and ensure less pollution and less traffic chaos. The suggested axis could be: Karnal-Ambala- Chd-Nalagarh, Ludhiana-Khanna- Chd-Pinjore, and Ropar-Kurali-Chd Nalagarh.Maj RS Virk, ChandigarhOverall development of tricitySince Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali are interlinked, the developmental planning also must be interlinked. Connectivity in Chandigarh alone will not achieve the desired purpose and result. While overall development is the prime consideration, any individual planning, and not a totalitarian planning for the tricity will do against the overall development of all the three entities.Group Captain Samaresh Kumar Goswami ( Retd), PanchkulaREADER OF THE WEEKFast and easy commuting Yes, Mohali and Panchkula should be on board in Chandigarh’s mass rapid transit system (MRTS) plan. Besides making commuting fast and easy, it comes with other advantages such as energy efficiency and low cost of commuting etc. The MRTS may prove especially useful in bringing down the peak-hour rush on the roads. Ishita Nara, via email BY INVITATIONWhat city needsThe mode of transport, routes and distance have to be decided first. The MRTS has to be planned with a long-term perspective for the city. SD Sharma, member, Chandigarh heritage conservation committee Signal-free roadsTo decongest city roads, we need a signal-free road system. It is imperative that the three main roads - Dakshin Marg, Madhya Marg and Chandigarh Road should be signal free, so that, traffic flows smoothly in and out of the city without any bottleneck. DS Jaspal, retired IAS officer and former principal secy, transport Punjab Plan with a visionTo decongest city roads, UT administration should not only include Mohali and Panchkula but also towns like Dera Bassi and New Chandigarh for the MRTS. Chandigarh should have a vision for the next 30 years while deciding on the project. Sarvjeet Singh, principal secretary, housing and urban development, Punjab Retain city’s characterA mass rapid transit system cannot be limited to Chandigarh only and has to involve Panchkula, Mohali and beyond. In addition, before finalising the plan, care should be taken to not spoil the character of the city. Surinder Bahga, former chairman, Indian Institute of Architects Chandigarh- Punjab chapterSave time, moneyAn organic solution will help all stakeholders gain as the issue is crucial for the city’s development. It should help save people’s time and money spent on transportation, and prevent environmental pollution.Urvashi Gulati, IAS retd, former Haryana chief secretary||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mrts-chandigarh-can-t-go-on-a-solo-ride-101630698141042.html
04-09-2021||Lucknow||UP’s August revenue collection goes up by ₹2544.21 crore||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday claimed a consistent increase in its earnings with the total revenue collection going up by ₹2544.21 crore in August 2021 against the earnings made in the same month in 2020-21.It collected total revenue of ₹12089.42 crore in August this year (2021-22) against earnings of ₹9545.21 crore in the same month in 2020-21, about 87.3 per cent of the target of ₹13855.64 crore for the month.The state government’s total revenue collection in the first five months of 2021-22 (April 1 to August 31, 2021) was ₹54715.20 crore, about 71.8 per cent of the target of ₹77183.64 crore.“Uttar Pradesh’s economy is showing a consistent improvement and our collections are going up every month. We hope there will be further improvement in the state’s financial situation in the coming months,” said minister for finance Suresh Khanna while speaking to media persons in Lucknow.A close scrutiny of the data released on Friday indicates that the state government’s highest earning of ₹2461.93 crore was from VAT (Value Added Tax), an increase of 108 per cent against the target of ₹2258.84 crore for August 2021. Its non-tax revenue collection (mining and minerals) was, however, ₹136.39 crore, only about 55 per cent of the target of ₹248.00 crore for August 2021. It was ₹35.14 crore less than the earnings of ₹171.53 crore in the same month in 2020-21. Khanna said increase in VAT was because of increased mobility following the lifting of Covid-19 restrictions. About lower collections from mining and minerals, he said mining had remained suspended from July to September. He said the state government also deferred collections due to the adverse impact of Covid-19.“The state government’s data of revenue collection for August 2021 shows increased economic activity. The increase in VAT shows increased mobility, besides the hike in prices of petrol and diesel. It’s good that the state government is able to reach closer to the targets of revenue collection. The economy is recovering fast and it should reflect on the better performance on the GSDP (Gross State Domestic Product) growth front. The state government should also attempt to achieve substantially its target of capital expenditure in the coming months to give a further push to the state’s economy,” said Professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of the department of economics, Lucknow University.The state government spends ₹12,000 crore to ₹13,000 crore on the payment of salaries and pension to its employees and pensioners. It has been facing a paucity of funds due to the adverse impact of Covid-19. The state government presented a mini supplementary budget (first in 2021-2022) of ₹7301.52 crore on August 18, 2021. This was only about 1.33 per cent of its largest annual budget of ₹5.50 lakh crore (2021-2022) presented in February 2021. The state government also recently introduced fresh austerity measures to ensure availability of funds for the fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-august-revenue-collection-goes-up-by-2544-21-crore-101630698082578.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Dumping garbage in Ludhiana’s Buddha Nullah to invite ₹5,000 fine||Reviving the drive against garbage dumping in Buddha Nullah, municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has directed officials to step up surveillance and penalise violators with ₹5,000 challans. The corporation had initiated a campaign to rid the nullah of garbage in December last year, wherein 24 nodal officers were deputed to conduct surveillance around the 14km-stretch of the nullah and issue challans to violators.However, the drive lost steam during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Thursday, Sabharwal conducted a meeting with officials of the MC’s health branch at the Zone A office and directed officials to issue regular challans to violators through the day. “The zonal commissioners of Zone A, B and D will also conduct surprise inspections in the morning and evening to supervise the nodal officers and MC police teams deputed for surveillance,” he said.Different teams of college and school students also conducted awareness drives in the areas near the nullah. An MC official said while the ₹650-crore project to rejuvenate Buddha Nullah was already underway, garbage was still being dumped in the nullah and had to be stopped. “A large number of residents discard waste in the nullah instead of handing it over to the garbage collectors to save fees. MC has fined several violators, but the illegal practice continues,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dumping-garbage-in-ludhiana-s-buddha-nullah-to-invite-5-000-fine-101630697960855.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Criminal cases against MPs/MLAs: 17 FIRs under investigation against Bains, govt tells HC||There are 17 criminal cases pending against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) leader and MLA Simarjit Singh Bains across the state, the Punjab government told the high court. In an affidavit, inspector general of police, Bureau of Investigation, Punjab, Gursharan Singh Sandhu said there were 27 FIRs registered against him of which 17 are still pending for investigation or trial and in 10 cases, either he has been acquitted or cancellation reports have been filed. The cases include attempt to murder, criminal intimidation and in the latest FIR of July, he has been charged with rape.The information was given during a resumed hearing of a suo motu plea initiated on Supreme Court orders to monitor probes in criminal cases against legislators and parliamentarians in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. “I am being targeted by the government for fighting for the rights of the people who are suffering due to the misrule of both the SAD and Congress. I have full faith in the judicial system and strongly believe that I will come clean,” said Bains.Sandhu, a nodal officer appointed by the state government in these matters, also said that all field units have been told to supply information about the cases against MLAs and MPs, in which there is a stay operating. So far, only one such case has come to light, he said.During the hearing, amicus curiae Rupinder Kholsa pointed to slow probe in the FIRs against Bains and suggested it be expedited or high court should consider roping in an independent agency. Posting the matter for September 15, the high court observed that the government would be at liberty to appoint a “more competent” investigating officer if the probe is not proceeding further in right earnest. As per initial details, Punjab has said that at least 163 cases are pending against sitting or erstwhile MPs and MLAs in the state while a total of 21 cases – eight against ex-MLAs – in Haryana are pending. On high court orders, both the states and Chandigarh have appointed nodal officers to monitor and supervise probes in cases against MLAs/MPs. The court started monitoring the probes in February 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/criminal-cases-against-mps-mlas-17-firs-under-investigation-against-bains-govt-tells-hc-101630697720792.html
04-09-2021||Lucknow||Use Covid beds for treating patients of dengue, other viral infections: Yogi Adityanath||In view of infectious diseases, including dengue, being reported from different parts of the state, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday directed the officials concerned to carry out a statewide cleanliness and sanitisation drive from September 5 (Sunday) and a statewide surveillance for infectious diseases from September 7 (Tuesday). Yogi also asked for using the Covid and Covid isolation beds for treating patients of dengue and also those in grip of other viral infections. Chief minister issued these directives at the Covid-19 review meeting and asked the nodal officers appointed for districts to take charge of the cleanliness and sanitisation drive in their respective districts. He also instructed them to monitor situations in the districts affected by heavy rain and flood and supervise relief measures there. “The health department should launch a statewide surveillance from September 7 with the help of Asha and Anganwadi workers and associated staff. The health workers should go door to door to trace people with fever or Covid like symptoms. Also, make a list of such people over 45 years of age who have still not taken their first dose of vaccine. Encourage them to get their doses,” Yogi said. “Not a single fresh case of Covid infection was detected in 64 districts of the state in the last 24 hours while 11 districts reported fresh cases in single digit. The state is doing 2.5 lakh Covid sample tests every day on an average and the daily positivity rate is 0.01%. The recovery rate has gone up further to 98.7%. At present, the state has 239 active cases of Covid-19,” he said. “Only 18 fresh Covid cases were reported through the tests done in the last 24 hours while 21 patients recovered during this period,” Yogi added. Talking about vaccination, CM said on Thursday 16.26 lakh doses of Covid vaccine were administered taking the total doses administered so far to 7.58 crore. He said the state government will organise ‘Gareeb Kalyan Mela’ (fairs for the welfare of poor) on September 25 in all 826 development blocks in the state. The meal would entail distribution of artificial limbs and such aids to physically differently abled and linking potential beneficiaries with pension, home, self-employment and other such schemes. Check cost of construction material Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the state government had learnt that various construction material such as cement, sand, coarse sand, ballast and other such items were being sold at escalated prices. He asked the mining department to immediately carry out inspections and check it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/use-covid-beds-for-treating-patients-of-dengue-other-viral-infections-yogi-adityanath-101630697601916.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Congress leader receives death threats, FIR lodged in Ludhiana||The Sadar police have booked unidentified persons for issuing death threats to Gursimran Singh Mand, joint co-coordinator, Kisan Congress, a wing of the All-India Congress Committee.Mand alleged that he had been receiving threats from pro-Khalistan supporters on social media and WhatsApp. On September 1, he received threatening voice messages and videos on his WhatsApp number, claiming that 88 men were following him and will kill him. They sent him the video of a severed head, threatening to kill him in the same manner, Mand alleged.He said he had been raising voice against terrorism and Khalistan, following which he started receiving threats from extremists. He sought security cover for him and his family.Inspector Jagdev Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had lodged an FIR under Sections 294 (obscene acts and songs) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 67-A of the Information and Technology Act against the unidentified accused. Efforts are on to trace them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-leader-receives-death-threats-fir-lodged-in-ludhiana-101630697600726.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs two more deaths, 32 fresh cases||ChandigarhTwo more Covid-related fatalities were recorded on Friday in Punjab that took the death toll to 16,437, while 32 new cases pushed the infection tally to 6,00,745, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases in the state stands at 351, it said.Of the new cases, six were reported from Hoshiarpur followed by four each in Pathankot and Mohali, the bulletin said.Thirty people recovered from the infection, taking the overall recoveries to 5,83,957, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-two-more-deaths-32-fresh-cases-101630697361906.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Patwari, aide booked for ₹10,000 graft in Ludhiana||A patwari at the Dholewal Revenue Office and his accomplice have been booked for demanding ₹10,000 bribe from a resident. The accused, Gursewak Singh and Sherry, fled after the Vigilance Bureau (VB) raided the office on Friday to catch them red-handed.Karamvir Singh, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), economic offences wing (EOW), VB, said the complainant had visited the revenue office to get a property document. There patwari Gursewak Singh and his agent demanded ₹15,000 to fulfil his request.The deal was settled at ₹10,000 and the duo asked the complainant to get the money on Friday. The DSP said on Friday, the patwari stayed in his office and sent Sherry to collect the money. As the complainant handed over the bribe, the bureau raided the office, but Sherry managed to flee the spot. Sensing the situation, the patwari also escaped from the office.Both the accused have been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act and manhunt has been launched for their arrest, the DSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patwari-aide-booked-for-10-000-graft-in-ludhiana-101630697360616.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||AAP demands 15-day Punjab assembly session||Leader of opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema on Friday demanded a 15-day session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to discuss important issues of the state. Addressing the media, Cheema said prior to the commencement of this session, he had, in the business advisory committee headed by speaker Rana KP Singh, reiterated his demand for a 15-day session after the one-day session, on which the government had assured to convene it again. “After 10 years of the mafia rule of the Badals, the four-and-a-half-years of Congress rule have been non-satisfactory. Though the Congress is always looking to run away from burning issues, we will not let this happen,” Cheema said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-demands-15-day-punjab-assembly-session-101630697180721.html
04-09-2021||Lucknow||‘Uttar Pradesh exported goods worth ₹20 K cr to US in 2020-21’||Uttar Pradesh exported goods worth ₹20,000 crore to the United States (US) in 2020-21 fiscal, said state’s micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) minister Sidharth Nath Singh on Friday. Virtually addressing the 29th annual general meeting of India Chapter of American Chamber of Commerce, Singh said, “The government has increased the target to ₹60,000 crore for the next two years.” He also stressed on increasing export of leather products, agro- based products, processed food and traditional products of the state to the US. Also present on the occasion, additional chief secretary Navneet Sehgal gave a presentation on facilities for investors in Uttar Pradesh. He explained in detail about the upcoming expressways, Noida international airport, defence corridor project and memoranda of understanding signed till date by the state government with 66 companies for the defence corridor. Senior officials of the American Chamber of Commerce also gave a presentation on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-exported-goods-worth-rs-20-k-cr-to-us-in-202021-101630697060558.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC sitting tight on waiving penalty on water, sewerage charges||Nearly 10 days after the state government notified the One-Time Settlement (OTS) policy to clear water-sewerage user charges without penalty and interest on August 25, the Ludhiana municipal corporation has failed to implement it here.As a result, MC’s system still displays dues with penalty and interest, and unwary consumers are still clearing dues without utilising the waiver offered by the government. However, the civic body has started regularising illegal water-sewerage connections at nominal rates by issuing manual receipts. Under the policy, the connections can be regularised at less than 10% of the regular fee/penalty charged for the process. An MC official, requesting anonymity, said the departmental orders had not been issued to implement the notification due to which changes had not been made in the MC server at Suvidha Kendras. “The Suvidha Kendra staff cannot accept any amount lower than that displayed in the system, which is still reflecting penalty and interest. Some consumers have returned with complaints after realising these should have been waived,” the official said, adding that the matter had been taken up with higher authorities.MC superintending engineer Rajinder Singh said the process got delayed due to some departmental issues and the server/software had been updated on Friday.Under the policy, no penalty or interest will be charged on the principal amount if the dues are cleared within three months, following which only the penalty will be waived for the subsequent three months. After six months, the user will have to pay both penalty and interest on the pending amount, and the connection will also be disconnected. In Ludhiana, dues of water-sewer user charges defaulters have piled up to a whopping ₹200 crore over the past few decades. In many cases, the interest imposed is much higher than the principal amount. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal also conducted a meeting with officials of property tax wing and operations and maintenance cell on Friday evening, and directed the officials to expedite recovery of dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-sitting-tight-on-waiving-penalty-on-water-sewerage-charges-101630697000725.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-minister Jasjit Randhawa’s daughter joins SAD||Anu Randhawa, daughter of late Congress minister Jasjit Singh Randhawa, on Friday joined the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) along with her supporters. Anu had contested the 2017 assembly elections from Ghanur on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket. Welcoming her into the SAD fold, party president Sukhbir Singh Badal said her joining would not only strengthen the party in Ghanaur but in the entire district. “We want hardworking leaders with an honest reputation and a record of public service to join the SAD to fulfil the aspirations of Punjabis, who want to oust the corrupt and scam ridden Congress government from the state,” said Sukhbir. The SAD chief also appointed Anu as the vice-president of the party. Her close confidante Kuldeep Singh Aulakh, a former councillor, has been appointed party’s organising secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exminister-jasjit-randhawa-s-daughter-joins-sad-101630696880590.html
04-09-2021||Other||Muzaffarnagar Farmers’ Mahapanchayat: PAC, RRF & tech to boost UP police presence at venue, region||Elaborate security arrangements will be made in and around Muzaffarnagar during the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’s (SKM) Mahapanchayat on Sunday. The Mahapanchayat is being convened to protest the three contentious farm laws and to draw a road map to SKM’z Mission UP, ahead of the Assembly elections in the state.Additional director general (ADG) of Meerut zone, Rajeev Sabharwal, visited the Mahapanchayat site in Muzaffarnagar on Thursday along with SSP Abhishek Yadav and other officials, and reviewed the security arrangements.Sabharwal said that senior officials have been deputed in Muzaffarnagar and in the neighbouring districts of Shamli, Baghpat, Meerut and Saharanpur to monitor security arrangements. “Participants in the Mahapanchayat will also arrive from neighbouring states and pass through these districts to reach the venue. Therefore, senior officials have also been deputed in these districts to keep a close watch on security arrangements,” said the ADG.Additional companies of the PAC and RRF have also been deployed in these districts to assist the local police. As women from Haryana, Punjab and different districts of western UP are also likely to join the Mahapanchayat, additional women personnel led by an SP level woman officer will be deployed in Muzaffarnagar and adjoining districts. ADG Sabharwal expects a crowd of around 50,000.More than 200 CCTV cameras and drones will also be set up to keep a watch on the venue of Mahapanchayat and on its route through the neighbouring districts.Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Naresh Tikait, his son Gaurav Tikait and other officials of BKU were convening panchayats and meetings with different khaps, their Thambedars and villagers to ensure a maximum turnout of people at the Mahapanchayat.Tikait also visited the ground of Government Inter College on Wednesday along with BKU’s media in-charge Dharmendra Malik and other leaders and reviewed preparations for the Mahapanchayat.Expressing satisfaction over security arrangements, Tikait said that a heavy downpour in the district halted preparations for some time but they have resumed now. He said that officials are also cooperating. Tikait reiterated that a huge crowd will turn up for the Mahapanchayat and anticipated, “it will be a historic Mahapanchayat”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/muzaffarnagar-farmers-mahapanchayat-pac-rrf-tech-to-boost-up-police-presence-at-venue-region-101630696342037.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||1984 riots: SC refuses to grant interim bail to ex-MP Sajjan Kumar||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to grant interim bail sought on health grounds to former Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, who is serving life imprisonment in an 1984 anti-Sikh riots case, saying as per the medical records his condition is stable and improving.The apex court, which dealt with the submission advanced by Kumar’s counsel that the former MP be allowed to undergo treatment at a private hospital at his own cost, observed that he cannot be treated as a “super VIP patient”.“You are feeling he is the only patient in the country to be examined. He is one of the patients,” a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh told the counsel representing Kumar.Observing that Kumar was accused of “heinous crime”, the bench further said: “You want him to be treated as some kind of a super VIP patient. That is what is happening.” At the outset, Kumar’s counsel referred to the medical records and said he was examined by the doctors at a government hospital here and the report says his condition has improved and he needed few more days of hospital care.The counsel said the doctors have not given any conclusion about the diagnosis of the problem and Kumar has lost about 18kg weight. He said 75-year-old Kumar was earlier treated by a doctor at a private hospital and he could be treated there, even being in custody, at his own cost.“No. Sorry. He is being looked after here,” the bench said.When his counsel argued that he was only making a request considering that the man should not die, the bench observed, “You are making a very large statement. Who can guarantee that except the Almighty.” The bench observed that a picture was portrayed before it that something is very wrong but as per the medical reports, these are age related ailments.“Merely because he has been, in his time, some high-profile person, does not entitle him to keep coming every time to the court on these issues,” the bench observed.The top court noted in its order that the medical report says that Kumar was examined and a medical board was also constituted. It noted that as per the report, “his condition is stated to be stable and improving but he needs some more day of hospital care.” On August 24, the top court had directed the CBI to verify the medical condition of Kumar and file an affidavit.In September last year, the apex court had dismissed Kumar’s plea seeking interim bail on health grounds.Kumar is serving life imprisonment after the Delhi high court convicted him and others in the case on December 17, 2018.The high court had reversed the acquittal of Kumar by the trial court in 2013 in the case related to killings of five Sikhs in the Raj Nagar Part-I area in Palam Colony in southwest Delhi on November 1-2, 1984, and burning down of a gurdwara in Raj Nagar Part-II.The riots had broken out after the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984 by her two Sikh bodyguards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1984-riots-sc-refuses-to-grant-interim-bail-to-ex-mp-sajjan-kumar-101630696282579.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||5.1 million fewer Covid vaccine doses given to women compared to men in Maharashtra||While Maharashtra has crossed the 60-million mark in administering Covid-19 vaccine doses, at least 5.1 million fewer doses have been administered to women. The gender disparity in vaccination stands at nearly 3% when compared with the estimated population of the state. As of September 2, Maharashtra had administered over 32 million vaccine doses to men and a little over 27 million vaccine doses to women. Of the state’s estimated 66 million male population, nearly 49% have received at least one dose while among the estimated 60 million females, around 46% have received at least one dose. State health officials attribute fewer jabs among women to the skewed sex ratio. However, public health experts say that it’s an invalid argument. “In absolute numbers, a 3% gender gap means a lot for a densely populated state like Maharashtra,” said Soumitra Ghosh, associate professor at Centre for Health Policy, Planning and Management, Tata Institute of Social Sciences. “More importantly, when we look at the combined statistics of the state, it masks the greater gender disparities at district-level or block-level. Certain districts and blocks will have a wider gender gap in vaccinations compared to others. There will also be gender gaps in rural and urban population,” he said. Mumbai, which crossed the 10-million mark in vaccinations on Friday as per Co-WIN data, has administered 5.6 million doses to men and 4.3 million to women. In absolute numbers, 1.3 million fewer doses have been administered to women in the city. Similar gaps exist in other districts too. In Ahmednagar, which is now recording among the highest daily Covid-19 cases in the state, 185,000 fewer doses have been administered to women. Beed district in the drought-ridden Marathwada region has administered 88,500 fewer doses to women compared to men. “The disparities are likely to be more evident when data is studied at a micro-level,” said Ghosh, adding that the state government must conduct microanalysis as it will have policy implications. According to a research article published in the Observer Research Foundation, the gender gap in vaccinations cannot be attributed to a skewed sex ratio alone. “It has several underlying gender inequality-related issues contributing to it. Longstanding structural problems in healthcare and the gendered nature of healthcare access have resulted in families being less likely to prioritise health and welfare of women over men.” Dr AL Sharada, director of non-profit organisation Population First, agreed. “The dynamics in many families is such that men would be given a preference or may be more willing to take the vaccine as they have to step out for work, while women may be at home. This also applies when access to free vaccines is difficult and one has to pay for the jab,” she said. Post-jab side effects also play a role in delay in vaccinations among women. Household work takes a hit if the homemaker or woman in the family falls ill, and this fear often leads to women postponing their vaccination. Misconceptions about pregnancy-related complications, irregular menstrual cycles, hair fall have also led to hesitancy. Experts said gender-sensitive policies that involve targeted efforts to get women to vaccination centres can help bridge the gap. “Organising special vaccination drives for women and leveraging the private sector through subsidies and CSR initiatives for women should be considered by the state,” said Ghosh. Director of state health services Dr Archana Patil and state immunisation officer Dr Dilip Patil remained unavailable for comment despite multiple attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/51-million-fewer-covid-vaccine-doses-given-to-women-compared-to-men-in-maharashtra-101630696281337.html
04-09-2021||Other||Woman succumbs to burn injuries in Rohtak||A 32-year-old woman, who was allegedly burnt by her husband, succumbed while undergoing treatment at Rohtak’s Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) late on Thursday.The deceased was identified as Pinki, who got married to Dharamjeet, of Sisar Khas village in Rohtak, 12 years ago.In her complaint to police, Pinki had said that her husband poured diesel on her and set her ablaze on Thursday morning.“My husband and his family were harassing me and mounting pressure on me to bring money,” she had said, before succumbing to the burn injuries.Meham police station sub-inspector Nafe Singh said the woman was admitted at a government hospital in Meham after her husband set her ablaze.“The doctors there referred her to PGIMS, Rohtak after seeing the seriousness of her burn injuries. She succumbed to death in PGIMS. Doctors said she had 100% burn injuries. We have booked the woman’s husband Dharmjeet, his brother, their mother and maternal uncle under Sections 302 (murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance with common intention), 326-A (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by use of acid, etc) and 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” the SI added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-succumbs-to-burn-injuries-in-rohtak-101630696107035.html
04-09-2021||Lucknow||Ram temple construction: Carving of stones resumes as Raj sculptors arrive in Ayodhya||With the arrival of eight sculptors from Rajasthan, carving of stones for Ram Mandir has begun in Ayodhya once again. Chiselling of stones resumed at the workshop at Ram Ghat amid full Vedic rituals on Thursday after eight years. This workshop was shut down during the Samajwadi Party regime in Uttar Pradesh in 2013. It was reopened in 2017 when the BJP came to power in the state. However, carving of stones could not be carried out due to lack of sculptors. “Carving of stones has begun after eight sculptors reached Ayodhya from Rajasthan,” said Champat Rai, general secretary, Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. The ongoing foundation work of Ram Mandir is about to complete by the end of September. Thereafter, construction of the second phase of the temple will start. Around four lakh cubic feet stones have to be carved for Ram Mandir. At present, only 50,000 cubic feet stones have been carved. According to Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, about 65 per cent work related with carving of stones has to be completed. Ashish Sompura, architect of the temple, said a large number of sculptors will arrive from Rajasthan and other places in November to expedite the carving work. By then, stones from Bansi Pahadpur in Rajasthan will also arrive in Ayodhya. The famous stand stones from Rajasthan are being used for the construction of Ram Mandir. During the ongoing filling process, around 44 layers of 300 mm each have been laid. Each layer has been compressed with simple and vibrating rollers. In the ongoing filling work of the temple’s foundation, 1.25 lakh cubic metre dug-up ground will be completed by the end of September. The Tata Consulting Engineers is working as a project management consultant and is assisting Larsen & Toubro in the construction work. According to Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, Larsen & Toubro has appointed Balaji Construction Company of Rajasthan as its assisting partner to complete the foundation work at the earliest. The temple’s foundation will be 107 feet above the sea level and is being made of layers of stones. For filling the temple’s foundation, crushed stone of Banda, coarse sand, fly ash and asbestos are being used. Workshop to be set up in Rajasthan too The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust is also likely to start carving of stones in Rajasthan where a workshop will be established. This workshop is likely to come up in Bansi Pahadpur region where famous stones mines are located. As stones are yet to arrive from Rajasthan, stones kept at the workshop in Ayodhya will be carved till then. It will take two months to carve these stones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ram-temple-construction-carving-of-stones-resumes-as-raj-sculptors-arrive-in-ayodhya-101630696104297.html
04-09-2021||Other||Jind BJP MLA in a soup for comparing admn officials with terrorists||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Jind, Krishan Midha, landed in a controversy on Friday for comparing local administrative officials with terrorists; and praised the latter for “at least taking responsibility for the attacks”.After seeing the poor condition of roads and sewage in Jind, the local MLA told the media that the administrative officials have failed to fulfil their duties and all roads and sewage are in a poor state.“Terrorists are much better than Jind’s administrative officers. At least they take responsibility after carrying out attacks. The officers here have no concern regarding constructing roads which are damaged in the entire city and people are suffering. I had complained the same to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. I am ashamed that I am the local MLA. The officials here are delaying developmental projects,” he added.The BJP MLA said a Vidhan Sabha committee had also visited the city and submitted its report to speaker Gian Chand Gupta.“The report submitted by the committee also found negligence on part of the officials. The report pointed out that the developmental projects are delayed due to officers’ lackadaisical approach,” he said.“I hope the speaker and the chief minister will take strict action against these officials,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jind-bjp-mla-in-a-soup-for-comparing-admn-officials-with-terrorists-101630695860586.html
04-09-2021||Other||INLD leaders gear up for Jind rally||The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leaders have geared up to make their Jind rally on September 25, to mark the birth anniversary of late Devi Lal, a success.After completing his jail term in the junior basic teachers’ (JBT) recruitment scam and releasing from Tihar jail, party’s patriarch and former chief minister OP Chautala has been leading from the front and on a state-wide tour from September 1 to invite party workers and people to visit Jind to mark the birth anniversary of his father Devi Lal.The 87-year-old INLD supremo and his younger son Abhay Chautala are leaving no stone unturned to make the Jind rally a success as the gathering at this rally will be considered as a show of strength.Chautala has been on a state-wide tour from September 1 and has been conducting meetings of workers from two districts every day.On the other hand, INLD’s splinter group Jannayak Janata party has announced plans to install a statue of Devi Lal on his birth anniversary in Nuh but they are yet to take a call on whether to hold a rally or not.The INLD chief had met Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, JD(U) senior leader KC Tyagi, former prime minister HD Devegowda and former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and invited them to attend Devi Lal’s anniversary rally.Two senior JJP leaders, pleading anonymity, said they have not received any direction from deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and party chief Ajay Chautala regarding a rally on Devi Lal’s anniversary.“The party is planning to install its ideologue Devi Lal’s statue and hold programmes while adhering to Covid-19 guidelines,” they added.The fissures in Haryana’s oldest and then principal Opposition party INLD came out in 2018 during ‘Samman Divas’ rally at Sonepat’s Gohana on October 7, when supporters of the then Hisar MP Dushyant Chautala hooted his uncle Abhay Singh Chautala and did not allow him to complete his speech in the presence of party president OP Chautala.The INLD has decided to hold a rally in its old bastion Jind, which is the epicentre of farmers’ agitation where farmers have huge anger against deputy CM Dushyant Chautala.INLD state president Nafe Singh Rathee said the Jind rally will be historic and many Opposition leaders from other states will share the dais with Chautala.“Our party has picked pace after the release of Chautala. We are receiving rousing responses in district-level meetings and large numbers of people from every corner of the state will come to listen to him and pay tribute to Devi Lal on September 25,” he added.Retired political science professor Anant Ram said the JJP and INLD are still fighting for Devi Lal’s legacy.“The INLD has received strength after the release of OP Chautala and JJP’s graph has reached a low due to the farmers’ protest. This is the best time for INLD to strengthen its cadre and bring its old workers into the party fold who had switched over to JJP after the vertical split,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/inld-leaders-gear-up-for-jind-rally-101630695680867.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Free education to poor in model sanskriti schools of Haryana||The Haryana government on Friday decided to give free education to the children of poor families, who have been verified under the Parivar Pehchan Patra, in Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary Schools (MSSSS) in state.The decision was taken during a review meeting of these schools held under the chairmanship of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. State education minister Kanwar Pal was also present in the meeting.The CM said there is a growing demand to increase the number of such schools.In his budget speech, the CM had announced to open the Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School as well as primary schools in each block to provide education at par with private schools.At present, there are 137 Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School and 1,418 Model Sanskriti Primary Schools in state. The number of children have increased by 28% in these senior secondary schools and 17% in primary schools.J Ganesan, director (elementary education) and special secretary (school education), said test will be held to recruit teachers for these schools.11% hike in honorarium of guest teachersMeanwhile, Pal said the state government has decided to increase the monthly honorarium of guest teachers by 11%. He said that the hike will be applicable from July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-education-to-poor-in-model-sanskriti-schools-of-haryana-101630695620655.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC directs ED to reply to Sanjeev Palande’s plea for quashing ECIR||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to respond to the petition filed by Sanjeev Palande, personal secretary of former home minister Anil Deshmukh, for quashing of the enforcement case registered against him.Palande contended that the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) under which he was arrested on June 26 were violative of his rights guaranteed by the Constitution and were ultra vires, hence should be quashed and set aside. Palande, who was arrested by the ED in connection with the first information report (FIR) filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in its probe in corruption charges against Deshmukh, has claimed that the enforcement case information report (ECIR) was based solely on the statement of former Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, who was dismissed from service after his involvement in the Antilia bomb scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases came to light, and hence could not be relied upon. When Palande’s petition came up for hearing before the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, additional solicitor general Anil Singh for ED sought time to file reply to the petition as it challenged the constitutional validity of various section of PMLA. In his petition, Palande said he was appointed as Deshmukh’s personal secretary in 2020 and had been coordinating various activities of the then home minister with other departments and home department as well as scheduling meetings for him. Referring to the meeting at the home minister’s official residence wherein the issue of action being taken against hookah parlours and dance bars was allegedly discussed, the petition stated that the same was done as the home minister was expected to respond to a question in the Legislative assembly on the subject. The petition stated that after Vaze was arrested and former Mumbai Police Param Bir Singh filed a public interest litigation in the HC on March 24, CBI filed a first information report (FIR) on April 21. The petition states that on June 25, ED prepared an ECIR and conducted raids at the residence of Deshmukh at Nagpur and Mumbai and thereafter searched the houses of Palande as well as Kundan Shinde, personal assistant of Deshmukh, on the same day. Palande said he was issued summons under section 50 of PMLA and asked to accompany ED officers to their offices, which he complied to. The petition stated that he was interrogated for a long time and asked to make self-incriminating statements, and that he was arrested when he refused to do the same. Palande claimed he was only shown the ECIR and was informed of the grounds of arrest but was not given a copy of the same. The petition pointed out that as the PMLA sections invoked in the case were arbitrary and violative of the rights of an individual, the same were ultra vires of article 21 of the Constitution, and hence should be quashed and set aside. The petition also claimed that the practice of not providing ECIR was arbitrary and hence the same should be quashed.The court has allowed ED to file a response within two weeks and posted next hearing to September 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-directs-ed-to-reply-to-sanjeev-palande-s-plea-for-quashing-ecir-101630695560818.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal violence: HC seeks response from Haryana govt||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought the Haryana government’s response on a plea seeking judicial enquiry into Karnal’s lathi-charge incident of August 28. The plea was filed by Munish Lather and five others, who have stated that scores of farmers, including the petitioners, got injured in the police lathi-charge effected on instructions of the then Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha and other district administration officials, committed in violation of fundamental rights of the petitioners. Lawyers associated with the matter said state’s advocate general BR Mahajan, who appeared in the matter, has been asked to file an affidavit. However, a detailed order is awaited from the bench presided over by chief justice RS Jha. The plea also demands to look into role of the the SDM, DSP Virender Saini, and inspector Harjinder Singh, among others. “Members of civil administration as well as police administration in Karnal had acted illegally and brutally and dealt with unarmed peaceful agitators with undue force and brutality which has seriously jeopardised the fundamental rights of citizens, who have a right to demonstrate,” it was argued. The plea also alleges that the injured farmers were not provided medical aid immediately and that some of the injured were even threatened with not getting their X-ray examination done. One of the injured farmers had suffered a heart attack and subsequently died as per the plea. The plea also demands compensation to all the injured and directions to the Punjab and Haryana governments to not use bamboo sticks and opt for less lethal options.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnal-violence-hc-seeks-response-from-haryana-govt-101630695441062.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||IAS vs IPS: Vij, Haryana chief secy object to move to appoint IPS officer as transport secretary||The Haryana government’s move to appoint non-cadre officers to the cadre posts designated for Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers is set to create a fresh storm with state home minister Anil Vij and chief secretary Vijai Vardhan raising objections on such appointments.The central government had sought the comments of the Haryana government on the issue as nine Indian Police Service (IPS), Indian Forests Service (IFS) and Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officers were appointed to the cadre posts of IAS by the state government.The recent controversy comes in the backdrop of appointment of IPS officer Shatrujeet Kapoor as director general, state vigilance bureau on Thursday. The IPS officer, who was also holding the post of principal secretary, transport was relieved of the charge of transport department and the post had fallen vacant.Even as the home department proposed the name of another IPS officer, Kala Ramachandran, for appointment as principal secretary, transport , Vij insisted that prior approval from the Centre should be obtained before appointing her to a cadre post of IAS.While chief principal secretary to chief minister (CPSCM), DS Dhesi, okayed the proposal to appoint Ramachandran as principal secretary (transport) without taking approval from Centre, chief secretary Vijai Vardhan is learnt to have strongly objected to the move citing IAS Cadre Rules.Vardhan is also learnt to have communicated that if the appointment of nine non-cadre officers (IPS, IFS and IRS) to the cadre posts of IAS has to continue, then the state government should seek mandatory approval of the central government or replace them with IAS officers.Vij also held his ground stating that the IPS officers should not be relieved from the police department and posted to a cadre post of IAS officers till the department of personnel and training (DoPT) of central government grants approval in this regard.Rule 9(2)(c) of the IAS Cadre Rules state that if a select list is not in force and it is proposed to appoint a non-select list officer, the state government shall forthwith make a proposal to that effect to the central government together with the reasons thereof and the appointment shall be made only with the prior approval of the central government.The rules also state that a cadre post in a state shall not be filled by a person who is not a cadre officer except if there is no suitable cadre officer available for filling the vacancy.Also, if it is proposed to continue the person who is not a cadre officer beyond a period of three months, the state government shall obtain the prior approval of the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ias-vs-ips-vij-haryana-chief-secy-object-to-move-to-appoint-ips-officer-as-transport-secretary-101630695381339.html
04-09-2021||Noida||Always dreamt of making parents proud, says silver medallist Praveen Kumar||Noida: When Gautam Budh Nagar resident Praveen Kumar, 18, clinched a silver medal in Men’s high jump (T-64 category) at the Tokyo Paralympics on Friday morning, his mother Nirdosh -- back home in Jewar’s Govindgarh village -- burst into tears of joy, as she could not believe her “little boy” achieved what he had always dreamt of.Soon, neighbours, relatives and mediapersons made a beeline in front of their house, with Praveen’s father Amarpal Singh distributing sweets among everyone.“Praveen’s mother could not stop crying after she got to know that our son has won a silver medal. I am very proud of my son, and the medal truly makes up for all the hardship he has faced through his life,” said Singh, a farmer by profession.Praveen, who made his debut at the Paralympics this year, has set a new Asian record with a jump of 2.07m at the game. Speaking to HT over the phone from Tokyo, right outside the stadium, the ‘silver boy’ said that he had “expected to win a bronze medal... never a silver”. “Initially, I was a little nervous after my first attempt. On the second attempt, I figured out that I will definitely win a bronze and will not go empty-handed. However, by the third attempt, I gathered every ounce of energy within me and gave my best shot, which won me a silver,” said the 18-year-old champion.On Friday afternoon, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath congratulated his parents over calls.Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh visited Praveen’s house to congratulate his parents. “Praveen has made Jewar proud with this achievement. We were sure that he would win a medal for the country. I thanked his parents for giving us a sporting gem and we will organise a grand felicitation event for him. The Uttar Pradesh chief minister wanted to congratulate his parents personally, hence I made them talk to him over the phone.”“I am thankful to Praveen’s coach Satyapal who showed him the way to success. He worked very hard to train him, and we got the results today,” said Praveen’s father, adding that his son suffers from a congenital impairment which has rendered his left leg shorter and weaker than the other.For the past three years, Praveen has been training at the Jawahar Lal Nehru (JLN) stadium in Delhi. In April 2021, he had tested Covid-19 positive, which put a pause to his training, but he says that he managed to recover from it. “When I was in Class 12, I moved to Delhi for my training. During this time, my school supported me a lot by helping me with missed classes and I managed to clear my boards. Then, I got admission in Moti Lal Nehru College in Delhi University,” Praveen said.Talking about his journey, Praveen said that he was good at volleyball in school, before he started training for high jump in 2018. “I did not know about para-sports until 2018, after which I took part in a district-level game from where I contacted my coach, Satyapal Sir. It is because of his efforts that I managed to win a silver medal for India, with just three years of experience in professional high jumping. I always dreamt of making my parents and my village proud, and today it seems that I have achieved that,” he added.Sheetal, a teacher at Greater Noida’s Pragyan Public School said that the school is proud of their alumnus’ achievement. “Praveen is a 2019 pass out from our school and he has always been good at sports. The teachers at our school always supported him with the games,” she said, adding that they, too, will hold a felicitation event for him.The contingent’s deputy Chef de Mission, Arhan Bagati, said that Praveen is one of the youngest Indians to win a medal at the Paralympics. “Praveen’s performance has been outstanding today, but this is not his peak as he is just 18 years old. He will achieve much more in coming days, and we are sure that he will be make and break more world records in the coming years.”Earlier, Praveen won a silver medal in the 2019 World Para Athletics Junior Championships in Switzerland. He has also won the 2021 Para Athletics Grand Prix in Dubai in February. According to Praveen, he now focuses on the 2022 Asian Para Games and aims to make the country proud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/always-dreamt-of-making-parents-proud-says-silver-medallist-praveen-kumar-101630695323009.html
04-09-2021||Noida||13 mobile phones stolen during AAP’s Tiranga Yatra in Noida, one man arrested||Police on Thursday said they arrested a man handed to them by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers who alleged he had stolen 13 mobile phones from them during their Tiranga Yatra on Wednesday in Noida.Police identified the man by a single name as 25-year-old Firoz from Delhi’s Shahdara.The complainant, Uttar Pradesh AAP secretary Ashok Commando who is a resident of Greater Noida Sector Alpha – 1, said that the Yatra, held in preparation for next year’s assembly elections, was from Noida Stadium to Sector 37. During the march, their workers lost their phones.Sanjeev Nigam, Noida AAP spokesperson and district general secretary of the party, said around 1000 people participated in the Yatra. “Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh had attended the programme. Some miscreants took advantage of the gathering and stole mobile phones of several people,” he said. Sector 39 sub-inspector Rajeev Kumar said the AAP workers had caught the suspect and assaulted him before handing him to the police. “We questioned him but did not find any mobile phone on him. The AAP workers claimed the suspect had stolen the phones and passed them on to other suspects who fled the spot. A case was registered against the suspect under section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. He was produced in the court and sent to judicial custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/13-mobile-phones-stolen-during-aap-s-tiranga-yatra-in-noida-one-man-arrested-101630695262009.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Jumbo Covid centres in Mumbai to have lounge for mothers of positive children||All six jumbo Covid centres in Mumbai will have a waiting room — mother lounge — for mothers of children who test positive for Covid-19. The non-infected mothers will be allowed to visit their children after wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for their safety. The move comes after it was observed during the second Covid wave that the infection rate among children increased by almost 50% and these infected children had to stay in isolated wards, away from their families for their treatment. This often affects their mental health, causing anxiety and sadness.In this backdrop, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has instructed all the jumbo Covid centres — Dahisar jumbo centre, Kandarpada jumbo centre in Dahisar, Nesco jumbo centre at Goregaon, Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo centre, NSCI Worli jumbo centre and Mulund jumbo centre — to make space for non-infected mothers in the form of a waiting room. “We know that a mother’s touch is essential for children. When Covid-infected children undergo treatment in isolation wards, they become sad and scared. We have, therefore, created a space in our jumbo facility called mother lounge where these mothers can wait in an area with proper facilities like drinking water until their children get discharged,” said Dr Pradeep Angre, dean of Mulund jumbo centre. The mothers will also be allowed to visit their children in the ward with PPE kits. “We will take all precautionary measures so that non-infected mothers do not contract the infection from their children,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, who was the brain behind the new provision. Jumbo centres at BKC, Dahisar and Mulund have already started working on it. If this becomes successful in getting infected children comfortable, then the same will be replicated in major civic-run hospitals as well. “If hospitals have space for the lounge, they can do it. There are no restrictions on it. We have seen that when a patient gets to talk and see their family members, they become happier, which also contributes to their faster recovery,” said Kakani. Mumbai has recorded 745,012 Covid cases as of September 2, of which 3,418 are currently active, according to BMC’s dashboard. Of the total cases, 34,539 infections were seen among children and adolescents of whom 13,473 were aged below nine years and 34,539 were aged between 10 and 18. In the second wave, city psychiatrists received a large number of recovered Covid-19 young patients who had to get hospitalised for treatment. They visited psychiatrists with complaints of anxiety, fear and nightmares. “A child already becomes anxious when he/she contracts Covid-19. In addition to this, when they see healthcare staffers in PPE, they become more fearful. They have to stay alone in isolation wards which affects their mental health. Even after getting discharged, they are scared of staying away from their parents. Many suffer from separation anxiety from parents,” said Dr Nirmala Rao, founder of Aavishkar Clinic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jumbo-covid-centres-in-mumbai-to-have-lounge-for-mothers-of-positive-children-101630695260922.html
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||One-time settlement offer for HSIIDC allottees||The board of directors of the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) has approved a one-time settlement scheme for clearing the dues towards plot cost, enhanced cost, maintenance charges and extension fees by the allottees of plots.HSIIDC managing director Anurag Aggarwal said the scheme will benefit nearly 300 industrialists.The scheme aimed at allowing the existing allottees of industrial, residential, group housing, institutional and commercial housing plots to clear the entire default amount on account of plot cost, enhanced cost and maintenance charges in one go on or before September 30.Aggarwal said 25% waiver of overdue interest and 100% waiver of penal interest will be given to such allottees.The decision in this regard was approved by the board of directors of the HSIIDC in a meeting under the chairmanship of V Umashankar, principal secretary to the chief minister.It was also decided that the scheme will be applicable for allottees of the HSIIDC, industrial estates transferred from Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and industries department, subject to modification that cut-off date for charging interest/delayed interest will be June 30, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/onetime-settlement-offer-for-hsiidc-allottees-101630695201841.html
04-09-2021||Noida||Trans-Hindon localities identified among high-risk for vector-borne diseases||The Ghaziabad health department identified Indirapuram, Vasundhara, Vaishali and parts of Sahibabad as among areas susceptible to dengue, while six other areas were identified as high-risk for malaria. To curtail the spread of the diseases, the department has asked Covid surveillance teams to join in the effort.The department said that they mapped the areas through special surveillance for the mosquito-borne diseases. In 2016, the district recorded 621 cases of dengue, according to official records , that gradually declined over the years to just five till date in 2021. Likewise, there were 128 cases of malaria in 2016 that increased to 293 in 2017 and have been on the decline since with this year recording six cases till date. The monsoon months, from June to September, are particularly favourable for mosquito breeding. “Localities of Indirapuram, Vaishali and those close to river Hindon and the Yamuna have been identified as high-risk for vector-borne diseases,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. “Parts of Muradnagar, Loni and even area close to ponds have also been identified as high-risk for malaria. For special surveillance, we have roped in teams from the Covid testing to help in testing for the vector-borne diseases. We are also taking help of other departments as well.” The localities identified as high-risk for dengue include parts of Indirapuram, Vasundhara, Nehru Nagar, Vaishali, Khoda, Rajendra Nagar, Pratap Vihar, Nandgram, Karhera, Arthla, Akbarpur-Behrampur and Sudamapuri while those identified as high-risk for malaria, include mostly the rural blocks in in Loni, Bhojpur and Muradnagar, said officials. The officials said that the localities have been identified after analysing data from these regions over the last five years. Experts say that heavy waterlogging, especially in low-lying areas this monsoon season may result in spread of vector-borne diseases. Heavy waterlogging was reported from Indirapuram, Vaishali, Sahibabad, Patel Nagar, Govindpuram, Gandhi Nagar and delta colonies like Brij Vihar, among others, over the last few days. “In severe cases, these diseases may result in multi-organ failure. There has been incessant waterlogging in different parts of the city, and this may lead to spread of vector-borne diseases. So, it is vital that all preventive measures be taken up by the health department and even by residents,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). “Apart from vector-borne diseases, we also have many cases of viral fever.” The health department officials said that they have been able to bring down cases of dengue and malaria with rigorous efforts over the years. “This has been possible due to special drives that we take up every three months. Early detection and tracking help in controlling the spread. Further, under Covid-19, the weekend closure of markets also helped as we could deploy massive sanitisation measures at public places,” said GK Mishra, district malaria officer. He added that the district is not affected by kala-azar, filarial and Japanese encephalitis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/transhindon-localities-identified-among-high-risk-for-vector-borne-diseases-101630695141795.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Centre busy looting citizens; inflation could spark anger against Modi govt: Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana slammed the Centre on Friday over the rising prices of cooking gas and fuel and said that the government is busy “looting” the poor and middle-class population. The editorial pointed out that Centre has earned ₹23 lakh crore through cooking gas, and ₹1.12 lakh crore through GST (Goods and Services Tax) in August alone, but there is no respite from price hikes for the common citizens. The Sena mouthpiece warned that the continuous hike in prices could spark anger against the Narendra Modi government.The Sena also lauded former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who on Wednesday, launched an attack on the Centre over inflation and the repeated increase in fuel prices by asserting that “GDP growth” for the government meant “increase in Gas, Diesel and Petrol prices”. “The Modi government says the wheels of economy have accelerated. However, the economic cycle for the poor and middle-class people has slowed down. Several public sector units (PSUs) have been divested to raise money in the government’s coffers. Insurance companies and banks are being sold to private players. The government is running away from its responsibilities,” the editorial said.It also warned the Centre and said that the rising inflation could “spark an explosion of people’s patience”. “Inflation is on the rise, and if this continues, how long will it take for the spark of people’s anger to cause an explosion [against the government],” the editorial stated, adding, “The government is busy looting everybody now, but the entire country is coming together against this loot. Rahul Gandhi said the government has made the survival of the poor and middle-class impossible.”Taking on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government, the mouthpiece said when the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government left office in 2014, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) was priced at ₹410 per cylinder, while today it reached ₹885 per cylinder, which is a 116 % increase. It added that petrol was available for ₹71.51 per litre but is now ₹101.34 per litre, which is a 42% increase, while diesel was priced at ₹57.28 a litre but now it has increased by 55% and costs ₹88.77. “Ten year ago, BJP’s Hema Malini, Smriti Irani, Meenakshi Lekhi and other women leaders had protested against inflation, wherein they took to the streets with empty LPG cylinders. Now when crores of women are facing inflation, where are these aggressive women leaders of BJP?” it the editorial questioned.Maharashtra BJP spokespersons said they do not comment on Saamana editorials as a part of their party’s policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-busy-looting-citizens-inflation-could-spark-anger-against-modi-govt-shiv-sena-101630695085628.html
04-09-2021||Noida||Three burglars arrested with stolen valuables in Noida||Police on Friday said they arrested three persons with stolen valuables in Noida. Police identified them by single names as Noida Sector 5 Harola village residents Rajendra (24) and Shadab (23), and 22-year-old Sector 15 resident Rashid.They were arrested in connection with a complaint filed by Noida Sector 19 resident Sumot Kamra on September 1. He alleged that at 4am, three suspects had entered his home when the family was asleep.“We heard some noise and woke up. When they noticed that we had woken up, three burglars fled with two laptop bags,” he said. A case was registered under section 380 (burglary) of the Indian Penal Code. Sector 20 police station house officer (SHO) Munish Chauhan said they got a tip that the suspects would be near Sector 3. “A team reached the spot and apprehended them. We recovered two laptops, one iron press and one knife from them.” The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-burglars-arrested-with-stolen-valuables-in-noida-101630695083958.html
04-09-2021||Other||AU dissolves cultural panel, new one to be set up||Within days of first organising and then being forced to cancel a poetic symposium on the AU campus, the central university’s cultural committee has been dissolved on the orders of the vice-chancellor Prof Sangita Srivastava. The dissolution of the committee came through a notification issued by AU registrar Prof NK Shukla. The symposium, which was scheduled to be held on August 13, had courted controversy when it emerged that some poets invited to it, had also been part of the anti-CAA protest at Shaheen Bagh in New Delhi.An all-India Mushaira and Kavi Sammelan had been planned on the campus of AU on August 13 under the joint aegis of Uttar Pradesh Urdu Academy and Central Cultural Committee of AU and department of Urdu, AU. Prof Shabnam Hamid, head of the Urdu department and Prof Santosh Bhadauria, chairman of the Central Cultural Committee of AU were active in preparations for the event. However, the Mushaira was cancelled at the last moment despite the fact that almost all the invited poets had arrived, besides many guests. The cancellation had reportedly come after divisional commissioner Sanjay Goyal, who had earlier given his approval to attend the symposium as the chief guest and AU V-C, who was to preside over the function, backed out at the last moment.Although the university authorities were tight-lipped about the reason for the event’s cancellation, citing “unavoidable circumstances, many officials had confirmed that it was because of the names of some Urdu poets who were among the invitees, as they had raised their voice against CAA at the Shaheen Bagh protests in New Delhi. When this issue went viral on social media, the two had backed out from attending the event and it was cancelled. AU’s central cultural committee, which was constituted in December 2020, has been dissolved with immediate effect, confirmed university officials. On the reason for the committee being dissolved within just eight months of it being set up, AU public relations officer (PRO), Jaya Kapoor, said, “The AU administration has decided that there is a need for a new cultural committee, and hence, the existing committee has been dissolved so that a new committee can take over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/au-dissolves-cultural-panel-new-one-to-be-set-up-101630695082982.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid cases stable but Mumbai sees surge||While new Covid-19 new cases in Maharashtra continue to be stable in the 4,000-plus level, Mumbai is seeing a rise as cases are now above 400. Maharashtra recorded 4,313 new cases on Friday including 423 cases in Mumbai. The total case tally in the state stands at 6,477,987.Mumbai had been recording less than 400 new cases daily till August 29.The state government is worried due to forthcoming Ganpati festival as there are indications that the numbers may surge during the festive season.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management, blamed citizens for this impasse. “People have started moving out and are taking things casually. We see people not wearing masks and even those wearing are not wearing them properly. Social distancing has now gone for a toss,” said Dr Salunkhe. He said there will be a surge in cases in the coming festivals. “The next few months are festive seasons and there is bound to be congregations of people. This is going to be counterproductive and we may witness a surge again” he added. Union health ministry has advised the state to impose curbs to prevent any spiralling of numbers during the festivities, and warned that all the gains made till date may be nullified if the situation is not handled properly. Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary general of Organised Medicine Academic Guild, also concurred with Dr Salunkhe, and said the government should crack down on such activities. “We are seeing more cases and increased hospitalisations. On one hand the government talks about restricting Ganpati festival and on the other hand, they are organising special buses for those going to Konkan region,” said Dr Gilada. The second wave of Covid-19 was worse than the first wave as it infected more people and caused more deaths. There are apprehensions that the third wave may turn out to be more severe, and hence all efforts are being made to stop this. Mumbai reported three deaths on Friday, pushing toll to 15,987. Total number of deaths in Maharashtra reached 137,643, of which Pune leads with 19,289 deaths followed by Mumbai with 15,987 and Thane with 11,319 deaths. On Friday, 160,481 tests were done while the number of recoveries clocked 4,360.There are currently 50,466 active patients across the state. Pune tops with 14,973 patients followed by Thane with 7,103 and Satara with 6,007 patients.Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has given nod to drama theatres and auditoriums to open from November. The decision was taken during a meeting with theatre personalities representing their associations. The state government is expected to issue standard operating procedure (SOP) for the same in the next few weeks.“The CM has given nod for the opening of drama theatres and auditoriums from early November. The SOP will be issued at appropriate time. We expect the third wave, even if it hits in the next few weeks, will subside by then. Theatres have been shut for last 18 months and need some time for preparations and maintenance work before they open,” said cultural affairs minister Amit Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-cases-stable-but-mumbai-sees-surge-101630694962089.html
04-09-2021||Noida||UP chief secretary inspects integrated township||Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary RK Tiwari on Friday reviewed the integrated industrial township project in Greater Noida that will come up over 750 acres located around 40 km from the Noida international airport site in Jewar.The project is expected to lure international and domestic investors and a scheme will soon be launched for the purpose, said officials.Earlier, the land was meant to be used only for research and development (R&D) units, but the Integrated Industrial Township Greater Noida Limited (IITGL), an authority formed by the government to develop dedicated industrial townships, got the land use changed from ‘R&D’ to any kind of non-polluting industrial units. Greater Noida authority chief executive officer Narendra Bhooshan, who is looking after the project’s development, said, “We informed the chief secretary that one key feature of the township will be that waste will be collected, segregated via a dedicated pipe system and it will reach to the treatment facility set up inside the township. Treated waste water from this township will be recycled for irrigation and non-drinking purpose.”The chief secretary also visited hospitals in Gautam Budh Nagar to review preparations for a possible third wave of Covid 19, said officials.In 2017, the IITGL began allotting industrial plots in the township and only around 260 acres is yet to be alloted. Mumbai-based developer Shapoorji Pallonji is developing the township. While around half of the land was earmarked for industries, the rest was for residential and commercial purposes, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-chief-secretary-inspects-integrated-township-101630694902497.html
04-09-2021||Lucknow||UP govt forms panel to fill vacant posts of teachers in primary, upper primary schools||The Uttar Pradesh government has constituted a three-member committee to look into the recruitment process for filling up vacant posts of teachers in state-run primary and upper primary schools in a time-bound manner, officials said on Friday. The development comes after the state government completed the recruitment process of over 1.25 lakh teachers in its schools of the Basic Shiksha Parishad, they said.The committee is headed by chairman of Revenue Board and will include secretary, basic education and secretary, basic shiksha parishad as members. It will seek details of existing vacant posts in all government schools and also work for creation of new ones.The committee has been directed to submit its detailed report as early as possible. Based on the recommendation of the committee, the process of fresh recruitment will start.To note, chief minister Yogi Adityanath at a high-level meeting with senior officials on Friday inquired about the teaching and learning activities in the schools as physical classes have resumed after a gap of several months following the pandemic.Emphasising on the need to make proper use of talent of new teachers, he directed officials to ensure proper teacher-student ratio. In this regard, along with appointment of teachers on vacant posts in schools, new posts would also be created, the official said. The CM also said planned and continuous efforts were being made by the state government to improve the education in schools of Basic Shiksha Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-forms-panel-to-fill-vacant-posts-of-teachers-in-primary-upper-primary-schools-101630694843633.html
04-09-2021||Other||SIT probing Nilgiri Infracity fraud case||VARANASI: A Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Friday started investigation in a massive fraud case by directors of Nilgiri Infracity, said police commissioner A Satish Ganesh. . On Thursday, Ganesh had constituted the SIT comprising ADCP Varuna Prabal Pratap Singh, ACP Chetganj Nitesh Singh and station officers of Chetganj, Sigra and Jaitpura. Soon after that he held a meeting with the SIT members. Ganesh said that a total of 38 cases had been registered against the directors of Nilgiri Infracity at various police stations of Varanasi and Chandauli in the recent past, following complaints by victims of fraud. Three accused, including Nilgiri Infracity’s CMD Vikas Singh , MD Ritu Singh and manager Pradeep Yadav had already been arrested. Teams had been deployed to ensure arrest of five others named in the case. He said the SIT members had been instructed to collect details of properties owned by the accused and complete the probe fast. The police commissioner said that he had also written a letter to regional transport officer, asking him to provide details and documents of luxury vehicles owned by the directors. He said that the cases were registered after several people filed complaints alleging that Nilgiri Infracity’s directors committed a large scale fraud. The victims alleged that Nilgiri Infracity Company claimed to give plots in Varanasi and Chandauli at a much lower price than the market rate. In addition, it used to make people invest in gold by promising them good profits and tour packages. The commissioner said that a number of people from Bihar, Jharkhand, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh adjoining Purvanchal of UP had invested crores of rupees in the company, trusting these offers.. He said that the victims of alleged that the CMDs, MDs and directors of the company were initially very well-behaved with those who invested the money and then later used to end contact. When the investors asked for their money, officials of the company assaulted them by calling them to office. Moreover, the enforcement directorate may also start the probe in the case of fraud soon as the ED officials have asked for all the documents related to the matter. The police commissioner said the documents related to the case would be provided as per rule and all possible support would be given in the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sit-probing-nilgiri-infracity-fraud-case-101630694661693.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks Mumbai Police to reply to Delhi riot victim supporters’ plea against case||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the Mumbai Police to respond to a petition filed by 16 people who were booked for violating prohibitory orders of the police by assembling for a candlelight vigil at Dadar on February 26, 2020 in support of the victims of Delhi mass violence. The petition stated they were not aware of the prohibitory orders, and as no law and order situation was created by their assembly, the FIR should be quashed and set aside. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing the petition, was informed by advocate Anandini Fernanades for the petitioners that they had received a notice stating that a first information report (FIR) had been registered against them under sections 37 (1) (powers to prevent acts leading to disorder) and 135 (penalty for contravention of Section 37) of the Maharashtra Police Act (MPA). The petitioners said they appeared before the magistrate on March 3, 2020 for bail and on furnishing cash security of ₹7,000 and a personal bond, they were granted bail. The court was further informed that a charge sheet was also filed in the case, pursuant to which the petitioners moved the HC seeking quashing of the criminal proceedings. The petitioners stated the vigil was attended mainly by students, senior citizens and social activists who did not have any criminal antecedents. They claimed that upon inquiry, the police said the charges were imposed on them as they had failed to abide by the public announcement made by the police restraining people from assembling in groups. The petition further said the charge sheet in the case was filed for assembling without permission, whereas the offence was actually pertaining to violation of written order issued by the deputy commissioner of police (operations) which came under a different section of MPA, which was unwarranted. The petition further alleged the charge sheet was based on one witness statement by an assistant police inspector who said the prohibitory order was announced over mega phones on February 20, 2020 and stuck outside notice boards of police stations. However, the same was not corroborated with documents. It also alleged that though men and women had been part of the vigil, action was initiated only against the men. “There is no legal basis for this unilateral and discriminatory decision of the respondents,” stated the petition. In view of this, the petitioners sought quashing of the charge sheet and criminal proceedings on the grounds that no fruitful purpose will be served if the proceedings are allowed to continue. After hearing the submission, the bench directed the Mumbai Police to respond to the petition by September 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-mumbai-police-to-reply-to-delhi-riot-victim-supporters-plea-against-case-101630694660652.html
04-09-2021||Noida||Farmers protest outside Shiv Nadar University over land acquisition||Greater Noida: A group of farmers protested outside a private university in Dadri on Friday and asked the authorities to meet demands, including increased compensation for their land which was acquired for setting up of the university. The protesting farmers had parked their tractors outside the university from 11am to 4pm, blocking vehicular movement in that area.Sunil Fauji, a farmers’ leader, said that the Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDC) had acquired the land of Chithera and Duttawali villages for the development of the Shiv Nadar University (SNU). “They had promised jobs to the local youths, development of the villages, and 10% development plots. The land was acquired in 2007 but the promises have not been fulfilled.”“In 2013, after the farmers’ protest, the district administration had facilitated a meeting with the university management. They had agreed to provide increased compensation, free education to the farmers’ children, and job opportunities to the local people. The farmers only got the compensation, but the other demands were not met. We have decided to protest till all the demands are met,” Fauji added.Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer (SHO), Dadri police station, said, “A police team was deployed at the spot to maintain enforcement of law and order. The farmers protested peacefully, and it was called off in the evening... The farmers and university officials have decided to call a meeting on Wednesday to discuss the issues.”A spokesperson of the SNU, Delhi-NCR, said, “We are in talks with the UPSIDC, the district administration, and the Chithera village panchayat to amicably resolve the pending issues of land acquisition and compensation with the farmers. In our discussion with the authorities and the group of farmers on September 3, 2021, it has been decided that the farmers will provide all the requisite documents of unresolved cases of compensation to the UPSIDC to reach a resolution soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-protest-outside-shiv-nadar-university-over-land-acquisition-101630694542258.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai gets waste-to-enery plant; viewing deck off Arabian Sea to open in 3 months||Mumbai guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray on Friday inaugurated the city’s first waste-to-energy plant at Haji Ali that will generate electricity power from 2,000kg of waste. Thackeray also conducted the bhoomi pujan for the construction of a viewing deck at Girgaum Chowpatty. This deck will be built on an existing storm water drain outfall near Chowpatty.According to the plan, the plant constructed from corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds will generate 250-300 units of power everyday that will be used by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for electrification of its public parks. “The project is expected to generate about 250 to 300 units of electricity per day. Initially, the power will be used in a municipal park and a solid waste segregation centre. The project will result in partial savings in municipal electricity costs as well as savings in waste transportation costs,” BMC said in a statement. Further, Thackeray also performed the groundbreaking ceremony for starting the construction of a 475 square metre viewing deck near Girgaum Chowpatty. The viewing gallery, named as ‘Darshak Gallery’, is being constructed from the tourism point of view. “The gallery will be set up by taking into consideration the tides, altitudes and pressures from a scientific point of view. All the necessary permissions for the gallery have already been obtained and it is expected that the gallery will be up and running in the next three months,” the statement added.BMC has planned a nature’s trail for tourism, a few metres away from this proposed gallery. According to the plan, citizens will get a 700-metre-long walkway at Malabar Hill in the next few months to get a bird’s eye-view of the Arabian Sea. The walkway will be located nearby Babulnath Temple and will wind through the hill forest, giving unobstructed scenic views of the Arabian Sea and the bustling city. The design for the forest trail at Malabar Hill is expected to be constructed without cutting any tree, considering the concept is to build in lush greenery.Meanwhile, in the runner up of upcoming civic polls in February, politicians are on an inauguration spree. On Thursday, Thackeray inaugurated the beautification plan for Mahim beach. Under this plan, BMC undertook the cleaning of the beach, cleared heavy vehicles parked as well as hutments, filled up the beach with up to 5 feet of sand which was lost due to soil erosion, planted trees and set up pavements, garden furniture, a playing area and a 30-metre-high viewing tower for tourists, that gives a panoramic view of the Arabian Sea and the Bandra Worli sea link.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-gets-waste-to-enery-plant-viewing-deck-off-arabian-sea-to-open-in-3-months-101630694482301.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Special court refuses bail to accused in 2012 Pune blasts case||A special court on Friday rejected the bail application of an accused involved in the 2012 Pune bombings. The accused, Farooq Shaukat Bagwan, had forged documents that were used to buy the SIM cards allegedly used in the blasts case.Bagwan had moved the bail plea through advocate Sharif Shaikh claiming that he was falsely implicated and that he had already spent eight years in jail while the trial is still at the stage of framing of charges and a large number of witnesses were yet to be examined. He also claimed the prosecution failed to prove the conspiracy.Bagwan’s laptop and computer was seized but the forensic laboratory has not found any forged documents on it.Shaikh had submitted that the material available on record was not sufficient to prima facie establish guilt of the accused. He also argued that the prosecution had failed to establish conspiracy theory that the documents forged by him and the SIM cards obtained using the same were to be used for illegal acts.Vaibhav Bagade, for the anti-terrorism squad (ATS), opposed the plea.Special judge Dinesh E Kothalikar on Friday rejected Bagwan’s plea observing that the applicant has failed to make out a case for bail. The court further said there was delay in trial as some accused are lodged in Tihar Jail and the trial against them was going on before a court in New Delhi.The judge said prima facie, a case of conspiracy was made out from the available material. The accused had conspired to do illegal acts and strike terror with the intent to threaten or likely to threaten the unity, integrity, security and sovereignty of India by using fire arms and to exploit the communal sentiments of impressionable youths and to provoke them in the name of Jihad in order to resort to terrorist acts.The serial blasts took place at several places in Pune including Jangali Maharaj Road near Balgandharva Rang Mandir and five other places. The accused was arrested in Pune on December 26, 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/special-court-refuses-bail-to-accused-in-2012-pune-blasts-case-101630694240617.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Yuva Sena demands online varsity; Maharashtra minister asks dept to set up panel||Shiv Sena’s youth wing, Yuva Sena, on Friday wrote to higher and technical education minister Uday Samant, demanding that an online university be set up in Maharashtra. Samant has asked the department to set up a committee to look into the demand.In a letter to the minister, the Aaditya Thackeray-led body said due to the pandemic, the importance of online technology has increased in education and other sectors. It added that quality online education will be affordable for those who cannot travel due to jobs or other reasons, but want to study further.“A student who lives far away from the educational institute or someone who cannot attend university or college regularly due to their jobs or other personal issues can study via online university. Apart from the course fees, there is no other expense of hostel fees or travel for such students. Candidates who want to opt for online education, it will become economical for them,” the letter stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/yuva-sena-demands-online-varsity-maharashtra-minister-asks-dept-to-set-up-panel-101630694180696.html
04-09-2021||Noida||SIT to visit office of Noida authority over Emerald Court project next week||NOIDA: The special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe the Emerald Court project case is set to visit the Noida authority office in Sector 6 on Monday, said officials on Friday. The Uttar Pradesh government has appointed the team to file a report and all documents related to the Supertech’s twin towers -- Apex and Ceyane -- located in Sector 93A.“We will visit the Noida authority office on Monday to collect details related to the probe,” said Sanjiv Mittal, Uttar Pradesh infrastructure and industrial development commissioner heading the SIT. The SIT has additional chief secretary (revenue) Manoj Singh, ADG Rajeev Sabharwal, and Uttar Pradesh chief town and rural planner Anup Kumar.The move comes a day after the state government formed the team to investigate and fix responsibilities of all the top officials of the authority who had approved the building map of the 40-storey twin towers in the housing complex in violation of the building regulations. The state government formed the SIT in compliance with the Supreme Court order, in which it had directed demolition of the towers within three months and prosecution of the officials involved.According to sources, the Noida authority had a committee that used to approve building maps from 2005 to 2012, when the map of the twin towers was approved. The committee had members from the engineering and planning department too. The committee had planning officials like Tribhuvan Singh, VA Devpujrai, Rajpal Kaushik, Vimla Singh, Shailendra Kaire, Mukesh Goyal and engineer Baburam among others. All these officials have retired except Mukesh Goyal. According to the rules, the Noida authority chief executive officer has the power to delegate the roles to the officials to approve building maps. The then CEO (not identified) had formed a committee that used to approve the building maps. The authority has shared these details with the state government, and it is part of the SIT probe now. The SIT is likely to file FIRs against all the officials involved in Noida next week, said the officials.Meanwhile, the Noida authority chief executive officer, Ritu Maheshwari, took a meeting with all the officials in Sector 6 on Friday to discuss the Supreme Court order compliance. “We have identified all documents related to the twin towers map approval and will provide those to the SIT,” said a Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.The authority has also started taking steps to be ready for demolition of the building as per the apex court order. The Uttar Pradesh government had earlier suspended Mukesh Goyal, who was taking care of hearing the case in the apex court. He had not provided updates of the case to the top officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/sit-to-visit-office-of-noida-authority-over-emerald-court-project-next-week-101630694122253.html
04-09-2021||Other||Triage bay prepared in IMS-BHU Trauma Centre||VARANASI A triage bay equipped with 18 stretcher beds has been prepared in the Trauma Centre of IMS-BHU to cater to patients in need of emergency care. To note, a triage bay is an important area in a hospital where doctors assess the severity of illness or injury, particularly in case of mass casualties and decide the line of treatment before sending the patient to the department concerned. The trauma system is chain of arrangements to provide quality medical care to the people injured in any incident. The triage bay has been developed under Prof Saurabh Singh, who underwent training in healthcare and trauma system in Israel a few years ago. Prof Singh heads the Trauma Centre, IMS-BHU as its in charge. “The triage bay has been set up to upgrade emergency medical care at the Trauma Centre to the level of Israel’s trauma system and medical care so that best care may be given to several patients simultaneously,” said Prof Singh. All required equipment has been installed in the triage bay area in such a way that 18 patients can be resuscitated simultaneously. Prof Singh said that the triage bay could accommodate 18 advanced stretchers. Prof Singh said that 18 medical teams had been trained to give prompt response to patients brought to the trauma centre after a road accident, fire or building collapse. Each team comprised an orthopedic surgeon, a general surgeon, an anesthesiologist and a nurse, all specially trained in emergency medical care, said Prof Singh. He said that the triage bay was fully ready and advanced stretchers had already been arranged. Prof Singh said that four new operation theatres had also been added to the trauma centre so that the patients who needed surgery would not have to wait. He said that the after being given care in the triage bay area, the patient would be shifted to yellow area in the Trauma Centre as his condition improved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/triage-bay-prepared-in-ims-bhu-trauma-centre-101630694060528.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||DDA plans international business and industrial hub in Dwarka||The Delhi Development Authority plans to develop an international business and industrial hub at Sectors 24 to 26 in Dwarka, for which it will select a consultant to prepare a detailed layout plan, said officials aware of the development. The International Business, IT &ITES (Information technology and information technology enabled services) and commercial and industrial (non-polluting) hub will be very close to the Centre’s India International Convention and Expo Centre, said officials . A senior DDA official said, “The consultant will have to carry out a detailed study of the area, delineate boundaries of the influence area of the identified land parcels. The consultant will have to prepare a detailed layout plan.”The land-owning agency aims to develop the three sectors based on the Transit Oriented Development policy. As a lot of big projects, such as the international convention centre, land pooling, Railway passenger terminal at Bijwasan, Urban Extension Road-II, etc are in the pipeline, the DDA official said that an impact study will be done while planning the new sectors.“The consultant will study and analyse the existing as well as proposed amenities, infrastructure, transportation, green areas etc. of the identified area. As part of the study, a detailed infrastructure plan, along with cost estimates, will be prepared,” said the official.Transportation is going to be a key focus area of the plan. “A transportation plan will be prepared to ensure conflict free movement within the complex and around it. There is a proposal to develop a cycle sharing facility at the hub,” said the official. The DDA had recently put in public domain the Master Plan of Delhi-2041, in which it proposed mixed use developments in new areas, including residential facilities near commercial and industrial hubs, especially for lower income groups.“The consultant will ensure an adequate mix of activities and their impact on the surrounding land and transport networks and specify development control norms and urban design guidelines for the project area, with respect to street furniture, landscaping and use of material on exterior surface for the complete area,” said the official adding that the detailed plan will have to be submitted in a year’s time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-development-authority-plans-international-business-and-industrial-hub-in-dwarka-101630693942186.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||OBC reservation in Maharashtra: Collect data soon, state tells panel||The Maharashtra government will direct the Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes (MSCBC) to try to collect empirical data necessary to restore reservation for the Other Backward Classes (OBC) in the state in the next few months. The unanimous decision was taken in the all-party meeting called by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to resolve the issue on Friday. The commission will be asked to adopt the fastest way, so that the empirical data can be collated in the next three-four months. It was also decided that the polls for local bodies be postponed until empirical data is not collected. It is further planning to bring in an amendment in the legislation to provide reservation to the OBC within the 50% reservation cap mandated by the Supreme Court. The political reservation of Other Backward Classes (OBC) in local bodies is on the verge of getting scrapped, following an Apex Court verdict. While scrapping the OBC reservation in local bodies, it had asked the state to collect empirical data of the community to decide on the reservation quota, which means the community will not get reservation until it is collected. This is the second meeting held by the chief minister in the past one week to resolve the issue. The exercise started after the state election commission recently directed to start preparations for local bodies’ polls due early next year and hold elections without OBC reservation. The move would create unrest in the community which is politically damaging for the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “The directives will be issued to the MSCBC to complete the process of collecting empirical data as early as possible. They will also be asked to take the help of state advocate general (Ashutosh Kumbhakoni),” Thackeray said. “It was also unanimously decided that if there is a delay in getting the desired data then the proposed local bodies’ polls be deferred,” the chief minister said in a statement issued by the chief minister office (CMO). “The state will work on multiple alternatives. While directing the MSCBC to collect the empirical data in less time, we will continue our legal battle in the Apex Court, where we have already filed a petition seeking caste-based census data from the central government,” said Chhagan Bhujbal, food and civil supplies minister, who is also an OBC leader. The state government has filed a writ petition in the Apex Court seeking Socio Economic Caste Census, 2011 data from the Centre. The next hearing is going to be held on September 23. “In addition, the state may come up with an ordinance to provide reservation to the OBC community without breaching the 50% reservation cap mandated by the SC. The option will be used if there is a delay in obtaining empirical data and local bodies’ elections cannot be deferred,” Bhujbal explained. The state is planning to bring in an amendment in the local bodies acts that provides 27% reservation to the OBC community. It is of the view that the existing amendment be tweaked saying that 50% cap will not be breached and the OBC will get remaining percent reservation after providing quota to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities. Section 12(2)(c) of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961, provides a 27% quota for persons belonging to backward classes, which was challenged in the court of law. The legislation for the local bodies in Maharashtra provides reservation to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities based on their population in those particular bodies, whereas in case of OBC this population data is not available as their last census was conducted in 1931. As a result, there are many districts where the combined reservation of all the communities exceeds 50% cap. Even after amendments, there are three to five districts where OBCs will not get reservation benefits. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that around 15% seats will be reduced in the local bodies’ polls in the absence of empirical data. “The state law and judiciary department has taken a positive stand on bringing in the amendment in the legislation to provide reservation to the OBC community in case there is a delay in getting empirical data. Despite that, there are around three districts where the OBC community will not get reservation. Of the total 5,200 seats reserved for the OBC community, around 4,500 seats can be saved by bringing in the amendment, according to the chief secretary (Sitaram Kunte),” Fadnavis told reporters after the meeting at Sahyadri guest house, Malabar Hill. If empirical data is collected in the next 3-4 months, the issue will be resolved as elections are going to be held only after that, he added. On March 4, the Supreme Court ruled that the reservation in favour of the OBC in local bodies should not result in exceeding the 50% cap in reservation quota mandated by it. It has directed the state to appoint a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data, based on which the reservation quota of the community be fixed and also allowed the state election commission to hold local bodies polls without having reservations for OBCs. It means no seat will be reserved for OBC community candidates for any local body elections until empirical data is made available. On July 5, the state legislature also passed a resolution seeking empirical data by the Centre, collected under Socio Economic Caste Census 2011, for restoration of political reservation to OBCs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/obc-reservation-in-maharashtra-collect-data-soon-state-tells-panel-101630693940664.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC asks officials to reduce number of Afghans protesting outside UN office||The Delhi high court on Friday asked the Delhi government and the city police to “suitably reduce” the number of Afghan nationals protesting outside the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), observing that when marriages in Delhi permit only 100 people, how can 500 people be allowed to protest.Justice Rekha Palli, while hearing a plea by the residents of Vasant Vihar seeking removal of the Afghan protestors protesting outside the UNHCR office in the area, said that there can be no exceptions for the refugees and the law has to be the same for everyone.“…your difficulties cannot stand in the way of law and order. Even if somebody wants to perform the marriage only 100 are allowed, and these are 500 people sitting there conveniently. They are refugees, we have full sympathy with them. and there can be no question of being unduly harsh on them. But the law has to be law for everyone,” justice Palli said.“How are you permitting 500? I will have to then considering passing an order limiting it to be 100. Please sort it out and reduce the number of protestors, otherwise I will have to pass directions. …What is this exception? The citizens of Delhi cannot collect in more than 100 but the refugees are allowed to gather in 500. What is the explanation?” the judge asked.Remarking that the city cannot be put to risk, the court said, “In the meantime, respondents 3 and 4 (Delhi Police and Delhi government) will ensure that Covid-19 protocols are strictly maintained and also ensure that the number of people protesting at the site be suitably reduced”.The court’s order and remarks came while hearing the plea by Vasant Vihar Welfare Association that the foreign nationals (refugees/ asylum seekers) have gathered outside the UNHCR office at B Block in Vasant Vihar since August 15, including lanes and parks adjoining it, and residents are facing difficulties due to this.The plea had said besides the problems in mobility, the protestors were not adhering to the social distancing norms and not wearing masks.On Friday, advocate Satyakam, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, informed the court that the protestors do not have any permission to protest there. He said that an FIR has also been registered against them for not following the orders of social distancing or exhibiting Covid-appropriate behaviour.The central government’s standing counsel Ajay Digpaul told the court that the situation was unprecedented and any action against the refugees in distress will have international ramifications. He said that the issue must be seen from a humanitarian angle, and urged the court to grant some more time to take a holistic view for resolve the issue.The court granted time and listed the matter for further hearing on September 7, saying if the matter is not resolved by then, it will be constrained to pass an order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-state-govt-police-to-suitably-reduce-number-of-afghan-nations-protesting-outside-un-office-in-vasant-vihar-101630693880801.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||CBSE releases sample papers for Class 10, 12 board exams||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has released the sample papers to help students of classes 10 and 12 prepare for the first of the two-term board examination set to be held between November and December this year.Students of classes 10 and 12, who returned to the schools for practicals and other board exam related activities last month, can access the sample papers on CBSE’s academic website.Archana Raichandani, who teaches Physics at The Indian School, said, “In Physics, the 35-mark question paper has 45 questions to be answered in 90 minutes. Even if we give two minute per questions, there won’t be enough time because many of these questions are application-based and assertion-reasoning questions... Students will only learn time management by practice.”Rannu Pathak, the senior coordinator at Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said, “Students will need to have clarity of concepts to be able to answer the questions in the given time. The sample paper released for different subjects has come at the appropriate time and we will start discussing these papers soon so that students have enough time to practice.”In July, CBSE announced that it will hold two sets of board exams this academic year to prepare for any unprecedented situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic. Along with the division of syllabus between the two terms, the board had also changed the paper pattern for this year.While the first board exam will have multiple choice questions (MCQ), including case-based MCQs and MCQs on assertion-reasoning type, and the duration of the test will be 90 minutes, the second board exam in March-April will be two hours long and have questions of different formats including case-based or situation based, short answer or long answer type.For instance, in the sample question paper for Class 12 English Core subject, the students will have to read the comprehension and answer case-based MCQs on it for their reading skills and select appropriate titles and body text for notices for the writing skills based on a given context. In the literature section too, students are given extracts of poems or prose and then asked to answer MCQ-based questions on it.Several government school principals said they will also distribute the printed copies of the sample papers from the school fund to needy students.Rakesh Semalty, head of Government Boys Senior Secondary School in West Jyoti Nagar, said, “Since this is a completely new pattern introduced during a difficult year, we will be pracitising these papers with students in October. For now, we will be discussing this in between lessons as students have just come back to school. We will engage in thorough practice in October so that students are confident of appearing for their exams under this new pattern.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbsereleases-sample-papers-for-class-10-12-board-exams-101630693822083.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks police response on bail plea of those accused in hate slogan case||The Delhi high court on Friday sought the city police’s response on the bail plea filed by Preet Singh, one of the accused involved in allegedly raising hate slogans during an event at Jantar Mantar on August 8.Justice Mukta Gupta issued notice on Preet Singh’s bail application and directed the police to file its status report.Singh, who was remanded in judicial custody on August 10 after his arrest, is accused of creating enmity between different groups and inciting the youth against a particular religion at a rally at Jantar Mantar on August 8.In his plea filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, Singh claimed that he was “not involved in giving any inflammatory speech or raising any slogan against any person or community”.The matter would be heard next on September 15.On August 27, a city court had refused bail to Preet Singh, saying the right to assemble and freedom to air one’s thoughts are cherished under the Constitution, but these are not absolute and have to be exercised with inherent reasonable restrictions.On the basis of the material placed on record and submissions put forth by the prosecution, the judge had observed that prima facie there had been active participation by the accused in his individual capacity and also as the main organiser of the event itself.The sessions’ court also noted that the event was conducted at Jantar Mantar without permission from the Delhi Police and in total disregard to the Covid protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-high-court-seeks-police-response-on-plea-seeking-bail-for-accused-in-hate-slogan-case-101630693641633.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||Charges against Khalid reads like script of web series, his lawyer tells court||Former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid, who is seeking bail in the conspiracy case of the north-east Delhi riots, on Friday told a Delhi court that the charge sheet filed against him “read like the script of a popular web series or the 9pm TV news” and was a result of the “fertile imagination of the police officer who drafted it”.Senior advocate Trideep Pais, representing Khalid, told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat, “It reads like the 9pm TV news on channels. Those news channels say anything they want. They want to give something a slant like this, they will do so. They have absolutely no responsibility.” Khalid, along with several others, was booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for his alleged role in orchestrating the north-east Delhi riots of 2020, which claimed 53 lives and left over 400 injured. Pais said the charge sheet makes hyperbolic allegations against his client without any factual basis. Drawing parallels between the statements carried in the charge sheet and the villain of Harry Potter series, Lord Voldemort, Pais stated that the final report filed by the police was “rubbish”.Referring to a line in the charge sheet which said, “Khalid kept a safe distance from Delhi as he knew that Delhi would be thrown into the fire”, Pais said the only way the police officer could have known this was if “he was inside Khalid’s mind”.“The last person who got into a person’s mind was Voldemort in Harry Potter. This police officer must have been inside his (Khalid’s) mind to have known this…The charge sheet is the result of the fertile imagination of the police officer who drafted it and the witnesses who were procured. He is not writing the script of Family Man (web series on Amazon Prime), this is a charge sheet,” Pais said.He said there was nothing in Khalid’s speeches that led to lawless action, sedition, hatred, or illegality of any sort.“This charge sheet is not a charge sheet. It is an exercise in pamphleteering and defaming people and brushing them with the colour of criminality when there isn’t any,” the senior advocate said.Pais contended that “witness statements are being fabricated” and not a single witness had testified against Khalid.“Not a single witness says that Umar Khalid, Yogender Yadav agreed to use social media and mobilisation of youth to protest and cause a chakka jaam (blockade)... No press release, no pamphlets, no joint social media post were made by these people. If there is no basis for these facts and you put it in your charge sheet, and newsrooms carried it day in and day out, who communalised this country? Not me, it is the police,” Pais said.“One of the biggest theories is that there was a conspiracy on January 8. The protected witness, Saturn, either speaks under pressure or with a forked tongue,” Pais told the court adding that the protected witness has “made a different, inconsistent statement in another FIR”, and the person’s statements cannot be taken seriously.Pais said several statements carried in the charge sheet cannot be relied upon while considering the bail plea and read out another line, which said, “Umar Khalid, a veteran of sedition”.“There is no way these statements are consistent with each other and meet the test (of criminality) under UAPA,” he added.The matter will be heard next on September 6, 2021.Delhi Police recently said Khalid’s bail plea had no merit and that it will demonstrate before the court the prima facie case against Khalid by referring to the charge sheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/charges-against-khalid-result-of-cops-fertile-imagination-reads-like-the-script-of-a-web-series-his-lawyer-tells-court-101630693400679.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||‘Protest fundamental in democracy’: Bail for 5 booked in Delhi riots cases||The Delhi high court on Friday granted bail to five people booked for the murder of head constable Rattan Lal during the riots in February last year, noting that the right to protest and express dissent is fundamental in a democratic polity, and added that just the act of protesting should not be employed as a weapon to justify incarcerating those exercising this right.Justice Subramonium Prasad, while ordering the release of Furkan, Suvleen, Tabassum (all of whom go by single names), Mohammad Arif and Shadab Ahmad, said that every member of an unlawful assembly cannot be booked for the murder only on the basis of “general and vague allegations” and they cannot be left to languish in jails.“There cannot be an umbrella assumption of guilt on behalf of every accused by the court, and every decision must be taken based on a careful consideration of the facts and circumstances in the matter therein. This principle, therefore, gains utmost importance when the court considers the question of grant or denial of bail,” the judge said while granting bail to the five accused.Furkan, Arif, Ahmad, Suvleen and Tabassum were arrested on April 1, March 11, April 6, May 17 and October 3 last year, respectively. In five separate verdicts, Justice Prasad said no substantial evidence has been obtained against the accused to keep them in prolonged incarceration. He said that the principle of bail attempts to bridge the gap between the personal liberty of an accused and ensuring that public order remains intact.“It is egregious and against the principles enshrined in our Constitution to allow an accused to remain languishing behind bars during the pendency of the trial”.“Therefore, the court, while deciding an application for grant of bail, must traverse this intricate path very carefully and thus take multiple factors into consideration before arriving at a reasoned order whereby it grants or rejects bail,” the court said.According to the police, on February 24, 2020, a crowd carrying various weapons convened at the main Wazirabad Road and refused to abide by the police’s orders to disperse.The police, represented by additional solicitor general SV Raju, argued that the crowd soon got out of control and started pelting stones at officers and more than 50 personnel suffered injuries, while Lal was shot dead. He had added that the protests turned violent, and the agitators burnt vehicles, and other properties in the vicinity.The court, however, said that a fourth charge sheet has been filed in the case and trial in the matter is likely to take a long time and so it was not prudent to keep the accused behind bars for an undefined period of time.The judge said that merely because Ahmad and Tabassum were one of the organisers of the protests and were in touch with other participants, it is insufficient to justify that the duo were involved in the pre-planning of the alleged incident.It said the accused have roots in society, and, therefore, there was no danger of them absconding and fleeing and directed them to furnish a personal bond of ₹35,000 each and a surety of the like amount.Regarding the role of woman accused, Tabassum, the high court said the record revealed that she has not been caught on any video footage in the vicinity of the protest site, and the contention that a few women wearing burqas have been caught assaulting police officials in a video does not have any weight at this juncture as she cannot be identified in the clip.With respect to Furkan, the court said that there was no electronic evidence to establish that he was present at the scene of the crime and his call detail records are inconclusive as he was a resident of the local area.The court also said that accused Arif was not visible in the CCTV video relied upon and clothes similar to that of his have been worn by multiple others.It held that Ahmad’s CDRs and cell ID details pointed that he had reached the scene of crime after the commission of the alleged offence, i.e, the murder of Rattan Lal.“At this juncture, it appears that the statements of the police officers that have been recorded are wholly contradictory to the CDR and cell ID details that are on record,” it said.The court directed the accused to not leave the national capital without permission of the court and not tamper with the evidence or influence witnesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/protest-fundamental-in-democracy-bail-for-5-people-booked-in-delhi-riots-cases-101630693286201.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi assembly to throw open ‘secret’ tunnel to public by Independence Day, 2022||The Delhi assembly plans to renovate a ‘faansi ghar’ (execution chamber) in the state assembly and throw it open to the public along with a secret tunnel discovered in the premises in 2016 by Independence Day next year, assembly speaker Ram Niwas Goel said on Friday.Goel said that the assembly has already floated a tender for the restoration of the room where executions were conducted, adding that they will also lay down SOPs for visitors to see the tunnel. Goel said that since 2017, people from Delhi and other cities are allowed to visit the Delhi assembly on January 26-27 and August 14-15 without any permission. “They will be allowed to visit the tunnel and the faansi ghar and learn about the history of the assembly once the makeover is done by next year,” said Goel.The execution room is a two-room suite outside the assembly chamber that can be accessed via a wooden staircase. The rooms contain old pictures, files, and worn out furniture.“The faansi ghar was reopened three months ago. It’s not in a good condition. Now, we will renovate it and give it a good makeover. Designs for the renovation have already been prepared and a tender has been given to the PWD,” said Goel.Goel claimed that the tunnel runs between the legislative assembly and the Red Fort, and was used by the Britishers to move freedom fighters. The legislative assembly building was initially a court and the tunnel allowed British to move freedom fighters to the building without attracting public attention. So far, there is no documentary evidence that sheds light on the history of the tunnel or supports the claim that it connects to the Red Fort. “After 1926, the premises were being used as court for trials of revolutionaries. I can’t say if the tunnel was made in 1926 or 27. However, the tunnel was used for the movement of revolutionaries from Red Fort till the court here. In my estimation, one end of the tunnel opened at the Red Fort and prisoners were taken to the court for hearing on the other end, and later to the faansi ghar,” said Goel. The Vidhan Sabha was once the seat of British India and housed both the Central Legislative Council (today’s Parliament) and a temporary Central Secretariat when the capital of British India was shifted from Kolkata (then Calcutta) to Delhi in December 1911.Many historians have, however, expressed doubts about Goel’s claims about the tunnel. “It’s highly improbable that any tunnel would be made in the 1920s that led to the Red Fort. It would have been much shorter and for some more mundane function,” said Safvi, adding that she had not visited the tunnel and more details could only be ascertained after that. “Till I see the tunnel, I will be difficult to comment on details,” said Safvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-to-throw-open-faansi-ghar-and-secret-tunnel-in-premises-to-public-by-independence-day-next-year-101630693100611.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||Baijal chairs meeting on waterlogging, asks for technology driven solutions||Lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal on Friday helmed an emergency meeting to discuss the problem of waterlogging, which has been plaguing the national capital over the past week due to incessant rain, and directed officials to prepare a master plan to tackle this chronic and seemingly irresolvable issue. He also asked every agency concerned to set up an internal committee to find better flood control measures and response mechanisms, while deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia directed the constitution of an expert committee to come up with a holistic strategy to deal with the problem in the short and long term. Earlier this week, Delhi roads, shops and even hospitals were inundated for at least two consecutive days, Tuesday and Wednesday, in the aftermath of heavy rain. Friday’s emergency meeting was attended by Sisodia, PWD and irrigation and flood control minister Satyendar Jain, chief secretary Vijay Dev and all senior officials from the departments and agencies concerned, including the Delhi Development Authority, the three municipal corporations and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Senior officials said the L-G was of the opinion that the situation needed to be handled with better and updated engineering solutions. “He noted that despite the excuse of excessive rain, the situation needed to be addressed and better preparedness could have been put in place. The need for a short, medium and long term action plan to address the issue was reiterated,” said a senior official who attended the meeting, on condition of anonymity.A second official, who also attended the meeting, said Baijal asked each agency to constitute an internal committee of experts to evaluate the problem, and chalk out a plan of action based on past experiences. “It was felt that the annual pre-monsoon drain de-silting exercise was not enough. He (Baijal) directed that de-silting of drains, nallahs and catchment areas must be done continuously to prevent waterlogging. Agencies were also advised to explore and adopt the latest mechanised methods for achieving permanent solutions,” the second official said. Later, it was decided that all agencies concerned will now identify areas vulnerable to waterlogging, conduct a fresh survey and prepare a master plan to tackle the issue. After the meeting, Sisodia said, “The responsibility to mitigate this (waterlogging) will be with the primary agency (under whose jurisdiction the waterlogged area/drain/road lies)with the rest of the agencies providing support. This time, Delhi received more rain than in previous years and as a result faced waterlogging in many places. To eliminate the problem, it is important that all agencies work together to draw up short- and long-term plans and execute it.” Pointing to the problem of waterlogging at two major points, the ITO and NH-24, Sisodia directed officials to come up with a technology-driven solution at the earliest. “Whenever it rained this year, a pond formed near ITO and on the slip road of NH 24. But, this problem can be solved only when all agencies, including NHAI, MCD and PWD, work together,” he said. A Delhi Jal Board official present in the meeting said waterlogging near ITO was caused by water and sewer pipelines of the DJB overflowing or bursting. The L-G’S office did not issue a statement on the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/baijal-chairs-meeting-on-waterlogging-asks-officials-to-find-technology-driven-solutions-101630692320494.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Governor refuses exemptions for PM Modi’s bullet train project||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has rejected the state government’s request to provide exemptions sought from mandatory approvals from eight gram sabhas to acquire grazing land in Palghar district for the bullet train project, a pet project of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The land parcels covering eight villages fall in the alignment of the project and are regulated under the Panchayats (Extension of Scheduled Areas (PESA) Act. It means prior acquisitions need approvals from the concerned gram sabhas. The state revenue department had requested the Governor to add a provision in PESA Act that vital projects of the government such as bullet train etc. be exempted from the process, but the proposal was not approved by the Governor, the officials confirmed.The exemption from the Governor was sought on March 6, 2019, following a request made by the National High-Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) to speed up the acquisition process. “The proposal was not approved by the Governor. Now, meetings of the gram sabhas have been scheduled for the same to complete the process. I was told meetings of some gram sabhas were scheduled on August 15 and the proposal may have been discussed there,” said Nitin Kareer, additional chief secretary, revenue department.“It also means land acquisition for the project will start only after completing the entire process. The idea behind asking for exemption was to expedite the project but the delay has defeated the purpose,” said a revenue official, wishing not to be named.Santosh Kumar, secretary to the Governor, did not respond to calls and text messages.“The proposal was discussed in a meeting held on October 22, 2019, in which, the governor said he is not in favour of giving exemption and also suggested the state government give compensatory land to the gram sabhas against the acquisition of grazing land. This is because grazing land is very important for the villages. People living in scheduled areas are too poor and their livelihood depends upon grazing land. If there is no land available then they should be compensated as per norms. The governor also suggested checking with the Gujarat government how they resolved issues related to PESA areas, in case alignment, is passing through such areas,” said a senior official.As per section 22A of the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code (MLRC) 1966, a gram sabha is a competent authority to preserve and safeguard the grazing land and it cannot be diverted prior consent of the concerned gram sabha. The provision to this effect was made by the then governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao by issuing a notification on May 9, 2017.“Notwithstanding anything in sub-section (1) to (6) or any other provision of this Act, gram sabhas shall be competent to preserve, safeguard and manage Gairan land in Scheduled Areas; provided that, no Gairan land in the Scheduled Areas shall be diverted or disposed of without the prior informed consent of the Gram Sabhas concerned,” states the provision.The Fifth Schedule of the Constitution empowers the governor to make regulations related to scheduled areas. Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) or PESA is a law enacted by the Government of India to cover the “Scheduled areas”, which are not covered in the 73rd amendment of Panchayati Raj Act of the Indian Constitution.“Exercising the powers conferred by the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution, the governor can provide an exemption from obtaining mandatory approvals, but if allowed it will be opened for other major infrastructure projects as well,” another official said. According to NHSRCL, the project required around 6.83 hectares (16.86 acres) from eight villages in the Palghar district. The villages are — Virathan Khurd, Varkunthi, Rothe, Kamare, Poman, Rajavali, More and Gokhivare. “We will follow the process for land acquisition,” said a senior NHSRCL official, wishing not to be named.Officials said after the governor refused to grant exemptions, the resolutions for land acquisition were again submitted before the concerned gram sabhas. Dr Kiran Mahajan, deputy collector, Palghar district, confirmed three gram sabhas have approved the acquisition of grazing land and some have called meetings in the coming days. “Poman, Rajavali, Gokhivare villages have approved to give the land for the project and have also cleared the resolutions. Kamare has also cleared the proposal but officially we have to get the resolution from the gram sabha. Rothe and Varkhunthi are yet to clear the resolutions. We have not received any request for Virathan Khurd village,” Dr Mahajan said.Palghar collector Dr Manik Gursal did not reply to calls and text messages.PM Modi and his Japanese the then counterpart Shinzo Abe laid the foundation stone for the ₹1.08 lakh crore (17 billion dollar) high-speed rail project on September 14, 2017, which will connect two cities — Mumbai and Ahmedabad. It will also be India’s first high-speed rail line.The Narendra Modi government has further set an ambitious deadline of completing the project by August 15, 2022, when India marks 75 years of Independence. NHSRCL that is implementing the project, however, expects to open a section of the network by then and complete it by December 2023.The 508.17km rail corridor project comprises 348.04km in Gujarat, a 155.76km stretch in Maharashtra, and 4.3km in Dadra and Nagar Haveli.According to section 22A of the MLRC Act, the state government will have to provide double the size of land required for a project. “The Gairan (grazing) land may be diverted, granted or leased for a public purpose or public project of the Central Government or the State Government or any statutory authority or any public authority or undertaking under the Central Government or the state government (hereinafter in this section referred to as “Public Authority”, if no other suitable piece of Government land is available for such public purpose or public project. The compensatory land to be transferred to the state government under sub-section (3) shall be in the same revenue village have area equal to twice the area of the Gairan land and its value shall not be less than the value of the Gairan land so allotted under sub-section,” stated the provision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-refuses-exemptions-for-pm-modi-s-bullet-train-project-101630690940458.html
04-09-2021||Other||Punjab and Haryana HC to resume physical hearing of cases from Monday||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court administration has decided to resume limited physical hearing from September 6 (Monday). To start with, 12 benches will hear cases physically; these are two division benches, four single benches on the civil side and six single benches on the criminal side, an official said. Remaining judges would take up cases through video conferencing. Only those advocates who have to appear before a court would be allowed to enter the premises. The official added that litigants had not been allowed for now, and only those will be allowed, where there is specific order from a bench. The advocates general offices of Punjab and Haryana have also been requested to not to ask for presence of officials in high court premises. The limited physical hearing started in February this year but had to be withdrawn in April due to the second Covid wave. The high court had shifted to virtual mode of hearing in March 2020, after the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-to-resume-physical-hearing-of-case-from-monday-101630687040969.html
04-09-2021||Mumbai||Antilia case: Charge sheet filed against all 10 accused||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a charge sheet against dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze and others arrested in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran earlier this year.NIA superintendent of police (SP) Vikram Khalate and special prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves submitted around a 10,000-page charge sheet in the special court. The agency has cited in all around 200 witnesses to bring home the guilt of the accused. Statements of 20 important witnesses have been recorded before metropolitan magistrates and they are declared by the federal agency as “protected witnesses.”Special NIA judge Prashant R Sitre then directed the agency to serve the copies of the charge sheet to the accused personally and take their acknowledgement. The court also granted the NIA permission to continue the investigation.“Today (September 3), NIA, filed a charge sheet in NIA special court, Mumbai under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Arms Act, Explosive Substances Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against the 10 arrested persons,” said NIA in a statement.“During the investigation, incriminating evidence came to fore against the 10 arrested accused involved in various stages of conspiracy of placing explosive-laden Mahindra Scorpio vehicle, its theft and commission of murder of Mansukh Hiran,” said the statement. Others arrested in the case are Vaze’s former colleague at the criminal intelligence unit of Mumbai crime branch, Riyazuddin Kazi, Vaze’s friend and dismissed crime branch inspector Sunil Mane, cricket bookie Naresh Gor and dismissed police constable Vinayak Shinde, an accused in Lakhan Bhaiya encounter case. Earlier on August 30, the special NIA court had rejected NIA’s demand for custody of Vaze and Mane in connection with the Antilia bomb scare and Hiran murder cases.Presently, both Vaze and Mane are in judicial custody at Taloja prison. Vaze has been admitted to Surana Sethia Hospital at Bhiwandi for open-heart surgery.The case pertains to the recovery of an explosives-laden green Mahindra Scorpio near Antilia, the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, on Carmichael Road in south Mumbai on February 25. A note threatening to kill certain members of his family was also recovered from the vehicle. On March 5, the body of the vehicle owner and Thane-based auto parts dealer, Mansukh Hiran, was found in a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra.The NIA subsequently took over the investigation and arrested Vaze in connection with both cases. Vaze was dismissed from service in May. The investigating agency later also arrested encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma and four others - Santosh Shelar, Anand Jadhav, Manish Soni and Satish Mothukari - in connection with the murder case. The agency claimed that the four accused acted on the instructions of Vaze and others, and allegedly strangled Hiran to death in a vehicle, along Ghodbunder road, and dumped the body in the creek.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-case-charge-sheet-filed-against-all-10-accused-101630685900256.html
04-09-2021||Delhi||SC refuses bail to Sajjan Kumar, says can’t treat him as a VIP patient||The Supreme Court on Friday refused bail to Delhi Sikh riots convict Sajjan Kumar on medical grounds and reminded the senior Congress leader that he cannot be treated as a VIP patient to have a hospital of his choice as he was in custody for heinous offences.Kumar, 77, had sought bail claiming that his condition was critical and that he recently collapsed in jail following which he was undergoing treatment in the Emergency ICU at Safdarjung Hospital. On Friday, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a response to the bail plea and said Kumar’s medical condition was stable and was improving. The bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh said, “The medical report shows appellant is being fully attended to. Even medical board was constituted. His condition is stated to be stable and improving and needs further hospitalization. We are not willing to grant medical bail or bail otherwise.” Also Read | NGT does not have suo motu powers: Centre to SCAppearing for Kumar, senior advocate Ranjeet Kumar said his client lost 17 kilos and required urgent medical attention. He urged the court that on his personal expense, the appellant be shifted to Medanta Hospital.The court remarked, “You are feeling as if he is the only patient to be treated in the country. He is accused of a series of heinous crimes and you want him to be treated as a super VIP patient, that we won’t permit.” Kumar told the court that another bail petition of his is already pending in the court. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for CBI, told the court that Kumar’s bail plea was listed, heard and rejected by the court after a medical board was constituted by AIIMS in March last year. The bench said, “A picture was portrayed before us as if he is on his last leg. We find these ailments are due to advanced age.” The court told Kumar’s counsel, “You are not out of prison that you will get the benefit you want. Merely because you are a high profile person does not mean that this court will keep hearing your bail petitions.” Kumar has been incarcerated for the past 31 months after his conviction in the 1984 Delhi anti-Sikh riots by the Delhi high court on December 17, 2018, This order reversed the acquittal granted by a Delhi court in 2013. The bail application was opposed by the complainants who are riot victims. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the families of victims, said the accused was all throughout roaming free and came to be arrested following the Delhi high court’s order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-refuses-bail-to-sajjan-kumar-says-can-t-treat-him-as-a-vip-patient-101630652358527.html
