06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Contractual staff pull buses off road in Ludhiana, passengers left high and dry||The functioning of Ludhiana bus stand went haywire on Monday as the Punjab Roadways and PRTC contractual staff went on indefinite strike to press their demand for immediate regularisation. Passengers rushed from counter to counter to locate available buses for their destination as over most public buses remained off the road.Private transporters made hay of the strike, with passengers having no option but to board their buses.According to officials, the regular staff operated some buses to Amritsar, Jalandhar and Bathinda. But no service was available for Delhi, Manali, and Jammu, while those to Chandigarh and Ferozepur were also affected.. “A total of 108 buses of Punjab Roadways and PUNBUS ply daily from Ludhiana depot and cover around 35,000km area, but on Monday, only 36 were operational. These could cover only around 10,000km, causing losses worth around ₹8 lakh,” said Tarsem Singh, in-charge, Ludhiana bus stand.Sharing details of PRTC buses, another official said around 100 PRTC buses ferried passengers from Ludhiana bus stand daily, but only 30 could ply on Monday due to the strike, leading to losses worth over ₹6 lakh.Harrowing timeJatinder Kumar, 40, of Sri Muktsar Sahib had to travel to Chandigarh for his 10-year-old daughter’s treatment at a government hospital, but was left stranded at the Ludhiana bus stand for hours.“I have already waited for several hours for a PRTC bus for Chandigarh. Now I am buying tickets for a private bus, as it is important for me to reach the hospital in time. While the PRTC ticket would have cost around ₹100, I now have to pay ₹280 for my journey,” said Kumar.Rashpal Singh, 28, expressed frustration as he couldn’t find a bus back to his hometown in Malerkotla. “It is not easy for me to wait for long due to my physical disability. Since private buses are full and also overcharging, I don’t wish to travel in crowded vehicles,” he said.Female passengers, who have been exempted from paid travel in public buses by the state government, complained of overcharging by private buses.Arti, 39, of Ferozepur, couldn’t find a PRTC bus to her hometown and eventually had to pay full fare for the ticket of her eight-year-old daughter to board a private bus. “I have waited for over three hours for a roadways bus to Ferozepur, but finally have to go for a private bus. Usually there is no fare for women in public buses, but I am being asked to pay even for my daughter,” she said.Seema, 35, of Jalalabad and Jasmeet Kaur, 27, of Malerkotla voiced the same concerns.Meanwhile, Parveen Kumar, general secretary, PUNBUS Contractual Union, Ludhiana, said the strike will continue till the government initiated the process for their regularisation. “The chief minister had promised regularisation of contractual employees ahead of the 2017 Assembly elections, but the claims fell flat. We can’t feed our kids with a mere salary of ₹10,000,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contractual-staff-pull-buses-off-road-in-ludhiana-passengers-left-high-and-dry-101630952932860.html
06-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra logs 3,626 single-day Covid-19 cases, lowest since Feb 15||Maharashtra recorded 3,626 Covid-19 cases on Monday, the state’s lowest daily count since February 15, according to a report by PTI. With Monday’s cases, the tally in Maharashtra reached 6.48 million. The state’s case positivity rate stood at 2.49%. Maharashtra has 47,695 active cases.Maharashtra tested 145,457 samples between Sunday and Monday compared to 193,193 between Saturday and Sunday, signalling a possible reason behind the lesser number of cases reported on Monday.The total number of deaths rose to 137,811 with 37 deaths. This is the lowest casualty since March 8. The case fatality rate in the state stood at 2.12% while the recovery rate rose 97.09% with 5,988 recoveries.Nandurbar, Akola, Amaravati, Yavatmal, Wardha, Bhandara and Gondia districts, and Jalgaon, Dhule, and Amravati municipal corporations did not report any new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, health department officials told news agency PTI. The officials also added that among districts Ahmednagar lodged the highest number of cases with 805 new infections, followed by Pune at 416.Among Maharashtra’s eight regions, Pune region reported 1,267 new cases which is the highest in the last 24 hours. Nashik region reported 953 new cases while Mumbai region reported 728 fresh Covid-19 cases.Financial capital Mumbai reported 383 cases and five related deaths in the previous 24 hours. It reported 5 deaths. It was for the fifth straight day that Mumbai recorded less than 400 cases. The marginal drop can be attributed to a smaller number of tests done across the state.Earlier in the day, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urged political parties to cancel all gatherings, rallies and religious events in the state. “Public health is very important. Festivals can be celebrated in future. The situation can worsen if the cases of COVID increase. One must give priority to the health of the people so that we can avoid the third wave,” Thackeray was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Thackeray also issued instructions to officials to be ready in case a third-wave like situation arises. He also warned citizens and said that situations should not arise which could lead to imposition of Covid-19 restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-logs-3-626-single-day-covid-19-cases-lowest-since-feb-15-101630951976331.html
06-09-2021||Bangalore||NIA files chargesheet against 13 for human trafficking from Bangladesh||The National Investigation Agency on Monday filed a charge sheet against thirteen Bangladeshi nationals for their involvement in trafficking women and children from the neighbouring country after illegally crossing over to India, an official said. The chargesheet has been filed before a Special Court in Bengaluru. Rafik, Sobuj Shaik, Mohammed Rafikdul Islam Ridoy, Rakibul Islam, Mohammed Babu Molla, Mohammed Alami Hossein, Mohammed Dalim, Hossain Azim, Mohammed Jamal, Enamul Haque Shuzan, Mohammed Ruhul Amin, Riday Islam, and Mohammed Milon Biswas — all Bangladeshi nationals — have been charged with sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Foreigners Act, and the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, the NIA official said.The case was registered in June in Bengaluru city against the accused based on a raid conducted by the police at a rented house where seven women and one child of Bangladeshi nationality were rescued from the custody of four human traffickers, an NIA official said.The NIA took over the case and found that the charge-sheeted accused had illegally crossed over to India from Bangladesh, the official of the premier investigation agency said. They were luring women from Bangladesh and trafficking them to India with the promise of jobs, the NIA official said.The women were then confined in rented accommodations and subjected to sexual exploitation, the official said. The accused had also forged identity cards and used these forged documents as genuine to obtain Indian identity cards such as Aadhaar Card, PAN Card among others for themselves and their victims, the NIA official said as reported by news agency PTI. The official added that further investigation in this case continues.Meanwhile, the state government has directed the police to maintain a strict vigil on illegal immigrants and the overstayed foreign nationals, against any act of anti-social and anti-national activities, said Karnataka home minister, Araga Jnanendra.Addressing a press conference, after taking part at a one day state-level senior Police Officers Conference in Bengaluru, the minister said, “A direction had been issued to the police to maintain a separate register on the foreign nationals in their respective police stations and maintain a strict vigil on their activities”.Stating that the conviction rate against the criminals is not on a satisfactory note, the minister said that “directions had been issued to introspect on the issue and take all measures to improve the situation on the matter”.“The criminal elements can be put under check if the conviction rate goes up,” the minister said.Informing that the state government has decided to strengthen the coastal protection force, the minister said that “efforts should be taken to coordinate with the Naval authorities to ensure a foolproof coastal security cover against any anti-national elements”. The state government has also decided to submit a proposal to set up a unit of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) either in Bengaluru or Mangaluru to keep a check on anti-national elements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/nia-files-chargesheet-against-13-for-human-trafficking-from-bangladesh-101630952633137.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||56-year-old Ludhiana woman found murdered, nephew booked||A 27-year-old man is on the run after allegedly murdering his aunt to usurp her property, police said on Monday.The victim, Gurcharan Kaur, 56, who worked at an anganwari centre, was found dead under mysterious circumstances at her house in Gondwal village, Raikot, on Sunday.Her nephew, Shiv Kumar, alias Lali, of Pohir village, Dehlon, who used to live with her is missing, leading police to suspect his involvement in her murder.As there were no injury marks on the body, police surmised she may have died by poisoning or strangulation. The body has been sent to the civil hospital to establish the exact cause of death.Meanwhile, Shiv has been booked for murder on the complaint of Amandeep Kaur of Kalsa village, a cousin of the victim’s deceased husband. Amandeep told the police that her cousin and sister-in-law had no children, and the latter had been living alone since his death.Six months ago, she had her nephew Shiv move in with her. Since then, he had been harassing her for naming a local gurdwara as the inheritor of her house in her will.Around 25 days ago, he forcibly made her change her will to name him as the heir of the property and also got engaged to a woman that Gurcharan did not approve of.Amandeep said on Sunday she received information that Gurcharan was found dead in her house, with her nephew missing. She claimed that Shiv had fled after murdering her sister-in-law.“A manhunt has been launched to arrest the accused. The cause of death will be ascertained after autopsy,” said sub-inspector Ajaib Singh, station house officer (SHO), Raikot City, police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/56yearold-ludhiana-woman-found-murdered-nephew-booked-101630952447235.html
06-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Sero survey to identify Covid-19 antibodies will start on Sep 8||The third round of serological survey to detect Covid-19 antibodies, which was originally scheduled to be held in June, will be conducted from September 8 to 10, officials of the health department said.It will be a statewide study to check the prevalence of antibodies in children aged 6 to 17, officials said.The survey will cover 3,000 people, including 1,200 children, in the district. Overall, 36,520 people from 22 districts of the state will take part in the survey, in which children are being included for the first time.Chief medical officer of Gurugram, Dr Virender Yadav, said that children have been included over apprehensions that they might be affected the most in the event of a third wave of infections, as inoculation has not started for them.“It is a cross-sectional study with stratified multistage testing. Since those aged below 18 years are not covered under the vaccination programme, the survey will help in analysing the trend for the third wave of Covid-19 as it is being predicted that children will be affected,” said Yadav.In Gurugram, the survey will be done in at least 75 clusters, including 45 rural and 30 urban pockets. The areas shortlisted for the survey are Jharsa, Islampur and Shivaji Nagar, among other urban pockets, and Daulatabad, Wazirabad, Budhera and Manesar rural pockets.According to Yadav, 25 clusters will be covered in a day. Blood samples will be collected from 1,800 people above the age of 18 years, 900 from those aged 10 to 17 years and 300 from children aged six to nine years.At least 40 samples will be collected from each cluster, which will be divided into four quadrants and 10 houses selected from each. Nearly three millilitres of blood will be taken from six adults, three aged 10 to 17 years, and a child aged six to nine years, along with verbal and written consent.Officials said that 40% of the total samples will be collected from urban areas, while the rest will be from rural areas. For each cluster, a three-member team, comprising a doctor, an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), and a lab technician, has been constituted.Yadav said that all the samples will be taken to the district lab in Panchkula for testing. About 12 supervisors have been assigned for the supervision. In the last two sero surveys held in 2020, samples were tested in Gurugram.During the first round of serological survey in Gurugram, the seropositivity rate of the urban areas was 18.5%, while in the second round it increased to 25.9%. Likewise, in rural areas, it increased from 5.7% in the first round to 10.1% in the second round. In both surveys, over 800 people were tested for the antibodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-sero-survey-to-identify-covid-19-antibodies-will-start-on-sep-8-101630951851772.html
06-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Mayor recommends terminating services of a MCG consultant, transfer of engineer||Mayor Madhu Azad recommended that the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) terminate its contract with one of its consultants for non-performance and called for the transfer of a superintending engineer (SE) for not obeying orders and alleged misbehaviour, a release issued by the civic body on Monday stated. Azad issued these directions while reviewing the work being done by the consultants working with the MCG. The MCG has 11 consultants deputed across various departments such as the legal wing, vigilance branch, Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), grievance management, IT, and environment wing.According to MCG officials, Azad found work of a consultant working in the civic body’s SBM non-satisfactory. The resignation submitted by another official deputed in the same branch was also accepted.According to MCG officials, Azad had directed the SE in question to visit Ward 22 last week. However, he didn’t obey her direction. When she brought up the matter with him during the meeting, he allegedly left following an argument with her. Following this, the mayor sent a recommendation to MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja to relieve the SE of his duties and transfer him out of the MCG, while also submitting a report to the Haryana government on the matter. “Those who do not work properly have no place in the MCG and will be shown the way out of the corporation with immediate effect. All consultants have been directed to discharge their duties keeping in mind the public interest and the interest of the corporation. From now onwards, the work of all the consultants would be reviewed by me every three months,” said Azad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-mayor-recommends-terminating-services-of-a-mcg-consultant-transfer-of-engineer-101630951850182.html
06-09-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 preparations: Gurugram health dept told to submit details of medical oxygen audit||The Gurugram health department was directed to submit the medical oxygen audit report of over 97 hospitals in the district within a week to the state during a district-level review meeting held by the additional chief secretary of the health department.Officials said that the move is aimed at strengthening the healthcare facilities ahead of a possible third wave of Covid-19 infections. The audit report will provide details on oxygen supply and consumption, the status of Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generating plants in hospitals and the total number of oxygen-supported beds.On Monday, in a district-level review meeting with the health officials of Gurugram, Nuh and Rewari at Apparel House in Sector 44, Rajeev Arora, the additional chief secretary of the health department, directed officials to cover all hospitals registered on the Covid portal in the oxygen audit. This includes nursing homes and hospitals which have fewer than 50 beds.Earlier this month, the district health department directed only 43 big hospitals of the city, which have a minimum bed capacity of 50, to constitute oxygen audit committees and submit details with the department.“Now all 97 hospitals registered on Covid portal, which treated patients of coronavirus infections, will have to submit details of their oxygen capacity, cylinders available with them, installation of PSA plants and overall consumption data. Within next 10 days, the audit report of over 97 hospitals will be collated and submitted to the state health department,” Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said.According to Yadav, there are at least 11 operational oxygen plants in government hospitals and 10 in big private hospitals at present, while around 20 plants are being installed in private hospitals.During the second wave of Covid-19 infections in Gurugram in April and May, private hospitals of the city grappled with a lack of liquid oxygen supply due to a sharp rise in coronavirus cases. Refilling cylinders became an impossible task due to the short supply of oxygen, as the demand increased from around 25 metric tonnes (MT) a day to almost 48 MT in a short span.Currently, the daily requirement of oxygen across the district is 10-12 MT, as per a rough estimate made by the health department.Arora said, “Heavy stress on the healthcare infrastructure during the second wave of Covid-19 in April and May is an indicator as to how we can prepare ahead for the third wave. Private hospitals, medical colleges, and the health department have improved health services after the second wave. We have already directed hospitals to reserve 20% of oxygen and intensive care unit (ICU) beds for infants and children and submit their report within a week.”Based on the details submitted by 76 hospitals, the district has 686 paediatric beds supported with oxygen supply, at least 172 paediatric ICU beds with ventilators, and 391 paediatric ICU beds without ventilators. For adults, over 3,837 beds have been reserved, of which 2,817 are equipped with oxygen support, 759 are ICU beds and 261 are equipped with ventilators.Besides, the health department will have to prepare a report based on the consumption and demand of remdesivir injection and medical equipment during the second wave. Arora said that the report will help in arranging the required medicine stock based on the consumption pattern.‘Complete first dose vaccination in the state’Arora said that the state has decided to complete 100% first dose Covid-19 vaccination by September-end. Stating that vaccination in Gurugram has exceeded the overall target and reached 119% due to the migratory population, he directed the district health department to ensure residents of Gurugram are not left out.Since the second dose inoculation of many healthcare workers in private hospitals is not yet complete, authorities have been told to ensure 100% coverage and submit their final report with the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-preparations-gurugram-health-dept-told-to-submit-details-of-medical-oxygen-audit-101630951848709.html
06-09-2021||Gurugram||Biodiversity plan to focus on conservation for 10 years with available resources||The Haryana State Biodiversity Board has started preparations for a biodiversity strategy and action plan to focus on preserving the biodiversity of the state for the next 10 years with available resources.This plan will provide guidance on reducing negative impacts on biodiversity and focus on biodiversity restoration and maintenance with landscape-based interventions, officials said on Monday. The board has set a target of March 2022 for developing the plan.The plan is being developed with the help of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), which has been involved in biodiversity conservation by implementing biodiversity-related policies and programmes for the Central government. After dividing the state into four divisions, experts from WII will be studying aspects like plant species, wildlife and crops found in different parts of the state and analyse the pressures on biodiversity.The board conducted a workshop concerning this project in July, after which a regional workshop was conducted by experts from WII in Ambala last week. Similar workshops will be conducted in Gurugram, Rohtak and Hisar this month.“To develop a strategy and action plan, we are first taking stock of the flora and fauna, current status and trends in biodiversity in the state. Further, existing threats or pressures to biodiversity and ecosystems are being identified. These inputs will be used to formulate a guideline for not just forest and wildlife departments, but all departments, such as fisheries, agriculture, land revenue, with the aim of maintaining the current biodiversity even 10 years from now, with available resources,” Vineet Kumar Garg, the chairman of Haryana State Biodiversity Board, said.The authority is also coordinating with individuals and non-governmental organisations that have been working for the protection of biodiversity in the state.According to the targets of the National Biodiversity Action Plan (NBAP), an effective, participatory and updated biodiversity action plan must be made operational at different levels of governance. In this context, various states and union territories are required to prepare their own state biodiversity action plans in alignment with the NBAP.MD Sinha, the principal secretary of the state tourism department, who earlier served as the conservator of forests for Gurugram, said that the importance of conservation of habitat was discussed in the workshop held in July.“In an agriculture-dominated state like Haryana, forest cover has decreased drastically due to intensive agricultural practices and ever-increasing human population and urbanisation. For six districts of south Haryana, essentially, it is only the Aravallis which constitute actual forest cover. If we take that out, only 0.5% of the geographical area of these districts will remain as block forests,” said Sinha.He said urban landscape management, focussing on urban biodiversity, is the need of the hour for Indian cities and this must be kept in mind while preparing the state biodiversity and strategic action plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/biodiversity-plan-to-focus-on-conservation-for-10-years-with-available-resources-101630951847334.html
06-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Debris processing mobile units of MCG unused since 2019||Two mobile units procured by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) for processing construction and demolition (C&D) waste have been lying unused since 2019, three months after they were pressed into service. With debris waste continuing to pile up in the city, officials of the MCG said they are now planning on moving one of the units to Baliawas village, next to the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road.The two units had been set up, at a cost of around ₹12.52 crore, at the auto market in Basai to clear large piles of C&D waste accumulated there. However, within three months of starting operations, work was halted as the MCG’s contractor had not obtained environmental impact assessment (EIA) clearance from the ministry of environment, forest, and climate change (MoEF&CC).Last week, during a review meeting of major MCG projects, officials submitted an update in the matter stating that work is halted due to pending EIA clearance.“Action is being taken against the contractor for starting work without EIA. However, we are proceeding ahead, and planning on using at least one of the machines along Gurgaon-Faridabad Road to clear large piles of C&D waste scattered there. We have identified a site in Baliawas for it. The feasibility, environmental impact, and other such key issues are being looked into,” Sunder Sheoran, executive engineer, Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), MCG, said.The C&D waste mobile crushing and screening units were inaugurated by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in March 2019 and are capable of processing 400 tonnes of waste per day.The then MCG commissioner Yashpal Yadav had stated that the purpose of the two units was to clear legacy waste (C&D waste lying scattered across the city for a long duration) while the Basai C&D plant would process fresh C&D waste.According to MCG officials, the rationale behind placing a mobile unit along Gurgaon-Faridabad Road was to address the production of C&D waste along developing areas of Golf Course Extension Road, while the unit at Basai auto market will be accessible to areas along Dwarka Expressway and residential areas near Manesar border.According to the MCG’s estimate, the city generates around 850 tonnes of C&D waste daily, most of which is scattered on roadsides and vacant plots.“C&D waste is one of the primary reasons behind high levels of air pollution in the city. Besides causing respiratory-related issues, they also choke drains and contribute to waterlogging during the monsoon season. Unless the MCG starts acting on C&D waste on priority, the Basai plant too will meet the similar fate as the Bandhwari plant,” said Vaishali Rana, a city-based environmentalist, adding that she had filed a Right to Information (RTI) petition about the two mobile units in 2019, but failed to get a reply from the MCG.The absence of the mobile units has also impacted production at the Basai C&D waste plant. Due to lack of space for storing raw as well as processed waste, the Basai plant has been functioning at a capacity of 300 tonnes per day despite being equipped to handle 1,800 tonnes per day.Such is the space constraint at the plant that last month, the MCG asked Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) to lease its five-acre plot opposite the plant for storing processed and legacy C&D waste. The move came after a five-member committee, formed to explore ways to increase production of the Basai plant, recommended finding space for storing waste.“From last week, we have started storing processed and legacy waste at GMDA’s site. This will help clear up space at the Basai plant and increase its production capacity,” said Sheoran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-debris-processing-mobile-units-of-mcg-unused-since-2019-101630951846156.html
06-09-2021||Other||Team of 40 Indian scientists claim major find using uGMRT||PUNE A team of 40 scientists from different institutions across the country, under the banner of the Indian Pulsar Timing Array (InPTA), claim to have clear evidence of unexpected changes in a milli-second radio pulsar, using the upgraded Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (uGMRT). Millisecond pulsars are exotic objects in the sky, used to detect ultra-low frequency gravitational waves. As per InPTA, the millisecond pulsars have extreme stable behaviour. This discovery has attracted the attention of astronomers across the globe, because millisecond pulsars are not expected to show such behaviour. Pulsars (PULSAting Radio Stars) are ultra-dense dead stars that act as celestial lighthouses with a radio flash once every rotation of the star. This flashing radio signal, or pulse, has unmatched stability in periods and shapes. The stable shape of their pulses is regarded as their fingerprints and is crucial to extract their clock-like pulse ticks very precisely. Measuring these time ticks for a collection of pulsars is necessary for the detection of nano-Hertz gravitational waves (nHz) in the near future. “Pulsars are bright at lower frequencies and best observed at lower radio frequencies. The uGMRT, located 80 km from Pune, is one of the largest radio telescopes in the world capable of observing at these frequencies. Thus, even minute changes in the pulse shapes can be seen with the uGMRT,” said Bhal Chandra Joshi, a scientist from the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA) Pune. “The Indian Pulsar Timing Array (InPTA) has been regularly monitoring a set of pulsars using the uGMRT for the eventual detection of (nHz) nanohertz gravitational waves. The InPTA is a collaboration of Indian and Japanese astronomers from several institutes. Earlier this year, the InPTA became a part of the International pulsar timing array (IPTA) consortium, which is an international collaboration that aims to detect the elusive nanohertz gravitational waves. Further uGMRT observations are likely to help in unravelling the mysteries behind this unexpected, but interesting event, and eventually help in detection of nanohertz gravitational waves,” he added. Among the set of pulsars being observed, PSR J1713+0747 is one of the most reliable clocks of them all. Ongoing observations between April and May 2021 and thereafter, revealed strong evidence of a fingerprint change in this star disturbing its rhythm and clock behaviour. The InPTA team continued to observe this pulsar to track the changes. With the low radio frequency observations that only the uGMRT can provide, the team established that the change in this event was much larger than ever observed in any other pulsar clock used in PTA experiments. As these experiments require exquisite timing observations, such a change needs to be accounted for to make reliable detection of nanohertz gravitational waves possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/team-of-40-indian-scientists-claim-major-find-using-ugmrt-101630951725179.html
06-09-2021||Delhi||AAP govt in Delhi to give ₹2,000 ‘seed money’ to over 3 lakh school students||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday announced seed money of ₹2,000 for 350,000 students in as many as 1,000 government schools in the national capital under the ‘Seed Money Project’, an initiative by the Union territory’s government to build business skills in students.The announcement was part of Delhi government’s ‘Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum’ that was launched in 2019 with the goal to prepare school-leaving children as job providers rather than job seekers.“This curriculum has made a huge difference in the last two years. A child started making masks, another started teaching yoga. A 12th pass girl, Kajal has created her own accounting company and is giving jobs to 20 people, she has a turnover of ₹15 lakhs. An important component of this curriculum is the Seed Money Project,” he told news agency ANI.Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education minister, said that the project was started in a school in Khichdipur. He noted that a total of 41 children of the school commenced seed money investment by forming nine groups and all of them are “running in profit.”“This is important because, in our country, the solution to unemployment is found politically,” he was quoted as saying.When the initiative began in 2019, the students of the Khichdipur school were given ₹1,000 each as ‘seed money’ under the pilot project. On Monday, Sisodia announced that the amount has been increased to ₹2,000 each and that it will be implemented in all government schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-govt-in-delhi-to-give-rs-2-000-seed-money-to-over-3-lakh-school-students-101630951251045.html
06-09-2021||Other||Allahabad HC dismisses plea challenging taking back land of Jauhar varsity||The Allahabad High Court on Monday dismissed a petition filed by Maulana Mohammad Ali Jauhar Trust against proceedings initiated by the state government. The UP government had initiated proceedings to take over the land of Mohammad Ali Jauhar University for failing to adhere to conditions on which the trust was granted the land in 2005 for the construction of an educational institution.MP, Mohammad Azam Khan is the president of the trust while his wife, Dr Tazeen Fatima, is the secretary and son, Abdullah Azam Khan, is an active member of the Trust.The court said that as per the report of the SDM concerned, a mosque was constructed on the land which was only for educational purposes, and thus, in violation of permission granted by the state government.Justice Rohit Ranjan Agarwal dismissed the petition filed by Maulana Mohammad Ali Jauhar Trust seeking the quashing of the March 16, 2020 report submitted by the SDM with regard to constructions on the land. The trust also sought to quash the additional district magistrate (administration) Rampur’s order, dated January 16, 2021, for vesting of the land in the state.On the argument of the defence counsel that the mosque was built for staff of the university, the court observed, “The argument that the campus had residential premises for teaching as well as non-teaching staff, and so a mosque was constructed for them, cannot be accepted as it goes against the permission granted by the state.”The court said that no interference was required in the order passed by the ADM (administration) Rampur to initiate proceedings under Section 104/105 of the UP Revenue Code, 2006 for vesting of University’s land in UP Govt ie taking over the land given to the Trust.The court said, “It is a case where a large part of land has been purchased as well as certain part of the land belonging to tenure holders and Gaon Sabha has been encroached upon by a former cabinet minister of state for establishing an educational institution pursuant to an Act which has come up in the year 2005. The finding has not been assailed by placing documentary proof that the plots in question were purchased by the Trust and does not belong to Gaon Sabha or the tenure holders, who have initiated proceedings under Section 134 of the Code.”“From the order impugned, I find that the revenue authority, after considering not only the report dated 16.3.2020 but also the reply of the petitioner, as well as the representation of the State, had in depth recorded finding as to the violation of law and condition by the Trust in setting up the educational institution. The order impugned has rightly been passed in the proceedings under Section 104/105 of Code and the land except 12.50 acres vest in the State Government.”In 2005, the state government enacted the Mohammad Ali Jauhar University Act, paving the way for the creation of the university.Thereafter, the state government granted permission to Maulana Mohammad Ali Jauhar Trust to acquire 400 acres of land against the ceiling of 12.5 acres (5.0586 hectares) for the establishment of the university while imposing certain conditions one of which was that the land will be used only for educational purposes.As per law, if such restriction/ condition is violated, the permission granted by the state government stands withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-hc-dismisses-plea-challenging-taking-back-land-of-jauhar-varsity-101630951606519.html
06-09-2021||Noida||Elderly couple robbed of ₹2 lakh on pretext of lift in Greater Noida||An elderly couple was allegedly robbed of ₹2 lakh in cash on Sunday by four unidentified men on the pretext of providing them a lift in their car in an area under the Surajpur police jurisdiction.The incident took place around 9am when the couple was waiting at Pari Chowk for public transport to visit their daughter’s house in Sector Alpha 1, police said. According to the complainant, Rajbeer Singh (60), he and his wife were waiting for some public transport when a Swift car stopped before them. “The driver offered us a lift. There were three more people in the car. Thinking it to be a shared cab, we got in. But after going some distance, they asked us to hand over the cash and valuables,” Singh, a native of Bulandshahr, said in his police complaint.According to police, the suspects threatened the couple when they resisted. The four took the money from them, along with the woman’s earrings, before abandoning them at some place in Surajpur, police said. The victims took help from passersby to inform police about the incident, following which a team from Surajpur police station was rushed to the spot.Based on the complaint, a case of robbery under Section 392 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Surajpur police station against the unidentified suspects.Police suspect the four to be part of a gang involved in such incidents in the district. “The couple was robbed of ₹2 lakh, but luckily they did not sustain any injuries in the incident. We are scanning the footage from CCTV cameras in the area to identify the vehicle and the suspects. A probe in the matter is underway,” said Ajay Kumar, station house officer, Surajpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/elderly-couple-robbed-of-2-lakh-on-pretext-of-lift-in-greater-noida-101630951605186.html
06-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad administers over 2.1 million doses so far, ranks second in UP||Ghaziabad on Monday achieved its target of administering 62,100 vaccine doses against Covid-19 and replaced Gautam Budh Nagar as the district with the second-highest number of doses administered in Uttar Pradesh since the vaccination drive began on January 16.According to Co-WIN portal at 9pm, Ghaziabad on Monday administered 69,028 doses taking its total to 2,160,921, while Gautam Budh Nagar administered 25,952 taking its total to 2,151,276. Lucknow remained at the top of the list with 2,940,252 doses. Uttar Pradesh administered 3.1 million doses on the day taking its total to over 8 million.District officials said that the numbers would continue to be updated through the night, but it was unlikely that Ghaziabad would lose its spot.Monday was the first mega vaccination drive of the month. August had three such drives and Ghaziabad consistently surpassed its target by several thousands, even topping the state list. “For the mega drive, the state government gave us a target of 62,100 doses and we had a stock of 80,000. We surpassed that with the help of 161 Covid vaccination centres (CVCs),” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid vaccination. “Of late, our vaccination coverage has increased as our daily allocation of vaccines from the state government was increased from 16,000 to 23,000. During the mega drives which have taken place so far, we achieved targets and also did more vaccination. If we get sufficient stock of vaccine, the district has potential to administer about 50,000 doses daily even during non-mega drive days.”During the first mega drive on August 3, the district administered 79,822 doses, while it administered 42,444 and 67,040 doses during the second and third drives on August 16 and 27, respectively.The figures of the Cowin portal on Monday also stated that the overall coverage include 4,80,667 second doses which is about 22.24% of overall 21,60,921 vaccination doses till 8pm on Monday. “The coverage of vaccination is increasing, and focus should also be to increase the coverage of second dose. As, it is only after both the doses, a beneficiary gets required protection from infection. Such drives should be held regularly now to increase coverage ahead of any eventuality of a third Covid wave,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). Of the overall doses, the district has so far administered 1303870 doses in 18-45 age group. Of the overall doses, about 43.6% doses were administered to women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-administers-over-2-1-million-doses-so-far-ranks-second-in-up-101630951545836.html
06-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Farmers protest at GDA headquarters, demand hiked land compensation||Ghaziabad: Hundreds of farmers from six villages protested outside the headquarters of the Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) for nearly three hours on Monday morning, demanding an increased compensation for their land acquired for the Madhuban-Bapudham housing scheme near the Delhi-Meerut Road. People reached the main gate of the GDA’s headquarters in tractors, trolleys and other vehicles and raised slogans against the authority and demanded a hiked compensation for their land acquired by the GDA in 2007.“About 200-250 farmers from the six affected villages -- Sadarpur, Minapur, Nagla Par, Duhai and Morta -- have been demanding a hiked land compensation for the past several years, but the authority did not pay any heed to their demand. Each farmer had got ₹1,100 per square metre compensation for his/her land in the past, but now they need the land compensation according to the new land Act,” said Rajbir Singh, a farmer leader and state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).“We protested for nearly three hours. Some GDA officials also arrived for talks, but the vice chairperson was not available. So, we decided to hold talks again next Monday,” Singh added.The housing scheme is spread over an area of more than 1,250 acre across several villages and the land will be used for the development of 20,000 housing units. In 2004, farmers having 281-acre land had challenged the GDA’s land acquisition process, in which the emergency clause was invoked.The aggrieved farmers moved the high court in 2008 but failed to get any relief. They later moved the Supreme Court through a petition. The apex court, in its judgment in November 2017, directed that a revised compensation needs to be paid according to the provisions of the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation & Resettlement Act, 2013, to the petitioner farmers.The GDA also arranged ₹1,200 crore, including loan from banks, for the hiked compensation. Officials said that they have acquired the entire land for the scheme but have physical possession of only about 50% land.“The hiked land compensation as directed by the apex court was meant only for the petitioner farmers. Farmers, who protested on Monday were given prevailing rates, but they are now demanding a hiked compensation. They have been called for talks next week, and after the assurance of a dialogue they vacated the protest area,” said Ashish Shivpuri, chief architect and town planner, GDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-farmers-protest-at-gda-headquarters-demand-hiked-land-compensation-101630951545275.html
06-09-2021||Noida||IIT-Delhi to assess Noida’s pollution sources||The Noida regional office of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has approached IIT-Delhi to assess the sources of air pollution, a first for the city, in a bid to deploy effective control measures before October when the air quality starts deteriorating in the National Capital Region.Despite the city figuring among the most polluted in the country in several surveys, there is yet to be a survey to assess the source of emissions and the kind of aerosols so produced. Noida, like other cities in the NCR, suffers severe levels of air pollution from October through February, due to several artificial and meteorological factors.Officials from UPPCB said they will soon start field inspections and check hot spots [where pollution levels are generally high] for better remedial actions. IIT-Delhi is the knowledge partner and institute of repute (IOR) for Noida and Ghaziabad. In March, the cities and IIT-Delhi signed a memorandum of agreement to this effect wherein the institute will help them with technical support, identifying sources and methods to tackle air pollution.UPPCB Noida regional officer Praveen Kumar said the board will soon sign a contract with the IIT to conduct the survey. “The conditions of the contract are being formalised for the study that will measure emissions, inventory development and source apportionment for Noida. After that we will be in a position to assess the actual sources so that we can take remedial actions accordingly. We will also keep an eye on the violations related to the construction and demolition waste,” said Kumar.According to the IIT Delhi, centre for atmospheric sciences, associate professor Sagnik Dey, while there could be many sources of emissions in both Noida and Ghaziabad, a big chunk of pollution comes from Delhi.“Both Noida and Ghaziabad are on downwind of Delhi, so emissions from there end up in the two cities, just like Delhi receives emissions from Haryana and Punjab. There would certainly be other sources of pollution as well in Noida, which would be almost similar as those in Delhi. So far, we have very little knowledge about Noida in terms of sources, so this study would be a first. In fact, no other NCR city, other than Delhi, has had such a survey done,” said Dey .The study Dey is referring to is one that was done by IIT Kanpur in 2015, which found that in winter vehicles contributed nearly 25% of the PM2.5 (particulate matter of size 2.5 microns or less that can enter bloodstream and penetrate organs leading to higher risk of cancer and other diseases) and biomass burning contributed 26%. Noida is among 132 cities in the country selected for the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) — a long-term and time-bound national level strategy to tackle air pollution across the country in a comprehensive manner. It has targets to achieve 20% to 30% reduction in particulate matter concentration by 2024 with 2017 as the base year. According to a 2020 report by IQAir, a US and Swiss-based air quality solution company, which has assessed a total of 98 countries and over 600 cities, Noida and Greater Noida were the fifth and ninth most polluted cities, respectively, based on the annual average concentration of PM2.5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/iitdelhi-to-assess-noida-s-pollution-sources-101630951128244.html
06-09-2021||Noida||Emerald Court case: SIT seeks details from Noida officials||The special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe violations in the map approval of the Supertech’s Emerald Court project on Monday held a meeting with senior officials of the Noida authority at the authority’s main administrative building in Sector 6. During the meeting, the Noida authority’s chief architect gave a detailed presentation on the controversial project, officials said, adding that the authority’s chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari was also present in the meeting. The four-member SIT, headed by UP industrial development commissioner (IDC) Sanjeev Mittal, gave special emphasis on sequence of notices to Supertech for this project. “The SIT sought details of all notices issued to the Supertech Group from 2004 to 2012, when the building map was revised for the last time. We have provided all details of notices, approval and revisions of map, and approval of floor area ratio, among others,” said a Noida authority official not authorised to speak to the media. According to the officials, only two members of the SIT -- Mittal and ADG (police) Rajeev Sabharwal -- reached the Noida authority office around 12pm on Monday, while the other two members -- additional chief secretary (revenue) Manoj Singh and UP’s chief town and rural planner Anup Kumar -- will come to Noida on Tuesday. The SIT was formed by the state government on September 2, two days after the Supreme Court ordered the demolition of Apex and Ceyane towers in the Emerald Court project in Noida’s Sector 93A over grave violation of building norms. The court said the violation was a result of “nefarious complicity” between the Noida authority and the real estate developer. The government has given a week’s time to the team to submit the report. Meanwhile, Supertech Group managing director Mohit Arora, in a video message, appealed to his investors that they do not need to worry about future of their respective projects. “There are rumours of different kinds about Supertech’s all projects after the Supreme Court’s order on Emerald twin towers. We would like to inform that ongoing proceedings in connection to the Emerald Court will not affect delivery of other projects. We respect honourable court order and will use legal options available. We are developing 60 million square feet area in all projects and will deliver as per schedule. Emerald only involves 600,000 sq ft area, so it will not affect interest of investors in other projects,” said Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/emerald-court-case-sit-seeks-details-from-noida-officials-101630951125049.html
06-09-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka civic polls: BJP retains Belagavi, Congress bags Kalaburagi||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won the civic body elections in Belagavi while the Congress secured the municipal corporation in Kalaburgi, leaving a hung house in Hubbali-Dharwad, after the results of the North Karnataka municipal elections were announced on Monday.As many as 1,100 candidates were in the fray from 195 wards in Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Kalaburagi as the municipakl corporations went to the polls on Friday. The BJP won 35 of the 58 wards in Belagavi, while the independent candidates got 12 seats, pushing Congress to the third position with 10 seats. The AIMIM could manage its foot-hold in only one seat.In Kalaburagi, the Congress won 27 out of 55 wards to emerge as the single-largest party while the BJP got 23 seats to retain its second position, followed by four seats by JDS and one by an independent candidate. Meanwhile, in Hubballi-Dharwad, of the 82 wards that went to the polls, the BJP bagged 39 seats and Congress 33 while the independent candidates, AIMIM and JDS secures six, three and one seats, respectively. The civic body elections in these North Karnataka towns assumed significance for conducting the polls for the first time after chief minister Basavaraj Bommai took over the reins of the BJP government in the state from BS Yediyurappa in July.ಚುನಾವಣೆ ಗೆಲುವಿನ ಶ್ರೇಯಕ್ಕೆ ಕಾರಣೀಕರ್ತರಾಗಿರುವ ಅವರಿಗೆ ಧನ್ಯವಾದಗಳನ್ನು ಅರ್ಪಸುತ್ತೇನೆ. ಚುನಾವಣೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಸಕ್ರೀಯವಾಗಿ ಹಗಲಿರುಳು ಶ್ರಮಿಸಿರುವ,ಚುನಾವಣೆ ಪ್ರಚಾರ ಕಾರ್ಯದಲ್ಲಿ ಉಸ್ತುವಾರಿ ಸಚಿವರು, ಶಾಸಕರು, ಪಕ್ಷದ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧ್ಯಕ್ಷರು ಪ್ರಧಾನ ಕಾರ್ಯದರ್ಶಿಗಳು,ಪದಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಕಾರ್ಯಕರ್ತರಿಗೆ ಧನ್ಯವಾದಗಳನ್ನು ಅರ್ಪಿಸುತ್ತೇನೆ.3/3Taking to Twitter, Bommai congratulated the BJP councillors for their victory and thanked the voters to bringing them back to power in Belagavi. He also dubbed the results a “clean sweep”. Earlier in the day, Karnataka BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel echoed the remarks of Union home minister Amit Shah on winning the assembly elections in 2023 under the leadership of Basavaraj Bommai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-civic-polls-bjp-retains-belagavi-congress-bags-kalaburagi-101630947484816.html
06-09-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow gives its best shot with over 1 lakh jabs in a day||LUCKNOW Lucknow on Monday became the first district in UP to inoculate over 1 lakh people in a single day since vaccination began on January 16 this year. The state capital exceeded its target of 86,400 doses for the day by administering 1,03,143 doses, which was the highest in the division and state, according to a press statement by the district administration. Prior to this, Lucknow’s highest single-day vaccination was 92,274 doses on August 27, followed by Sitapur (89,080 doses).“By 9pm, 1,03,143 doses had been administered in Lucknow. No other district has achieved this figure in a single day,” said Dr MK Singh, in-charge vaccination in Lucknow. “At least 250 doses of the vaccine were available at each booth,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer, Lucknow. A large number of beneficiaries began reaching vaccination centres in the city around 9am and long queues were seen at vaccination centres at workplaces that facilitated walk-in vaccination facility. As many as 195 vaccination centres with 461 booths were set up in Lucknow. A total of 104 centres were workplace vaccination centres where walk-in registration facility was available. “Over 21.32 lakh first doses and over 8.07 lakh second doses have been administered in the state capital. This means, over 22% Lucknowites are fully vaccinated (both the doses). Total vaccination in Lucknow reached 2940252 doses,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.Several organisations also organised vaccination camps. The Indian Industries Association, AMA Herbal Group, and Anantsheel Foundation collectively organised a free Covid vaccination camp on Talkatora Road. On-the-spot registration facility was available here.However, beneficiaries faced issues at a few centres. At Ambedkar Park in Balaganj, a few of them decided to return and come again next day after waiting for over two hours. “I have to attend office and I can’t wait any longer,” said a beneficiary. Overcrowding was seen at the special camp at Kalicharan Degree College in Chowk. Officials said no major complaint was received. “Everything went off smoothly. There might be some minor and temporary issues at a few places but no major complaint was received,” said Dr Singh. At least 44 centres inoculated people till 10 pm, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-gives-its-best-shot-with-over-1-lakh-jabs-in-a-day-101630948365417.html
06-09-2021||Kolkata||Suvendu Adhikari skips CID summon; gets interim relief from Calcutta HC||Leader of the opposition in the West Bengal Legislative Assembly and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Suvendu Adhikari did not appear before the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) in connection with the probe into the death of his bodyguard, even as the Calcutta high court stayed the fresh probe initiated by the CID after three years, his lawyers said. “The Calcutta high court has stayed the fresh probe initiated by the CID, three years after the death of Adhikari’s security body-guard in 2018,” said B Bhattacharya, Adhikari’s lawyer. He also said that the court also put a stay on the two other cases in which Adhikari has been named. While one pertains to post-poll violence in Nandigram, another is a snatching case at Panskura. “In two other cases, the court has said that investigators can question him at a place of Adhikari’s choice but would not be able to take any coercive action. In future too if any fresh cases are lodged, coercive actions can’t be taken against Adhikari without the court’s permission,” Bhattacharya added. Earlier in the day, Adhikari was summoned by the CID for questioning in connection with the death case of his bodyguard. Adhikari, however, sent an email to the investigating agency saying that he has some political engagements due to which he would be unable to appear for questioning. In July, the CID initiated a fresh probe into the death of Adhikari’s security guard who reportedly died by suicide in 2018, officials said. The victim’s wife had lodged a complaint demanding a fresh probe.“We have to see the high court’s order first, to comment on it. But what I came to know is that in some of the cases the court has kept the option open wherein Adhikari may be questioned by the police. He wanted to avoid any kind of investigation. The court didn’t allow it,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson. Meanwhile, Trinamool Congress’ national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, who happens to be the nephew of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, appeared before the Enforcement Directorate on Monday in connection with the alleged multi-crore coal smuggling scam.Earlier, the central agency had summoned Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rujira Banerjee for questioning in the same case. Rujira Banerjee, however, had expressed her inability to appear before the agency in New Delhi citing the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. She had instead requested ED officials to visit her residence in Kolkata. On November 27, 2020, the CBI’s Kolkata Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) registered a case of corruption and criminal breach of trust with regard to illegal mining and pilferage of coal from Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL). The ED took up the investigation based on the FIR registered by the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/suvendu-adhikari-skips-cid-summon-gets-interim-relief-from-calcutta-hc-101630948069052.html
06-09-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand assembly: BJP creates ruckus over ‘Namaz room’||The second day of the Monsoon session of the Jharkhand assembly was almost washed away on Monday with the opposition BJP legislators disrupting House proceedings, demanding withdrawal of an office order allocating a dedicated room in the Assembly complex for Muslims to offer prayers. The BJP went on to describe the aforesaid Secretariat’s notification of allocating a “Namaaz Kaksh”, made official on September 2, as “Muslim appeasement”. The party legislators, wearing saffron stoles, also organised religious song event, or ‘Kirtan’, on the steps of the Assembly with musical instruments before the start of the day’s proceedings. Taking their protest inside the House when it convened around 11.15am, the BJP legislators disrupted proceedings and entered the well, demanding the Speaker to take up their adjournment motions on two issues--withdrawal of prayer room notification and the recently cleared employment policy by the Hemant Soren government. As Speaker Rabindranath Mahto continued with the list of day’s business, taking up short notice questions, the BJP legislators started raising slogans and chants of “Jai Shri Ram” and “Har Har Mahadev”. Though the Speaker assured the BJP that he would take up adjournment motion later in the day, the party members continued with their demand, with at least two legislators--Bhanu Pratap Shahi and Randhir Singh--going as far as scaling the reporters’ chairs. As the din continued, the Speaker adjourned the House within 15 minutes till 12.45 noon. After the House resumed, the BJP legislators continued with their protest as the Speaker turned down all adjournment motions. It led to another round of adjournment till lunch. The BJP intensified their protest post lunch, as the Speaker initiated a discussion on inflation. Both the BJP and it’s ally, AJSU Party, protested the discussion, saying that a Business Advisory Committee meeting decided that both inflation and unemployment would be taken up for discussion. However, the parties alleged, that the government has deliberately dropped unemployment from the motion of discussion. As the BJP continued with its protest inside the well, the Speaker adjourned the proceedings till Tuesday. Hitting back at the main Opposition party while speaking to media persons outside the House, chief minister (CM) Hemant Soren said the BJP was raking up the prayer room notification, as they have no credible issue to raise. “A conduct such as this in the House has been one of the major obstacles in the development of the state. Today, we were prepared to debate and answer all issues on matters during the CM Question Hour, but it did not happen,” Soren said. Replying to a specific question that if he agreed with his Cabinet colleague Mithilesh Thakur’s suggestion of changing the nomenclature of the dedicated room to “prayer room”, that can be used by people of all faiths, the CM said, “If you have faith and God in your heart, there would not be any problem. But, if you have demons in your heart, everyone would seem like an enemy.” Meanwhile, other treasury bench members defended the notification, saying it was “nothing new” and there has been a precedence of it in the state Assembly as well as in other states.“I spoke to Inder Singh Namdhari (first Speaker of the Jharkhand assembly) and he clearly recalled that a room was dedicated for the purpose even when BJP was in power at the time. The BJP is unnecessarily making an issue. If they are so serious about it, why don’t they make a similar demand to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, as a similar room exists at the Bihar assembly as well,” said finance minister Rameshwar Oraon. BJP’s chief whip Biranchi Narayan challenged the state government to show any such notification from the past. “It’s an open challenge that the government produce any notification to that effect from the past. They are clearly opting for Muslim appeasement, and we will not allow the House to function until the notification is withdrawn,” he said. Mandar legislator Bandhu Tirkey, a former minister and currently one of the four working presidents of the Jharkhand Congress, suggested there was nothing new in the notification, and the government could form a committee to look into old records. First chief minister of the state and currently BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi underlined that even if there had been such a precedence in the past, it was wrong and the new notification should be withdrawn. “This is a temple of democracy and only Babasaheb Ambedkar should be worshipped here,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-assembly-bjp-creates-ruckus-over-namaz-room-101630947945285.html
06-09-2021||Patna||Covid-19: Fully vaccinated doc tests positive second time as Bihar crosses 4 crore doses||A young doctor at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) tested positive for Covid-19 the second time on Monday, despite being fully vaccinated, when Bihar crossed administering 4 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine to its 7.22 crore target population, achieving over 1,633,358 vaccinations during the day till 9pm, when the country touched one crore vaccinations on Monday. The young assistant professor in gynaecology oncology was vaccinated in January and March but tested positive for SARS CoV-2, the virus that causes coronavirus, in the first week of May, said hospital authorities. “She developed high fever again on Wednesday and complained of severe body pain on Friday. The next day, though her fever subsided, she complained of loss of smell and taste. She tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday,” said Dr Manish Mandal, medical superintendent of the IGIMS. Meanwhile, the state seemed on course to be somewhere around, if not surpass, its previous highest score of having administered 2,757,931 doses of the Covid-19 vaccines to beneficiaries on August 31, on the first day of the two-day mega vaccination camp Tuesday, said officials in the health department. As many as 34,093,203had taken the first dose and 6,998,037 had completed both the shots out of the 41,091,240 doses administered since the pan India launch of the Covid-19 vaccination programme on January 16, as per government data. “I am happy to announce to the people of Bihar that the state has crossed administering 4 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccines,” said Mangal Pandey, Bihar’s health minister in a tweet. At the top of the day’s vaccination chart was East Champaran, which had administered 121,374 doses out of the total 2,116,664 doses administered so far. Muzaffarpur, with the day’s tally of 96,652 doses out of the total 1,763,711 doses administered, and Patna with 91,981 doses out of the total 4,128,659 doses administered completed the top three performing districts in the state. Bihar had set up 9,352 vaccination session sites across the state of which 9,341 were operated under the public sector and 11 under private. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had set a target of administering six crore doses in six months to its people, beginning July..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-fully-vaccinated-doc-tests-positive-second-time-as-bihar-crosses-4-crore-doses-101630947285050.html
06-09-2021||Other||Stay united, take Punjab govt’s achievements to people, Jakhar to Cong leaders||Bathinda Former Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar on Monday said that political wrangling within the party is hampering the vital political process of communicating the state government’s achievements among the citizenry. “It is a cause of concern that the party cadre is unable to fully leverage even a major government decision like doubling of social security pension,” said Jakhar, adding that all party leaders must desist from creating trouble. He did not take names nor did he elaborate. He appealed to the Congress leadership and the party cadre to act unitedly to take the government’s achievements to people on the ground, so that the party could perform well in the next assembly elections.“An increase in pension from ₹750 to ₹1,500 is a major decision. We need to take such decisions to each household so that electorate could be more aware of these achievements,” he said.The Congress high command has also directed the state leadership to take Captain Amarinder Singh government’s achievements to the people. “Due to lack of coordination in the party, we are unable to do so. It is the time for all to get united,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stay-united-take-punjab-govt-s-achievements-to-people-jakhar-to-cong-leaders-101630946804922.html
06-09-2021||Patna||WRD exploring ways to interlink small rivers in Bihar, says CM||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said that the water resources department (WRD) has been carrying out studies about the scope of interlinking of small rivers to minimise the scale of devastation due to recurring floods. Talking to media persons after the Janata Darbar — a routine event where people can meet the CM and raise their grievances against the system —Kumar said that the state has been incurring heavy losses due to the recurring floods. “The WRD is exploring the scope and discussing ways to interlink small rivers. Nearly 57 lakh people have been hit by the current spells of floods, which are not over yet. All the concerned departments have been asked to stay alert to meet any eventuality,” said the CM, adding that he had visited many flood-affected areas over the past few weeks. To a query regarding his assurance to look into the scope of lessening the burden of inflation due to heavy taxes on petroleum products, Kumar urged the people to stay prepared for some hard times. “The country is passing through a tough time due to the pandemic. The centre as well as the state government is spending a huge amount to tide over the crisis. The state government has spent more than ₹10,000 crore on Covid management,” he said. In an apparent justification of the government’s reluctance to step in and curb inflation, Kumar said that the government’s top priority was to eradicate the pandemic and at the same time carrying on with its development agenda. “People must stay away from raking up the issue of price rise owing to the difficult times the country is grappling with. Everything would be normal once the Covid thing is gone,” said the CM. Regarding the state’s plea for conducting the caste-based census, Kumar said that he had nothing more to comment on it, as the Centre was required to take a call on once they (leaders from Bihar) had discussed the issue with the PM. “It will benefit all sections of the society and in no way fan hatred in the society,” added Kumar. Earlier at Janata Darbar, a girl from Samastipur had accused a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of sexually exploiting her and said she resorted to raising the issue before the chief minister after the attempts to lodge a case against the policemen was aborted by the department’s officials. A widow from Valmikinagar in West Champaran alleged that the police were not taking action against local Janata Dal (United) MLA Rinku Singh, on whose behest her husband was killed in February this year..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/wrd-exploring-ways-to-interlink-small-rivers-in-bihar-says-cm-101630946564920.html
06-09-2021||Ranchi||Ruckus in Jharkhand assembly over Namaz room: CM Soren says 'this kind of mentality is a barrier to development'||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday slammed the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after its leaders created a ruckus in the state assembly over the allotment of a room for offering namaaz in the premises. "This kind of mentality is a barrier to the state's development," he said while speaking to reporters.Chaos ensued on Monday in the Jharkhand assembly after the BJP legislators jumped into the well of the assembly and raised slogans such as "Jai Shri Ram" (Glory to Lord Rama), while protesting against the decision to allot a separate room for offering namaaz. Some MLAs also disrupted the proceedings by sitting on the stairs at the entrance of the assembly chanting Hanuman Chalisa and 'Hare Rama' with placards.During the uproar, speaker Ravindra Nath Mahto urged the BJP members, including Bhanu Pratap Shahi, to go back to their seats. "You are good members. Please cooperate with the Chair," he said while trying to maintain calm.The opposition leaders are demanding withdrawal of the order pertaining to the allotment of the namaaz room. During the protests, Shahi and Chandreshwar Prasad Singh also demanded adjournment motion objecting to discussion on inflation alone as the Business Advisory Committee had agreed to take up discussion on employment policy too.On Sunday, the BJP workers burnt the effigies of chief minister Hemant Soren and the speaker during protests across the state against the decision. The speaker has allotted room number TW 348 for offering namaaz, prompting demand from the BJP to build a Hanuman temple and places of worship of other religions in the assembly premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ruckus-in-jharkhand-assembly-over-namaz-room-cm-soren-says-this-kind-of-mentality-is-a-barrier-to-development-101630945680064.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||District status to Batala already under consideration: Capt Amarinder||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday said the demand for declaring Batala a district was already under consideration and various issues involved were being weighed before taking a decision. The chief minister was responding to the demand raised by his cabinet colleagues Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. He said there were media reports that residents of Batala, too, have demanded the district status. The chief minister they (Tript and Sukhjinder) didn’t deem it fit to discuss the issue with him before shooting off a joint letter. “Had they come to me and spoken about it, I would have told them that I am already looking into the matter, and would have even consulted them in this regard,” said Amarinder. Amarinder said Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa had already demanded a district status for Batala through a letter dated August 11, 2021, citing Batala’s historical importance in Sikhism. “I will discuss the issue with various stakeholders before taking a decision,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/district-status-to-batala-already-under-consideration-capt-amarinder-101630945851385.html
06-09-2021||Other||April 30, 2022 - finish date for Lohegaon airport’s multilevel parking project||PUNE Santosh Dhoke, director, Lohegaon airport, on Monday set a deadline by which the multilevel car parking facility coming up at the airport will be completed - April 30, 2022.“Car parking is one of the major problems at the airport with non-availability of space. To ease this problem, we have decided to build multilevel parking, which will cost around Rs120 crore. It is expected to be completed by April 30, 2022,” said Dhoke, who took charge as director in the first week of Augus. He added, “The benefit of this facility will be that flyers will have easy access to park fou-wheelers.” Construction work on the parking facility began in January 2020.Two waves of Covid-19 severely impacted work at two on-going airport projects – the new terminal and multi-level car parking.“The pandemic has slowed down the work and let’s hope the anticipated third wave does not come and things become normal at the airport,” said Dhoke.The much awaited new terminal is expected to be completed by September 2022.“Sixty-one per cent of the project is completed and if all goes well and there is no anticipated third wave, then we are expecting to get it completed by September 2022. The building will increase passenger capacity by two times. The expanded airport will provide an international travel experience for flyers,” added Dhoke. On Pune airport getting more flights, Dhoke said, “We hope passenger footfall increases at Pune airport, then we can expect more flights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/april-30-2022-finish-date-for-lohegaon-airport-s-multilevel-parking-project-101630945364046.html
06-09-2021||Other||Belgavi civic polls: MES suffers defeat, BJP takes control of civic body||PUNE The Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) fighting for merger of Marathi-speaking border areas of Karnataka into Maharashtra, won only three of 58 seats, while the BJP managed to clinch 36 seats in the Belgavi City Corporation polls. The counting of votes was held on Monday. MES, whose candidates contested as independents since the outfit is not recognised as a political party by election commission (EC) along with other parties had previously controlled the civic body. This is its second successive loss after a poor showing in the recently held Lok Sabha bypolls and has put question marks on its support base which it claims wants to go with Maharashtra. The Congress party’s plans wrest control of the civic body by roping in the MES and independent candidates failed, as it eventually accounted for just nine seats, with Independents also winning the same number of seats. The AIMIM sprang a surprise, winning one of the six seats it contested This was the first time at the local level that Marathi speaking voters from Belgavi chose a national party, ignoring the MES, which enjoyed support of these voters for over three decades. Earlier, on most occasions, the MES supported by local groups controlled the civic body. However, this was for the first time major political parties fielded candidates in the elections to the corporation Political observers feel after this election outcome, the politics over Kannada-Marathi language speaking population which hitherto had played out at a local level, may lose its sharpness. Reacting to the BJP’s win and MES loss during the polls, Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut said, “The BJP ruled Karnataka government and took several steps to ensure defeat of MES, which is also a defeat of the Marathi population. The outcome is unfortunate for us.” The 13 members who won from the BJP are Marathi speaking, said the party leaders. The more than six-decade-old dispute being fought by Maharashtra and Karnataka with he former laying its claim on border areas, including Belgavi, Karwar and Nipani, reached the Supreme Court in 2004 and is stuck there. The dispute between the two states goes back to 1954 when Belgaum and other border areas went to Karnataka during reorganisation of the states on a linguistic basis. Belgaum being the Marathi dominant area, later continued its struggle for its merger with Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/belgavi-civic-polls-mes-suffers-defeat-bjp-takes-control-of-civic-body-101630945064029.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy embezzlement case: High court stays conviction of former MLA Mangat Rai Bansal||Chandigarh The high court has stayed the conviction of former MLA Mangat Rai Bansal after finding that former special judge, Central Bureau Investigation (CBI), Hemant Gopal, was indicted for bribery in the case involving Bansal. Mangat Rai Bansal, who was convicted and awarded 7 years imprisonment on charges of cheating and criminal conspiracy in October 2013, can now contest the Punjab assembly polls in 2022. “Though no final order has been passed by the hon’ble High Court qua Hemant Gopal, additional district and sessions judge, who is continuing under suspension for the last about 4 years yet prima facie, his indictment as per the enquiry report is apparent on record, therefore, this application is allowed, the impugned judgment of conviction and order of sentence shall remain stayed during the pendency of the appeal and will have no adverse effect on the civil rights of the petitioner,” justice Arvind Sangwan said in the judgment released on Monday. The bribery case against the judge pertained to allegations by one of the accused in a paddy embezzlement case that Singla, a law officer with the Punjab government, ‘struck a deal’ on behalf of Gopal. The accused, Mangat Rai Bansal, had circulated a compact disc showing Singla collecting ₹40 lakh as bribe from another accused in the case, Parminder Singh, allegedly on the behalf of the judge. The date of this ‘collection’ was stated to be April 17, 2013. The CBI court presided over by Gopal convicted 22 accused including Bansal and three FCI officials. But two accused Bachni Devi and Parminder Singh, who allegedly paid the bribe, were acquitted. The conviction order was passed in October 2013 in the 1999 case of embezzlement of ₹1.8 crore for which CBI had registered an FIR in 1999. The trial court judgment was subsequently challenged in the high court and is admitted for hearing. In August this year, Mangat Rai Bansal had filed a fresh plea seeking stay on conviction in view of the fact that the presiding officer who convicted him has been indicted in the departmental proceedings. He had argued that in 2017, he was denied ticket in view of conviction and now as assembly elections are slated for February 2022, conviction be stayed, so that he can contest assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paddy-embezzlement-case-high-court-stays-conviction-of-former-mla-mangat-rai-bansal-101630944706140.html
06-09-2021||Other||Amritsar-Rome direct flight resumes from September 8||Amritsar The Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Amritsar, will now be reconnected to its third city in Europe, Rome, from September 8. National carrier, Air India, will fly to the Italian capital under its Vande Bharat mission, with London and Birmingham already connected to the world famous holy city. According to schedule that Air India has released, the flight AI123 will take off from Amritsar every Wednesday at 3.55pm, with arrival in Rome the same day at 8.20pm local time. The return flight AI122 will depart from Rome the next day, Thursday, at 7pm and reach Amritsar on Friday morning at 5.35am. The bookings will remain open till October 28, which is the end of summer season in airline industry. Air India will operate its Boeing 787 Dreamliner on this route.Sameep Singh Gumtala, global convener, FlyAmritsar Initiative, said, “The resumption of this flight has resulted with Italy relaxing restrictions on passengers arriving from India. This is a big relief for thousands of Punjabis, who got stranded due Italy’s decision to ban direct flights April 2021.”He added, “Those stranded had no other option, except to pay very high fares to travel via other countries, on regular or chartered flights, and complete quarantine requirements during the transit. This direct flight will now reduce cost, while also reducing travel time to seven-eight hours,” said Gumtala.Yogesh Kamra, member of the Airport Advisory Committee (AAC), said, “Amritsar is India’s only airport, directly connected to two airports in the UK. With the resumption of Rome flight, it will be the only airport in India, after Delhi, to be connected to three cities in Europe.”“Now, exporting perishable cargo needs to be a priority with the Punjab government and our farmers. The diaspora in the UK, Italy and other countries have a year-round demand for vegetables from the hinterland and this demand should benefit our local farmers. Air India and the district administration should set up a facility to source, sort and pack in-demand perishable vegetables and processed food,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsarrome-direct-flight-resumes-from-september-8-101630944645840.html
06-09-2021||Other||For first time in about a month, 20% of Odisha’s Covid cases are below 18 years||The Covid-19 infection among children and adolescents below the age of 18 years in Odisha reached 20 per cent on Monday but the health department said it may not be a matter of panic.Of the 609 who tested positive for Covid-19 in Odisha in the last 24 hours, 122 were below 18 years of age. On Sunday, this age group accounted for 16.27 per cent of total cases of infections in the state while the figure stood at 17.32 per cent on Saturday.However, the daily positivity ratio stood at 0.93 per cent.Director of health services, Dr Bijoy Mohapatra, said there should not be any panic as the number of children who need hospitalisation is less than 1 per cent. “About 0.8 per cent of the infected children are in general beds of Covid hospital while 0.3 per cent are in ICU. No one is on ventilator yet,” said Dr Mohapatra.He said one also needs to analyse the infection rate among children below 18 years before pressing the panic button. “We are doing more testing for children below 18 years and have started a vigorous contact tracing of the children who came in contact with the infected ones. We are in the process of curating the total number of samples tested for those below 18 years and those who tested positive. Once we calculate the infection rate, that would give us a better idea of the spread of infection,” he said.Health officials, however, said there should not be any room for complacency regarding children as they have not been inoculated.Mohapatra said the ongoing serological surveillance on Covid-19 in Odisha will focus on those below 18 years as the rate of infection among children and adolescents.Though all previous serological surveys in Odisha were done among adults, the high rate of infection among those below 18 years was the reason for the current survey that is being carried out in 12 districts by the ICMR’s Regional Medical Research Centre in Bhubaneswar.ICMR officials said the seropositivity rate would generate evidence on the exposure of children and adolescents to the virus and help the government decide on the opening of schools. So far, schools in Odisha have been opened for students of Class 9, 10, 11 and 12 since July, but it is not compulsory for students to attend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/for-first-time-in-about-a-month-20-of-odisha-s-covid-cases-are-below-18-years-101630944644592.html
06-09-2021||Pune||Burglars strike house of two nephews of former MLA in Pune, steal valuables worth ₹53 lakh||PUNE: The Pune police are on a lookout for three suspects for stealing valuables worth ₹53 lakh from homes of two nephews of ex-MLA Rambhau Moze. Gold and cash worth ₹53 lakh was reported stolen from the houses of nephews of a former legislator, Rambhau Moze, on Monday. “We are on the lookout for three suspects who had arrived on motorbikes,” said assistant inspector Sameer Karpe of Yerawada police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Raju Manohar Moze (50) of Sangamwadi area of Yerawada. The two houses which were hit belonged to the complainant and his brother, both of whom had gone out of station over the weekend. Among the stolen valuables is gold and silver jewellery, cash, and clocks, according to the complainant. A case in the matter was registered at Yerawada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/burglars-strike-house-of-two-nephews-of-former-mla-in-pune-steal-valuables-worth-rs-53-lakh-101630944223918.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Corruption case: HC notice to Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Saini on VB plea for bail cancellation||Chandigarh The high court on Monday sought response from former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini by October 7 on a plea of Punjab vigilance bureau, seeking cancellation of bail in a corruption case. It was on August 12 that the high court had granted protection from arrest and directed the former DGP to join the probe within seven days. He was arrayed as an accused in an FIR registered on August 2, by the vigilance bureau under the Prevention of Corruption Act and criminal conspiracy. Other accused include Surinderjit Singh Jaspal, who owned a Sector-20 house in Chandigarh. The agency alleged Saini acquired the house in a fraudulent deal with fake documents and questionable financial transactions. Vigilance had submitted that instead of co-operating as directed on August 12, he is throwing tantrums. The former DGP went to vigilance headquarters on the evening of the seventh day when the protection was to end and by when offices had closed. It was only to create evidence of his having being gone to join the investigation although there was no intention, the court was told, adding that he himself headed the Punjab vigilance bureau and is well aware of the procedure of joining investigation and that office closes at 5pm. He was summoned again on August 27 for September 1, but failed and conveyed that he was ill. Saini, on the other hand, had told court he has joined the investigation and apprised court of his illegal arrest. The court, taking note of both the parties, sought the response by October 7. It was on August 18 that Saini was arrested in a September 2020 cheating case when he had gone to the vigilance office to join the probe in a corruption case as directed by the high court on August 12. A day later, the high court had termed his arrest illegal and ordered his release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/corruption-case-hc-notice-to-punjab-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-on-vb-plea-for-bail-cancellation-101630944045552.html
06-09-2021||Pune||As state govt mulls to reopen schools, 50% private school staff in Pune yet to be fully vaccinated||Pune: The paediatric task force has recommended that the state government consider reopening of schools as it was crucial for the kids psychologically, but also warned that the third Covid wave may hit kids more than the first two waves. Multiple health experts and education experts have pointed out the ill-effects of kids staying out of school for over two years and have recommended that schools reopen given that the school staff be fully vaccinated to ensure less risk for students as there is no approved vaccine yet for kids. Pune district has fully vaccinated almost 100% of the government school staff who got it under the frontline workers category earlier. However, more than 50% of private school staff is yet to be fully vaccinated. As per the district report, Pune district has more than 28,000 teaching and non-teaching staff in government schools of which 24,000 have got both the vaccines. However, of the 27,000 staff from private schools, only 11,000 have got both the jabs. Earlier, the rural administration had conducted special drives for school staff to ensure that they are fully vaccinated sooner. During a virtual programme, state paediatric task force head Dr Suhas Prabhu said, “Reopening of schools was crucial for the children psychologically although parents are still apprehensive about sending their kids to schools. Classrooms should be ventilated properly, crowding at buses, during lunch hours and at playgrounds must also be avoided and classrooms and toilets must be regularly and thoroughly sanitised. Schools must be equipped with pulse oximeters, thermometers and sanitisers to check kids daily.” As per the district health office, Pune district has totally 44,532 teachers and 11,657 non-teaching staff in both private and government schools of which 77.57% have got the first shot of the vaccine and 35,624 have been fully vaccinated which is 63% of the estimated population. As of now, no vaccine has been approved for kids and so the population aged below 18 continues to remain a vulnerable population. As of now, Covavax is undergoing safety trials for anti-Covid vaccine for kids aged 12-18 which would further go down to kids aged two years. PMC education officer Meenakshi Raut said, “We have 265 schools under the civic body and all of them have been vaccinated. We are fully prepared to reopen schools if the state government issues an order stating that. Our schools are equipped with pulse oximeter, sanitisers and other necessary materials to ensure that kids remain safe in schools as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/as-state-govt-mulls-to-reopen-schools-50-private-school-staff-in-pune-yet-to-be-fully-vaccinated-101630943743780.html
06-09-2021||Pune||Food delivery executive killed in hit-and-run in Pune||PUNE: A food delivery associate was killed in a hit-and-run accident in Talegaon area of Pune on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as Vaishnav Babu Jamadar (33), according to the police. Around 8 pm he was riding his motorbike, a Honda Unicorn, to deliver a food order on the road connecting Chakan with Vadgaon. An unidentified vehicle rammed into Jamadar’s bike in front of Saint Mount church along Talegaon-Chakan road. The driver of the unidentified vehicle fled the spot. “The vehicle had crushed his head, but his identity was verifiable. We took him to nearby St Mount hospital but he was declared dead before arrival,” said inspector Dnyaneshwar Zol of Talegaon Dabhade police station who is investigating the case. The complaint was lodged by Ashok Premnath Bhosale (38), Jamadar’s brother-in-law and resident of Market Yard. A case was registered under Sections 279, 304 (A), and others of the Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/food-delivery-executive-killed-in-hit-and-run-in-pune-101630943323796.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Arrest warrant against AAP’s Sanjay Singh in defamation case||Additional chief judicial magistrate Harsimranjit Singh on Monday issued arrest warrants against national spokesperson of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Sanjay Singh, who is also a Rajya Sabha MP, after he failed to appear in the court during resumed hearing of a defamation case filed against him by SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia in 2016. On Sanjay Singh’s behalf, his lawyer had filed an application seeking exemption from his appearance, which was dismissed by the judge following which arrest warrants were issued. The defamation case was filed in January 2016 for Sanjay Singh’s alleged defamatory statements at a Moga rally on September 5, 2015, linking Majithia with those accused in drug cases. On Monday, SAD leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal was to record his statements in court and then was supposed to be cross-examined by the defence counsel. The court adjourned the hearing for September 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/arrest-warrant-against-aap-s-sanjay-singh-in-defamation-case-101630942665590.html
06-09-2021||Other||Pune Metro earns Rs30 lakh from SRK film with Kollywood director Atlee||PUNE The Pune Metro has generated Rs30 lakh in revenue from the shooting of Bollywood superstar Shahrukh Khan’s yet-untitled film with Kollywood director Atlee Kumar taking place at Sant Tukaram Nagar metro station at Pimpri.Pune Metro PRO Hemant Sonawane confirmed earning Rs30 lakh from the shooting and said, “The place where the shooting is taking place has been given on rent and there have been earnings from it. The specifics are dealt with by the finance department of the metro authority.”Khan is shooting for the film directed by Kumar which also stars actresses Nayanthara and Priya Mani and comedian Sunil Grover among others. The production company sought permission to shoot from the Maha Metro authority two months ago, after which the authority allowed shooting between August 30 and September 15 at the rate of Rs2 lakh per day. The Maha Metro has received Rs30 lakh from the production company for the said shooting.Meanwhile, Khan completed his shooting at the metro station and returned to Mumbai in the morning on Sunday. There was heavy bandobast at the venue with both private security guards and police personnel deployed. The metro station was under CCTV surveillance and strict vigil was kept as part of heightened security measures during the shoot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-metro-earns-rs30-lakh-from-srk-film-with-kollywood-director-atlee-101630942483751.html
06-09-2021||Pune||10-day police custody for 8 arrested for raping minor girl in Pune||PUNE: A local court in Pune remanded eight men to 10 days of police custody after they were arrested for sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl after kidnapping her from the Pune railway station. The arrested were identified as Mashak Abdulmajid Kanyal (27), Akbar Amar Shaikh (32), Rafik Murtaja Shaikh (32), Azaruddin Islamuddin Ansari (27), Prashan Samuel Gaikwad (32), Rajkumar Ramangina PRasad (29), Noib Naim Khan (24) and Asif Feroz Pathan (36), all residents of Pune. The police are on a lookout for five others in the case. The teenager had come to Pune railway station on the night of August 31 to meet a friend who was arriving at the station, according to the girl. “When her friend could not come, she was looking for an autorickshaw when one auto driver approached her and offered to take her back home. However, he took the autorickshaw to a different direction and picked one of his friends enroute and both assaulted her at a secluded spot. Later, they threatened to hurt her parents if she raised an alarm and kept on passing her to different locations. Her parents had registered a missing person complaint and a case of kidnapping was registered based on it on September 1,” read a statement issued by the Pune police. While two of the eight arrested are workers at the railway station, five of them are autorickshaw drivers, according to Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 5 of Pune police. One other person is an air conditioning repairman. “Whether they are contract workers or railway employees deployed for cleaning work is yet to be found out,” said Dipak Lagad, senior inspector of Wanowrie police station. The complaint was lodged by the girl’s father while she is undergoing tests at Sassoon General Hospital. Once of the places where the girl was taken was allegedly a railway office. A case was registered under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 376(d)(a), 377 (unnatural sex), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4(2), 5(g), 6, 8, and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/10day-police-custody-for-8-arrested-for-raping-minor-girl-in-pune-101630941763628.html
06-09-2021||Pune||Sena-NCP public meetings invite police action but big names left out in FIR||PUNE: Three different cases have been registered by the Pune rural police in connection with meetings held over the weekend between the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena. While the gatherings were attended by heavyweights like NCP chief Sharad Pawar, state home minister Dilip Walse-Patil and Sanjay Raut of the Sena, none of these bigwigs’ names featured in any of the cases registered, according to the police.Senior police inspector Vikas Jadhav of Junnar police station said, “A case was registered against the organiser and five other people for holding the gathering and violating Covid-19 regulations.”Whereas senior police inspector Madhukar Pawar of Junnar police station said, “A case was registered against a local Shiv Sena leader Molly Khandagale and a few others who organised the event at Ali Phata on Saturday.”A third case was registered against two organisers at Mansa police station on Sunday, confirmed senior police inspector Satish Wadkar of Mansa police station. All three cases were registered at the respective police stations under sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant laws including the Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulation Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/senancp-public-meetings-invite-police-action-but-big-names-left-out-in-fir-101630941163480.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||‘Their greed for power knows no bounds’: Majithia on Punjab's rebel ministers||Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Monday asked four dissident ministers why they were entreating chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to make Batala a district if they did not have faith in his leadership. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader was addressing newspersons here after inducting a group of Congress and BJP workers into the party. Majithia said the greed for power of the four rebel ministers – Sukhinder Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Sukhbinder Sarkaria and Charanjit Channi — knew no bounds. “First these ministers badmouthed their CM and now they are writing to him with request to make Batala a district,” he said, adding that Batala will be made a district if SAD leads the next government. On the Muzaffarnagar Kisan rally, Majithia said “the farming community has given a clear signal to the central leadership in Delhi that it should be ready to face a people’s movement if it does not listen to the voice of the farmers”. He appealed to political parties in Punjab to also rise to the occasion and not use the flag of the kisan movement for their petty political ends. “This will only result in spoiling the atmosphere in the state and give an opportunity to the BJP-led central government to impose President’s Rule in Punjab,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/their-greed-for-power-knows-no-bounds-majithia-on-rebel-ministers-101630940866520.html
06-09-2021||Lucknow||UP crosses 8-cr mark in Covid vaccination doses||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh’s Covid vaccination coverage crossed the 8-crore doses mark on Monday, said the state government in a statement.“Till Sunday, the state had given a little over 7.75 crore doses. With Monday’s 27 lakh doses till 6 pm in the mega statewide vaccination campaign, the figure crossed the 8-crore mark,” said a state government spokesperson.Earlier on August 27, UP administered more than 30 lakh Covid vaccine doses, the highest ever in a day by any state. On August 3, UP gave around 29.5 lakh doses of vaccine against Covid, which was also an all-time high in single-day coverage, the statement added.“On August 28, the state crossed the milestone of administering 7 crore doses. UP managed to administer one crore doses in merely nine days,” the statement said.So far, over 6,69,16,031 beneficiaries received their first doses while over 1,31,20,771 were fully vaccinated in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-crosses-8-cr-mark-in-covid-vaccination-doses-101630940384193.html
06-09-2021||Lucknow||Sedition case against ex-UP governor over remarks on Yogi government||Former Uttar Pradesh governor Aziz Qureshi has been booked for sedition over his alleged derogatory remarks against the state government, the police said on Monday. The FIR was lodged following a complaint by local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Akash Kumar Saxena at the Civil Lines police station in Rampur district on Sunday.Qureshi said his statement had been misquoted to harm him politically. The former governor visited the residence of senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan on Saturday evening. Qureshi met Azam’s wife Tazeen Fatima, who is also the Rampur MLA. Azam Khan is currently in jail in several cases lodged against him after 2017 when the BJP came to power in UP.In his complaint, Saxena alleged that after visiting Khan’s house and meeting his wife, Qureshi made derogatory statements against the state government.Saxena alleged that Qureshi said, “The fight between Azam Khan and the state government is like the fight between man and shaitaan (devil).”Saxena also alleged that Qureshi had termed the government a “blood-sucking demon”.“The statement can create tension between two communities and create unrest in society,” Saxena said in his complaint.The BJP leader also handed over to police a pen drive containing Qureshi’s alleged statement which was aired by various news channels.Qureshi was booked under sections 153A (promoting enmity between two groups on grounds of religion, race), 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 124A (sedition), and 505(1)(B) (intent to cause fear or alarm to the public), a senior police officer said.“The FIR against Aziz Qureshi was lodged on the complaint of one Akash Saxena. Qureshi has been booked under sedition on the basis of the complaint made to the police. A team of the local police station is investigating the matter. We are also collecting video evidence of the incident for probe,” said additional superintendent of police (Rampur) Sansar Singh.Qureshi, 81, a senior Congress leader, had served as the governor of Mizoram from 2014 to 2015. He also had charge of Uttar Pradesh for some time in June 2014.On his part, the former governor said to the news agency ANI, “It is my right to oppose the policies of the government and I will fight for it till my last breath in a democratic way. My statement is being completely distorted to harm me politically and to mislead the public. I had said that there have not been as many atrocities in earlier days as today. I have not made any remarks against anyone.”“I did not make a statement against the government. I consider the government as my government. I consider the Prime Minister as the Prime Minister of the whole country. I consider the home minister, defence minister of the entire country. I consider the chief minister as the leader of the whole state. I have never lacked in his respect nor will do. We have a democratic right to oppose them, their policies and it is our democratic right,” Qureshi said.Clarifying the use of the word “shaitan” during his meeting with Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan’s wife, he said the word is used for a child too who bullies other kids.The former governor further raised questions against the charges of sedition against him, “Show me one word where I have talked about communalism or spreading communal hatred. A man who needs a wheelchair for his support, will he spread hatred?”Meanwhile, the Samajwadi Party (SP) came in support of the former governor. "Use of words by Mr Aziz Qureshi may not be in good taste but how on earth does his statement constitute the offence of sedition? Since when did CM Yogi become a state? Criticism of the government is not sedition, UP police need to keep in mind this basic fact. Indian Supreme Court has also expressed concerns about the misuse of the law. It has asked the Central government why is it not repealing a colonial-era law that was used against our freedom fighters. Rampant misuse of this law shows the anti-democratic character of the present UP government," said Abdul Hafiz Gandhi, SP spokesperson.(WITH AGENCY INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sedition-case-against-ex-up-governor-over-remarks-on-yogi-government-101630939905855.html
06-09-2021||Pune||Hyena attacks 2 in Khed tehsil of Pune district, animal later found dead||A hyena attacked two people in Khed tehsil of Pune district on Monday, though the animal was found dead later, according to forest officials.Forest officials said that the hyena was suffering from some infection and attacked people passing through the area.The incident took place on Sunday and a video showing a hyena coming out of a thicket along a road and attacking an elderly man has since gone viral on social media. “It happened near Khapurdi village in Khed. Apart from the elderly person, the animal attacked a motorcyclist as well. The hyena was later found dead as it was suffering from some infection. It may have attacked people out of irritation due to the infection,” said Jayaram Gowda, deputy conservator of forests, Junnar division. Several forested patches in Khed tehsil are home to a number of hyenas, officials said. The elderly person attacked by the animal was hospitalised and is being monitored, said forest officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hyena-attacks-2-in-khed-tehsil-of-pune-district-animal-later-found-dead-101630939603981.html
06-09-2021||Pune||Ex-BJP corporator challenges party’s road widening decision||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to “wait and watch” after the Bombay high court directed the state government to determine former Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) corporator Ujjwal Keskar’s application within 10 weeks. Keskar has demanded that the PMC’s decision on the proposed widening of city roads from the existing six metre to nine metre be disposed of, which is interesting given that road widening is on the BJP’s own ambitious agenda.PMC legal advisor, advocate Nisha Chavan, said, “The Bombay high court has given directives to the state government to conduct hearing and take a decision on Keskar’s application within 10 weeks.”While the PMC completed the suggestions and objections process, it was delayed due to the pandemic. Meanwhile, former BJP corporator and office bearer Keskar took objection to the proposed road widening and approached urban development minister Eknath Shinde and urban development department officials claiming that the PMC’s decision is against the law and should be disposed of. Neither Shinde nor the department officials paid any heed apart from the fact that BJP MLA Chandrakant Patil and standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne were very aggressive about implementing the road widening decision. The party suffered a major setback however when Keskar subsequently filed a public interest litigation (PIL) against the state government in the Bombay high court.Keskar said, “The PMC decision proposing the widening of city roads from six to nine metre is unlawful and not useful for common people. It has been taken for developers and builders. So, I have demanded that the corporation’s decision be nullified. We first approached urban development minister Shinde and the urban development department but they did not consider the application. Finally, we filed a PIL against the state government. The court conducted the hearing last week and has issued an order to the state government.”Sudhar Kadam, executive engineer of the building permission and development department, said, “Due to the second wave of Covid-19, there were strict restrictions on meetings and people too were reluctant to visit the PMC office for hearing. So, we stopped hearing for some time. After easing of restrictions, we conducted the remaining hearing and completed it last month. Now, after the Bombay high court order, we will take legal opinion and prepare a final report which will be presented to the standing committee.”The PMC had appealed to citizens living in those areas where road widening was proposed to register their suggestions and objections. The PMC had proposed that a total 335 roads – 255 in the old city and 80 in the suburban areas – be widened. The civic body received both positive and negative responses from about 1,800 citizens. While a majority of the bungalow societies objected to the road widening, the PMC found that there were nearly no objections with respect to the widening of around 135 roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/exbjp-corporator-challenges-party-s-road-widening-decision-101630939483221.html
06-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath says farmers at centre of his government’s agenda even during pandemic||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said farmers and agriculture remained at the centre of his government’s agenda even during the difficult circumstances arising from the Covid-19 pandemic.Yogi Adityanath also said several schemes had been launched under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to enhance the income of farmers.Adityanath was speaking at a chief ministers’ conference organised virtually to mull over ways to double the income of farmers. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal were also connected to the programme. The function, Yogi Adityanath said, would help states plan policies and execute them more effectively to achieve the target of doubling farmers’ income.Adityanath said making sufficient nutrition and safe food available to people was today’s biggest challenge. He also said hard work by farmers with government assistance ensured that there was no scarcity of essential items like food grain, pulses, vegetables, fruits, milk etc during the pandemic. Uttar Pradesh had made new records of food grain production during the last five years. “Between 2012-2017, the average paddy production was only 139.40 lakh MT which has risen to 163.45 lakh MT now,” he said, adding the “production of all other food grains and pulses had also increased in a similar manner.”The government, Yogi Adityanath claimed, had made a new record by clearing ₹1,42,366 crore to 45.74 lakh sugarcane farmers till now. He mentioned several schemes being run in the state to increase the income of farmers. He said the government would soon roll out a new scheme aimed at making farmers self-reliant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-says-farmers-at-centre-of-his-government-s-agenda-even-during-pandemic-101630939063935.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||2015 Kotkapura firing: Former DGP Sumedh Saini skips date for filing voice samples||Former Punjab director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini and former Moga senior superintendent of police Charanjit Singh Sharma failed to appear at the Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Rohini, New Delhi, to give ‘voice samples’ on Monday. Last week, Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT), probing the 2015 Kotkapura firing case, had summoned Saini and Sharma to record their ‘voice samples’ at the CFSL laboratory. Besides, the SIT had also summoned suspended inspector general of police Paramraj Singh Umranangal, who also failed to appear. However, Umranangal was not asked to give voice samples. In June, the SIT had sought permission to conduct lie-detector tests on Saini, Umranangal and Sharma in connection with 2015 Kotkapura firing case. While Saini and Sharma had refused to undergo the lie-detector test, Umranangal agreed to undergo the test, subject to the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court. The SIT is waiting for the CSFL to give a date for the lie-detector test on Umranangal. After Saini and Sharma refused to undergo lie-detector, the SIT sought their voice samples for layered voice analysis (LVA) used for helping detect stress and other emotions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-kotkapura-firing-former-dgp-sumedh-saini-skips-date-for-filing-voice-samples-101630938163707.html
06-09-2021||Other||Police seize weapon used in Meghalaya’s rebel leader’s death||The investigating team probing the death of the founding general secretary of Meghalaya’s Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC), Cherish Starfield Thangkhiew, has seized the weapon involved in his death, HT has learnt. The former rebel was killed on August 13 in police action in his house.According to people familiar with the development, the weapon was seized by a police officer. Police have maintained that Thangkhiiew’s death in the firing was the result of the said officer being challenged by Thangkhiew, even as the remaining police team remained outside during the raid.Police however have refused to comment on the matter, especially since it is already under judicial scrutiny. People cited above have informed that a thorough evidence-gathering exercise is being executed by East Khasi Hills police with the participation of other districts as well.Meanwhile, the enquiry into the incident is underway and is likely to finish within the stipulated time. A secretariat official aware of the matter expressed optimism that the process will complete well within three months from the date of notification.“Those tasked with the job of gathering evidence etc. are doing their job diligently and everything will be furnished before the Commission,” the official said while underscoring, “Very soon the truth will be unfolded. To be acceptable to any court, the investigation must be carried out in a structured way that abides by all legal rules and the appropriate processes of evidence collection.”The judicial commission was promptly constituted by the state government following public uproar over the controversial killing, leading to a curfew and a clampdown on data services in Shillong. The commission has been asked to ascertain the circumstances leading to the former rebel leader’s death and other terms of references.Notified on August 20, the government appointed a One-man Commission of Inquiry consisting of Justice (Retd) T. Vaiphei, former Chief Justice of the High Court of Tripura and chairperson, Meghalaya Human Rights Commission to inquire into the incident.The terms of reference are simple but specific; to hold an inquiry into the circumstances leading to the police action resulting in the death of the rebel leader and to submit a “fact-finding report as to the culpability or otherwise of the police action resulting in the death” of Thangkhiew. The Commission has been given a free hand however to dwell into “any other circumstances which are relevant, in the opinion of the Commission”.The Commission has been asked to submit its report embodying the findings and its recommendations thereon to the state government within three months from the date of the notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-seize-weapon-used-in-meghalaya-s-rebel-leader-s-death-101630937565036.html
06-09-2021||Pune||BJP city unit demands police case against MP Raut||PUNE: The city unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday demanded filing of a police case against Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut and cited the recent arrest of Union minister Narayan Rane in a similar alleged offence. BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik on Monday submitted an application at Deccan police station seeking registration of a case against Raut for his comments against the party. Raut recently commented that those who will take the battle with Sena will be punished. Mulik said, “Recently, the Maharashtra government filed a police case against Union minister Rane and the police immediately rushed to arrest him. As compared to Rane, the comments made by Raut are criminal. The Maharashtra government should apply the same rule for all.” The BJP leaders said that the party will stage statewide agitation if the police will not accept their application and register offence against Raut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-city-unit-demands-police-case-against-mp-raut-101630937503184.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Harpal Cheema’s claim on Punjab crime figures unfounded: Capt Amarinder||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday slammed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for ‘mutilating’ facts on the state’s law and order situation. Responding to leader of opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema’s “unfounded and baseless” allegations of spurt in crimes in the state, the chief minister said instead of picking up unverified data from here and there, Cheema could have approached the DGP to get the facts. “Cheema has once again proved that the AAP’s ideology is based on lies and fabrications, with all the leaders of Arvind Kejriwal’s party having become masters of deceit,” said the chief minister, adding that contrary to Cheema’s claims, only 38 cases of `kidnapping for ransom’ have been reported in the state since his government took over in March 2017. “Even those 38 (not 7,138 as claimed by Cheema) cases (0.5% of the total cases registered) relating to ‘kidnapping for ransom’ registered since March 2017 were solved, with release of the victim and arrest of the culprits in each of them,” said the chief minister. As the home minister of the state, Amarinder said, he would not mind giving a few quick tips to the LoP to save him similar embarrassment over his total ignorance in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harpal-cheema-s-claim-on-punjab-crime-figures-unfounded-capt-amarinder-101630936243416.html
06-09-2021||Jaipur||Soldier ends life after fiancé’s suicide||A 24-year-old soldier ended his life in Kota district of Rajasthan on Monday, two days after his fiancé died by suicide, officials said. Station House Officer, Chechat police station in Kota Rural, Rajendra Prasad, said, “Pappu Lal Yadav was from Kumaon regiment and posted in Dehradun. He died by suicide at 6 am today”. According to the statement by his brother, Pappu was in depression as her fiancé killed herself in Chittorgarh district of the state. Before ending his life, he had posted a status update in memory of his beloved stating ‘tum nahi, toh mein nahi (If you’re not there, I won’t be there)’. He said the soldier had come on a holiday around 15-20 days back and was recently engaged to the girl in Chittorgarh district. His fiancé was a second-year student of basic school training course (BSTC). They were to get married after Diwali but on September 4, she died by suicide. The reason for her suicide is being investigated. The matter is being probed, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/soldier-ends-life-after-fianc-s-suicide-101630935284879.html
06-09-2021||Pune||Class 9-12 teachers, students await SCERT internal assessment guidelines||Pune: After the cancellation of offline examinations for Class 10 and Class 12 due to the Covid pandemic situation, the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) is yet to release the internal assessment pattern for students of Class 9 to Class 12 for the ongoing academic year. Officials said that the guidelines will be issued soon. They also added that the guidelines will include offline and online examination for students for consistent evaluation for the ongoing academic year. This year, the Maharashtra government cancelled Class 10 and Class 12 examinations in line with the similar step taken by the central and international education boards. However, unlike other boards that have issued guidelines for internal assessment, the state education department is yet to release the guidelines. With no guidelines in sight, principals and teachers fear that lack of uniformity in evaluation during the academic year may reflect during the final evaluation in case examinations are cancelled next year as well due to the pandemic. Harishchandra Gaikwad, president, Pune district principals’ association, said that guidelines are must to keep assessment of students consistent. “This year, students expected to appear in examinations and prepared for it. However, at the last minute, the exam was cancelled due to rising cases of Covid. Since there is no exam, many students are neglecting their studies and it can affect their learning process. If guidelines are given, students can seriously attempt the given assignments while teachers can also encourage students to remain serious towards their studies even if the classes are conducted online,” said Gaikwad. Students from Class 1 to Class 8 are assessed on the basis of continuous comprehensive evaluation (CCE) under the Right to Education (RTE). Under CCE, these students are evaluated on their performance throughout the year. However, the question of evaluation of students from Class 9 to Class 12 remains. Vikas Garad, deputy director of SCERT, said that the guidelines will be issued soon. “Till Class 8, students are to be assessed by the CCE. For Class 9 to Class 12, guidelines will be issued soon. This will help in keeping the result uniform for the students. Principals and teachers will have to take assignments and tests at class level for internal assessment in online as well as offline modes,“ said Garad. He said comprehensive directives will be issued soon where problems like dropout students, network issues in rural areas will be addressed in detail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/class-9-12-teachers-students-await-scert-internal-assessment-guidelines-101630935282848.html
06-09-2021||Kolkata||Congress will think ‘afresh’ on fielding candidate opposite Mamata Banerjee in bypolls: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said on Monday that the party would think “afresh” about fielding a candidate to contest the bypolls at Bhowanipore assembly seat against West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “Now that the by-election has been announced, we have to think afresh. All India Congress Committee will take the final call,” Chowdhury said.Congress had earlier announced that as a “courtesy” the party would not be fielding any candidate opposite Banerjee, which Chowdhury insisted was his “personal opinion” that needs to be rethought now that poll dates have been declared. “I had opined that as a gesture of courtesy Congress should not field anyone against the incumbent chief minister. It was my personal view then,” the Congress leader said.Also Read: Bhabanipur by-polls announced. Why is it crucial for Mamata Banerjee? 10 pointsThe Election Commission announced on September 4 that the bypolls for Bhowanipore, Samserganj and Jangipur constituencies will be held on September 30 and counting of the votes will be held on October 3. Bhowanipore has been the bastion of Trinamool Congress chief Banerjee who had made a last moment decision to contest the assembly elections from Nandigram against her former protege Suvendu Adhikari. Banerjee lost to Adhikari by a thin margin of over 1,900 votes.Adhikari, who had joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) prior to the elections, hit out at the chief minister on Sunday over her defeat in Nandigram.“Who told you (West Bengal CM) to come to Nandigram? Now, if the party asks me to contest (from Bhowanipore), then what will happen? I defeated her (CM) by 1,956 votes,” he told his supporters at Nadia. BJP, who lost the assembly elections to the ruling TMC, is yet to declare a candidate for the Bhawanipore seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/congress-will-think-afresh-on-fielding-candidate-opposite-mamata-banerjee-in-bypolls-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-101630934908757.html
06-09-2021||Other||Tripura launches CM helpline to address people’s grievances||Amidst threat from Trinamool Congress and differences within the Bharatiya Janata Party, Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Monday launched CM Helpline number-1905 to listen to any kind of grievances of the common people. The Tripura helpline follows a similar kind of campaign under the banner of ‘Didi Ke Bolo’ launched by West Bengal chief minister and supremo of Trinamool Congress Mamata Banerjee ahead of assembly polls in Bengal.The dedicated helpline service would help people share any kind of grievances and the same would be forwarded to the concerned government departments for redressal. If the caller is satisfied with their step, the call will be completed, else, the same will be again forwarded to the respective department, said chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb after launching the Helpline Number from IT Bhawan at Indranagar area in Agartala. “Initially the helpline was started in Dhalai district in August. Today, the helpline was started across the state from 8 am to 8 pm. It will become 24x7 service in the coming days. I expect cooperation from all,” Deb said at the launch. “This is a digital platform through which people can share their problems that will reach the CM. Besides, the state will listen to and implement any logical advice shared by people through this helpline,” he said. A team has been constituted from the Information Technology department to monitor the process, he added. After coming to power for the first time in 2018, Deb started Janatar Darbar (public’s court) both at Civil Secretariat and his official residence to listen to the problems of the people. After the launch, the CM talked to two people, one from Ranirbazar and the other from Indranagar. “My officials will not ask the callers’ political identity or anything like that. This culture of helping pro-power people only prevailed earlier. Now, I want to bring an end to this culture. Politics should be confined to poll time only and for the rest of the time leaders should be dedicated to people’s welfare,” Deb told the media persons. He also talked about different digital schemes, including Jan Dhan Account Yojana, Start-Up Tripura, Mukhyamantri Yuva Yojak Yojana, e-PDS, among others, that have been launched during the BJP-IPFT government reign so far. He added that they have increased the number of Common Service Centers from 394 in 2015-16 to 1,204 to take governance to people’s doorstep. Reacting to the newly-launched CM Helpline, Trinamool Congress termed it a political gimmick before the assembly polls. “The BJP first started their missed call helpline as part of their 2018 assembly poll campaign. They have always launched different kinds of helplines every day since 2018, unfortunately, none of it was fruitful. We doubt how far this CM helpline will work. Let’s see its implementation,” said TMC leader Subal Bhowmik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-launches-cm-helpline-to-address-people-s-grievances-101630934384681.html
06-09-2021||Lucknow||No fresh Covid cases in 64 UP districts: CM||LUCKNOW As many as 28 districts in UP had no active Covid cases and no fresh infection cases surfaced in 64 districts while 11 districts reported fresh cases in single-digit, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath at the Covid-19 review meeting on Monday.Across the state, 12 fresh Covid cases surfaced and 31 people recovered from the infection during the last 24 hours. “The state has only 227 active Covid cases. In the last 24 hours, the daily positivity rate was 0.01% and the overall recovery rate in the state is 98.7%,” he said, adding that there was a need to be cautious and alert as a little laxity could prove dangerous.Regarding vaccination against Covid-19, the chief minister said UP so far had administered 7.75 crore doses and the number of people who got both their shots swelled to 1.27 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-fresh-covid-cases-in-64-up-districts-cm-101630934263496.html
06-09-2021||Pune||SCERT to develop state curriculum framework under NEP||Pune: The Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) will chalk out four types of state curriculum framework under the National Education Policy (NEP). Officials said the framework will include school education, early childhood and care, teacher education and adult education. MD Singh, director, SCERT, said that educationists, principals and senior teachers can participate in the making of position papers by filling a form and the last date to do so is September 17. Under the state curriculum framework, 25 position papers will be drafted which will in turn provide valuable inputs for the National Curriculum Framework. “Teachers can apply on the link https://scertmaha.ac.in/scf/ for filling the form. The National Education Policy 2020 (NEP 2020), which was approved on July 29, 2020, outlines the vision of India’s new education system. The policy is a comprehensive framework for elementary education to higher education as well as vocational training in both rural and urban India. We will be developing four types of state curriculum framework under the 25 position papers as directed by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT),” said Singh. Officials said the position papers will be based on topics related to philosophy of education, pre-school education, curriculum and pedagogy. “The topics on which the position papers will be drafted will include Education in Social Sciences, Vocational, Arts, Science, Mathematics, Language, Environmental Education, Health and well-being and reform in examinations. There are other themes like Knowledge of India, Value Education, Inclusive Education, Gender Education and Educational Technology,” said officials. The 25 position papers will also include alternative ways for schooling, emerging role of community in education, adult education which are other key areas of NEP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/scert-to-develop-state-curriculum-framework-under-nep-101630933962651.html
06-09-2021||Lucknow||Covid command centre to assist dengue patients||LUCKNOW The Integrated Covid Control and Command Centre (ICCCC) would now also cater to patients suffering from dengue or other vector-borne diseases. The initiative is part of the district administration’s exercise to curb vector-borne diseases. The administration released a dedicated helpline number – 0522-4523000 to ensure all possible help to patients, similar to what the ICCCC did during the peak of Covid cases. The ICCCC would ensure hospitalisation of the patient, depending upon his/her condition while patient could also avail ambulance service by calling 108.“As we all know that cases of dengue or other vector-borne diseases are on the rise, we have made all possible arrangements to tackle the situation. Apart from boosting medical services, we have also extended our ICCCC services to patients suffering from vector-borne diseases and to monitor cases of dengue and other diseases,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate. The DM said certain protocols had been introduced for people as per which if patient suffering from fever can call on the ICCCC helpline number. “On receiving the call, the executive at the ICCCC would ask for some vital info from the patient like mobile number and address. The trained executive would contact the nearest community health centre to get the dengue test done at the earliest,” the DM said. The administration would also ensure anti-larvae fogging and sanitisation in the area of the dengue patient. The ICCCC would cater to those who need blood or platelets by connecting them with the team of doctors and hospitals in order to meet the requirement, said the DM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-command-centre-to-assist-dengue-patients-101630933843576.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ayurveda vs allopathy, making a case for empathy||Flagbearers of both the streams of medicine, ayurveda and allopathy, are often at loggerheads. Claims and counterclaims are made; blames and accusations are exchanged only to assert the supremacy of one stream over the other. The common man, like an undecided voter, is sitting on the fence, trying to make up his mind before taking sides. The main cause for his confusion is that he is equally dependent on ancient and modern science. From getting up in the morning and drinking a glass of lemon water with honey to taking tulsi (basil leaves) and adrak (ginger) tea to drinking kadha (a herbal concoction of commonly used spices) to taking isabgol husk, turmeric milk and chyawanprash at night, the common man follows the traditional wisdom of the scriptures with faith and reverence. Whereas, when it comes to falling prey to an illness, he takes a giant leap of faith and doesn’t think twice before consulting a doctor, well versed in the modern system of medicine. He follows the advice of the doctor verbatim and doesn’t mind going the extra mile to avail the services of the best and the latest in the field of medicine. The common man knows better than the flagbearers to make the most of both the systems. At the time of Independence, the life expectancy of an Indian was only 31 years. Ancient medicine was there but antibiotics had yet to emerge on the horizon and save mankind from the fury of frequent epidemics. With the advent of broad-spectrum antibiotics, anti-malarials and antiviral drugs and remarkable advances made in the field of cardiology, surgery and oncology, we can look forward to living up to the autumns of our lives healthily and comfortably. There should be no controversy between the ancient and modern systems of medicine. Peaceful coexistence of both the ‘pathies’ is the need of the hour. A light-hearted WhatsApp message, sent by my friend, well illustrates the importance of both the systems of medicines in our lives. It averred that ancient science takes care of us like a mother who nourishes us to live a long and healthy life by following the principles of traditional wisdom, while the modern system is like our spouse whom we can’t afford to offend even for a day. As the war of words between the flagbearers of the two ‘pathies’ rages on, I’m reminded of the words of US Republican leader Bill Bullard, “The highest form of knowledge is empathy.” And my fellow clinicians would definitely agree that this ‘pathy’ never fails. rajivsharma.rs201067@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ayurveda-vs-allopathy-making-a-case-for-empathy-101630933723390.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Budding agriculturists learn poultry farming tips at GADVASU||A two-week training course on poultry farming concluded at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University on Monday.A total of 11 budding farmers from different parts of Punjab participated in the training programme, organised by the department of veterinary and animal husbandry extension education.Dr SK Kansal, professor and technical coordinator of the programme, said poultry farming was one of the most profitable entrepreneurial ventures for diversification of agriculture.He said depending on the land holding, capital and marketing facilities, one can either venture into layer farming, meant for table egg production, or broiler farming, meant for meat production. He advised farmers to adopt strict bio-security measures at their farms to ward off communicable diseases.Dr YS Jadoun and Dr Gurjot Kaur Mavi, coordinators of the training, said the trainees were taught about specific breeds and strains of poultry stock, GADVASU poultry breeds, hatchery management, construction of sheds for commercial farming, backyard poultry production, integrated poultry farming, management of poultry waste, prevention from heat and cold during environment stress, economical and balanced ration for different stages of the birds, making different products from egg and meat, their branding, vaccination in birds, post-mortem examination and preparation of project reports.Dr RK Sharma, head of department, informed the participants about various facilities and utility services provided by the university for livestock farmers. He encouraged the farmers to share their problems with university experts for prompt solutions. The trainees were also informed about the varsity’s monthly magazine, Vigiyanak Pashu Palan, and special books on poultry farming. On conclusion of the programme, they were presented saplings of medicinal plants by AYUSH wing of GADVASU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/budding-agriculturists-learn-poultry-farming-tips-at-gadvasu-101630932103530.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mother of two hangs herself in Ludhiana, husband arrested for abetment||Harassed by her husband, a 29-year-old woman ended her life by hanging herself at their rented accommodation in Jeet Colony, Gobindgarh village, on Sunday. On the statement of the woman’s mother, a resident of Panipat of Haryana, police have booked and arrested her husband, a factory worker.Police said the victim, mother of two boys, aged three years and six months, was found hanging by neighbours who alerted the police.“During investigation it came to fore that the woman was being suspected of infidelity by her husband and altercations at home were a routine affair,” said inspector Davinder Sharma, SHO, Focal Point police station.On Sunday, after her husband left for work, the woman hanged herself from a ceiling fan. At the time of the incident, her children were asleep. When her elder son woke up, he started crying and managed to walk out of the house, where neighbours heard his cries.On checking on his mother, they found her body hanging from the ceiling fan and called the police.The SHO said due to strained marital relations, the woman had left for her parents’ house in August and had returned five days ago on the insistence of their family members.The deceased’s husband has been booked under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mother-of-two-hangs-herself-in-ludhiana-husband-arrested-for-abetment-101630931083142.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: PAU adds 15th patent to its credit||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has been granted the patent for “Fermentation process for enhanced glucose production from sweet sorghum bagasse using acidothermophilic fungal cellulases” by the Indian Patent Office, government of India, New Delhi. The patent has been awarded for 20 years as per provisions of the Patents Act. This is the 15th Indian patent granted to PAU and second to Dr GS Kocher, a principal microbiologist at the university. The team also includes his doctorate student, Ritika, from department of microbiology, PAU, and Dr HS Oberoi, scientist, CIPHET.According to Dr Kocher, under the invention, since the fermentation process uses thermophilic fungus, refrigeration during enzyme production and/ or hydrolysis is not needed, which results in energy as well as cost efficiency. Dr Kocher said the invention was in line with the Biofuel Policy, 2018, of Union ministry of petroleum and natural gas, whereby higher emphasis had been laid on agricultural lignocellulosic residues as substrate (2G) for bioethanol production as more funding and incentives to start-ups have been provided.Vice-chancellor Anirudh Tiwari and other senior faculty members congratulated Dr Kocher and his team for the achievement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pau-adds-15th-patent-to-its-credit-101630930723439.html
06-09-2021||Lucknow||Firozabad dengue outbreak: CM orders strict action against officials found lax||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said that some officials of the health and urban development departments had been found lax in discharging their duties in Firozabad district where dengue and viral fever claimed over 50 lives, and ordered strict action against them. The CM also directed that teams of specialists from three Lucknow institutes –Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and King George’s Medical University be sent to Firozabad, Agra and Mathura, camp there, guide local doctors and oversee treatment of patients there, according to a government statement. On Sunday, 105 patients of dengue and viral fever were admitted to the government medical college in Firozabad, where the diseases have claimed 51 lives so far. “In Firozabad, some officers of the health and urban development departments have been found lax in discharging their duties. It should be examined and action should be initiated against guilty officers,” the chief minister said during a Covid-19 review meeting.He also issued directions for making arrangements of additional beds, paramedical staff, medicine and testing equipment. The ÇM Helpline is taking feedback from the families of patients about facilities in hospitals, the statement said. Last week, three Firozabad doctors were suspended on charges of laxity. District magistrate Chandra Vijay Singh on Thursday suspended the three doctors with immediate effect on charges of negligence and warned government doctors of strict action for any negligence in treatment to ailing people. On Wednesday, Firozabad’s chief medical officer Neeta Kulshreshth had been removed following the spate of deaths, mostly children, since August 18 due to viral fever and suspected cases of dengue. The chief minister had visited the district on August 30 to take stock of the situation. With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/firozabad-dengue-outbreak-cm-orders-strict-action-against-officials-found-lax-101630930663255.html
06-09-2021||Other||President Kovind to visit Prayagraj on September 11, preparations in full swing||The district administration has begun preparations for the President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to Sangam city on September 11. UP governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath are also likely to attend the function to be graced by Kovind. The President would be in the city to attend a function in the Allahabad High Court wherein he would lay the foundation stones of a building for lawyers’ chambers and a multi-level parking facility. Kovind would also lay the foundation stone of a new Law University which would come up at Jhalwa, Prayagraj. Confirming the President’s visit, ADM City, AK Kanaujia said, “Although we have yet not received the minute-to-minute protocol pertaining to President’s visit, but all the preparations needed for the visit are being put in place.” As part of the preparations, all the roads, falling in the Presidents’ possible travel route is being decked up. The rough patches and pits have already been repaired and a fresh coat of paint is being applied on the road dividers. These preparations are being done in anticipation of the Presidents’ visit to Jhalwa, Sangam, or Circuit house by road. Likewise, cleaning of the roadside drains and trimming of the trees falling on these routes are also being undertaken. Besides, work for setting up two huge pandals, one at cricket ground of Allahabad High Court and the second one at the site of the proposed Law University at Jhalwa have also begun. Though the district administration has not received any information about Presidents’ visit to Sangam, preparations are nevertheless being made for a possible visit in case he makes a last-minute wish, official said. Along with the preparations for the ‘road travel’, administration is also constructing temporary helipads to make it possible for the President to take an aerial route to Jhalwa and the Allahabad High Court ground where the ceremonies are proposed to be held. “Three temporary helipads are being constructed at the Polo Ground besides one each near the site of the proposed Law University in Jhalwa and at IIIT-A,” said another official. “We have received the official protocol on Monday which mentions the President’s one hour stay in Sangam city for the function at Allahabad High court ground. However, there is no night stay mentioned in it,” informed additional SP (Protocol) Kuldeep Singh. On Sunday evening, district magistrate Sanjay Khatri and DIG/SSP-Prayagraj Sarvashreshth Tripathi visited the site of the proposed temporary helipads at Polo ground. President Kovid had visited his ancestral village Paraunkh in Kanpur Dehat, Kanpur, and Lucknow from June 27 to 29. He came on the Presidential train to Kanpur and Lucknow. This was his first visit to his village since he became the President. Then between August 26 and August 29 he visited Lucknow, Gorakhpur, and Ayodhya. He went to and from Ayodhya and Lucknow on the Presidential train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/president-kovind-to-visit-prayagraj-on-september-11-preparations-in-full-swing-101630930303479.html
06-09-2021||Other||Jal Sansthan to lay 77.2km of new water pipelines in Prayagraj||With various localities of Sangam city facing problem of potable water because of either damaged water pipelines or lack of them, the Jal Sansthan authorities here have begun efforts to lay over 77 kilometre of water pipeline to solve this problem. The Jal Sansthan had earlier conducted an extensive survey of seven zones of the city which had reported to have repeated problems of potable water supply. The survey found that the seven zones needed new water pipelines and the total length of which would be 77.2 km, said officials.General manager (GM), Jal Sansthan, Harishchand Balmiki said these localities include Kareli, Atala, Alahapur, Daraganj, Alopibagh, Malviya Nagar, Dariyabad, Sadiyapur, Lukerganj, Mumfordganj, Transport Nagar, Katra, Kanhaipur, Rajroopur and areas of Naini and Phaphamau. “We will not only replace the damaged or dilapidated pipelines but will also lay water pipelines in the areas which are devoid of the same at present,” said the official. Earlier, GM had sent a proposal to the Prayagraj Municipal Corporation that has now been approved. The project would cost around ₹15 crore and the work would start this week itself. As per the details, zone 1 (Khuldabad) would be getting 22.07 km of water pipelines, zone 2 (Muttiganj) 11.66km, zone 3 (Katra) will get 14.53km of water pipelines while zone 4 (Allahapur) will be getting 13.69km of pipelines. Likewise, zone 5 (Naini) will receive 14.35km of water pipelines, zone 6 (Bamrauli) will get 11.27km and zone 7 (Phaphamau) with 23.50 km of water pipelines.These localities had earlier reported several complaints regarding problem of clean drinking water and the major cause of the same was old pipelines which had got damaged at several places resulting in supply of contaminated drinking water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jal-sansthan-to-lay-77-2km-of-new-water-pipelines-in-prayagraj-101630930182881.html
06-09-2021||Patna||‘Price rise would come under check once Covid issue is over’: Bihar CM||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday responded to a query regarding his assurance to look into the scope of lessening the burden of inflation due to heavy taxes on petroleum products and urged the people to stay prepared for some hard times. “The country is passing through a tough time due to the pandemic. The Centre, as well as the state government, is spending a huge amount to tide over the crisis. The state government has spent more than ₹10,000 crore on Covid management,” he argued. Talking to media persons after the customary Janata Darbar—a routine event where people can meet the CM and raise their grievances against the system—Kumar said that the state has been incurring heavy losses owing to the recurring floods. The CM said that the water resources department (WRD) was carrying out studies about the scope of interlinking of small rivers to minimise the scale of devastation due to recurring floods. “The WRD is exploring the scope and discussing ways to interlink small rivers. Nearly 57 lakh people have been hit by the current spells of floods, which is not over yet. All the concerned departments have been asked to stay alert to meet any eventuality,” said the CM, adding that he had visited many flood-affected areas over the past few weeks. In an apparent justification of the government’s reluctance to step in and curb inflation, Kumar said that the government’s top priority was to eradicate the pandemic and at the same time carrying on with its development agenda. “People must stay away from raking up the issue of price rise owing to the difficult times the country is grappling with. Everything would be normal once the Covid thing is gone,” said the CM. Regarding the state’s plea for conducting the caste-based census, Kumar said that he had nothing more to say on it, as the Centre was required to take a call on it once they (leaders from Bihar) had discussed the issue with the PM. “It will benefit all sections of the society and in no way fan hatred,” added Kumar. Earlier at Janata Darbar, a girl from Samastipur had accused a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of sexually exploiting her and said she resorted to raising the issue before the chief minister after her attempts to lodge a case against the cop aborted by the department’s officials. A widow from Valmikinagar in West Champaran alleged that the police were not taking action against local Janata Dal (United) MLA Rinku Singh, on whose behest her husband was killed in February this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/price-rise-would-come-under-check-once-covid-issue-is-over-bihar-cm-101630930065668.html
06-09-2021||Other||Lakshadweep turns to seaweed farming||Large-scale farming of indigenous seaweeds has been launched in Lakshadweep under the guidance of premier marine research body Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) headquartered in Kochi.After fisheries, coconut farming and tourism, the Lakshadweep administration has prioritised seaweed farming as the major engine of development. Seaweed is consumed in many countries, especially in East Asia. It is also used in food additives, medicine, fertiliser and cosmetic goods and to combat beach erosion. The initiative is in line with a study conducted by the CMFRI which found immense potential for quality seaweeds in serene and pollution-free lagoons for high-end utilisation like pharmaceuticals, food and nutraceuticals, said CMFRI in a statement. It is planning a production of about 30,000 tonnes worth ₹7.5 million in a year. In line with the new plan, a farming demonstration of seaweeds was launched in nine inhabited islands. The CMFRI said the indigenous red algae, Gracilaria edulis and Acanthophora spicifera, are some of the species being planned in nearly 2500 bamboo rafts which will benefit 100 families belonging to about ten women self-help groups “Traditionally known for its unique tuna fish, beautiful corals, reef fish and other creatures, soon the islands are likely to be known as the seaweed farming hub of the country,” said Dr K Mohammed Koya, a senior scientist with the CMFRI. Recent studies by the CMFRI revealed a big growth of indigenous seaweed species in various lagoons of Lakshadweep with nearly 60-fold growth in 45 days for species like Gracilaria edulis. Following this, the island administration joined hands with the CMFRI for multi-locational trial farming and capacity building of stakeholders. Experimental farming was conducted in the islands of Kiltan, Chetlah Kadmath, Agatti and Kavaratti during 2020-21 with good results, said CMFRI. “Our studies revealed that the island has a potential of producing nearly 30,000 tons of dry seaweed per year worth ₹7.5 million by farming only 1% (200 ha) of its 21,290 ha of lagoon area (inhabited islands only),” said Dr Koya. To provide a sound scientific basis for sustainable seaweed farming, the CMFRI and the Lakshadweep Krishi Vigyan Kendra began further studies for assessing the carrying capacity of the lagoons, spatial mapping of suitable farming sites, standardising farming methods for year-round farming in deeper areas and ensuring quality seeding materials, said the CMFRI. The serene islands were in news for all wrong reasons recently as a section of residents protested three draft regulations brought in by new administrator Praful Khoda Patel, saying they will affect the unique culture and tradition of the island. They opposed the move to make the island a tourist destination besides the ban on cattle slaughter, the two-child norm for local body members, liquor licence, goonda law and other new rules. But BJP leaders from the island said some vested interests were stoking the fire and provoking local people to stall developmental projects on the island.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lakshadweep-turns-to-seaweed-farming-101630927182800.html
06-09-2021||Bhopal||MP principal booked for obscene comments on clothes of girl students||A government school principal has been booked for insulting and commenting on the clothes of girl students, while scolding them for not wearing uniforms in Rajgarh district, said police on Monday. An FIR has been registered against the school principal Radheshyam Malviya under sections 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 355 (assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person) of the Indian Penal Code and under relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act at Machalapur police station, said Prateek Sharma, superintendent of police, Rajgarh. Malviya is on the run and police are trying to nab him. According to students of classes 11 and 12, the principal scolded them on Saturday for not wearing the school uniform. “We informed him that the school uniforms had not been stitched yet, but he kept scolding us and started insulting us. He said the girls wore ‘fashionable’ clothes to attract boys and it’s girls like us who are responsible for ‘spoiling’ the boys. He asked us to come naked to the school,” said the girl students in a complaint to police. Also Read | Madhya Pradesh govt directs hiring as per 27% OBC quotaLater, when the parents confronted the principal, he changed his statement and said he had just asked the girl students to follow the rules by wearing the school uniform, said one of the complainants. The students also staged a protest against him on Sunday. The school education department has also ordered a departmental inquiry against the principal and suspended him. Rajgarh district education officer BS Bisoriya said, “We came to know about the FIR against the school principal. I have ordered an inquiry in the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-principal-booked-for-obscene-comments-on-clothes-of-girl-students-101630926702774.html
06-09-2021||Mumbai||Kerala’s spike a dangerous signal: Maharashtra CM urges citizens, political parties to avoid crowding during festivals||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urged the citizens and political parties to avoid crowds during the upcoming Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in the wake of rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state. He flagged the sudden spike Kerala is witnessing after Onam celebrations ended and warned Maharashtra might face a similar fate "Kerala is seeing a spike of 30,000 cases daily. This is a danger signal and if we don't take it seriously, Maharashtra will have to pay a heavy price," he said on Monday.Maharashtra’s daily tally of cases has been stable for quite some time now but capital city of Mumbai has been witnessing a sudden surge, the city reported 495 cases on Sunday, the highest since July 15.The state is gearing up for Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations which is set to start later this week and Thackeray has cautioned citizens to avoid crowds and abide by proper Covid-19 preventative norms as cases rose after celebrations concluded last year. "There was a surge in Covid-19 cases after festivals last year. I request all to avoid crowding. Wearing a face mask is important even after vaccination," he said on Sunday during an interaction with doctors.Thackeray urged political parties to prioritize the well-being of citizens as festivals can be celebrated later when the pandemic is under control. “We can celebrate festivals later. Let us prioritise the lives and health of our citizens. The situation can go out of hand in view of the spike in daily cases," Thackeray said in a statement. "Who would like to impose restrictions on festivals and religious programmes? But people's lives are important," he added.Also Read:Maharashtra lists 7 ‘districts of concern’, Mumbai also faces Covid spike"We have to avoid crowding...have patience. We should not be required to close the places which have been opened up now," he said, adding, "people should know that the enemy is yet not completely defeated...the thick tail is still there."Thackeray also warned political parties for demanding temples be reopened across the state. "Do not agitate for reopening of temples but do it against Covid-19," he said on Sunday without naming any particular political outfit.His remarks came after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) protested against the closure of temples in the state. In October of last year Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari had written a letter to Thackeray criticising the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s decision to keep temples closed as the state was reeling under the coronavirus pandemic.“I wonder if you are receiving any divine premonition to keep postponing the reopening of the places of worship time and again or have you suddenly turned ‘secular’ yourselves, the term you hated?” Koshyari had written.Thackeray hit back at the governor for his comments in a letter. “Do you mean that opening up religious places is Hindutva, and not opening them means being secular? Secularism is a crucial base of the oath you took as Governor. Do you not believe it?” the chief minister had written.Thackeray also gave a roadmap for relaxing Covid-19 norms in the state, asserting that restrictions will be eased on the basis of oxygen availability, he requested individuals to abide by proper norms, noting that citizens can help prevent or invite a 'third wave' of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/keralas-spike-a-dangerous-signal-maha-cm-urges-citizens-and-political-parties-to-avoid-crowding-during-festivals-101630923247119.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal emerges champion in fight against Covid-19: Modi||Himachal Pradesh has emerged as a champion in the fight against Covid-19, the worst pandemic in a century, by vaccinating 100% of the eligible population with at least the first dose, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday. He was virtually addressing the people of the state after interacting with frontline coronavirus warriors and beneficiaries of the vaccination drive. Also read: Afghanistan, terrorism, Indo-Pacific, climate change on Modi’s US trip agendaCongratulating people of the state, the Prime Minister said that Himachal Pradesh became the first state in the country to have achieved the feat. Not only this, but the state has also vaccinated one-third of its population with the second dose of the vaccine, he said. Himachal’s success has not only boosted the self-confidence of the country but also highlighted the importance of self-reliance, he said. India administering 1.25 crore doses daily Modi said India was creating records by administering 1.25 crore doses daily, which was much higher than the entire population of some countries. “The success of India’s vaccination drive is the result of the hard work and courage of its people and a reflection of “sabka prayas (collective effort)” that I spoke about from Lal Qila on the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence,” said Modi. After Himachal, Sikkim and Dadra & Nagar Haveli also achieved the mark and many states were nearing the target. “Now we have to make efforts to ensure that those who have taken the first dose also get the second jab. This pill of self-confidence is the root of Himachal’s fast vaccination. Himachal trusted its own capabilities and its health workers and scientists of India,” said the Prime Minister. Lauding the spirit of the state’s health workers, ASHA, angawad, teachers and other people involved in the combat against Covid-19, Modi appreciated the contribution of women to the vaccination campaign. He interacted with frontline workers, including Dr Rahul, who hails from Gujarat and is posted in remote Dodra Kwar, Dayal Singh from Thungag of Mandi, health worker Nirma Devi, who carried out the vaccination campaign in Malana. Besides, he talked to Karmo Devi, who created record by vaccinating 22,000 people and worked despite a fractured foot and beneficiary Nirmala Devi, 84. Reaching out to remote areas He said Himachal braved tough terrains and lack of logistics to carry out the vaccination drive. He said in rural Himachal, faith in deities is an integral part of life. Citing the example of the remote village of Malana, Modi said health workers took “Dev Samaj” in confidence before carrying out the vaccination. The same strategy worked in the remotest parts whether it was Shimla’s Dodra Kwar, Kangra’s Bara and Chotta Bhangal or Bharmour and Pangi in Chamba. “This shows how faith, education and science can change life,” he said. Protecting forests, solution for landslides The Prime Minister said that the Centre has relaxed rules related to the use of drone technology and this would benefit the state in protecting and conserving its forest resources. “To find a scientific solution to the problem of landslides, we need to promote research related to an early warning system and also devise a construction technology suitable for the hills,” he said. He also spoke about Himachal’s success in the Jal Jeevan Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-emerges-champion-in-fight-against-covid-19-modi-101630917462951.html
06-09-2021||Mumbai||Dombivli railway over bridge in Thane to reopen for commuters on Tuesday||The prolonged wait for smooth connectivity between Kalyan and Dombivli will come to an end on Tuesday afternoon with Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurating the railway over bridge (ROB) connecting Dombivli east and west in Thane district through video conferencing. The bridge was under construction for the last 2 years since its partial dismantling in 2019 and is considered vital for free flow of vehicular traffic in Dombivli. “The bridge is ready and it will be set open to vehicular traffic on Tuesday after the inauguration ceremony,” said an officer of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), requesting anonymity. The bridge was shut on September 15, 2019 for vehicular traffic after it was declared unsafe by the Central Railway (CR). In April 2020, the slab of the bridge was dismantled and the railways undertook the work of repairing the girders and laying a new slab. A senior KDMC official said the reopening of the bridge will lead to easing of 70% traffic. She also insisted that the repair work was done in “record” time.“The actual work on the bridge began in April 2020 and we managed to finish it within a record time of 16 months. Initially, it took time to begin the work due to required permissions and tendering process,” said Sapna Koli, city engineer, KDMC.Rs12 crore was spent on its construction with the Central Railways and KDMC each sharing 50% of the total cost. “The opening of the bridge will be a major relief to the commuters. The work went on for over two year, people had to use narrow lanes to commute, leading to congestion,” said Ajay Desai, 36, a commuter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dombivli-railway-over-bridge-in-thane-to-reopen-for-commuters-on-tuesday-101630917461705.html
06-09-2021||Mumbai||Likening RSS to Taliban disrespectful to Hindu culture: Sena to Javed Akhtar||Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Monday criticised noted screenwriter and lyricist Javed Akhtar over his comparison of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) with Taliban, calling it disrespectful to Hindu culture. The reaction in the form of an editorial in the Marathi daily comes a day after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders from Mumbai demanded an unconditional apology from Akhtar. Akhtar, also a former member of Parliament, made the comparison during an interaction with a news channel (NDTV) last Friday. “Just like the Taliban want an Islamic State, there are those who want a Hindu Rashtra. These people are of the same mindset -- be it Muslim, Christian, Jews or Hindus,” he said. “Of course, the Taliban is barbaric, and their actions are reprehensible, but those supporting the RSS, VHP and Bajrang Dal are all the same,” he added.Also Read | Maharashtra aims to vaccinate 20mn in September to ‘prevent or delay’ 3rd waveThe Sena mouthpiece said though Akhtar has been speaking openly about fundamentalism and fanaticism, we do not agree with the comparison between RSS and Taliban. “Countries like Pakistan and China where democracy doesn’t exist are backing the Taliban in Afghanistan because human rights and democracy have no place in these countries. But India is a democratic country and respects an individual’s freedom. India is tremendously tolerant in every way... so it is erroneous to compare RSS with the Taliban,” it said. It added, “Iran had Khomeini rule and now Afghanistan has the Taliban rule. Linking Hindutva to these two rules is disrespectful towards Hindu culture.”The editorial added that Hindutva is a “culture” for organisations such as the RSS and VHP. “RSS and VHP want that the rights of the Hindus should not be suppressed. Moreover, they have never imposed any restrictions on women’s rights. The situation in Afghanistan, however, is gut-wrenching. People fled from their country out of fear, and women’s rights are being suppressed,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/likening-rss-to-taliban-disrespectful-to-hindu-culture-sena-to-javed-akhtar-101630912961366.html
06-09-2021||Bangalore||‘Thinking about it’: Karnataka minister on reopening schools for primary classes||Karnataka schools reopened for students of classes 6 to 8 on Monday in areas where the Covid-19 positivity rate is below 2 per cent. Karnataka primary and secondary education minister BC Nagesh said that the government decided to reopen schools after approval from the state's technical advisory committee on Covid-19. "We are thinking about reopening schools for primary classes," Nagesh said according to news agency ANI as he interacted with students of Karnataka public school as physical classes resumed.Nagesh said in a response to a question that the government will take a decision on reopening schools for students of classes 1 to 5 after consulting the technical advisory committee. However, he did not specify any timeline. The government has already allowed the reopening of schools for students from classes 9 to 12 since August 23.Also read | Schools reopen for students of classes 6 to 8 in KarnatakaNagesh said many parents and students urged him to reopen schools as he visited several parts of the state. He said the government and district administrations have been working together with the department for the safe conduct of classes."The department had an intention of reopening schools for some time now and teachers were also ready for it, but keeping in mind the health of the students along with education and concerns of the parents, we discussed with the technical advisory committee and after taking the opinion of expert paediatricians, we are reopening schools for classes 6,7 and 8," he told reporters.Also read | Karnataka allows Ganesh festival with Covid curbsIt is mandatory for students to submit a consent letter from their parents to attend offline classes and these classes are not compulsory, as there is a provision of online classes also. The government has said that offline classes for students of classes 6 to 8 will be held on alternate days, each with 50 per cent attendance. They will be held on five days a week and school authorities will sanitise and put in other Covid control measures over the weekend.Also read | Karnataka: 19-year-old receives both doses of Covishield vaccine in a gap of twoMeanwhile, the Karnataka government has allowed five-day Ganesha festival celebrations from September 10 in districts where the Covid-19 test positivity rate is below two per cent. However, cultural events and processions while bringing the idol to the pooja pandal or during immersion have been prohibited. The state health department said in its daily bulletin on Sunday that there are 17,501 active cases of Covid-19 in Karnataka after 1,117 more people tested positive for the disease. The bulletin also said that the death toll rose to 37409 as eight more people succumbed to Covid-19. The positivity and case fatality rate both stood at 0.71%, the bulletin also showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-karnataka-reopen-schools-for-primary-classes-minister-weighs-in-101630912386909.html
06-09-2021||Patna||CM launches work on Patna’s 1st double-decker flyover on Ashok Rajpath||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has laid the foundation stone of a 2.20km double-decker flyover from Kargil Chowk to NIT more on the congested Ashok Rajpath with a view to give a seamless vehicular access to the upcoming Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), the biggest in the country in terms of bed capacity. A sum of ₹422 crore is likely to be spent on the first double-decker flyover which would take three years to complete. Addressing the gathering on the occasion, CM Kumar said on Saturday that road infrastructure across the state has undergone a sea change since he took over at the chief minister in 2005. “Road travel to one locality to another was a nightmare. But there has been development of a string of flyovers and network of wide roads over the years,” said Kumar. Also Read | Mithila’s cultural symbols on special postal covers unveiled in DarbhangaReferring to salient features of the double-decker flyover, to be built by Gurugram-based Gawar Construction Limited, the CM said it would have two access points, connecting to the PMCH, and its terminal point would be linked with under construction four-lane Ganga Pathway that connects Digha with the upcoming six-lane bridge near Patna City. “PMCH is being developed as a state-of-the-art hospital with 5,400-bed capacity. Those willing to go to Patna city can take Ganga Pathway rout after the flyover to avoid traffic congestions on Ashok Rajpath,” said Kumar. Upon its completion, the Kargin Chowk-NIT more section of flyover would be the second double deck flyover in Bihar after the one under construction at Chapra. Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad that Kumar was carrying on with the vision of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, whose vision for development of the golden quadrilateral and other road projects would be remembered as major step forward in terms of communication infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cm-launches-work-on-patna-s-1st-double-decker-flyover-on-ashok-rajpath-101630909960933.html
06-09-2021||Delhi||Firing over raising cattle in east Delhi; one dead, another injured||A 35-year-old man was killed and another was injured in a firing incident that took place during an altercation between two neighbouring families in Khera village near GTB Enclave in east Delhi in the early hours of Monday. Two brothers belonging to the rival family were arrested. The families of Sandeep Chandoliya’s and Vicky’s have a longstanding enmity over raising pigs. Chandoliya’s family raises pigs next to Vicky’s house to which the latter’s family has objected and the two family have often had altercations over it. In April 2020, cross-FIRs were registered against them, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.Also Read | Delhi likely to get some rain on Monday: IMDOn Sunday night around 11pm, the two families began quarrelling again over the same issue. The matter was brought to the notice of GTB Enclave police station. A police team reached there, pacified both the groups and returned after resolving their matter. But 1am on Monday, the police control room received calls regarding firing in the same locality. The police reached there again and learnt that two persons, Vikas and Suresh, sustained bullet injuries and were admitted to GTB hospital. “Vikas, with bullet injury to his shoulder, was declared brought dead. Suresh was shot in his abdomen and is undergoing treatment. Both of them are Chandoliya’s relatives,” said DCP Sathiyasundaram, adding that a case was registered and two brothers, Vicky and Rocky, were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/firing-over-raising-cattle-in-east-delhi-one-dead-another-injured-101630905040424.html
06-09-2021||Mumbai||'Comparing RSS with Taliban is disrespectful to Hindu culture': Shiv Sena on Javed Akhtar||The Shiv Sena on Monday criticised lyricist Javed Akhtar for equating the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) with the Taliban, saying that such a comparison is “disrespectful to Hindu culture.” In its mouthpiece Saamana, the party, which is headed by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, also called upon those making such comparisons to “introspect.”Also Read | ‘Must apologise with folded hands or else…’: BJP leader warns Javed Akhtar over RSS-Taliban remarks“These days, some people are comparing anyone with the Taliban as it is the biggest threat to the society and mankind. Pakistan and China, which are not democracies, are backing the Taliban in Afghanistan because human rights do not have any place in these two countries. However, we are a democratic nation where an individual’s freedom is respected. Hence, it is erroneous to compare the RSS with the Taliban. India is tremendously tolerant in every way,” a Sena editorial in Saamana said.Hindutva is a “culture” for organisations such as the RSS and VHP, the editorial said. It added, “RSS and VHP want that the rights of the Hindus should not be suppressed. Moreover, they have never imposed any restrictions on women’s rights. The situation in Afghanistan, however, is gut-wrenching. People fled from their country out of fear, and women’s rights are being suppressed.”The paper described Akhtar as someone who is known for his “outspoken” statements and has also attacked extremist views of the Muslim society. “However, comparing the Sangh with the Taliban is not acceptable. Most people in our country are secular and will not accept the Taliban’s ideology. India is proudly secular despite Hindus being the majority community,” it said.Speaking to NDTV last Friday, Akhtar had compared the RSS and VHP to the Taliban. “Just like the Taliban desire an Islamic State, there are those here who want a Hindu Rashtra. They have the same mindset, be it Muslims, Christians, Hindus or Jews. What the Taliban is doing is barbaric, of course, but those supporting the RSS, VHP and Bajrang Dal are the same. However, India will never become a Talibani country because majority of the people in our country are extremely tolerant and decent,” the former parliamentarian had remarked. Akhtar’s remarks didn’t go down well with several people, including Ram Kadam of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the ideological mentor of which is the RSS. Kadam, a BJP MLA, has warned Akhtar’s films will not be allowed to release in Maharashtra till he issues an apology. A Mumbai-based lawyer, too, has filed a police complaint against the lyricist.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/comparing-rss-with-taliban-is-disrespectful-to-hindu-culture-shiv-sena-on-javed-akhtar-101630903428824.html
06-09-2021||Patna||Mithila’s cultural symbols on special postal covers unveiled in Darbhanga||Opening of first all women sub post office in Darbhanga division, release of two special postal covers including one on Darbhanga airport and the other on Mithila- Paan (a local variety of betel), Maachh (fish), Makhaan (fox nut) and Paag (headgear)—all cultural symbols of the region-- marked the conclusion of the three-day philatelic exhibition-- related to postage stamps and its history--organised in Darbhanga between September 3 and 5.Chief postmaster general (Bihar circle), colonel Jaleshwar Kanhar said the all woman sub post office was a step towards women’s empowerment.The special postal cover on Darbhanga airport reflected its phenomenal growth and a chapter in the city’s modernisation and development.Vice chancellor of Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University (KSDSU) Dr Shashi Nath Jha underscored the cultural significance of Paan (beetle), Maachh (fish), Makhaan (fox nut) and Paag (headgear) to Mithila region. “The 3-day stamp exhibition hosted by Darbhanga postal division witnessed many activities, including various competitions for school children. Moreover, Darbhanga division notched up top position in opening of Sukanya Samriddhi accounts in 2020-21 in the whole state”, said postal superintendent Umesh Chandra Prasad. Director, postal services, Shankar Prasad said the postal division had served the people during the corona pandemic with doorstep payment of money through AEPS--an aadhaar-enabled payment system-- and delivery of essential commodities like medicines besides distribution of food packets and masks among the needy during the lockdown. A souvenir, Serving Nation, Beyond Expectations, documenting Darbhanga postal division’s noteworthy work, was also released on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/mithilas-cultural-symbols-on-special-postal-covers-unveiled-in-darbhanga-101630901440521.html
06-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi likely to get some rain on Monday: IMD||Delhi is likely to get some rain on Monday as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast drizzle for the day with partly cloudy skies over the national capital.The minimum temperature in the city on Monday is likely to be 27 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 35 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature was 33.9 degrees Celsius on Sunday and the minimum temperature was 25.8 degrees Celsius.With IMD forecasting another intense rain spell over Delhi and adjoining areas between September 6 and 10, this could be one of the wettest monsoons for the city in at least over the past decade, IMD scientists and weather experts said. Compared to the normal monsoon rain of 552.6mm, Delhi has already recorded 988.4mm rain so far, a 79% surplus.Independent weather experts too said monsoon has behaved a bit oddly this season. From dry spells to intense rain, it has been oscillating from one extreme to another.“The dry spells were mainly because both the frequency and intensity of low-pressure systems that form over the Bay of Bengal, which bring rainfall to different parts of the country, were too low. The systems that formed in between brought the heavy spells. September, however, is going to be good in terms of more spells of rain not just in Delhi, but the whole of northern plains and central India,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, Skymet, a private forecaster.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 115. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 88, which is in the satisfactory category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe, as per CBCB..On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the satisfactory category due to dry condition leading to dust re-suspension with low ventilation and is forecasted to remain in the satisfactory category for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-likely-to-get-some-rain-on-mondayimd-101630897779941.html
06-09-2021||Environment||Greenpiece: Climate Crisis mitigation must be reflected at municipal level||Why isn’t the climate emergency reflected in local governance?Take the case of the waste-to-energy (WTE) plant in Gurugram’s Bhandwadi, in the ancient Aravalli forest... It is expected to handle waste from Gurugram and Faridabad.But the basics are ignored. The Solid Waste Management Rules require segregation, composting and recycling. Neither Faridabad nor Gurugram follows this.If done in a decentralized way, only about 20% of the waste would leave the wards. Of this, dust and similar components comprise 15%, unsuitable for burning.Should the rest 10%, including multi-layer packaging, not be either recycled via investments in new technologies or landfilled till they are substituted?We know from the Capital’s experience at the Okhla WTE plant, that it’s very hard to monitor pollution.Pollutants, including the deadly Dioxin, are tested once in four months. The results arrive several weeks later. In the interim, it’s business as usual. Nothing changes if it is fined.This and the proposed Gurugram plant can harm us all, even if we live elsewhere: pollution travels. India is hit by dust from the Middle East, and crop burning in Punjab impacts Delhi.The University of Chicago’s EPIC Centre has declared 480 million Indians breathe air 10 times worse than WHO standards.In Haryana, it says, people would live 8.4 years longer if the air met the standards.Air pollution is part of the climate change pantheon. The central government is leading the global Solar charge and leading climate change discourse. Why undo the vision at the municipal level?(The author is founder and director, Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/greenpiece-climate-crisis-mitigation-must-be-reflected-at-municipal-level-101630876595147.html
06-09-2021||Other||25 farmers detained during Khattar’s Rewari visit||As many as 25 farmers were detained when they were proceeding towards Indira Gandhi University in Rewari’s Meerpur to protest against the farm reforms, during Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit on Sunday. The farmers were later released. Khattar was at the varsity for a teachers’ day event. The CM also laid the foundation stone of developmental projects worth ₹47.27 crore at the varsity and announced that the state will celebrate ‘Shiksha Parv’ till September 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/25-farmers-detained-during-khattar-s-rewari-visit-101630876539102.html
06-09-2021||Other||AAP kicks off Haryana yatra in solidarity with farmers||The Haryana unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday kicked-off its statewide “Kisan Mazdoor Khet Bachao Yatra” from Rohtak. Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta flagged off the yatra which will culminate in Palwal on September 13, after passing through all 22 districts of the state. The yatra is being organised in solidarity with farmers protesting against the three farm laws passed by the Union government.After paying tributes at the statue of peasant leader Chhotu Ram, Gupta began the yatra from Rohtak. The Rajya Sabha MP said the yatra will cover Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri on Sunday itself.“On September 6, it will cover Jhajjar, Sonepat and Panipat and, on September 7, it will be in Karnal, Yamunanagar and Panchkula. Ambala, Kurukshetra and Kaithal will host it on September 8, a day before Jind and Hisar. On September 10, the yatra will pass through Fatehabad and Sirsa and, two days later, Faridabad, Gurguram and Rewari. On the final day, it will go to Mahendragarh and Mewat before reaching Palwal,” he told reporters.Slamming the Haryana government, Gupta said the state government has rewarded IAS officer Ayush Sinha for his remarks on farmers by transferring him instead of terminating him.“The BJP government has backed the IAS officer for giving instructions to break the heads of farmers who were protesting in Karnal last month. Instead of solving the farmers’ grievances, the BJP government has been resorting to canecharge. Our party is standing in solidarity with the farmers,” AAP leader Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-kicks-off-haryana-yatra-in-solidarity-with-farmers-101630875818489.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to continue with online classes in residential varsities till Oct 15||Haryana government on Sunday said the decision to start physical classes in residential universities of the state will be taken on October 15 after assessing the Covid -19 situation. The state government’s decision to continue applying brakes on holding physical classes in universities comes even as schools in Haryana were reopened for primary classes 4-5 last week. Middle, high and senior secondary classes in the state were opened in mid-July. Earlier, the state government had advised the vice-chancellors (V-Cs) of universities in the state to plan reopening of universities from the next academic session and share the programme with the departments concerned. While extending the lockdown--Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana--till September 20, the government directed the V-Cs to continue conducting classes online till October 15. “The decision to allow students to attend classes physically in residential universities will be taken on October 15 after assessing the prevalent Covid situation,” chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said in an order. Extending the lockdown from September 6 (5am onwards) to September 20 (till 5am) along with guidelines to be implemented during this period issued vide earlier orders, the state government asked the university administration to get all students, faculty members and staff (including the outsourced) fully vaccinated. The universities were also directed to share the vaccination progress with the department of higher education, technical education and medical education and research as the case may be. The university/colleges will remain open for students for doubt clearing, practical classes in laboratories, practical examinations and offline examination. The government has also allowed hostels (in colleges and universities) to open for students appearing in examinations. Meanwhile, relaxations like opening of restaurants, bars, malls, clubhouses and shops permitted earlier will continue. The government has allowed the cinema halls, restaurants and bars (including in hotels and in malls), gyms and spas, club houses, restaurants, bars and golf courses to open with 50% seating capacity. In indoor spaces, gathering of up to 50% of the hall capacity is allowed with a ceiling of maximum 100 persons while in open spaces, up to 200 persons can assemble subject to strict Covid norms. The lockdown in Haryana was imposed on May 3 and extended from time-to-time on a weekly basis and now by a fortnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-continue-with-online-classes-in-residential-varsities-till-oct-15-101630875398537.html
06-09-2021||Lucknow||People doing brokerage are upset, not the farmers: UP CM||People doing brokerage in the name of farmers are upset, not the farmers, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday, even as hundreds of thousands of farmers gathered for a mahapanchayat in the state’s Muzaffarnagar district against the three contentious farm laws passed by Parliament a year ago.“Several schemes like Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi and Krishi Sinchai Yojana have been brought by the Centre for the farmers. The use of technology is being promoted in agriculture. The people, who do not like these works, are misleading the farmers. People doing brokerage in the name of farmers are upset, not the farmers,” said Adityanath, while addressing the Hindustan Purvanchal Samman Samaroh programme organised by Hindi daily Hindustan.“Farmers were committing suicide before 2017 but, after our government came, the suicides have stopped. After the formation of our government, I found out the reason for the suicides... farmers are not getting the cost of their produce... First, the government waived the farmers’ loans... work was done to buy (crops) directly from the farmers and transfer the money directly into their accounts,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/people-doing-brokerage-are-upset-not-the-farmers-up-cm-101630874960947.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||NEP implementation crucial in achieving atamnirbhar India target: Haryana governor||Haryana governor and chancellor of Maharishi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak, Bandaru Dattatreya said on Sunday the dream of achieving ‘atamnirbhar India’ objective depends on effective implementation of National Education Policy (NEP- 2020).During the Teachers’ Day function organised at Tagore auditorium of MDU Rohtak, the governor called upon the teachers to play an important role in effective implementation of this education policy.Dattatraya called for starting a social awareness campaign against social evils, while taking inspiration from the thoughts and works of Swami Dayanand Saraswati. He congratulated the entire university, including the vice-chancellor of the university, for remarkable progress, green campus, and multi-faceted achievements, an official spokesperson said. Earlier, the vice-chancellor of the university, Professor Rajbir Singh delivered the welcome address. On this occasion, the teachers were presented awards also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nep-implementation-crucial-in-achieving-atamnirbhar-india-target-haryana-governor-101630874618351.html
06-09-2021||Other||Bajrang Punia gets a rousing reception at Jhajjar’s Khuddan village||Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday visited Jhajjar’s Khuddan village to attend a felicitation ceremony being organised to honour wrestler Bajrang Punia who secured a bronze medal in the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics.The villagers gave a rousing welcome to their hero Bajrang. Few years ago, Punia’s family had shifted to Sonepat for his training and since then they have been staying there. The locals beat danced to the tunes of dhols and showered flowers on Punia’s cavalcade after he reached the village.Bajrang Punia said he is looking to win the gold medal in the next Olympics and he has already started preparations for that. “My family has undergone many struggles for my coaching. My parents had shifted to Sonepat so that I could practice there. The hard work has paid off,” he added.CM Khattar announced ₹2.5 crore cash award to Bajrang, besides a job and a plot on 50% concessional rates. “I have accepted all demands given by the villagers. I announce the construction of an indoor stadium with modern and world-class facilities at Khuddan village,” the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bajrang-punia-gets-a-rousing-reception-at-jhajjar-s-khuddan-village-101630873238883.html
06-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The bamboo screen seller||The neighbourhood is very posh, very quiet. Only occasional bird sounds waft through the hushed air. The residences on either side of the lane project a confidence as secured as a castle with moat.Then Puranchand steps in.“Chickwale, chickwale,” his shrill, raspy voice drowns out a bird’s twittering. The grey-haired man looks around, and repeats his call.In his 60s, Puranchand sells chicks, the slatted bamboo screens that so subtly sieve the daylight streaming inside the house through doors and windows. A few of the street vendor’s chicks are rolled up on his shoulder, and others are stacked in his bag. Puranchand walks the whole day long in central Delhi localities. One day he might be in Defence Colony. The next day it could be Bhogal. This afternoon he is in Hazrat Nizamuddin East, some distance away from filmmaker Mira Nair’s apartment.“I used to sell cane chairs and mooras when I was young,” he says, recalling how easily he would pedal a heavy cart loaded with furniture for long hours daily. But as he grew old, and his body became frail—he says—he gave up the cart and started hawking the chicks. That was about eight years ago. Living in distant Paharganj, he commutes to this part of the city by bus. “I have a DTC (Delhi Transport Corporation) pass.” Puranchand doesn’t need to work out of compulsion, he points out. He lives with his two sons, both of them have jobs, and they repeatedly urge him to retire and enjoy life at home.“But what will I do within the house,” he asks. “For how long can one stare at the wall or watch TV?” He pauses to recollect his thoughts. “The moment you stop being active, you start to catch all kinds of illnesses.” Besides, his working life has helped fill his years with so much variety, he feels. “I started as a book-binder… worked in that line for 16 years.” There were hardships along the way but he confronted them, he says. For instance, “my mother died when I was eight.”Puranchand now looks around and, again loudly proclaims in his street-hawker-voice: “Chickwale, chickwale.”No window opens. He walks ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-bamboo-screen-seller-101630872690768.html
06-09-2021||Other||Kurukshetra Development Board seeks report on tree felling in K’shetra Tirath||The Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) has initiated a probe and sought a report into the felling of five trees of historical importance at the Bhisma Kund Tirath in the district.“The matter was brought to our knowledge by a local NGO. They alleged that five trees, including two peepal and one banyan, have been felled,” said chief executive officer of the KDB, Anubhav Mehta. “We have sought a report from the former sarpanch and local mahants and a meeting in this regard will be called on Monday,” he added.It is learnt that the trees were felled by unidentified persons for setting up of an open gym in the area. Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary secretary of the KDB, said the felling of these trees from this historical place is illegal and action will be taken as per law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kurukshetra-development-board-seeks-report-on-tree-felling-in-k-shetra-tirath-101630872758201.html
06-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath meets flood-affected people in Gorakhpur||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday met flood-affected people at Sadar tehsil, Belwar and Kauriram in Gorakhpur where he also distributed relief material. He assured the flood victims that his government stood firmly with them, and it would offer full support.“The water level has increased, but timely work on repair of embankment, along with swift relief work, has checked losses,” the chief minister said to reporters on the second day of his two-day visit to Gorakhpur. He reiterated that a special sanitation drive till September 12 was being carried out to check the spread of diseases after floods. He also felicitated some sanitation workers. Yogi Adityanath also said the state was getting rid of mafia, mosquito and filth, and scripting a new story of development.“There was a time when eastern Uttar Pradesh was a hub of mafia and also cases of malaria, encephalitis and dengue were on surge in the region but now the conditions have changed,” he said. Speaking at the beginning of a sanitisation drive here, he said encephalitis had been “controlled” in the state due to sanitisation and taking adequate measures. “Encephalitis has reduced to minimum level with toilets in every home,” he said.Adityanath also remembered second president Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan whose birth anniversary on September 5 is observed as Teacher’s Day.He said, “The sanitisation drive has begun on the anniversary of second president Dr Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan and it will continue till September 12.”The chief minister applauded Gautam Budh Nagar (Noida) district magistrate Suhas Yathiraj who bagged a silver medal in men’s singles in badminton at the Tokyo Paralympics.Earlier in the day, the chief minister held Janata Darshan at the Gorakhnath temple where he listened to the problems of people and directed the officials concerned to address their issues.(WITH PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-meets-flood-affected-people-in-gorakhpur-101630872518624.html
06-09-2021||Delhi||Documentation reduced for 478 public services in Delhi||In a bid to boost the ease-of-doing-business in the national capital, the Delhi government has reduced paperwork and documentation required in around 480 public-dealing services over the last several months, said senior state officials aware of the matter.The services include applications for birth certificates, drivers’ licences, school registrations, resolving water supply-related complaints and trade licences. In some cases, the regulatory requirements have been reduced to a form and submission of a copy of the Aadhaar document, said a senior state government official.“The Delhi government has streamlined 478 services since April and eased the process for obtaining documents as part of its policy aimed at ensuring hassle-free access to various government services,” said a senior government official.The services streamlined so far involve 30 government departments (including revenue, education, food and civil supplies, transport and health), the three municipal corporations and the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC).“It has been possible because the compliances were handled by the city government irrespective of the department of agency handling the delivery of the service,” said the senior government official.A second government official said, “The state identified 596 government-to-business and government-to-citizen services for simplification, rationalisation and digitisation — largely through doing away with compliances. The aim is to reduce the time and cost burden on individuals availing government services. Work on simplification of more service compliances is underway”Residents welcomed the move and said the minimised paperwork had made application processes easier.“I got my learners’ driving licence done last month by filling up just one online form and submitting a digital copy of my Aadhaar card. I didn’t need to submit any separate address proof, passport-size photo, etc. In 2019, I tried to apply for the learner’s licence but the process required around four to five documents and filling up a lengthier form...Thankfully, it is much easier now,” said Ishita Verma, a resident of Pashim Vihar.Government records said of the 478 services, in which compliances have been reduced, 75 are connected to NDMC, 160 are related to the three municipal corporations, 30 to the transport department, 17 of the Delhi Jal Board, 10 of the revenue department and the rest spread among other departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/documentation-reduced-for-478-public-services-in-delhi-101630872082408.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar overrules Vij to appoint IPS officer as transport secretary||Overruling his cabinet colleague and home minister, Anil Vij, Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday ordered the appointment of IPS officer Kala Ramachandran as principal secretary, transport, a cadre post of the Indian administrative service (IAS). As per the appointment orders issued on Sunday, Ramachandran was posted as principal secretary, transport, in addition to additional director general of police, crime against women. The home minister had objected to the proposal of appointing an IPS officer on a cadre post designated for IAS officers, citing IAS cadre rules which required the state government to take prior approval of the Central government under rule 9 (2)(c). The home minister had also said that the IPS officer should not be relieved from the police department and posted to a cadre post of IAS officers till the department of personnel and training (DoPT) of central government grants approval in this regard. ‘CM does not agree with the home minister’Ordering the appointment of IPS officer, chief principal secretary to the CM, DS Dhesi wrote that the CM does not agree with the home minister. Dhesi also wrote that prior approval of the Central government will be taken if it is proposed to continue the IPS officer who is a non-cadre officer beyond a period of three months. Chief secretary Vijai Vardhan too had raised objections on appointments of non-cadre officers to the cadre posts of the IAS. Vardhan had communicated that if the appointment of nine non-cadre officers (IPS, IFS and IRS) to the cadre posts of IAS has to continue, then the state government should seek mandatory approval of the central government or replace them with IAS officers. The central government had also sought the comments of the Haryana government on the issue after the state government had appointed nine Indian Police Service (IPS), Indian Forests Service (IFS) and Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officers to the cadre posts of IAS. Rule 9(2)(c) of the IAS Cadre Rules state that if a select list is not in force and it is proposed to appoint a non-select list officer, the state government shall forthwith make a proposal to that effect to the central government together with the reasons thereof and the appointment shall be made only with the prior approval of the central government. The rules also state that a cadre post in a state shall not be filled by a person who is not a cadre officer except if there is no suitable cadre officer available for filling the vacancy. Also, if it is proposed to continue the person who is not a cadre officer beyond a period of three months, the state government shall obtain the prior approval of the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-overrules-vij-to-appoint-ips-officer-as-transport-secretary-101630871918167.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||HP govt faces flak as free langar service at IGMC ‘forcibly’ shut||The BJP government is drawing flak from the public and Opposition for shutting down the langar being run by Shimla-based philanthropist Sarbjeet Singh Bobby’s charity organisation, Almighty Blessings, at the Cancer Hospital. On Saturday evening, the philanthropist, who goes by the name of Vella Bobby, said the police had forcefully vacated the langar hall and had thrown utensils and food on the road. The langar has been running without a break since October 25, 2014, and has provided free food to around 3,000 people daily, including patients who come to the Cancer Hospital for treatment and their attendants, he wrote. Bobby, who has just had a kidney transplant, said he will not be able to stage a protest as he was still recovering. “I surrender... Vella Bobby is no more Vella,” he wrote. Meanwhile, IGMC senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said the hospital did not have a problem with charity work, any organisation, or a person. “However, this cannot be done by encroaching on hospital property. We had been receiving complaints against the concerned organisation,” he said. Dr Raj said when they visited spot on Saturday it was found that the electricity and water connection at the langar hall were illegal. “Patients have the first right on hospital property and the IGMC administration is committed to provide best of services to them. No hospital anywhere has an arrangement for running charity on its premises. Everything has been done in accordance with law,” he said. Deputy medical superintendent Dr Rahul Gupta said the langar was being run adjacent to the radiology department where a cobalt machine had been installed. “In 2016, a LPG cylinder had caught fire at the langar hall, had it led to a radiation leak, it would have resulted in casualties,” he said. Dr Gupta said the charity group was asked to vacate the premises several times but they did not pay heed. Shimla superintendent of police Monika Bhutungru rubbished the charge of use of police force. “The langar hall was vacated by IGMC authorities and the police force was deployed there for maintaining law and order,” he said. Different Opposition parties have come in support of Bobby. CPI (M) leader and former Shimla mayor Sanjay Chauhan said, “The way they vacated the langar premises through use of force was very unfortunate. If the langar was illegal, how was it running for so long in the hospital complex?” he asked. Congress legislator Vikramaditya Singh also organised a protest at The Ridge against the IGMC administration and police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-govt-faces-flak-as-free-langar-service-at-igmc-forcibly-shut-101630871799511.html
06-09-2021||Other||Rohtak youth killed family as they refused money for gender-reassignment surgery: Cops||Police on Sunday revealed that the 20-year-old youth, who was arrested for allegedly killing four members of his family in Rohtak on August 23, had executed the crime as they had refused to give him money for a gender-reassignment surgery. The accused Abhishek Malik had allegedly shot dead his property dealer father Pradeep Malik, mother Babli Devi and maternal grandmother Roshni Devi at their house in Vijay Nagar in Rohtak, while his 17-year-old sister succumbed to bullet wounds at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences two days later. He was arrested on September 1.Interacting with mediapersons, Rohtak deputy superintendent of police (DSP, headquarters) Gorakh Pal said the accused had confessed to killing his family members. “His family was opposed to his same-sex relationship. He was planning to flee abroad after getting money from his family. His parents had called his maternal grandmother to convince him against undergoing the gender-change surgery.”The DSP further said, “The accused had been planning to eliminate his parents for the last 20 days. We have recovered the illegal pistol and mobile phones used during the murders. The accused claimed that the pistol was brought by his father from his friend, which is illegal. We have also recovered some jewellery that he had stolen after killing his family members. His plan was to make it look like a robbery,” the DSP added.The DSP said the accused first shot at his sister, then maternal grandmother, mother and father.“After the crime, Malik threw the pistol into a canal and then went to a hotel near Delhi bypass to meet his friend. They drove on the Delhi road before stopping for lunch but he did not eat anything. After dropping his friend, Malik called his maternal uncle, saying that his parents were not picking up his calls and he was worried for them. Then he went home, called his neighbours and rushed his sister to PGIMS, where she died two days later,” said the cop.The accused Malik had done a cabin-crew course from Delhi, where he came in contact with his male friend. He later enrolled in a B.Com course through distance learning mode. The DSP headquarters said, “We will produce the accused in court on Monday. So far, we haven’t found anything to point to the involvement of his male friend in the crime. But we aren’t giving the friend a clean chit yet.”Accused’s social media follower count goes upThe accused’s Instagram follower count has gone up from 700 on September 1 to 3,259, at the time of filing of the report on Sunday. Another account named after him saw the follower-count crossing from 17,000 on September 4 to 18,000 on September 5. In one of the pictures posed on the account, the 20-year-old youth was seen carrying a pistol while his father, who was seen seated next to him, looked on. A senior police official, who is part of the investigation, said they aren’t aware of the rise in follower count.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rohtak-youth-killed-his-family-as-they-refused-money-for-gender-reassignment-surgery-cops-101630871498153.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 96 fresh Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh recorded 96 fresh coronavirus infections on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 2,14,504, while the death toll mounted to 3,595 after two patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 22 were reported in Kangra and Mandi, 14 in Solan, 12 in Shimla, 11 in Bilaspur, five each in Hamirpur and Kullu, four in Chamba and one in Una.Active cases came down to 1,633, while recoveries reached 2,09,258. Kangra is the worst-hit district since the virus outbreak last year with 47,865 cases, followed by Mandi and Shimla districts with 3,00,48, and 26,733 cases, respectively. 12K women in SHGs helped HP govt combat Covid: Kanwar With the demand for face masks rising due to the coronavirus pandemic, 12,000 women self-help groups across Himachal Pradesh have helped with the containment efforts by stitching masks. Around 400 members of 38 SHGs affiliated to the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) were involved in making breathable fabric masks, which also helped them earn some money. Training on making medicated and sanitized face masks to SHG women members was provided through virtual mode by rural development department officials under National NRLM, said rural development minister Virender Kanwar. He said the government also roped in Rural Self Employment Training Institutes (RSETI) to provide training to SHG members to meet the growing demand of face masks during first phase of lockdown in March 2020 when sudden surge in demand escalated prices and created big gaps in demand and supply. The SHG started working on a war footing for sewing 3-layer surgical non-woven cloth masks as recommended by the Health Department which helped stabilizing prices and meet the demand. “Around 12000 women of the 1500 SHGs associated with NRLM have produced around 40 lakh low-cost masks till August 2021,” said Kanwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-96-fresh-covid-cases-101630871378296.html
06-09-2021||Lucknow||BJP launches intellectual meets across UP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) launched its prabuddh varg sammelans (intellectual meets) across Uttar Pradesh on Sunday.At one such meeting in Varanasi, chief minister Yogi Adityanath appealed to Kashi’s scholars to find an alternative to impart education to a large number of students, who lack gadgets like tablets and computers, if the Covid-19 pandemic stretches for long.At another meet in Ayodhya, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh targeted the Congress for coining the word “Hindu terror” and the SP for allowing firing on kar sevaks in Ayodhya in 1990. The intellectual meets launched on Sunday from various places across the state would continue till September 20.Making the appeal about students’ education in Varanasi, Adityanath said: “I visit flood-affected areas daily. During my visit to a flood-affected area, I met a student and asked him in which class he studied. The student informed that he attended school up to fourth standard and stopped going to school thereafter as the school was closed (due to Covid-19). He doesn’t go to school anymore.” “We can impart education to the children belonging to well-off families equipped with digital devices. But a large number of children belong to the financially weaker section. These children lack mobile phones, tabs or laptops. For these children, I want to appeal all the teachers to find an alternative to provide education to children, if the pandemic lasts long. Think, if the guru-shishya parampara (tradition) may be an alternative or teachers may visit students’ villages and teach them,” he said. Stating that schools cannot be closed for long time, he said despite that there must be preparedness to deal with any situation. He also said that before 2017, people used to say that there was goonda raj and corruption in UP and no one could free it from these problems. But his government had changed the perception about UP, the chief minister said.Now people in other states believe that UP’s law and order is the best in the country, he added. Without mentioning any opposition leader, Yogi said, “The people who used to avoid visiting the temples in Kashi, Mathura and Ayodhya, now they are competing to visit the temples.”Yogi said that after independence in 1947, UP’s per capita income was equivalent to nation per capita income. But by 2016, it decreased to one third. Several steps have been taken and in days to come, the per capita income of UP will increase, he said. In Ayodhya, Swatantra Dev Singh said, “... the Samajwadi Party leadership had okayed firing on karsevaks in Ayodhya in 1990. That firing was actually on the nationalistic and cultural ideology of the nation.” Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya was in Kanpur for the ‘prabuddh varg sammelan’ while UP BJP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh was in Prayagraj. UP co-general secretary (in-charge) Karamvir was in Saharanpur, BJP’s national vice president Rekha Verma was in Chitrakoot, national general secretary Arun Singh was in Mathura. Other leaders present for the event at various places across the state included national secretary Vinod Sonker (Agra). Several union ministers including Sanjeev Balyan (Ghaziabad), VK Singh (Meerut), Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti (Jhansi), Bhanu Pratap Verma (Moradabad), Kaushal Kishore (Noida), BL Verma (Bareilly), Pankaj Choudhary (Gorakhpur), Ajay Mishra (Shahjahanpur) also addressed these meetings. BJP leader Subrat Pathak, who is in-charge of these intellectual meets, said they would be held in all 403 assembly constituencies of the state.The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) too has similarly named its Brahmin outreach campaigns across the state as ‘prabuddh varg sammelans and BJP leaders admit that in their meetings too, Brahmin community leaders would participate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-launches-intellectual-meets-across-up-101630871258317.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Law and order in Punjab has gone out of control: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday alleged that law and order in Punjab has gone out of control. “There is an atmosphere of fear among people. Not only businessmen and celebrities, the general public is also not safe,” party MLA and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema claimed in a statement, citing the official data on the 7,138 incidents of kidnapping during the Congress rule in the state. Cheema said that all these cases of kidnappings were in the government records but there were also incidents where no complaints of kidnapping or ransom demand were filed with the police. “Incidents like kidnapping which once used to happen in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh are at a peak in Punjab today,” he claimed, blaming the chief minister who also heads the home portfolio. The AAP leader said the chief minister should hand over the home department to some other competent minister with an immediate effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/law-and-order-in-punjab-has-gone-out-of-control-aap-101630871199674.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 20.41% rise in GST collection in August||Punjab recorded a goods and services tax (GST) collection of ₹1,188.70 crore in August 2021, a rise of 20.41% over the revenue of ₹987.20 crore during the corresponding month of previous year. The growth is a fair indicator of the rapid economic recovery after the second wave of Covid-19, said a spokesperson of the taxation commissionerate. The sectoral analysis of the GST receipts suggests healthy recovery in sectors such as iron and steel, electronic goods, fertilisers, telecom and banking, he added. In addition to the regular IGST settlement, the state also received ad-hoc settlement to the tune of ₹448.35 crore in August for the first quarter of financial year 2021-22, said the spokesperson. As a result, the GST revenue up to August witnessed a high growth of 80% as compared to corresponding period last year. In August, the tax collection from VAT and CST was ₹648.44 crore and ₹26.97 crore, respectively. The state development tax collection remained at ₹11.38 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-20-41-rise-in-gst-collection-in-august-101630871147619.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Moga MC to provide land to 2 govt primary schools||The Moga municipal corporation (MC) has decided to provide land to two government schools which were running without their own building or playground. While Government Primary School, Dutt Road, was running from the roof of a gurdwara for decades, Government Primary School, Bagiana Basti does not have a playground. An MC official said, “We passed a resolution for giving land to the schools in a recent meeting of the general house. Now, the final approval of the local government department is required. But the ownership of the land will remain with the corporation. We will give no-objection certificate (NOC) to the schools to use the corporation’s land.”Last month, HT had highlighted that 8 schools in Moga were lacking in terms of building, land or basic amenities and that the district administration decided to upgrade the infrastructure of these schools with funds announced as reward under the Niti Aayog’s ‘Aspirational Districts’ initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-mc-to-provide-land-to-2-govt-primary-schools-101630871146407.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers stage protest against BJP meeting in Sangrur||Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) on Sunday staged a protest in front of the residence of the BJP’s district president in Sangrur where a party meeting was to be held. The protesters sat on the dharna after they came to know of the meeting that was to be presided over by saffron party’s OBC wing chief Rajinder Bitta. The meeting, however, was held somewhere else in the town, said BJP district president Randeep Singh Deol. The move comes in the wake of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s call to focus only on BJP and not heckle leaders of other political parties. Farmer union’s district president Amrik Singh said the BJP leaders were holding secret meetings amid the ongoing agitation against the three controversial agriculture laws. “We will not allow the BJP leaders to organise meetings in any part of the district at any time,” he added.The protesting farmers said the BJP leaders’ attempts to hold such meetings will only disturb peace in the state.“It is our democratic right to hold meetings. We successfully held the meeting and discussed various issues,” Deol said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-stage-protest-against-bjp-meeting-in-sangrur-101630871139514.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab thermal power plants running out of coal||Thermal power plants in Punjab are staring at a severe shortage of coal as most of them are left with fuel reserves that will last only for a few days or for more than a week. With this, the state has also missed out on an opportunity to generate revenues by selling electricity to the national grid where power prices are rising by the day. The stock dwindled due to heavy floods in the eastern states that supply coal to the thermal plants in Punjab, say officials. As per details, the situation at the 540 megawatt (MW) Goindwal Sahib plant run by GVK Industries is most alarming as the fuel reserve there is for only 3 days. The government-run 920 MW Guru Hargobind thermal plant at Lehra Mohabbat, in Bathinda and the 840 MW plant in Ropar have stock left for only 4 and 8 days. Also, the situation at Vedanta’s 1,980 MW plant at Talwandi Sabo and L&T-run 1,400 MW power plant at Nabha is no better as the two are left with coal reserve for 9 and 11 days, respectively.As per the power purchase agreement (PPA), the power generation companies — both government and private — have to maintain a stock for at least 28 days. But the minimum prescribed amount of stock is never maintained due to laxity of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). A corporation official said, “Due to shortage of coal, we have already shut the PSPCL-run power plant to conserve coal. We have asked the private companies to increase their coal stock, according to the PPA.” “Earlier, we used to sell power to the grid in September and October when electricity prices remain high. We are missing out on the chance to make profits as both the government and private plants have inadequate coal reserves. At times, the power prices soar past ₹10 per unit and it is a good opportunity for us to generate revenues. It is a failure on part of the corporation management to anticipate the situation and stock coal as per the set guidelines. The PSPCL made nearly ₹300 crore profit by selling power in the past years,” the official added.PSPCL chairman-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad admitted that the situation at the GVK-run plant was alarming. “But we are managing by exploring all possible means. The situation is likely to improve by the next week as we are hopeful of arrival of more supplies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-thermal-power-plants-running-out-of-coal-101630871137967.html
06-09-2021||Other||Karnal admin gears up for Sept 7 farmers’ mahapanchayat||The huge gathering of farmers at Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s Muzaffarnagar rally has increased worry for the Karnal district administration as another such rally is proposed to be held here on September 7.The Morcha leaders have decided to hold a rally in Karnal to protest the August 28 lathicharge on farmers, forcing the administration to issue a traffic advisory for the Delhi-Chandigarh national highway (NH-44). “People are advised to avoid traveling on NH 44 on September 7 as the movement of traffic on this highway may remain affected due to the farmers’ mahapanchayat,” read an advisory issued by Karnal district magistrate Nishant Kumar Yadav. The district administration also provided a list of alternative routes. The traffic will be diverted from Pipli of Kurukshetra and Pepsi Bridge in Panipat.As per information, farmers will gather at the Karnal grain market and take out a protest march on the NH 44 before proceeding towards Karnal mini-secretariat. It is also learnt that additional police force from nearby districts have been called to Karnal amid reports that thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Punjab are likely to reach Karnal on September 7. The Karnal district magistrate has also issued directions to impose Section 144 on the day. The farmers’ union had demanded registration of FIRs against IAS officer Ayush Sinha and police officials involved in the lathicharge, in which around 40 farmers sustained injuries. The farmer leaders gave a week’s deadline to the Haryana government to accept their demands, including a compensation of ₹25 lakh and a government job to the next kin of a farmer Sushil Kajal, who farmers’ claimed died due to lathicharge.As per officials from Karnal district administration, the government has not taken any decision on their demands yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-admin-gears-up-for-sept-7-farmers-mahapanchayat-101630870898145.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||HPSEBL looking into restoring lone power project at Bara Bhangal||The Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Ltd is looking into repairing the remote Bara Bhangal power project in Kangra district so that the power supply to the village may be restored, officials said on Sunday.Additional chief secretary and board chairperson RD Dhiman said a team had visited the Bara-Bhangal village on Sunday, taking a gruelling trek from Holi Naya Gran village of Chamba to reach Bara Bhangal. “The team explored the possibility of repairing a power project installed at the Bara Bhangal besides celebrating the HPSEBL foundation day at the village. The team was led by HPSEBL joint director Anurag Parashar and comprised electrical and civil engineer of the board, doctors, teachers, pradhan of Bara Bhangal panchayat and porters,” said Dhiman. Dhiman said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur was aware of the problems being faced by the people of Bara Bhangal village and has directed that the best possible facilities be provided.The newly appointed managing director of HPSEBL Pankaj Dadwal said the team will submit a report regarding possibilities of restore the power project soon and same would be forwarded to the government.The village, with a population of around 700 persons, is accessible through a 70-km arduous trek. It takes two to three days to reach Bara Banghal on foot, either from Bir in Kangra or from Naya Gran in Bharmour subdivision of Chamba. The only 40 Kilo Watt (KW) hydropower project commissioned by in 2004 to provide power supply to the village has been lying defunct for more than a decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hpsebl-looking-into-restoring-lone-power-project-at-bara-bhangal-101630870778258.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||J&K schools to reopen for Classes 10, 12||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday allowed reopening of higher educational institutions and schools for students of Classes 10 and 12 with certain conditions. J&K chief secretary and state executive committee chairperson AK Mehta in an order said classes will be permitted with limited in-person teaching, not exceeding 50% on a given day, for vaccinated students and staff. “Consent shall be obtained from the parents of all students who are willing to attend the school. The school premises should be thoroughly sanitised, proper screening regarding vaccination should be done on the school gate. If any student or teacher or other school staff shows symptoms of cough, cold, or fever, they will not be allowed to enter the school. The head of the school must ensure that the guidelines related to social distancing and Covid protocols are strictly followed,” the order said.The deputy commissioners can allow in-person classes for students of Class 10, following all protocols. “The schools, except for relaxations as provided for students of Classes 12 and 10, will continue to remain closed for on-site or in-person teaching,” the order said.It said the coaching centres for civil services or engineering or NEET examinations will be permitted with limited in-person teaching for fully vaccinated staff and students. “All other coaching centres shall continue to remain closed for onsite and in-person teaching,” the order said.It said the higher educational institutions will be permitted to commence limited in-person teaching subject to 100% vaccination of staff and students and specific permission of the deputy commissioners. “Such institutions can organise special vaccination camps in consultation with district administration,” the order said.The order said schools, except for relaxations for students of Class 10 and 12, will continue to remain closed in Jammu and Kashmir. Last week, Sinha had said the Union Territory will open higher educational institutes this month, once all students in the 18-plus group are vaccinated. Other educational institutions can allow attendance of vaccinated staff for administrative purposes. Schools and colleges have been closed in Jammu and Kashmir since March 2020. The order said the night curfew would continue to remain in force in all districts from 8pm to 7 am, while all deputy commissioners will intensify testing by making optimum use of available RT-PCR and RAT capacities.J&K logs 110 fresh Covid cases Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded 110 fresh coronavirus infections on Sunday. Eighty-three cases were reported in Kashmir valley, while Jammu division saw 26 infections. The number of active cases have reached 1,322. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 555, followed by Budgam district with 160 active cases. Overall, 3,20,208 people have recovered and the death-toll stands at 4,410.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-10-12-101630870538145.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU researchers devise tech to purify air & water through green waste||Researchers at Panjab University’s Centre for Nano Science and Nano Technology have devised a technique to purify air and water through food waste and crop remains. The waste management project was handed to Dr Bharat Bajaj, who is UGC assistant professor at the centre, by the department of science and technology (DST), Chandigarh. Dr Bajaj and his team have developed a technique to extract cellulose from food waste that can then be used to deal with water and air pollution. The final report of the project has been submitted recently to DST.Dr Bajaj, who was engaged with various research institutes of South Korea for 10 years, worked on this project along with Dr Pragati Gahlout from Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and Dr Dhiraj Sud from Sant Longowal Institute of Engineering and Technology. He said the municipal corporation had been segregating wastes, but it was still difficult to manage and utilise these properly. Also, burning of crop remains in Punjab and Haryana is also a big concern as it pollutes the air, not only in Chandigarh, but also affects its quality in the national capital region (NCR), he added. “Our team came up with an idea of extracting cellulose from green waste and making membranes out of it. We managed to do so from food waste and rice straw,” he said. “We have developed a more eco-friendly and single-step technology to extract cellulose from waste. The extracted cellulose was coated with copper oxide and other nanomaterials and converted into a film form. The cellulose membranes showed significant performance in water purification within 10 to 15 minutes. These films could also be used for air purification along with water decontamination,” he added.This technology is cheaper as compared to others as it only includes cost for cellulose extraction, he said. Cellulose extraction takes three hours and membrane processing completes in eight to 12 hours. Dr Bajaj said, “If we want our farmers and industries to build and use such devices, then technology should be simple. This technology could facilitate our farmers and industries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-researchers-devise-tech-to-purify-air-water-through-green-waste-101630870298046.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two caught with ₹40,000 in fake currency||Two men have been arrested with counterfeit currency worth ₹40,000 and a knife in their possession near the Sector-25 rally ground on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, Chandigarh Police said. As per cops, they had received a tip-off about the duo and a team was sent to nab them. The accused are Ashwani, 30, of Sector 7 and Subhash, 32, of Sector 25. Ashwani was previously arrested in an NDPS case as well, the police said. He is said to be an addict and was found carrying 80 fake notes of ₹500 denomination, which he was using to buy drugs from Delhi. The knife was recovered from Subhash.A case under Section 489-C (possession of forged or counterfeit currency notes) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and provisions of the Arms Act was registered against the two at the Sector-11 police station. They were on Sunday produced in a court, which sent Subhash to judicial custody and Ashwani to two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhtwo-caught-with-40-000-in-fake-currency-101630870238396.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mehbooba criticises Centre for FIR over draping of Geelani’s body in Pak flag||Former chief minister of Jammu & Kashmir and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday accused the Centre of “ruthlessness” for booking the family members of separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani under various provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.Geelani (91) passed away late on September 1 at his Srinagar residence after a prolonged illness.On Saturday, the Budgam police registered the FIR against family members of the deceased leader under various provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code, taking cognisance of a viral video clip that purportedly showed Geelani’s body draped in a Pakistani flag. The body was laid to rest at a graveyard in a nearby mosque“Police Station Budgam has registered a general FIR against miscreants and other elements who raised anti-national slogans and resorted to other anti-national activities putting the Pakistani flag over them after the separatist leader’s death at his home,”Jammu and Kashmir Police were quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Criticising the FIR, Mufti tweeted: “... A family isn’t allowed to mourn & bid a final farewell as per their wishes. Booking Geelani sahab’s family under UAPA shows GOI’s deep-rooted paranoia & ruthlessness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mehbooba-criticises-centre-for-fir-over-draping-of-geelani-s-body-in-pak-flag-101630870118672.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Paralympics star Nishad Kumar takes trip down memory lane||India’s silver medallist in Paralympics, Nishad Kumar’s visit to his alma mater DAV College in Chandigarh’s Sector 10 on Sunday was nothing less than a déjà vu for him. The 21-year-old prodigy from Himachal Pradesh had entered the record books on August 29, when he won the silver medal in the men’s high jump T47 event after clearing 2.09 metres in the Tokyo Paralympics and also set an Asian record. Addressing the media, he said, “It is a moment of pride that I could win a medal for my country. The performance of Indian athletes in the Olympics inspired me to do well and go for a medal. I hope to win more medals for India in future tournaments.” His father Rashpal is a mason and mother Pushpa Devi is a homemaker. They live in their ancestral village of Badaun in Amb. Nishad had lost his right hand to a tragic accident at a tender age of eight. He had accidentally put his hand in a fodder-cutting machine. He took up para-athletics in 2009 and went on to claim the bronze medal in the men’s high jump T47 category in the 2019 World Para Athletics. By winning the bronze medal, he qualified for the Tokyo Paralympics.“Life has thrown challenges, but I have taken them well. I am grateful to the government for assistance in training in different parts of the country. I am young and this was my first Paralympics. I will focus hard on future training and do well,” he added. It was during his stay in Chandigarh that he trained under athletics coach Naseem Ahmed and Vikram at the Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Panchkula. Nishad was invited to a function organised at DAV College along with Sarpreet Singh Gill, IAS, education secretary, Chandigarh administration, who is also an alumnus of the college. He was the chief guest on this occasion.Pawan Sharma, principal, DAV College, congratulated Nishad for his historic achievement. He said it was a matter of great pride for them that five of their alumni participated in the recent Tokyo Olympics 2020. Neeraj Chopra won gold medal in javelin throw, Gurjant Singh won bronze medal in hockey and Nishad Kumar won silver medal in high jump in Tokyo Paralympics while Anjum Moudgil and Yashaswani Deswal were members of the Indian shooting team in the Olympics. DAV College teams excelMaintaining their dominance in sports, DAV College Sector 10, Chandigarh, created a unique record by winning the Overall General Championship of Sports for both men and women for the session 2019-20 by bagging the two most-prestigious trophies of Panjab University for general excellence in sports, Sir Shadi Lal Championship Shield for Men and PL Bains Trophy for Women.In the boys’ section, the college won 13 championships, 10 runner-up positions and two third positions in different individual and team sports. In the girls’ section, the college won seven championships, seven runner-up positions and three third positions in various sports disciplines. In all, the college won a record 20 championships, 17 runner-up positions and five third positions in the Panjab University inter-college tournaments for the session 2019-20. This is the best performance of the college in the field of sports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paralympics-star-nishad-kumar-takes-trip-down-memory-lane-101630870059053.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Vegetable prices fall as supply stabilises||With the improvement in supply, vegetables prices have also started to drop at city’s apni mandis.As per officials of the Punjab Mandi Board, the new harvest of vegetables such as tomatoes and green chillies has started, which is why the prices have begun to drop. “Earlier, tomatoes and green chillies were brought to the city from Himachal Pradesh and other areas. With the price of fuel factored in and due to low supply, the prices had increased,” said Satbir Singh, supervisor with Punjab Mandi Board.Rate of tomatoes which had started increasing last month has fallen down from ₹40/kg to ₹25/kg. Green chillies have become cheaper as these are being sold at ₹50/kg as compared to previous ₹70/kg. The rate of onions which are coming from Indore is between ₹30- ₹40/kg, while price of red onions from Rajasthan stayed consistent at ₹25/kg. There also hasn’t been enough rain in the region in the past few weeks that has also helped local farmers, said the supervisor, who added that heavy rainfall ends up spoiling many vegetables which also didn’t happen this time. It is expected in the coming days that the price of vegetables will fall down further as more leafy vegetables such as cabbage will start arriving at the mandis, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-vegetable-prices-fall-as-supply-stabilises-101630869459220.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||UGC pay scales: Teachers sit on chain hunger strike at PU||Two days after holding a state rally, teachers on Sunday sat on a chain hunger strike at Panjab University (PU) under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFUCTO) to press for the immediate implementation of the seventh UGC pay scales by the Punjab government.Five representatives of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA), including its president Mritunjay Kumar, started the chain hunger strike in front of the university’s guest house. These teachers are also demanding the withdrawal of de-linking of UGC pay scales. All the constituents of PFUCTO would participate in the chain fast at the same venue on rotational basis till all demands are met by the Punjab government, they said. PUTA in a statement said, “Punjab government’s decision to de-link the UGC pay scales is another assault on the young teachers that will eventually marginalise teachers of Punjab from the national mainstream.” Various student bodies are already on indefinite strike at PU for the past three weeks, demanding immediate conduct of polling for the senate’s graduate constituency and reopening of the campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ugc-pay-scales-teachers-sit-on-chain-hunger-strike-at-pu-101630869458041.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||No Covid fatality in Chandigarh tricity for fourth day in a row||No death related to Covid-19 was reported in the Tricity for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday. It was on September 1 when a 31-year-old man from Chandigarh had died of his injuries sustained in an accident at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and was later found positive for the virus. Meanwhile on Sunday, the Tricity reported nine fresh cases — six in Mohali, two in Chandigarh and one in Panchkula. On Saturday too, as many infections were logged in the three cities. In Mohali district, four cases surfaced in Dera Bassi, while one each was reported from Mohali city and Kharar. Chandigarh reported cases from Sectors 8 and 45. The active caseload in the Tricity stood at 98 on Sunday, with 49 patients in Mohali, 40 in Chandigarh and nine in Panchkula. So far, 65,121 people in Chandigarh have tested positive for the virus of whom 64,267 have recovered, while 814 have succumbed to the disease. Of 68,634 cases in Mohali, 67,525 have been cured and 1,060 have ended in fatalities. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 30,688 of whom 30,302 patients have been cured and 377 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-covid-fatality-in-chandigarh-tricity-for-fourth-day-in-a-row-101630869278028.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Protesters bring Shatabdi to halt near Zirakpur||Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi was stopped in Baltana near Zirakpur on Sunday morning by protesters who had been demanding a railway under bridge for the past five years to ease traffic congestion. Zirakpur station house officer (SHO) Onkar Singh Brar said the track was cleared within 10 minutes, after which the protesters moved alongside the railway line. The protest was led by local Congress leader Pratap Singh Rana on the track near Harmilap Nagar in Baltana at crossing number 123. “For the past five years, residents of 36 colonies here have been demanding a railway under bridge to ease traffic congestion. Neither the Railways not the local administration has so far acted on the pleas owing to disagreements between them. Every time a train crosses from here, the junction remains closed for 15 minutes, causing traffic bottlenecks and delays, especially in the mornings.”Meanwhile, Zirakpur police said that they are investigating the matter and no case has been registered yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesters-bring-shatabdi-to-halt-near-zirakpur-101630869217957.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER: No appointment slots for a week at most OPDs||In just four days after the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) resumed the online appointment facility for its out-patient departments (OPDs), slots in most of the departments have been booked for this week. Walk-in consultations continue to remain suspended. Patients can also get an appointment after tele-consultation, but only if the doctor thinks it is required.Till at least September 13, no appointment slot is available at the general surgery; dermatology, venereology and leprology; ophthalmology (eye); orthopaedics, otolaryngology —head and neck surgery, and urology departments. At the internal medicine department, which sees the highest footfall, all slots have been booked for the entire month. However, patients can book a slot to consult doctors at gynaecology, obstetrics, oral health sciences (dental), paediatric surgery and plastic surgery departments this week. Online appointments and walk-in consultations were suspended in March last year after the Covid pandemic broke out. Since then, the institute had been providing OPD services through tele-consultation. From June 21 this year, physical consultations were resumed, but only after prior appointment through tele-consultation. On September 1, the online appointment facility was also resumed, but with a cap of 30 patients per department per day. Patients can book slots for only the next 30 dates.‘Cap of 30 patients too low’Before the contagion, over 10,000 patients visited OPDs at the PGIMER daily. But now, only 2,000- 2,500 are being called per day.“On September 3, I tried getting OPD appointment at the orthopaedics department, but could get dates only after September 10. The patients are not able to get immediate dates for consultation and tele-consultation is of no help”, said Varinder Kaur, a resident of Punjab.Rajvinder Singh, a patient from Chandigarh, said: “I wanted to consult doctors at the general medicine department, but no slot is available for booking. Now, I am trying hard to book an appointment through tele-consultation but the phones do not connect easily. The authorities should increase the cap of 30 as it is too low.”“We have put a cap on the number of patients to avoid crowding, as it can further spread Covid-19 infection and invite the third wave,” said PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram. “We know hundreds of patients try to call doctors for tele-consultation at a time and only a few are able to connect, but we have no other option than to open OPDs in a phased manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-no-appointment-slots-for-a-week-at-most-opds-101630869158061.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Tertiary-treated water supply project set for revamp||With water conservation on its mind, the Chandigarh municipal corporation has started the process to revamp the recycled (tertiary-treated) water supply system across the city.The project aims to increase supply from 6 MGD (million gallon per day) to 20 MGD, which is the current demand in the city. “More than 14 MGD of drinking water supply currently being used for horticulture and other similar purposes can be saved through an upgraded tertiary-treated (TT) water system. Increased use of this recycled water can conserve groundwater and canal water and save on pumping energy,” said NP Sharma, MC chief engineer and chief general manager of Chandigarh Smart City Limited.TT water is the sewage water that has undergone a cleaning process to make it suitable for watering lawns and parks as well as irrigating fields. It involves chemical treatment and sedimentation process that improves the quality of the wastewater.Under the Water Bylaws 2015, the MC had made TT water connection mandatory for all houses with an area of 1 kanal and above.However, it was way back in 1990 when the civic body had started laying pipelines for supplying the recycled water, initially in Sectors 1-12 and 16. At present, almost 80% of the city has been covered in terms of pipelines, but only around 2,000 of the 7,000 eligible houses are being provided TT water. Residents have, for long, complained of erratic supply and foul smell in the water.Biggest expansion in peripheral areasAccording to initial plans prepared by the MC engineering department, the proposed revamp project is likely to cost around ₹80 crore.It envisages modernisation of the entire TT water supply system. “The existing network requires an upgrade. Government institutes, particularly schools, and some southern sectors that have been left out so far will also be covered,” said an MC official privy to the development.The biggest expansion will take place in peripheral areas. “Providing TT water for agriculture and related activities is one of the major objectives of the project. All villages will get the supply. It will reduce the dependence on groundwater to a large extent,” said the official.For improving the quantity and quality of TT water, five sewage treatment plants (STPs) – Diggian, Dhanas, 3BRD, Raipur Kalan and Raipur Khurd – are being upgraded at a cost of ₹530 crore. “Expected to be upgraded by 2022, the STPs will provide 54 MGD of TT water. The contamination level will also go down as the STPs will have the latest technology,” said the official.Meanwhile, in a bid to improve the water quality, a supervisory control and data acquisition centre has been created, which will become fully operational by the end of this week. “The existing pipelines have been equipped with sensors, which will monitor the water pressure and quality with live feed,” said NP Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhtertiarytreated-water-supply-project-set-for-revamp-101630868558426.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Contractual staff announce indefinite strike, bus services to be hit||The Punjab Roadways and PRTC Contractual Employees Union has announced an indefinite strike from Monday onwards to protest against the delay in their regularisation.As per the roadways officials, the regular staff will operate some buses, but movement of majority of the buses will be hit due to the strike. “Around 200 buses from Ludhiana bus stand and 2,500 across the state will remain off the roads during the agitation, which will continue till the government regularises the contractual staff. We have been protesting for our rights for a long time, but the government has not paid heed. We do not want to harass the public, but have been left with no option,” said union’s district president Shamsher Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-contractual-staff-announce-indefinite-strike-bus-services-to-be-hit-101630867898034.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CHB to spend ₹643 crore on IT Park housing scheme||The Self-Financing General Housing Scheme coming up at the IT Park will cost the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) around ₹643 crore. The CHB has prepared a proposal regarding the expenditure, which will be placed for approval before the CHB board of directors during its meeting on September 8. Only after the approval, the housing board will start further work on the project. The CHB has applied for environment clearance, while the design of the scheme has also been sent to the Plan Approval Committee.The general housing scheme is planned at Plots No. 1 and 2 of IT Park. Spread over 16.6 acres, it comprises 728 dwelling units of different categories: 28 four-bedroom, 448 three-bedroom and 252 two-bedroom flats.“While working out the tentative cost earlier, the land cost of ₹70,424 per square yard was taken as per the collector rate on September 2017. Now, collector rates have been revised. As on April 23, 2021, the rate is ₹1.42 lakh per square yard for vacant land. It is ₹14,034 per square foot for ground-floor apartment, ₹12,474 for the first floor and ₹11,695 for the second floor,” said a CHB official privy to the development. A four-bedroom flat is likely to cost nearly ₹2.75 crore, three-bedroom flat ₹1.9 crore and two-bedroom flat ₹1.3 crore. Only after the board approves the cost estimates for the project, the CHB will finalise the rates of flats. A presentation about the scheme was given to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on July 21, 2020, and was approved in principle.The UT administration has given the CHB exemption from constructing houses for economically weaker sections (EWS) in this pocket, subject to the condition that its constructs EWS houses equal to 15% of the dwelling units at a separate location. These EWS flats are proposed to be constructed at Sector 54, for which land has already been allotted, but encumbrance free physical possession of land is yet to be handed over to the CHB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-chb-to-spend-643-crore-on-it-park-housing-scheme-101630867537883.html
06-09-2021||Delhi||Arms smuggler held, 15 pistols seized, say Delhi Police||The special cell of the Delhi Police has arrested a 39-year-old man who allegedly procured illegal arms and ammunition from Madhya Pradesh and supplied them to criminals in Delhi, the National Capital Region, other parts of Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh. He was nabbed near Modi Mill in South Delhi on Friday, the police said, adding that they seized 15 semi-automatic pistols and 30 cartridges from him.The arrested man, identified as Ishab, has been booked under Section 25(8) of the Arms (amendment) Act, 2019, which provides for a 10-year minimum sentence that can be extended till life, said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah.This is the second seizure of illegal firearms and ammunition in Delhi by the special cell between September 1 and September 3. In the first operation, 58-year-old Ram Krishan Singh alias Master, a habitual trafficker and supplier of illegal firearms and ammunition from Bihar, was arrested with 200 cartridges with five pistols that he had brought to the city to deliver them to criminals of Delhi-NCR. Singh was previously arrested in 2018 with 407 cartridges that were meant to be supplied to Maoists in Gadchiroli in Maharashtra, the police said.In the latest operation, Ishab was arrested after the special cell team received information that he would be delivering a consignment of arms and ammunition to his contact in Delhi on September 3. Ishab’s interrogation revealed that he had received the supply of the seized pistols and bullets from a supplier in Khargone in Madhya Pradesh.“Ishab told us that he purchased one pistol between ₹10,000 and ₹12,000 and sold it for ₹20,000 to his counterparts or criminals in Delhi-NCR, Haryana and western UP. He has been into the illegal trade for the past three years and has supplied over 500 pistols in Delhi-NCR alone,” added Kushwah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arms-smuggler-held-15-pistols-seized-say-delhi-police-101630867417933.html
06-09-2021||Mumbai||No end to struggle for Covid widows in Maharashtra||Since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020, more than 15,000 women in Maharashtra have lost their husbands. Most deceased patients were primary earning members of their family, thereby exposing hundreds of families to financial constraints and forcing widows to knock on doors for help or raise money through crowdsourcing. Even children from some of these families are struggling to continue with studies due to monetary crisis at home. Social activists said this situation has once again revealed the gender disparity in the work culture in Indian society.On April 18 this year, Nagpur resident Sunil Kundale, 43, succumbed to Covid-19, leaving behind his wife Deepali and two children —one-year-old daughter and 11-year-old son. Kundale worked as a manager in a local coaching centre. In the first week of April, he contracted Covid-19 and most of his savings were spent on hospital treatment which has now left the family penniless. Later, Dr Amit Thadhani, a surgeon in Mumbai, helped the family financially for their education. Deepali who has no work experience is now hunting for a job amid the ongoing pandemic. “I have never worked before, so I don’t have work experience which is essential to get a job in this market. As most of the businesses are still in loss due to the pandemic, I am unable to get a job in small companies. I have just a few thousands left in my bank account to feed my family,” said Deepali. “We were living happily, but never did I know that this pandemic will turn our lives upside down,” she added.In another instance, Sunita Mahate, 35, a resident of Beed, lost her husband Vishal to Covid in May. Within a few days, her father-in-law also succumbed to the infection. Now, the responsibility to take care of two children and an aged mother-in-law has fallen on her.“My husband used to work in a factory in Nashik. However, last year due to the pandemic, the factory closed down and my husband became jobless. Then he started working with my father-in-law as a farmer here (Beed). This helped us to sustain through the first wave. But now as both of the breadwinners have died, I don’t know how to support my family,” Sunita said while sobbing.The family has a debt of ₹32,000 from a local money lender who is pressuring her for the money. “I have a little gold which my father had given me during our marriage. I will have to sell it to pay the debt. I may also have to sell the farmland to feed my family, but I don’t know what I will do later,” she added. Dr Zabird Hussain Usmani, Unani doctor from Cheeta Camp, Trombay, succumbed to Covid-19 on May 26, 2020. The 51-year-old doctor used to run a clinic in his locality and also worked with the government ambulance service — 108 — in the morning as an emergency doctor to attend to Covid-19 patients. He is survived by two children and a wife who is a homemaker.After his death, the family went to their hometown in Uttar Pradesh as they didn’t have any money to sustain. To support the family financially, the eldest son Aadil, 18, decided to quit studies and start working to earn money for the family. But thankfully, in May, after almost a year of his father’s death, the state government paid the medical insurance amount of ₹50 lakh to the family.“My mother is illiterate, so she wouldn’t have gotten a decent job to support us. So, I had decided to leave my studies to start working. I have a younger sister to support. After my father, they are my responsibility. But now, the compensation amount would help us to survive,” said Aadil.In the past 18 months of the pandemic, it has been observed that men develop more health complications due to infection from Sars-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — than women. As of September 2, 3,857,202 men contracted the disease in the state compared to 2,626,373 women. The epidemiological findings reported across different parts of the world indicated higher morbidity and mortality in men than women.As per the initial report available with the state woman and child development (WCD), as many as 15,124 women have lost their husbands in the pandemic. Another data provided by the department shows that in total 13,540 fathers lost their lives while 1,763 mothers succumbed to the infection in the state. Both the cumulative figures will rise further as the district-wise accumulation of the data is still under process. Medical experts cited several factors behind the gender gap such as higher expression of angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 — receptors for coronavirus — in men than women, immunological differences and X chromosome. “Lifestyle differences also play a contributing factor, like higher levels of smoking and drinking among men compared to women. Also, it has been observed that women follow better preventive measures such as frequent handwashing, wearing of face masks, and stay-at-home orders. Though further studies are required to establish these possibilities,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital.Gender inequality in employmentMeanwhile, women’s rights activists raised the need to make women financially independent. As per the World Bank, 65% of women in India are literate as compared to 80% of men. India has among the lowest female labour force participation rates in the world with less than a third of women – 15 years or older –working or actively looking for a job.Dr AL Sharada, director of non-profit organisation Population First, agreed. “Hefty medical bills really exhaust families of their savings. Many of the families from middle- and lower-income backgrounds don’t even have medical insurance. In such a situation, it drains off their incomes. There is no economic security net for women who are completely dependent on their husbands. Women need to be financially independent even after their marriages,” she said. Aspire For Her (AFH), a social start-up, launched #NotAlone in May to support women from across the nation impacted by the loss of their spouses or parents due to Covid-19. In response to an email, AFH said, “If women had been financially independent, then they would have been far more equipped to support themselves and their families. It would have definitely helped financially, but maybe the women also would not have felt so insecure.”A spokesperson from AFH said women who have approached them for help come from diverse educational backgrounds like graduates and postgraduates. Many of these women have management, pharma and law degrees. There are a few who are qualified as teachers. “We are conscious that each woman who has signed up with #NotAlone has reposed faith in us, even though she probably feels betrayed by everyone else, including her loved ones who left her behind. When we started out on this journey, we knew that we could not let her down,” said Reema Sen, co-founder of AFH and lead of #NotAlone.Dr Sharada also highlighted that often homemakers are not well informed about their husband’s investments or savings. Many widows need hand holding as they were not involved in their husband’s business management. “Financial independence also needs to include financial literacy. We have had cases where even working women are facing trouble in getting access to their husband’s assets because their names were not included in bank accounts, insurance nomination forms or there was no will,” read the response sent by the AFH.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-end-to-struggle-for-covid-widows-in-maharashtra-101630867301037.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Golconda Masters: Gandas wins, Kochhar finishes runner-up||Gurugram’s Manu Gandas put up a stoic performance on the final day to lift his maiden professional trophy at the Golconda Masters Telangana Open 2021 presented by Vooty & Haldi at the Hyderabad Golf Association (HGA) course.Gandas (64-58-64-64), the overnight leader by five shots, turned in a card of two-under 64 featuring four birdies and two bogeys to end up with a tournament tally of 22-under 250 and thus prevail by an impressive three strokes at the ₹40-lakh event, which marked the resumption of the 2020-21 PGTI season after a six-month forced break due to Covid-19.The 25-year-old Gandas collected a cheque for ₹ 6,46,600 to move up from eighth to fourth in the PGTI Order of Merit. His total earnings for the season now read ₹24,12,350.Chandigarh’s Karandeep Singh Kochhar (67-64-63-59) shot the day’s best score of seven-under 59 to jump three spots and finish runner-up at 19-under 253. The 22-year-old Kochhar has now further extended his lead in the PGTI Order of Merit as his season’s earnings stand at ₹42,95,130.Kochhar’s flawless round, the lowest of the day, saw him make all greens in regulation. The two-time winner this season sank a 30-feet birdie on the 15th and landed his tee shot within two feet of the pin for a tap-in birdie on the 18th.“I’m very proud of my effort as I didn’t get any practice in 10 days prior to this event, because I was unwell. A runner-up finish in that context is special,” said Kochhar, who continues as the PGTI Order of Merit leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/golconda-masters-gandas-wins-kochhar-finishes-runnerup-101630867299703.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Trio on bike snatches Ludhiana man’s ₹60,000, mobile phone||Three-motorcycle borne men snatched a car driver’s mobile phone and ₹60,000 in cash on the national highway near Sherpur on Saturday night.The victim, Salman of Sherpur village, said he worked for a factory as a driver and was driving back from Jammu after collecting a payment of ₹60,000. His friend Rafajat was accompanying him in a Maruti Suzuki Ertiga. As they reached the national highway near Sherpur, three men on a motorcycle intercepted them, claiming their car had hit them.A quarrel ensued and the trio tried to snatch the driver’s car key and the ₹60,000 kept in the vehicle. As the complainant and his friend resisted, the accused attacked them with an iron rod, vandalised their car, and fled with their mobile phone and cash.“We have lodged an FIR under Section 379-B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified accused. Police are trying to identify them with the help of nearby CCTV cameras,” said ASI Rajesh Kumar, who is investigating the case for Moti Nagar police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/trio-on-bike-snatches-ludhiana-man-s-60-000-mobile-phone-101630867298211.html
06-09-2021||Mumbai||Newer clinical signs of Covid: Hearing problems, dry mouth||Difficulty in hearing, dry mouth and reduced saliva secretion, long-lasting headaches are some of the newer symptoms of Covid-19 infection. Doctors are also seeing patients coming in with gastrointestinal problems, pink eye, conjunctivitis, rashes and skin irritation. “Gastrointestinal symptoms have been closely associated with the Delta variant of the virus,” said Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force member Dr Rahul Pandit, while making a presentation at a conference chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday. “In many cases, patients suffering from diarrhoea did not suspect that they had Covid-19 and by the time they were diagnosed with the infection, they spread it to the entire family,” he said, adding that extremely dry mouth and stubborn headaches are also some of the symptoms that may go ignored. He added that doctors have to be vigilant about such newer presentations in addition to the classic Covid-19 symptoms such as cough, sore throat, shortness of breath, fatigue, loss of smell, loss of taste among others. Experts at the conference said the profile of fever in Covid-19 patients differs widely. While some patients present with only one episode of fever, others may have recurring episodes with gaps. Dr Suhas Prabhu, member of the state’s paediatric task force, said children have been less impacted during both waves. “However, the fear that they may be disproportionately impacted in the third wave arises from the fact that they are unvaccinated. If schools are opened, their exposure will increase,” he said, adding that schools must avoid contact sports, not let children share lunch boxes and emphasise on distancing. “Parents should not send their children to school if they have even minor symptoms or are feeling unwell,” said Prabhu. Medical experts stressed on use of masks to prevent infection. Task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said wearing masks is the biggest weapon that we have against Covid-19. Pandit also echoed the same thoughts. “We must stay vigilant and not take Covid lightly in order to fight the virus,” he said, adding that the public should wear masks all the time, and have at least two to three fresh masks on them. “If the mask becomes wet due to humidity, it will not serve the purpose. It is important to replace masks when they are wet,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/newer-clinical-signs-of-covid-hearing-problems-dry-mouth-101630867237885.html
06-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest mason for credit card fraud, seize his SUV||The police on Sunday said they arrested a 30-year-old man who worked as a mason for allegedly cheating people and financial institutions of several lakhs of rupees through credit card frauds. The police also seized from the man an SUV he bought for ₹21 lakh, of which ₹19.5 lakh was financed.The arrested man, Shakeel Alam, duped a multinational financial services company of nearly ₹15.40 lakh using four of the company’s credit cards that he got using fake identification documents. The company filed a complaint at the Saket police station and a cheating and forgery case was registered on August 25, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur, adding that Alam was arrested on Saturday.“Alam spent huge amounts over a very short period using the credit cards and submitted forged cheques to pay the bills. When the cheques bounced, the company tried to contact him on the residential addressed he had mentioned while applying for the credit cards. However, he could not be found on those addresses. Since Alam used fake IDs, his real identity was also not known,” said Thakur.Thakur said Alam, a resident of south Delhi’s Khanpur, studied till Class 10 and worked as a mason, fitting tiles and building false ceilings for the past three years. He set up two private firms to get work contracts and opened seven bank accounts in the name of his family members and those working with him, passing them off as employees in his firms. “Alam collected IDs, such as driving licences and passports, through the internet and used them to apply for credit cards after filling online applications. He took houses on rent in posh colonies in Lajpat Nagar and Malviya Nagar for a short period and used the addresses to get the cards issued there. Alam vacated the addresses after the credit cards were delivered,” said Thakur.To hide the money trail, he got cash after swiping at petrol pumps, Apart from obtaining credit cards, Alam also used the forged IDs to open bank accounts and used cheques to pay the bills. To improve his credit worthiness, Alam used to pass off his relatives and friends as employees of his fictitious firms, and reported that they had high salaries. He then made fake accounts using their IDs and shifted money between these accounts to keep up the credit scores for these fake employees. He then secured more loans using their credit numbers. “He recently purchased an SUV worth ₹21 lakh. Of the total, ₹19.5 lakh was financed by a bank because of his good credit score,” added Thakur.Police said investigations are on to find out if anybody else was involved in the fraud, and his bank accounts are being examined to ascertain the number of financial institutions he targeted and how much he duped them of.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrest-mason-for-credit-card-fraud-seize-his-suv-101630867117851.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Biker killed in accident on Airport Road||A 52-year-old man was killed after a recklessly driven car hit his motorcycle on the Airport Road in Mohali on Saturday night.The deceased has been identified as Bahadur Singh, who was a resident of Banur and was working as a private photographer in Phase 7, Mohali, for the past two decades. He is survived by a wife and two children. Investigating officer (IO) Bhag Singh said the victim was coming to Mohali from Banur to cover some late-night event when a speeding car hit his motorcycle as he reached Airport Road in Sector 82 around 11pm. “He fell down and his head the footpath, leading to fatal injuries. He was rushed to the civil hospital in Phase 6, where he died while undergoing treatment,” said the IO.A case has been registered against the unknown driver under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Police are checking CCTV footage of nearby areas to trace the driver. After the postmortem, the victim’s body has been handed over to his family. SUV turns turtle in Sector 22A man escaped unhurt after his Hyundai Creta SUV turned turtle on the Sector 22/23 road in the wee hours of Sunday. The incident happened around 3am and police found the abandoned car in the morning. They later traced the owner. Police said it was likely he fell asleep while driving, which led to the incident. No case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-biker-killed-in-accident-on-airport-road-101630867057864.html
06-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai among 5 Maharashtra districts with most active Covid-19 cases||Highlighting the rise in Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra’s “districts of concern” over the past 10 days, state authorities have expressed fear of a third wave to begin from these areas in western Maharashtra. Active cases in Mumbai, too, are on the rise. Of the state’s 52,025 active patients, 37,897 (72.84%) are from five districts — Pune, Thane, Satara, Ahmednagar and Mumbai.During the Majha Doctor (My Doctor) conference of family doctors on Sunday, the public health department’s additional chief secretary, Dr Pradeep Vyas, made a presentation before the medical fraternity, comprising members of the state-appointed task force. Chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the conference organised by the state government was meant for a discussion with family doctors, ahead of a potential third wave. The presentation stated that the 10 days have not seen any drop in cases, while the number of active cases during this period has slightly increased. After clocking the weekly positivity rate below 5% in all the districts for the past few weeks, Pune and Ahmednagar have crossed the mark this week at a positivity rate of 6.58% and 5.08% respectively. Mumbai has, after three weeks, joined the top-5 group of districts, in terms of active patients.. 90.61% active patients are from ten districts, remaining five being Sangli, Solapur, Ratangiri, Kolhapur and Sindhudurg. The state authorities have termed Pune, Ahmednagar, Satara, Solapur, Sangli, Rantagiri and Sindhudurg as districts of concern. “The growth rate and weekly positivity rate in these districts are too high. Pune has clocked the highest — 6.58% positivity rate — while it’s more than 5% in Ahmednagar. With the Ganesh festival, beginning from Friday, celebrated on a large extent in these districts, there are chances of the third wave initiating or the cases in second wave increasing from these districts. The district administrations need to take utmost care in these districts,” said Dr Vyas. Of the 44, 437 patients reported in the past 10 days, 68% or 30,313 patients are from five – Pune (22%), Ahmednagar (17%), Satara (11%), Solapur and Mumbai (9% each), while remaining (32%) patients are from 30 districts. After reporting consistently fewer cases below the 400 mark for 38 days, from July 25 to August 31, Mumbai has been reporting over 400 cases daily for the past five days. 495 new cases were reported on Sunday. He, however, said that the second wave in 17 of the remaining districts seems to have subsided. Seven of them have less than 10 active patients, while in 11 the number of active patients ranges between 11 and 100. Most of these districts are in Vidarbha and Marathwada. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said government’s priority is to avert the third wave or even if it struck the state, the endeavour would be to reduce its intensity. “We have increased the number of beds, but the question is whether we would be able to supply the oxygen required for the patients. Almost 80,000 patients during the peak of the second wave required oxygen. Our attempt will to ensure that the requirement of the oxygen does not go beyond our local generation of 1,400 metric tonnes per day. We have been presently producing 1,400 MT a day, of which 350 MT is used for Covid and non-Covid patients daily. There is a brief rise in the daily caseload in last few days, but our endeavour is to bring it down to zero,” he said. Dr Mehul Mehta, who is a senior fellow at Harvard Global Health Institute, said that masks and vaccinations were effective tools to keep the infection at the bay. He said that the southern part of the United States has been witnessing high number of cases because of low vaccination and resistance from the citizens for the Covid appropriate behaviour. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state appointed task force, said that the state government is aggressively implementing vaccination drive in Dharavi, as there was possibility of the antibodies among people there to have reduced. “During first wave, our Dharavi model was appreciated across the globe and despite the delta plus variant during the second wave, daily caseload there could not cross 20 on any given day. But the antibodies among people there is expected to have gone down in Dharavi because of which vaccination drive in Asia’s largest slum is being aggressively implemented. Masking and vaccination are two effective tools to avert the third wave or reduce its intensity. The people who have already been infected and have been fully vaccinated get their antibodies increased by double,” he said. Dr Joshi said that there was no need to worry about C 1.2 variant found in South Africa as it has been seen in just seven countries and the number of cases of the variant is not more than 100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-among-5-maharashtra-districts-with-most-active-covid-19-cases-101630867002521.html
06-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi health dept orders appointment of anti-discrimination officers for HIV||The Delhi health department has asked its offices to designate a representative to deal with complaints of discrimination against those with HIV/AIDS in accordance with a central law that came into force three years ago. Under this law, all offices — government and private — with more than 100 employees (20 in case it is a health care establishment) must designate such an officer. However, not only has there been a delay in Delhi in appointing complaints officers within government offices, the state is yet to appoint an ombudsman — a person with quasi-judicial powers to take action against organisations discriminating against people with the viral infection. The Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) Act, passed in 2018, prohibits discrimination against people living with HIV/AIDS and punishes the propagation of hatred or physical violence against them with up to two years in prison and a ₹1 lakh fine. “The government already provides treatment, While handing out the awards on the occasion of Teachers’ Day, Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, credited teachers for the success of students and government schools and encouraged them to apply for global training programmes to people with HIV/AIDS, as mandated by the Act. The complaints mechanism is one part of the Act and its implementation has begun,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department. According to the official, an ombudsman is yet to be appointed because the government needs to decide if a person will be picked specifically for the role or if an existing officer will be given additional charge.“At present, we receive about one or two complaints in a quarter. This does not justify the need for having a separate office and a dedicated person as ombudsman; the government is debating whether it may be given as an additional charge,” the official quoted above said. Organisations working with HIV/AIDS patients said an ombudsman has been appointed in just a few states, including Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, and Haryana.“Barring these few states, the formation of the complaints mechanism is still in the pipeline, with some orders having been issued... Even after the mechanism is created, it will take some time for people to connect with it. We have to create awareness in the community,” said Daxa Patel, president, National Coalition for People Living with HIV in India (NCPI+) saidShe added, “Currently, we refer people to the state legal services, national legal services, lawyers collectives, and some lawyers who have been working in the field. But they have to either go to the police or court. The formation of the mechanism will give people confidence that their complaints will be heard, without going to the court, and in a timely manner.” Activists, however, say that without a proper complaints mechanism in place the government may not know the actual extent of the problem. “The appointment of complaints officer in the government sector is a very small portion of implementation of the act. The Act states that any organisation, whether government or private, should have a complaints officer from within the staff. The onus is now on the government to ensure that these officers are appointed within private organisation as well,” said Raman Chawla, a lawyer and activist who works with HIV/AIDS patients. He added, “And, a complaints officer does not have much power; they are just there to create pressure internally on the organisation to not discriminate against people with HIV. It is much more important to appoint an ombudsman as they can pass orders. It has to be a separate person with a properly funded office; not someone with additional responsibilities. Without a proper complaints mechanism in place, there is no way to tell how many cases of discrimination are there. The only recourse for people with HIV without the mechanism is to go to court; and most do not have the resource to do so,” said Chawla. Hari Shankar, member of the executive board of Delhi Network of Positive People, said, “The reality is that on ground people do not even know about the Act, except for the activists. There are no complaints officers or state-level ombudsman. There was a meeting of Delhi government officials with the stakeholders after the bill was passed back in 2018, comments were sought. But since then nothing has happened.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-health-dept-orders-appointment-of-anti-discrimination-officers-for-hiv-positive-in-all-offices-101630866939293.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh airport to launch cargo facility on November 1||Six years after getting the international tag, the Chandigarh airport will finally offer the cargo facility from November 1. Air cargo or air freight allows speedy transportation of commercial goods through an air carrier. At present, the Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHAIL) only provides a common screening facility for domestic cargo, while the airlines — Air India, Indigo, Vistara and GoAir — are handling the goods on their own. Being constructed at a cost of ₹11.5 crore, the air cargo complex is spread over 14,127 square metres. With five cargo sheds being built, it will handle both domestic and international cargo, including perishable goods.It was on September 11, 2015, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated the international airport. In February this year, the Punjab government finally announced the air cargo facility. Presenting the budget, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal had said that the facility will give boost to the industry and provide better access to international and domestic markets.Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer, CHAIL, said: “Around 85% of the construction is done, and we are hopeful of completing the work by mid-October, and begin the facility from November 1. Some clearances are also awaited, and we are hopeful of get them from the authorities concerned in a couple of weeks.”The complex has four cargo sheds constructed through Galvalume pre-painted self-supported roofing and one pre-fabricated shed for perishable cargo. It is equipped with the latest equipment — cold room, reefer van, fork lifts, scissors lift, pallets, user-friendly weighing scale and trolleys — and high-security apparatus — closed-circuit television camera, X-ray machines, door frame metal detectors and explosive trace detection system.Yogesh Sagar, president, Mohali Industries Association, said: “It was the need of the hour. At present, we have to send our consignments by road to the Delhi airport, where they are lined up for 24 to 48 hours before being loaded on to the aircraft, which takes a week’s time. Now, the cargo facility here will save our time. It will also promote ease of business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-airport-to-launch-cargo-facility-on-november-1-101630866762616.html
06-09-2021||Delhi||90 prosecuted for drink driving as Delhi police resume breathalyser tests||At least 90 people were prosecuted for drink driving in Delhi on Saturday night, when the Delhi Traffic Police resumed breathalyser tests. The practise was stopped in March 2020 in order to prevent the spread of Covid-19 as multiple people touched the devices used to measure the amount of alcohol in a driver’s breath. According to senior traffic police officers, the drive began around 7pm on Saturday and concluded by 9pm. Nearly 20 traffic police teams were out on streets across the city to check drink driving. The vehicles of several drunk drivers were impounded and many others were issued court tickets, the police said. However, they did not share the exact number of violators and vehicles impounded.“Now that bars and restaurants in the city have resumed business, incidents of drink driving will certainly increase and it may lead to a surge in road accidents, particularly during the night. To catch drunk drivers, we have resumed our prosecution drive through breathalyser tests as well,” said special commissioner of police (traffic) Muktesh Chander.After suspending the use of breathalysers, the traffic personnel were spotting visibly drunk drivers and getting blood tests done on them to check the amount of alcohol in their body, and prosecute them for the offence. A total of 300 challans were issued to drunk drivers after their medical examination confirmed excess alcohol in their blood, said a second senior traffic police officer who asked not to be named. According to police records, about 30,000 challans were issued in 2019 for drink driving. After the Covid-19 pandemic broke out and lockdowns were imposed in 2020, only 3,000 challans were issued.To check drink driving and prevent road accidents, special teams have been deployed at identified spots where liquor is served till late night and parties are organised, the traffic police said.Special commissioner Chander said they were ensuring that the prosecuting teams were following Covid-appropriate behaviour, such as wearing masks, using sanitisers and maintaining appropriate social distancing, on duty.“Breathalysers are sanitised after every use. We are using disposable pipes. For each test, a new pipe is used,” he added.Driving under the influence of alcohol is punishable by a court challan. In case of first offence, a person is liable to pay a fine of ₹10,000 or face imprisonment up to six months or both. For second and subsequent offences, a fine of ₹15,000 or imprisonment up to two years or both are applicable.Police are authorised to digitally seize the driving licence or registration certificate of the offender in such cases. If the person is from another state and has a booklet or a simple paper driving licence, then it is seized physically. Unless accompanied by a sober person with a valid driving license, the police are also authorised to seize the vehicle of the drunk person. Breathalysers use the amount of alcohol in exhaled breath to calculate the amount of alcohol in a person’s blood, also known as blood alcohol concentration (BAC). In India, motorists are not allowed to drive if the alcohol content is found to be over 30 milligrams per 100 millilitres of blood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/90-in-delhi-prosecuted-for-drink-driving-as-traffic-police-resume-breathalyser-tests-101630866761363.html
06-09-2021||Other||People get govt jobs after winning Olympic medals; I did it the other way round, says Noida DM after clinching silver||Mumbai: It’s been a whirlwind 18 months for Suhas Yathiraj. Just as his training for the 2020 Tokyo Paralympics along with coach Gaurav Khanna was picking up pace in Lucknow towards the end of 2019, Yathiraj was summoned to Noida months later when Covid-19 began to grip the country in March. As the call of duty beckoned for Noida’s district magistrate, badminton had to take a back seat.But, his commitment towards giving his best in Tokyo did not. Yathiraj tirelessly performed his administrative role amid the pandemic as the DM of Gautam Budh Nagar through the day, before taking some time out at night for his badminton. The 38-year-old found a few sparring partners in Noida, assessing his progress over video calls with Khanna every alternate day. The time spent on the court honing his skills having dropped significantly, Yathiraj’s primary focus was to ensure that his fitness levels didn’t. Despite a shift in priorities for a major part of last year, Yathiraj ticked his goal of winning a medal at the delayed Paralympics. The shuttler with an impairment in his ankle, who took up the sport professionally only five years ago, bagged the silver in the men’s singles SL4 category after losing a gripping battle with world No. 1 Frenchman Lucas Mazur 21-15, 17-21, 15-21 in the final on Sunday.In an interview with HT after the final match, the 2007 batch IAS officer of Uttar Pradesh cadre talked about his father’s role in pushing him to follow his passion as a kid in Shimoga, Karnataka, and why he believed he has broken an age-old myth in the country. Excerpts:Having been through so much in the last year-and-a-half, how satisfying is this silver medal?It’s very satisfying. This medal gives me extreme happiness and also extreme disappointment. The final against Lucas was very close, and I almost had the gold medal in my bag. That feeling will always remain with me. But you can always look in hindsight and say ‘ki kaash aisa hota (only if it would’ve happened this way)’. But destiny has been very kind to have brought me so far. When you pursue your passion and desire, there is always one more step, and probably a gold medal would have been that one more step. But there’s no other tournament where I could have won a medal for the country and felt prouder. This is the pinnacle of sporting achievement, and I’m very grateful to have reached there.You ran the world No. 1 really close. What made the difference in the end?Two-three little things. In the second part of the second set, I made a few unforced errors which should have been avoided. Secondly, on one side of the court, the drift was very strong. All the players were finding it difficult to adjust to it even after playing so many matches. So on a few shots, I misjudged how much the shuttle will travel. Otherwise, I was playing extremely well. He (Mazur) appeared to be more tired, so I was confident of pulling it off. But in the end, he was probably the better player on the day.When you look back at your journey as a kid with a physical impairment and the different fields that you have excelled in, did you imagine becoming a Paralympic medallist one day as well?Never. When I was a child, I never expected that I’ll be able to do something big in life. I only watched others doing it on TV. It was my father who instilled a lot of confidence early in my childhood to push forward with whatever I had the passion for, be it academics or sports. In my badminton career, I always took it one step at a time. ‘Aur kehte hai na’ (and as they say), if you really want something, then destiny conspires you achieve it.The first IAS officer in the country to win an Olympic or Paralympic medal… must sound good, isn’t it?Not just IAS, I’m probably the first bureaucrat of any kind and service. People usually get into government jobs after winning Olympic medals; I did it the other way round. So at least my medal will break the social myth that one cannot be good in sports and studies at the same time. It’s a myth that really needed to be broken.But how much did you find it difficult to balance both?It’s not very difficult. Everyone can do more than one thing in life. It’s just about how much focus you have in your job and what else you want to pursue. So if you pursue something for three hours a day with a lot of passion, you can excel in it. People can do multiple things in a day, provided you focus on time management properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-get-govt-jobs-after-winning-olympic-medals-i-did-it-the-other-way-round-says-noida-dm-after-clinching-silver-101630866638197.html
06-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Govt to fund teachers taking admission to top universities: Dy CM||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday announced that the Delhi government will provide funding to teachers, who secure admission in the top 100 global universities, at a function held in Thyagaraj stadium to recognize teachers who have made a contribution to the education system. While handing out the awards on the occasion of Teachers’ Day, Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, credited teachers for the success of students and government schools and encouraged them to apply for global training programmes. He said the Delhi government will incur all the expenses of teachers aiming to study abroad. “All the best universities in the world are known for their own tailored courses. We believe that if our teachers apply for such courses, they can get selected on the basis of their abilities. That’s why the Delhi Government has decided on this Teachers’ Day that our teachers will be able to apply for prestigious courses... in the world’s 100 top-ranked universities. If selected, the government will bear the full cost of their programme,” said Sisodia adding that the teachers would be given leave for pursuing such courses. “We will ensure that our teachers get world-class exposure and in turn, they impart world-class education to our students,” said the deputy chief minister. From arranging smartphones for students to running vaccination centres, a total of 122 teachers were recognized by the government this year, a majority of whom are from Delhi government schools. Besides government school teachers, 14 sports teachers, two librarians, 13 corporation school teachers and 15 private school teachers were also felicitated. A number of changes were introduced to the selection process this year. The number of awards was increased to 122 from 103 last year to recognise the work of more teachers. For the first time, the government also gave two awards under a new category. The inaugural Face of DoE (directorate of education) award for notable work was given to music teacher Rajkumar from Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (RPVV) in Dwarka Sector-19 and mathematics lecturer Suman Arora from RPVV, A-6 Paschim Vihar. Rajkumar has initiated various activities to promote Indian classical music among students and continues to hold various laurels for playing sitar. Arora was awarded for the creation of support material for students of Class 12. Under her guidance, 23 students got selected in IIT-JEE Mains, while five students cleared the JEE- Advanced exams. Bharti Kalra and Sarita Rani Bharadwaj were felicitated for their exemplary work in education. Kalra arranged for 321 smartphones for children to help them attend online classes. During the pandemic, Bhardwaj went out of her way to reach out to the students who could not be contacted on phone for online classes. She took help from the community to find students and provided worksheets to those who did not have smartphones. Appreciating the efforts of teachers, Sisodia said the Delhi government schools were being praised across the country and beyond. “Our education system has been badly affected due to the pandemic. After the closure of the schools, no one had any idea how to proceed with the teaching-learning process. But the teachers and principals of our schools showed incredible grit and determination in responding to this situation amid difficulties,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-fund-teachers-taking-admission-to-top-universities-dy-cm-101630866397702.html
06-09-2021||Delhi||Conman's wife held in multi-crore fraud case||The Delhi Police on Sunday said they have arrested actress Leena Maria Paul on the alleged charges of helping her husband, Sukesh Chandrashekhar -- an alleged conman, and an accused in 21 cases including the Election Commission bribery case -- pull off a multi-crore cheating and extortion racket that was being run from inside the Tihar Jail prison complex.Paul was arrested by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) on Sunday, a day after a Delhi court sent Chandrashekhar to the agency’s custody in connection with the cheating and extortion case. The Delhi Police recently invoked stringent provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against Chandrashekhar and others. Paul is the ninth person to be arrested in the case that was registered on the complaint of Aditi Singh, wife of jailed businessman Shivinder Mohan Singh, former promoter of Religare Enterprises.Shivinder Singh was arrested in October 2019 in a fraud case pertaining to alleged misappropriation of funds at Religare Finvest Ltd (RFL). His brother Malvinder Singh was also arrested in the case. Chandrashekhar and his associates allegedly duped Malvinder’s spouse as well of several crores of rupees in the name of helping her husband get bail in the case. It was not immediately confirmed if a separate case was registered in the EOW on the complaint of Malvinder’s wife.“We had asked Paul to join the investigation at our EOW office. She arrived on Sunday. We arrested her after the questioning. She will be produced before the concerned court on Monday. Her police custody will be sought for interrogating her further in the case and confronting her with her husband and other arrested persons,” said a senior EOW officer, who asked not to be named.According to the officer, like Chandrashekhar, his wife has also been booked under the MCOCA, since Aditi identified a woman’s voice during the telephonic conversations in which Chandrashekhar posed as an official from ministry of law and offered to bail her husband out. Paul was earlier interrogated on several occasions by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) that is also looking into the cheating matter.A model-turned-Malayalam actress, Paul featured in Bollywood movie Madras Café that was released in 2013, the year she was arrested in a bank fraud case. She has also worked in Tamil and Malayalam movies. She was arrested by the Mumbai Police in 2015 along with Chandrashekhar and at least four others for allegedly duping several investors through money circulation schemes.Police said Chandrashekar, who planned the cheating and extortion racket from jail, was earlier arrested in 2017 by Delhi police for duping an AIADMK leader by taking ₹2 crore on the pretext of helping the party retain its two leaves symbol by bribing Election Commission officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/conman-sukesh-chandrashekhar-s-wife-arrested-for-aiding-him-101630866279139.html
06-09-2021||Delhi||From cargo to classrooms: Containers triggering ideas and opportunities||New Delhi: The Delhi government recently unveiled two new modular Mohalla clinics made from shipping containers in Shakur Basti in northwest Delhi, the constituency of health minister Satyendar Jain, who said that if successful, the government intends to create many more such clinics in the future. Due to problems in getting land, the government has been able to set up only 500 of the 1,000 new Mohalla clinics that it announced to build in 2015. “We will build many more container clinics if we get positive feedback from the people. So far, the response has been great,” says Jain. “These clinics are portable, modular, and occupy less space. Besides, these new clinics are sturdy, so we would not have to face the problem of vandalism and theft that we were facing in many other clinics.” The facilities in the new 350 sq ft air-conditioned clinic include a doctor’s room, waiting area, and pharmacy. While the Capital will be using shipping containers on a large scale for a public infrastructure project for the first time, in the past few years they have been used to build portable schools, skill development centers, cafeterias, and even houses across the country. Experts say they are slowly gaining popularity as an eco-friendly, rapidly deployable, scalable, portable plug-and-play building solution. According to World Shipping Council, there are about 18 million containers in the global fleet. A container, made of weathering steel, has a life span of 10-12 years and thousands go out of service every year. In India, Safeducate, a Delhi-based training firm that proves skill training in logistics was among the first to convert retired shipping containers into classrooms. “We have 25 skill development schools across the country, including one in Gurugram, made from shipping containers. We have trained over 10, 000 youngsters in these container schools,” says Divya Jain, founder and CEO, Safeducate. The company’s training center in Binola, Gurugram, which was inaugurated in 2018, has been built with eight containers, and has classrooms, laboratories, and libraries, among other facilities. “The idea was to recycle discarded containers to develop eco-friendly and cost-effective education infrastructure,” says Jain. Similarly, in 2015, Samarth Bharat Vyaspith, an NGO, and Thane Municipal Corporation built ‘Signal Shala’, a formal school under a flyover in the city. The first registered school under a flyover, it provides education up to the 10th standard and has classrooms, a science lab, and a computer lab---- all running from cargo containers. “Our organisation was working with people who were living under a flyover in Thane and begged at the traffic signal there. There were over 52 children who lived with their families under the bridge, and they too were into begging. We wanted to prepare them for mainstream school, but realised that they could not follow the routine of a normal school,” says Bhatu Sawant, CEO, Samarth Bharat Vyaspith. “So, we thought of setting up a container school for them right under the flyover. We approached Thane Municipal Corporation which, after much convincing, decided to collaborate with us and provide free water, electricity, and security. ” Six years on, many of his students have successfully passed Class 10, got professional diplomas, and are working in good companies, says Sawant, who now plans to open four more such schools under flyovers in Mumbai. “There has been rapid urbanisation, and so many flyovers have been built in cities. I think container schools are the perfect way to utilise spaces under them. The Maharashtra government appreciated our school and said it would replicate the model across Maharashtra,” says Sawant. Very few people talk about the potential of container schools with the passion of Amreesh Chandra, an educationist and founder of Project OoSC (Out of School Children), under which he is setting up over 50 container schools across the country. Chandra announced the project in 2019 at the India Business Group Summit Awards in the British Parliament in London. The first container school was inaugurated in a village near Gorakhpur by Baroness Patricia Scotland, the Commonwealth Secretary-General during her visit to India in January last year. Chandra says two more container schools will be operational in the next couple of weeks in Azamgarh and Maharajganj in UP. Covering an area of about 1000 square ft, each of these container schools boasts two large classrooms, an administrative office, and a backyard. The school in Gorakhpur had 80 students before it had to shut down last year due to the pandemic. “ There are 138 million children in India who are out of school, and one of the reasons is lack of schools in their vicinity. I believe that recycled containers can help quickly create a large number of affordable, eco-friendly schools near where they live. A container school can be created in 100 days with all the furniture, once an area has been identified,” says Chandra. “All of our planned 50 schools would have been operational by now but for the pandemic. Now we now hope to complete them by 2023.” Chandra says that he is also planning a university, with a building made out of containers. “Higher education is costly because of the huge costs involved in the construction of buildings. Container buildings can drastically bring down the cost,” he says. While a university campus made from containers may be a thing of the future, ITS Dental College in Greater Noida has built a massive cafeteria called ‘Cafe Infinity’ on its sprawling campus. Built in 2019 from nine shipping containers, the café is spread over 4,800 sq ft area. “The university wanted to create an eco-friendly and eccentric space and we suggested containers. In fact, the café’s name suggests the infinite possibilities of using containers in construction. India is one of the biggest shipping hubs. On average, container, has a life cycle of 12 years and recycling them is not quite easy, and most are discarded. So it is better to repurpose them,” says Rahul Jain, a Ghaziabad-based architect, who designed the café. “ We need to understand that 50% to 60% of air pollution is caused by construction activities. The flexibility, modularity, and sustainability make shipping containers a perfect alternative to the conventional building structures,” he adds. Saikat Maitra, vice-chancellor, Maulana Abul Kalam University of Technology (Makaut), in West Bengal, could not agree more. In fact, his university has launched a research project, which explores how discarded shipping containers can be best used to build shops, schools, offices, and even low-cost houses. “From the engineering point of view, we are studying how these massive containers can be made modular, be better ventilated, insulated, and integrated together,” says Maitra. “We have created a provision store and a cafeteria within the campus as part of this research.” He says that Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (HIDCO) of West Bengal, a public sector undertaking, has approached the university for technical guidance on creating food courts and shops in New Town area in Kolkata with containers.“There have been reservations about the aesthetic appeal of container buildings, but now people are realizing that this problem can be sorted with creativity and imagination. I believe that containers can be used for creating low-cost houses,” says Maitra. “Container structures are disaster-resilient and can be shifted to a different location if needed . Retired shipping containers contain a whole new world of possibilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-cargo-to-classrooms-containers-triggering-ideas-and-opportunities-101630865077790.html
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Worker dies of electrocution in Ludhiana: Factory owner, crane operator booked||Two days after a 22-year-old factory worker died of electrocution while working on a crane at Kanganwal, police on Sunday booked his employer and the crane operator.Factory owner Saksham Jindal and crane operator Jasbir Singh were booked for causing death due to negligence on the complaint of the victim’s mother.A resident of Rajiv Colony, Focal Point, Hameti Devi alleged that her son Abhishek was told to unload material using a crane on September 3, but was not provided any safety gear. While working, the crane came in contact with high-voltage cables and electrocuted her son, who died on the spot.She alleged that on arriving at the scene, police did not take any action. The body was moved to the civil hospital, but the family did not allow a post-mortem examination, seeking an FIR against the factory owner. They also organised a protest outside the Kanganwal police post.Sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, SHO, Sahnewal police station, said an FIR under Section 304-A of the Indian Penal Code had been lodged against the accused and the autopsy will be conducted on Monday.Family loses breadwinnerOnly son of his parents, Abhishek worked at the factory to support his family financially. His mother said her husband was bed-ridden due to paralysis, and her daughter was under treatment for a cyst in the stomach.RK Yadav, general secretary of Samajwadi Party, Punjab, demanded compensation for the family, as they had no money for the victim’s cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/worker-dies-of-electrocution-factory-owner-crane-operator-booked-101630862977778.html
06-09-2021||Pune||Work on PCB’s ₹17 cr parking facility grinds to halt due to fund shortage||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board’s (PCB) Rs17 crore robotic, multilevel car parking facility being set up at East street has hit a roadblock due to paucity of funds.The facility – meant for the convenience of commuters – will span 38,000 square feet; accommodate nearly 200 cars; and generate revenue of ₹50 to ₹60 lakh annually for the board administration. The project comprises two automated multilevel parking facilities: with the first on Lloyd road at the junction of East street and Coyaji road for which a tender was floated and work finalised as part of the general body decision; and the second to come up at the junction of Dr Coyaji road and Stavely road which was the board administration’s original development plan.However, the project has ground to a halt owing to non-receipt of GST funds from the state government for the past three years. While the parking facility was initially proposed in 2016, the PCB administration in 2019 had available reserve funds that could pay salaries for only three months. With neither the state nor the central government taking up the cause of the PCB GST, the financial position of the board has been dwindling every day.Former PCB vice president Vinod Mathurawala said, “The PCB is undergoing its worst financial crisis and efforts are underway to bring funds to ensure that all development oriented projects are completed on time. At the same time, the board administration is doing its level best to ensure that development projects are not all affected by the seeking of funds from the centre and state.”Not just the PCB parking facility but many other development projects worth an estimated Rs150 crore have been hit by non-receipt of GST funds from the state government for the past three years. For instance, the work on Chhatrapati Shivaji market and Fashion street is stuck due to a similar lack of funds. Restoration of the Chhatrapati Shivaji market following a massive fire in March is yet to begin and likely to be delayed further due to scarcity of funds. The PCB had sought funds from the district administration after which the collector’s office agreed to pay ₹1.25 crore if the board was willing to pay the remaining ₹1.25 crore as part of the ₹2.50 crore required for the restoration project. The board administration on June 30 decided to seek pending taxes from traders wherein an amount of ₹80 lakh is due in taxes from defaulters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/work-on-pcb-s-17-cr-parking-facility-grinds-to-halt-due-to-fund-shortage-101630859616678.html
06-09-2021||Pune||Intach, Punes’ YouTube series on ecofriendly Ganesh celebrations||Intach (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage) Pune, along with the Parijat Foundation and Centre of Contemporary Dance has introduced a series on YouTube to create awareness about the forthcoming Ganesh festival from an environmental perspective.The series, ‘Let’s Celebrate, But Why?’ is based on ecology, habits and learnings.“The series is about being conscious, aware about our festivals and the way we celebrate them, especially from an environment point of view. The objective is to inspire people to give it some thought and move towards a more eco-friendly and conscious celebration,” said Supriya Goturkar- Mahabaleshwarkar, co-convenor, Intach Pune.This idea came about with Covid restrictions that gave a reason to analyse celebrations and its real meaning. “The idea was also to look at the festival from different perspectives of mythology, culture, history, ecology, traditional wisdom and even food and nutrition,” said Goturkar- Mahabaleshwarkar. The series also has Kathak performances choreographed by Rohini Bhate, performed by her disciples.“The series ‘Conscious Ganesha’ has brought together dance along with origin, ecology, history and food practices of our loved festival. I have always believed for dance to be a powerful art tool for spreading awareness and enjoying the festivities, more for what they help us learn. It has brought in an audience who will otherwise have never interacted with each other. We hope the festival starts new, healthy conversations,” said Hrishikesh Pawar, artistic director, Centre of Contemporary Dance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/intachs-youtube-series-on-ecofriendly-ganesh-celebrations-101630859256657.html
06-09-2021||Pune||Pune civic body handing out on-the-spot permissions to Ganesh mandals this year||The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) encroachment department is handing out on-the-spot permissions to Ganesh mandals who have written proof that the said mandal was granted permission to erect a public mandap (stage) last year.No new permissions will be handed out this year due to the Covid pandemic and the PMC is not entertaining any applications at any of its offices or wards in the city.Instead the encroachment department is making the rounds of the city, street by street, enquiring about mandap permissions and ensuring no illegal set-ups are taking place.The 10-day Ganesh festival this year begins on September 10, Ganesh Chathurthi.“Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ganpati festival will be celebrated with restrictions given by the state government. Accordingly, mandals which have their own temples should celebrate within the temples. For others, a small mandap with simple celebrations is allowed. Our officials are on the spot, checking last year’s permission for this year,” said Madhav Jagtap, PMC’s deputy commissioner and head of the encroachment/illegal construction removal department.“There are around 2,000 mandals in Pune city. Once the festival starts, we are going to keep a watch on the mandals. We have formed vigilance squads who will check illegal mandaps or any other encroachments around the city,” Jagtap added.Mahesh Suryvanshi, treasurer, Dagdusheth Ganpati Mandal trust said, “All the Ganpati mandals in Pune are going to follow guidelines and restrictions given by the state government, as well as the PMC and police department. Already, due to the pandemic the financial backbone of the mandals is gone for a toss, so there are fewer mandals who would be installing mandaps this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-handing-out-on-the-spot-permissions-to-ganesh-mandals-this-year-101630858956696.html
06-09-2021||Other||Pune district’s prep for 3rd Covid wave: Deficit of 115 metric tonnes of oxygen||In view of the anticipated third Covid-19 wave, the Pune administration is preparing to meet its oxygen requirements, as the state government has pointed out that there is a shortage of 115 metric tonnes of oxygen. At the peak of the second wave earlier this year, the district required 360 tonnes of oxygen and so for the third wave, the administration has been asked to ensure for 1,080, metric tonnes of oxygen is ready, per day. To meet the deficit the PMC, PCMC and rural administration is preparing to buy more cylinders and build more liquid medical oxygen (LMO) generation plantsAs per the state government’s orders, districts have been asked to prepare for three times the number of active cases during the peak of the second wave. As per that estimate, the district needed 360 metric tonnes of medical oxygen at the peak of the second wave. Currently, the district has access to about 965 metric tonnes of medical oxygen, which means a deficit of 115 metric tonnes. As per the district’s report, while liquid medical oxygen which is required for Covid-19 patients in the ICU, is in excess. Oxygen from the Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) method is in deficit by 142 metric tonnes, dura cylinders by 72 metric tonnes and cylinders by 63 metric tonnes. To fill this deficit, the administration is purchasing 244 dura cylinders - 92 by the PMC, 92 by the PCMC and 60 by Pune rural. More LMO plants are being built. Dr Ashish Bharti, chief medical officer at PMC said, “PMC has about 10 oxygen plants already functioning and we have six more proposed which would add the capacity by 7,866 oxygen litres per minute. Also we have nine liquid oxygen storage tanks available and we are building three more, so that we can totally have about 173 kilo litres.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-s-prep-for-3rd-wave-deficit-of-115-metric-tonnes-of-oxygen-101630856616522.html
06-09-2021||Pune||Covavax vaccine trial for 12-18 years age group begins in Pune district||The King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital’s research centre at Vadu in Pune district will begin Covid-19 vaccine trials for the age group of 12-18 years from Monday.The first dose of the Covavax vaccine is to be administered to at least eight minors.Pending the safety results for this test group, trials of the vaccine for minors, even as young as two-years old will commence. After KEM, Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital will also begin trials in a month’s time.Covavax, which is primarily developed by US firm, Novavax Inc, will be mass produced by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) mainly for below-18-year age group. This is the fourth vaccine to be approved for clinical trials in the country and, Pune’s KEM centre at Vadu has also been selected for Phase II and Phase III trials. Dr Avinash Badvekar, principal investigator at the KEM centre said, “We will be starting phase two trials for safety from Monday, and we would vaccinate 25 in total, but at least eight on the first day. Once the safety trial results are out for this age group then phase II would continue, and then it would proceed to a lower age group of about two years. We had sent out applications for parents who would want their children to participate in the trial.”He further added that the trial requires children to be healthy and more importantly, without comorbidities. “After written consent from parents and also informed consent of the child, as per ICMR guidelines, the vaccine will be administered,” added Bavdekar. He also said that the children who have participated in the trial would get a vaccination certificate and those who take a placebo, would be informed to take the vaccine once the government opens up eligibility for their age group. Along with the KEM centre, Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital will also be a site for the Covavax trial in Pune. “However, trials would begin after a month,” said Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covovax-vaccine-trial-for-minors-begins-in-pune-district-on-monday-101630856436602.html
06-09-2021||Pune||FYJC admissions: Change in cutoffs after registrations remain low in Pune||PUNE The second merit list for the Class 11 (first year junior college - FYJC) online centralised admissions was declared on Sunday by the Director of Education (Secondary and Higher Secondary), Pune, along with an update of cut-off percentages of college. Interestingly, some cut-offs have increased, as others have decreased as compared to those released after the release of the first merit list. The education department fears a large number of seats will remain vacant this year due to the low number of registrations for admissions.In this second regular admission round, a total of 63,757 seats are available, for which 35,694 students applied and 15,967 students were allotted a college. Comparing cut-off lists, prominent colleges like Modern College of Arts, Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar, which had 92.80 per cent cut off for the Science stream in the first list, has now increased its cut-off to 93 per cent. For the Marathi Arts stream it has increased the cut-off 67 per cent to 69 per cent. Similarly, for Symbiosis College of Arts and Commerce, the cut off for the Arts stream was 91 per cent in the first list and it is now 93.80 per cent.There are several other colleges which have increased their cut-offs in the second list. Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts, Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar, said, “There are two major reasons for this increase in the cut-off lists in the second round. Firstly, students got the chance to change their preferences and so it reflected in the merit list. Then there are new students who got registered by filling up part 1 of the form and so the number increased.”Of the 15,967 allotted students, 6,040 students were given a college of their first preference, 3,231 students were given the college of their second preference and 1,988 students were given the college of their third preference. For this academic year a total of 78,745 students registered for Class 11 admissions. Despite a high passing percentage in Class 10 this year, students registration was low as compared to the available 111,205 seats. Last year, the registration number was 102,851. “One of the major reasons for a low number of registrations is rural students who come to Pune for studies have not registered this year. This has had a major impact on the admission process and will result in vacancy of seats,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune, who is in-charge of the admission process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fyjc-admissions-change-in-cutoffs-after-registrations-remain-low-101630856376576.html
06-09-2021||Bangalore||Locals in Bengaluru plant paddy saplings in potholes, offer boat rides for ₹20||To draw the attention of the Karnataka government and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) towards the poor condition of the roads, residents of Anjanapura in Bengaluru planted paddy saplings in the water-filled potholes on Saturday.To press home their point, the residents also brought a boat and offered rides for ₹20 per passenger.The unique protest was conducted by Changemakers of Kanakapura Road Association, which along with local residents, conducted the protest against BDA (Bengaluru Development Authority), demanding repair of the Anjanapura main road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/locals-in-bengaluru-plant-paddy-saplings-in-potholes-offer-boat-rides-for-rs-20-101630844416321.html
