07-09-2021||Other||Town planning dept to take action against illegal flats in Gurugram’s Palam Vihar||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Tuesday said it will act against illegal flats built on single plots in Palam Vihar, said officials aware of the development. They said they survey the area to identify the violators. The government had earlier permitted property owners to build up to four floors on a plot over 180 square yards area with stilt to allow for vehicle parking. However, these floors could not be divided into flats. DTCP officials said they had received multiple complaints that this rule was being violated. In some cases, eight to 12 flats of 2BHK and 3BHK size, were constructed on 500 square yard plots and offered for rent and sale, they claimed. According to the complaints, said the officials, blocks E, C2 and F were particularly affected and residents fear that such properties would put immense pressure on scarce infrastructure of the colony. District town planner (enforcement) RS Bhath said that in March, action was taken against such properties and FIRs were registered against owners of four such plots in C2 block of Palam Vihar. “We have received information regarding construction of more such flats and a survey would be conducted soon. We will lodge FIRs against the owners of such plots and illegal constructions would not be allowed,” he said. Bhath further said that occupation certificates of such buildings would also be cancelled. “We appeal to the buyers to not invest in properties built in violation of rules. FIRs will not only be registered against plot owners but also against contractors and architects who assisted in these violations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/town-planning-dept-to-take-action-against-illegal-flats-in-gurugram-s-palam-vihar-101631039155448.html
07-09-2021||Gurugram||Third serosurvey in Gurugram to check antibodies in vaccinated groups, kids||In its third Haryana-wide Covid -19 serological survey starting Wednesday, the state health department aims to study the level of antibodies in people fully inoculated against Covid-19. The survey will also have a different methodology compared to the two other surveys conducted last year when the vaccination drive had not been rolled out, said officials aware of the development.According to health officials, this will help them plan a targeted vaccination strategy and enhance their preparations for a possible third wave of Covid-19 infections.A serological survey finds the level of antibodies in a given population that may have developed either after an infection or after being administered a dose of the vaccines.Both the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and state governments conduct separate serological surveys.Wednesday’s survey will cover children aged six to 17 years too for the first time. This is a population currently not covered under the Covid-19 immunisation programme.“The study will analyse the percentage of antibodies developed in people, either through vaccination or by contracting the coronavirus infection. It will give an insight into the development of antibodies in people of all age groups,” said Dr Virender Yadav, Gurugram chief medical officer. Yadav on Tuesday attended the official launch of the survey by Haryana health minister Anil Vij over video conference.Over 36,520 blood samples will be collected across the state, out of which about 3,600 would be from children aged six to nine years and about 11,000 from those between 10 and 17 years. The sample size is considerably higher than the 18,500 samples covered in the last survey held in October last year.Over 2,200 medical staff across districts will conduct the survey and the results will be declared two weeks later, according to health officials.In Gurugram, about 3,000 samples will be tested, of which at least 1,800 will be of adults. According to state nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhry, the third round of the survey will follow a different strategy. “The state has been divided into three zones based on the second serosurvey results. Districts that had less than 5% seropositivity are under the A zone. Districts with 5-15% seropositivity are in the B zone, while districts above 15% are under the C zone. The samples size will vary depending on the category and population,” he said.The data will also have results from people who did not get infected but had got both shots of a vaccine, he said.“It will help to estimate the percentage of adult population who remained asymptomatic but developed antibodies after vaccination. These multiple aspects will assist in planning a strategy to focus upon clusters for vaccination and to fine-tune our preparedness for the third wave of Covid-19,” said Dr Dhruva Chaudhry. He hinted that a phase-2 of the study to understand the post-Covid 19 symptoms in the population could be in the works.In the first state survey in August 2020, the state showed a seropositivity of 8%, while the second round had a positivity of 14.8%. Gurugram in the first round had a seropositivity of 18.5% and 5.7% in the urban and rural population, respectively, in the first survey. In the second round, the district had a 25.9% seropositivity in the urban sector, while it was 10.1% in the rural sector.Till Tuesday, the state had administered over 17.3 million doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/third-serosurvey-in-gurugram-to-check-antibodies-in-vaccinated-groups-kids-101631039154921.html
07-09-2021||Gurugram||Around 200 houses demolished in Faridabad’s Jamai Colony set on Aravalli land||With a support of close to 1,000 police personnel on the ground, the Faridabad district administration on Tuesday began a demolition drive at Jamai Colony, which was on Aravalli land, said officials. Of the approximately 400 houses constructed in the colony, around 200 were demolished on the day, they added.The drive comes a month after encroachments were removed from Khori village, which too was on Aravalli land, in the district. The drive had the backing of a Supreme Court order and almost 10,000structures were cleared.Tuesday’s demolition drive started at around noon and continued till 4pm, said the officials. Four earthmoving machines were deployed, and the drive went ahead without much trouble from residents, they added. The administration had attempted to rid the land of encroachment in 2019 too but stopped following protests from the residents.In the last week of August this year, a four-member team from the Faridabad police inspected the area and confirmed the encroachment. Following that, the residents were served a notice in this regard and asked to vacate the colony. Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) commissioner Yashpal Yadav said that the demolition drive will continue till all forest land is reclaimed. “Encroachments on land notified under Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) was razed on Tuesday. This action follows the orders of the Supreme Court, and all such encroachments will be removed from Aravalli land ,” said Yadav. The official added that demolition drive will move to four to five more villages set on Aravalli land and that encroachments were being identified. In July, the Supreme Court, while hearing a case about the illegal constructions in Khori village of Faridabad, observed that “the direction to remove all unauthorised structures standing on the forest land applies to all such structures without any exception.” After the court issued directions, the forest department started preparations to raze all illegal structures, including farmhouses, banquet halls and institutes, constructed on forest land. So far around 10 farmhouses that were set up in the Aravallis have been demolished in Faridabad, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/around-200-houses-demolished-in-faridabad-s-jamai-colony-set-on-aravalli-land-101631039094877.html
07-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to felicitate Tokyo paralympics medal winners||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday asked officials to prepare a plan to organise an event to honour all medal winners for the country at the Tokyo paralympics. “In Tokyo paralympics, excellent performance of the sportspersons made the country proud. Along with medal winners from UP, all those who won a medal for the country should be honoured at a public function,” the chief minister said at the Covid-19 review meeting. Last week Yogi had announced that the state government will honour and award the paralympians like it had honoured the Tokyo Olympics medal winner from India. “In this programme, all ‘Divyang’ players from 75 districts of the state should also be invited. It will be a morale booster for them. A detailed plan should be prepared for this event,” the chief minister said. The UP government had earlier announced a cash award of ₹2 crore for Olympic gold medal winner Neeraj Chopra, ₹1.5 crore each for silver medal winners, ₹1 crore for each member of the men’s hockey team that won the bronze medal and ₹50 lakh for each member of the women’s hockey team which narrowly missed a medal. The event was held in the state capital in which all the medallists were honoured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-to-felicitate-tokyo-paralympics-medal-winners-101631039036435.html
07-09-2021||Noida||Five die as speeding truck rams car on Delhi-Meerut Expressway||Five persons, including two minors, died and two others were severely injured when the car they were travelling in collided head-on with a speeding mini truck coming from wrong side on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway on Monday night. The truck driver has been arrested, police said.The accident took place around 10.30pm in the Masuri area of Ghaziabad, police said, adding that the victims were returning from Haridwar in an Alto car.Police identified the deceased as Ashish Sinha, 33, his wife Shilpi Sinha, 30, their one-year-old son, Dev, Ashish’s brother-in-law Sonu Kumar, 35, and Sonu’s daughter, Kavya, 11. Sonu’s wife Nidhi, 28, and their other daughter, Shivi, 4, suffered critical injuries in the incident and are undergoing treatment at Sarvodaya Hospital in Kavi Nagar, police said. “The car collided head-on with a mini truck that was driven on the wrong side. We have arrested the truck driver. He is not able to say clearly how he ventured to the wrong side of the expressway,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic). Ashish’s family is a native of Lucknow while Sonu’s family resides at Makanpur in Ghaziabad’s Indirpauram. Sonu’s relatives said that the two families had gone to Haridwar to perform ‘mundan’ of Ashish’s son. They also alleged that the jewellery worn by the women were missing, while the men’s purses were empty.“When we checked the bags and purses of the victims, they were empty. Even the jewellery of the women was missing. We told the local police about it, but they asked us to give a complaint. As we had to take bodies to our native places, we did not file a complaint,” said Pappu, Sonu’s brother.“The family from Lucknow had come to Ghaziabad two days ago. The two families left for Haridwar in Sonu’s car around 4am on Monday. After the accident, some passersby helped the victims reach the hospital. Ashish and his one-year-old son died on the spot, and they were left behind in the car. Ashish’s wife and one of Sonu’s daughters succumbed in the hospital, while Sonu died at 4am on Tuesday,” he added. Dr Manoj Jain, medical superintendent of Sarvodaya Hospital, said that the two victims succumbed during treatment. “Ashish’s wife Shilpi and Sonu’s daughter Kavya died due to critical injuries while we were treating them. Sonu was also critical, but he succumbed to multiple injuries on Tuesday morning. His wife is still critical and on ventilator support while his daughter is in ICU, but stable,” Dr Jain said. The incident took place at an isolated spot on the expressway near the border area of Masuri and Bhojpur police stations in Ghaziabad, police said. Police identified the truck driver as Bablu Singh, a native of Amroha, who was on way from Ghaziabad to Rishikesh in Uttarakhand. Pawan Kumar, senior superintendent of police (SSP), said that the issue of missing cash and jewellery will be investigated. “Such things get reported during accidents and it is a cause of concern. There was no deployment of traffic police at the incident site. It could be due to lack of resources. We have booked the truck driver under IPC Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) instead of Section 304a (causing death due to rash or negligent acts) which is generally levied in cases of accidents,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/five-die-as-speeding-truck-rams-car-on-delhi-meerut-expressway-101631039034987.html
07-09-2021||Lucknow||ICCCC in Lucknow receives more than two dozen calls in two days||The Integrated Covid Control and Command Centre (ICCCC)—an initiative of the district administration to handle Covid 19 cases – is now dealing with queries relating to dengue and vector-borne diseases. Within two days of the district administration extending the ICCCC services to people suffering from dengue or vector-borne-diseases, the centre has recorded more than two dozen phone calls.“ICCCC’s services have now been extended to patients suffering from various vector-borne diseases, in order to provide them a one-stop solution, as we did when Covid-19 was at its peak. On the very first day (September 5), when the helpline was launched, we received more than 11 calls. The number of calls increased subsequently. The callers basically enquired about the symptoms relating to vector-borne diseases, the threat of which is looming large now,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate.Prakash said that callers also consulted doctors at the ICCCC. “Callers also called to avail the Hello Doctor service on which doctors give free consultation and medication to callers,” the DM said.On September 5, the administration had released a dedicated helpline number—0522-4523000 to ensure help to people suffering from dengue or other vector-borne diseases.The DM said that under the service, on getting a call, the executive at the ICCCC would take information from the person like the mobile number and address. If the person calling is showing dengue/malaria-like symptoms, the trained executive would then contact the nearest community health centre in order to get a dengue test conducted at the earliest.Meanwhile, in coordination with the Lucknow Municipal Corporation, the administration would also ensure an anti-larval fogging drive and sanitisation of the area from where the dengue patient called. Also, the ICCCC will also ensure hospitalisation of the patient, depending upon his/her condition, similar to what the centre did when Covid-19 cases were at their peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/icccc-in-lucknow-receives-more-than-two-dozen-calls-in-two-days-101631038316726.html
07-09-2021||Bangalore||Ganesh Chaturthi festivities to be restricted to three days in Bengaluru: BBMP||The Bengaluru civic agency has permitted only three-day Ganesha Pooja celebrations in the city in public places from September 10 onwards against the Karnataka government's order allowing five days' of festivities from that date in districts where the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) is less than two per cent, to keep Covid-19 infections in check. "Ganesha festival will not be allowed for more than three days in Bengaluru city. There should not be any procession while bringing the idol or during immersion," the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said in a circular. The instruction came after Gupta had a meeting with senior district level officers and Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant.Later talking to reporters, Gupta said the BBMP had last year permitted Ganesha festival for three days, which will continue this year as well. He said the decision to have it for only three days was taken after inputs from the police that there were possibilities of large gatherings participating in the public celebrations. Gupta also said that Ganesha idols made of plaster of Paris have been banned. He asked people to immerse the traditional Ganesha idol, made up of biodegradable material in their homes in buckets or mobile tankers of the civic agency. "Idols installed at homes should be immersed at home only or in our mobile tank. Ganeshas installed at public places should be of (a maximum of) four feet height and should be immersed in mobile tanks. We are also creating immersion tanks. We have also arrived at a decision to ban immersion of idols in lakes," Gupta said. Pant said one Ganesha idol at public place in each ward would be permitted, for which the organisers will have to get the nod from the BBMP and then inform the deputy commissioner of police of the area. A BBMP official said Ganesh Chaturthi falls on September 10 and the immersion should take place by September 12 night, exactly on the third day of installing it. He said the number of infections in the city is still on the higher side and hence it was decided to limit public celebrations to a maximum of three days.On September 6, the government had allowed five day Ganesh festival celebrations from September 10 onwards in those districts where the TPR was below two per cent. The government, however, prohibited any cultural events and processions while bringing the idols to the pooja pandals or during immersions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ganesh-chaturthi-festivities-to-be-restricted-to-three-days-in-bengaluru-bbmp-101631037327353.html
07-09-2021||Lucknow||UP government to fund folk artistes’ instrument purchase||In order to help folk artistes in these difficult times, the state directorate of culture has announced a scheme under which the state government will provide funds to folk artistes for the purchase of instruments.Under the ‘Lok Kalakar Vadya Yantra Kraya Yojana’ the state government has kept a fund of ₹1 crore to help folk artists whose income have suffered during the time of the pandemic. However, there is a rider: no artiste will be given more than ₹20,000 as aid for purchase of folk instruments, said culture director Shishir (he goes by one name).Artistes who earn below ₹1.20 lakh per year will be eligible for the scheme. Besides, the artiste must be 35 years or more in age and registered in the e-directory of the directorate of culture. A committee which includes a teacher of Bhatkhande, along with two officials of culture directorate will deliberate and decide on the applications of beneficiaries. The last date for submitting the form for aid is September 30.Shishir said, “The idea is to help the maximum number of folk artists over 35 years of age. The artistes can apply for monetary help for purchase of instruments by filling a form. This scheme is expected to help a number of artistes who are unable to purchase expensive instruments.“The directorate will help in the purchase of instruments like flute, chikara , nakkara , ektara, dholki, naal, tabla, alghoza, dhaad, dotara, duggi, dhol, manjhira, nagada, pena , pipa, pipri, etc. We know that during the pandemic the income of folk artistes has suffered. They are not able to get programmes hence have lost their earning and many of them want to purchase new folk instruments but are short of funds. That’s why we decided to help our artistes purchase instruments so that they can earn their bread and butter with respect.“Such a scheme has been initiated for the first time in the state and we hope ₹1 crore will be distributed among deserving artistes who are recognised by the department of culture. An amount not exceeding ₹20,000 artiste will be transferred directly into their accounts for the purchase. They will have to furnish a receipt of the instrument purchased along with a written declaration that they have purchased the instrument with the money provided by the department.”Gulab Khan, a nagada artist, said, “We must welcome this gesture from the state government. After all, here is someone who thinks about the problems of folk artistes too.”Professor Kamlesh Dubey of Bhatkhande Music Deemed University said, “Due to inflated ego, folk artistes don’t share their problems with anyone. Most of them are not well off. Folk artistes must take advantage of such schemes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-government-to-fund-folk-artistes-instrument-purchase-101631037415809.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Two held for ₹10 lakh extortion bid on businessman||The special staff of Dwarka district has arrested two extortionists, who were threatening to kill a businessman and his nephew if he did not pay them ₹10 lakh.Police said the men called the businessman, Subash Chandra, on phone and also send him threat messages for the past five days, following which a case was registered on Saturday on the businessman’s complaint. A special team was formed to nab the extortionists before they made good on their threat.“The team worked against time to ensure their arrest before Chandra and his nephew came to any harm. Technical surveillance was mounted on the phone numbers that were used to call up the businessman. the call detail records of several numbers were analysed and informers were deployed to track down the culprits. The police finally zeroed in on the two men and they were arrested from Gurugram,” said Santosh Kumar Meena, deputy commissioner of police, (Dwarka).The suspects were identified by their first names, Gopal and Jitender. Police said Gopal used to work for Chandra and had an eye on the activities of his employer. Gopal was heavily in debt and decided to extort money from his employer to clear his debts, police said. He enlisted the help of his friend Jitender, a DJ, who was also in need of money. They both called Chandra and demanded ₹10 lakh and threatened to kill him and his nephew if he failed to pay. The money was being negotiated when police barged in on their hideout, investigating officers said.Police said further investigation is underway and efforts are being made to ascertain their involvements in other similar cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-held-for-10-lakh-extortion-bid-on-businessman-101631037355365.html
07-09-2021||Noida||Man arrested for killing wife in Noida over dowry||A 30-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday in connection with the death of his 28-year-old wife whose family alleged that she was tortured for dowry and pushed from the second floor house in Sector 46.The suspect was identified as Jay Kumar Saini. Police said that the victim, Pooja Saini, was a resident of Delhi. Rajeev Kumar, SHO of Sector 39 police station, said the couple had married in February 2019 and they have an 18-month-old baby. “The victim’s family members filed a complaint on September 5. They alleged that her in-laws pushed her from the second floor. She received critical injuries and died,” he said. Based on the complaint, a case was registered against Jay and his parents under sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 304-B (dowry death) of IPC and sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act,1961. “On Tuesday, we arrested Jay Kumar from his Sector 46 house. His parents are at large. We have launched a search for them,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-killing-wife-in-noida-over-dowry-101631037294756.html
07-09-2021||Lucknow||Migration support centre to come up in Gautam Buddha Nagar||LUCKNOW The state government has set a target of imparting training to three lakh youths in the next six months under its Skill Development Mission, provide Covid management training to 41000 youths and set up a migration support centre in Gautam Buddha Nagar. Kapil Dev Agarwal, state minister for vocational education and skill development, on Tuesday, informed that the government has also set a target of providing jobs to 51000 youths who received training in Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs). “For the next six months, the state government has set a target to train three lakh youths under its skill development mission,” Agarwal told media persons on Tuesday while sharing details about priorities of his department for the next six months. “We have also set a target of imparting training to 40,000 youths in MSMEs in the next six months. These trainees will also be given stipend of ₹7,000 per month,” said the minister. Agarwal informed that chief minister Yogi Adityanath would inaugurate 16 ITIs. The government has also decided to provide training in 10 specialised fields identified on the basis of requirement of industry. These fields are life sciences, rubber, instrumentation and automation, leather and sports goods, hydrocarbon, iron and steel, telecom, logistics, gems and jewellery and mining. The state government has decided to set up a migration support centre in Gautam Buddha Nagar. “Those who want to look for job opportunities outside their home town in National Capital Region, Delhi and adjoining states will be provided counselling at this migration support centre,” said Agarwal. “Migrant workers will get 15 days’ free transit stay facility at this centre, which will include lodging and food,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/migration-support-centre-to-come-up-in-gautam-buddha-nagar-101631037235527.html
07-09-2021||Lucknow||Court sets aside detention order against man booked for FB post on Babri Masjid||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday set aside a detention order passed against a man under the stringent National Security Act for a Facebook post over Babri Masjid, saying there was a delay in disposing of his representation by the central government.The court directed authorities to release the detenu forthwith if he is not wanted in any other case.A bench of Justice Ramesh Sinha and Justice Saroj Yadav passed the order on a habeas corpus petition moved on the behalf of Mohd Faiyyaz Mansoori.In its order, the bench said, "There was a delay in disposal of the representation of the petitioner by the central government and having regard to the nature of detention and rigor of law, we are of the view that there was disproportionate delay at the end of the central government.""On this count alone, the detention order is liable to be quashed," it said.The petitioner was booked for allegedly making a provocative post on Facebook over Babri Masjid.Upset over this, Sagar Kapoor had lodged a complaint at Mohammadi police station in Lakhimpur Kheri on August 6, 2020, following which an FIR was registered and the petitioner was arrested.Later, the state government imposed the NSA on him.Appearing for the petitioner, advocate Sushil Kumar Singh argued that the detention and consequential orders were bad, because the central government made the delay in deciding the petitioner's representation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/court-sets-aside-detention-order-against-man-booked-for-fb-post-on-babri-masjid-101631036687683.html
07-09-2021||Noida||Emerald court case: SIT holds 8-hour meeting, to stay in Noida for two more days||The special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe violations in the map approval of the Supertech’s Emerald Court project will stay in the city for two more days as they are yet to complete its work, officials said on Tuesday. The members of SIT who reached Noida on Monday were supposed to finish the job of collecting files and other details about the controversial project in two days. Now, the SIT has decided to stay for two more days in connection with this case, the officials said.On Tuesday, SIT head Sanjiv Mittal, who is also the chairman of the Noida authority, along with other members, started a meeting with the Noida authority’s top officials at 10am that ended at 6.30pm. “The SIT has asked several questions related to allotment of plot, officials involved in map approval, and why construction was allowed even before the map was approved,” said a senior authority official who attended the meeting with SIT.“The SIT is trying to figure out as to who were involved in map approval in clear violation of building regulations,” said the official, seeking anonymity. Mittal and Noida authority chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari could not be contacted for comments despite repeated attempts.The SIT was formed by the state government on September 2, two days after the Supreme Court ordered the demolition of Apex and Ceyane towers in the Emerald Court project in Noida’s Sector 93A over grave violation of building norms. The court said the violation was a result of “nefarious complicity” between the Noida authority and the real estate developer. The government has given a week’s time to the team to submit the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/emerald-court-case-sit-holds-8-hour-meeting-to-stay-in-noida-for-two-more-days-101631037116083.html
07-09-2021||Lucknow||UP elections: Mayawati assures security, dignity to Brahmins if voted to power||Blowing the bugle for the 2022 UP assembly polls, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Tuesday said a high-level inquiry will be set up to probe the “wrong actions” taken by the BJP government against the Brahmin community if her party came to power in the state next year. “Strict action will be taken against the officers found guilty. The BSP government will ensure justice to the victims and economic losses suffered by the community will be also compensated for as well,” she said while addressing a Brahmin conference— Prabuddh Varg Vichar Goshti—organised in the party’s state unit office. This marked the culmination of the intellectuals’ conference launched by the BSP at Ayodhya on July 23. It was her first public appearance after the Covid pandemic started in March 2020.Amid blowing of conch shells by the members of the Brahmin community during which they raised a slogan “Brahmin shankh bajayega, haathi badhta jayega”, Mayawati said, “I promise that when BSP forms the government (in UP) in 2022, it will take care of the dignity, security and welfare of the Brahmin community in the similar manner as was done after the formation of the BSP government in 2007.”In a bid to woo farmers, the BSP chief also announced on coming to power her government would not only ensure that farmers get genuine price of their products, but it would also be ensured the Centre’s three farm laws were not implemented in UP. “The farmers’ protest has been continuing for a long time now and the BSP has extended its support to their movement. Some 500 farmers have died so far but the BJP government has remained unmoved,” she claimed. “The BSP government will also constitute a commission for the implementation of teachers’ demands. They will get honourable salary and service rules for the teachers working in unaided institutions will be drafted,” Mayawati announced. “The BSP government will also give aid to Sanskrit institutions that has been stopped by the BJP government. The vacant posts in the Sanskrit institutions will be filled on priority,” she said. “Instead of constructing memorials, parks and museum in the name of Dalit icons, the BSP government will focus on changing the image of Uttar Pradesh to make it a developed state. Under previous BSP governments, memorials, parks, museums in the name of the Dalit icons who worked for the society based on equality have been constructed at NOIDA and Lucknow. The BSP is working for the equality of and justice for all communities,” the BSP chief said.“The other communities who want that their icons should be given respect, the BSP government will fulfil their demands. The BSP will organise Muslim, backward and Kshatriya community conferences across the state,” she added.Terming the “Prabuddh Varg Vichar Goshti” a big success, Mayawati said, “The large turnout in the meetings in all 75 UP districts has caused panic in the camps of rival parties. They have also started organising Prabuddh Varg conference. But the Brahmins have made up their minds to bring the BSP to power in UP next year.”“I appeal to the people coming from various castes and communities that they should support the BSP for a better future of their children, dignity and security of their families,” she said.“In the second round, the Brahmin community supporters will organise meetings in the cities, towns and villages in each assembly constituency to extend the base of the party and to associate the Brahmin community with the BSP,” Mayawati said.“They will have to make minimum 1,000 active members in each assembly segment. These members will work in the reserved and general assembly segments. The party will organise cadre camps in each assembly segment. The BSP will organise women Brahmin conference in cities under Kalpana Mishra (BSP leader Satish Chandra Mishra’s wife),” she added.“After coming to power in UP in 2007, the BSP government had lifted the ban on the recruitment of the upper caste people in government jobs. In police department, more than two lakh posts were filled. Safai Karamacharis were posted in each village. One lakh people were employed under a special drive to fill vacant posts in various government departments. There was no discrimination or exploitation on the basis of caste under the BSP government. The rule of law was implemented. The Brahmin community was given adequate representation in the government and the organisation,” she said.On Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat’s statement that the forefathers of Hindus and Muslims were same, Mayawati said he should explain then why “a step motherly treatment was being meted out to the Muslim community by the BJP government”.The Muslims should not forget the Muzaffarnagar riots (2013) under the SP government and the Hashimpura- Malyana incident (1987) under the Congress government, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-elections-mayawati-assures-security-dignity-to-brahmins-if-voted-to-power-101631036995272.html
07-09-2021||Noida||‘Disturbed’ man arrested for stabbing two women in Ghaziabad||The Ghaziabad police on Tuesday arrested a man in connection with the two stabbing incidents in Maharajpur locality of Sahibabad. Police said that the man was “disturbed” ever since his wife abandoned him one month after their marriage in 2014. The suspect was identified as Sonu Prasad who is a daily wager and a native of Patna. Police said that he came to Delhi on September 2 and started looking for a job, and also rented a room at Maharajpur, which is close to Delhi’s Anand Vihar. “We formed five teams to arrest the suspect whose images were captured in CCTV cameras. The suspect was nabbed from the railway tracks near Maharajpur and he confessed to the crime,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). Police said that they have recovered a knife from the possession of the suspect, and also found a T-shirt and a pair of shorts allegedly worn by the suspect during the two incidents. According to police, it was Sonu who stabbed Shahnaz Ansari in head on September 2 while she was sleeping and a day later, he stabbed Hasnuma Khatoon during her sleep. “The suspect told us that he went to different houses in the locality to find a room on rent. He said that when he saw the women sleeping, he got infuriated and attacked them with a knife. He was upset with his broken marriage,” said Ram Singh, SHO of Link Road police station where the two cases were registered. In the first incident, the knife got stuck in Shahnaz’s head and she had to undergo a surgery during which the doctors pulled out the knife. In the second incident, Khatoon suffered a deep wound near her eye. Investigating officers said that the locals were also sensitized about the suspect who wore a T-shirt and shorts during both the incidents. “After the two incidents, the man was still roaming around in the area, but was finally traced. Had he moved on to some other locality, it would have been difficult for the teams to trace him,” said an officer of Link Road police station.Police had registered an attempt to murder case in the first incident while they registered a case for causing hurt by dangerous means/weapons in the second incident. “We are also trying to find out if the suspect in his native place gave way to such incidents with women,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/disturbed-man-arrested-for-stabbing-two-women-in-ghaziabad-101631036934803.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 26 Covid-19 infections, one death||Punjab on Tuesday registered 26 fresh Covid-19 cases and recorded one virus-related death, a medical bulletin of the state health department said. The positivity rate in the state was detected at its lowest at 0.08 % on Tuesday, the media bulletin said. With fresh cases, Punjab’s cumulative patient tally on Tuesday reached 6,00,877 cases, while the number of active cases in the state is 320. Among fresh infections, maximum 10 cases were detected in SAS Ngar, according to the bulletin. With 31 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,84,110, it said. Till now, 16,447 people have lost their lives due to the virus in the state. A total of 1,36,85,244 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-26-covid-19-infections-one-death-101631036158406.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai, Thane on orange alert; heavy rain to continue on Wednesday||Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts began receiving moderate to heavy rains during the late evening on Tuesday, and are expected to continue receiving heavy showers through the day on Wednesday, as per the forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In the three hours ending at 9:30 pm, many parts of the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) had already seen between 20 to 40mm of rain, with the western and eastern suburbs seeing the most intense showers.Mumbai and Thane have been placed under an orange category weather alert on Wednesday, indicating a high possibility of very heavy rain, while Palghar is placed under a red category alert, indicating chances of extremely heavy rainfall. “Areas in Konkan and western Maharashtra that witnessed flooding in July are set to witness moderate to heavy rainfall until 8 September. This will be the first major rainfall event since the July floods, so brace for a possible impact due to landslides and dam discharges,” cautioned Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, UK.Officials say it will be a rough couple of days ahead for the region, with a low-pressure area (which formed over the Bay of Bengal) moving inland and exerting influence on rainfall in central India. The system, which was set to begin passing over Mumbai sometime after midnight on September 8, is expected to bring widespread heavy showers to the region early on September 8.“There is also an east-west shear zone of easterly and westerly winds that will come into the vicinity of the low-pressure zone as it moves from Vidarbha toward the coast, and this will increase the intensity of rainfall over Mumbai,” said an official with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has also sounded an orange category weather alert for the Konkan districts of Raigad and Ratnagiri today, indicating a high possibility of very heavy rainfall in the region. Parts of Konkan have been witnessing heavy rains for the last two days resulting in floods in several areas, including Chiplun in Ratnagiri district which witnessed devastating floods just over a month ago. The IMD had placed these districts under a red alert on Monday.The IMD’s monitoring station in Harnai, Ratnagiri district recorded a staggering 368.4mm of rainfall in just 24 hours ending 8:30 am on September 7. The whole district recorded an average of 152.8mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8:30 am on September 7, against the daily normal of 14mm, as per the rainfall information available with the IMD. All of the Konkan districts recorded excess rainfall in the last 24 hours ending Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-thane-on-orange-alert-heavy-rain-to-continue-on-wednesday-101631035858404.html
07-09-2021||Lucknow||UP govt relaxes night curfew by another hour||The UP government further relaxed Covid-19 night curfew by an hour, on Tuesday. The new timings that came into force with immediate effect are 11 pm to 6 am.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced the further easing of Covid-19-induced night curfew restrictions in Uttar Pradesh considering the continuous improvement in the Covid-19 situation in the state, said the state government in a statement. It was issued after a Covid-19 review meeting where Yogi made the announcement.“Under the new guidelines, the state government announced a revision in night curfew timings which will now be in force from 11 pm to 6 am,” the statement read.At the meeting, Yogi added: “The government’s focus is on restoring normalcy in the state with an aim to save both lives and livelihood, and at the same time, saving the state from the possibility of a third wave of the pandemic”.The CM also instructed to ensure that all shops, markets and public places are shut down by 11 pm and that no individual must roam unnecessarily on the streets.“UP has been maintaining control over the Covid-19 situation fairly well and in view of rising cases in other states, we must not let our guard down. Everyone must follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, ensure usage of masks and social distancing,” the CM concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-relaxes-night-curfew-by-another-hour-101631035555308.html
07-09-2021||Pune||6 more arrested in Pune minor gang rape case||Pune police arrested six more people on Tuesday in connection to the case of alleged abduction and gang rape of a 14-year-old girl, news agency PTI reported. A local court remanded the accused in nine-day police custody. With Tuesday’s arrest, a total of 14 people have been taken into custody so far.On Monday police arrested eight people, including an auto-rickshaw driver and two railway officials, for their alleged involvement in the case.A 14-year-old girl was allegedly abducted from the Pune railway station area on the night of August 31 and raped at multiple locations in the city, police said. The teenager told police that she had gone to Pune railway station to meet a friend.Police said an autorickshaw driver allegedly approached the girl and offered to ferry her home when her friend reportedly didn’t show up. "However, he rode the autorickshaw to a different direction and picked one of his friends on the way. The two of them assaulted her at a secluded spot," police told Hindustan Times. The two men threatened her dire consequences if she raised an alarm and took her to different locations.News agency PTI cited police officials involved in the case to report that the auto-rickshaw driver and several of his associates, including two railway staff, gang-raped the girl at multiple places in Pune.The girl’s parents registered a missing person complaint when she didn’t return home, and a case of kidnapping was registered on September 1.The condition or the circumstances under which the girl was rescued is not clear yet. The girl was undergoing treatment at Sassoon General Hospital and doctors reportedly said her condition was stable.Police have registered a case under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 376(d)(a), 377 (unnatural sex), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4(2), 5(g), 6, 8, and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act.Earlier in the day, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said efforts would be taken to ensure the accused the brought to justice and added that police have been directed to ensure such incidents are not repeated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/6-more-arrested-in-pune-minor-gang-rape-case-101631034517189.html
07-09-2021||Other||Gorakhpur: Displaced by flood, these inmates making a living from relief camp||Even as rains and flood have ravaged their lives and livelihood, a few inmates of relief camps in Gorakhpur have shown that life continues even at the face of gravest of difficulties.Despite facing many odds, thirty-year-old Punam Prajapti, a single mother of three kids, and Phulkumari (35), mother of a teen girl, living at Bal Vihar School at Laldiggi camp have been working tirelessly to eke out a living for themselves and their loved ones.Punam, who chose to part ways from her drunkard and abusive husband, has been stitching ladies suit with her motorized sewing machine from the relief camp room which she shares with 15 members of five families. Similarly, Phulkumari along with her teen daughter can be spotted sitting on the floor of another room of the second storey of the camp and packing cotton buds to be supplied on order to a local marketer in nearby market of Sahabganj.Punam and Phulkumari are among hundreds of inmates, mostly jobless daily wagers, from nearby Hanumangarhi area whose lives have been turned upside down by the swollen Rapti river. With measuring tape around her neck, Punam said “When the waterstarted rising near my house I was shifted here. Later, I and my brother-in-law waded through chest deep water to bring my sewing machine from my partially inundated home in Hanumangarhi. I have been living here since Rakshabandhan and thought to continue my work right from this relief camp.”In another room of the second storey of school, Phulkuamri is also busy with her work of packing cottons buds. “My husband is drunkard and does nothing, so I eke out living by packing these buds and supplying them to store on order. For every kg of packed buds, I get ₹20. In a day I can pack 4-5 kgs earning round ₹100. It is better to earn some money then to sit idle here,” she said.Another inmate of the camp, Deepak Kumar, who works as salesman at readymade garment shop in Ghantaghar market, said after the floods inundated his rented home in Hanumangargi he dropped his wife and kids at her home in Bihar and continued to stay at the camp from where he regularly attends his job at shop.Rivers Rapti, Rohini start recedingRapti river receded marginally from 76.97m on Monday evening to 76.88m on Tuesday morning but was still flowing above the danger mark of 76.85m, officials of disaster management said. Likewise, river Rohini also showed downward trend but continued to flow at danger mark of 74.98m on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Gorakhpur-Varanasi route remained blocked and traffic movement was disrupted due to the swollen rivers. As per officials, over 3 lakh people from 383 villages in Gorakhpur have been affected by the flood. As many as 493 boats and teams of NDRF have been pressed into service for rescue and relief works in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gorakhpur-displaced-by-flood-these-inmates-making-a-living-from-relief-camp-101631034477119.html
07-09-2021||Other||Forest dept staffers under scanner for crowds at Sinhagad fort||PUNE: Following complaints of scores of visitors landing at the Sinhagad fort despite a ban on visiting the historic site imposed by the district collector, forest department staffers and forest committee members appointed by the district collector in consultation with the forest department itself have come under the scanner for the alleged violations.Ghera Sinhagad forest in-charge Balasaheb Jiwade said, “It has been observed that visitors are reaching the spot and we have received reports that they are being allowed by the forest department officials. Visitors or vehicles are strictly not allowed at the fort as per the government order. We will inform our higher-ups if any forest department staffers are involved in these violations.”Currently, a practice has been adopted where visitors to the banned fort site are seen travelling to the top after parking their cars at the foothills. They are ferried to the top and back by public transport vehicles at a cost of Rs200, with the express permission of the forest committee members who are supposedly in charge of the security of the fort. In sharp contrast, visitors who trek to the top on foot are stopped as they do not cough up any money to the vested interests involved in breaking the law with impunity, said Santosh Kamble, a visitor who opted to scale the fort on foot only to end up paying the price for not toeing the “official” line. Kamble has demanded an investigation into the role of the forest committee members, alleging misuse of the autonomy granted to them to make money.There have been reports of thronging at the fort since 2020 where visitors arrive in two- and four- wheelers early in the morning on weekends and reach the top by hook or crook. Meanwhile, police personnel meant to enforce discipline is still missing from the banned fort site even as the forest department and local villagers’ committee continue to claim strict enforcement on the strength of a six-strong team and a few forest guards who provide directions and other assistance to visitors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forest-dept-staffers-under-scanner-for-crowds-at-sinhagad-fort-101631034474468.html
07-09-2021||Other||Moderate to heavy rain forecast for Pune||PUNE On Monday evening, Pune city reported 19.8 millimetres (mm) of rainfall, with 0.6mm recorded on Tuesday. As the monsoon is active over the state, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a forecast on Tuesday of moderate to heavy rainfall in Pune city and district. Ghat areas will experience very heavy rain in the next few days, said IMD officials.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune said that the monsoon revival can be seen over the state.“Pune city may witness light to moderate rainfall and adjoining ghat areas may receive isolated heavy rainfall till September 8. However, good rains are expected in all four divisions of Maharashtra,” said Kashyapi.Isolated heavy rainfall is forecast in Konkan and Goa, Marathwada, Vidarbha and central Maharashtra. Weather department officials noted that at present, a well-marked low pressure area lies over south Chhattisgarh and adjoining south Odisha with its associated cyclonic circulation extending to middle tropospheric levels. “The well-marked low pressure area and its remnant is very likely to move wwest-north-westwards till September 11. The monsoon trough lies south of its normal position. It is very likely to be south of its normal position till September 11. Also, a low pressure area is likely to form over the North and adjoining Central Bay of Bengal around September 11, 2021,” said officials.“Due to the various systems, the monsoon trough is likely to remain active for the next couple of days. After September 11, another low pressure area is likely to form resulting in more rains. All these systems may help revive the monsoon deficiency in the state and Pune city,” said Kashyapi.As of September 7, Pune district has seen one per cent more rainfall as compared to normal, from June till date. Maharashtra has seen seven per cent more than normal in the same time period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/moderate-to-heavy-rain-forecast-for-pune-101631034414543.html
07-09-2021||Other||Allow ‘Beed pattern’ to cap profit of insurance companies in state: Dadaji Bhuse||PUNE State agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse emphasised capping the profits of crop insurance companies in Pune on Tuesday. He claimed that the Maharashtra government has asked the central government to allow the implementation of the ‘Beed pattern’ for crop insurance in the rest of the state, under which profit can be capped. He pointed out that the Union government gave permission to Madhya Pradesh to implement this policy last month, while the request from Maharashtra is still pending. He also claimed that all arrangements in terms of fertilisers and seeds have been made by the agriculture department for the upcoming Rabbi season. “Under the Beed pattern, the profit limit of the crop insurance companies has been capped. Under this pattern, companies can keep 10% of the total premium amount deposited by the centre and state government, and farmers as administrative expenses and 10% as profit. It is only functional in the Beed district. We have asked permission to implement it in the entire state,” said Bhuse.He said that in last year crop insurance companies collected a huge amount as a profit. “In the last year under the PM crop insurance scheme, a total of Rs5,800 crore is the premium amount, including the share of centre and state governments. Till now claims of only Rs1,000 crore have been raised. It means Rs4,800 crore is profit of the insurance companies,” said Bhuse. Bhuse also said that the agriculture department has been working on a roadmap for beneficial crop patterns in the state. “Considering different geographical conditions in the various areas of the state we have started working on a roadmap for the beneficial cropping patterns for Maharashtra. It is expected to be completed in a month. The rain pattern has changed. Concentrated rains, unseasonal rains and storms have been destroying the crops. We asked experts to look into this matter and suggest the crops which were not vulnerable to these climatic conditions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allow-beed-pattern-to-cap-profit-of-insurance-companies-in-state-dadaji-bhuse-101631033995672.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Rain lashes parts of Maharashtra; rivers near danger levels||Rainfall has lashed many Maharashtra districts, across Konkan, Vidarbha and Marathwada regions, over the past two days, resulting in many rivers reaching near warning levels and disrupting traffic on state highways. The state administration has deployed two teams of NDRF in Chiplun and Mahad amid an orange alert for six districts and red for Palghar on Wednesday. Although no loss of lives has been reported in Konkan, Marathwada has registered 12 deaths due to rainfall in the past week.All coastal districts, including Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg; districts such as Nanded, Hingoli, Parbhani, Osmanabad in Marathwada, Buldhana, Amravati, Washim in Vidarbha; have reported heavy rainfall over the past two days. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has given red alert for Palghar and orange for Thane, Mumbai, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Dhule on Wednesday.A total of 1,800 people from 478 families from villages in Murud, Mahad and Poladpur in Raigad have been shifted to safer places, said Padmashri Bainade, resident deputy collector, Raigad. “Sixty-six families from about seven hamlets have been living in shelters for the past more than six weeks after their shifting after the landslide in Taliye village in the last week of July,” she said. Incessant rain lashed Chiplun, Khed, Dapoli in Ratnagiri over the past two days. The water level of rivers in Raigad and Ratnagiri has risen significantly, raising concerns when the experience of flooding in July is afresh. Villages in Chiplun were submerged on Wednesday, while a few villagers in Mahad have been shifted to safer places.One company each of NDRF has been deployed in Mahad in Raigad and Chiplun in Ratangiri as precautionary measures. “Learning lessons from the delay in reaching affected areas in Konkan, during flooding in July, we have despatched NDRF teams for Raigad and Ratnagiri. We are watching the situation closely in Konkan and other parts of the state, but it’s well under control and no major incidents have been reported. In Marathwada, too, Beed, Nanded have reported good rainfall, but no major incident has been reported,” an official from the disaster management unit of the state government said.Makrand Deshmukh, deputy collector, Konkan Division, said, “Murud in Raigad and Chiplun in Ratnagiri have received heavy rainfall, but none of the rivers in Konkan has crossed their warning of danger level. Murud has recorded 425mm rainfall in 24 hours till Tuesday morning, while parts of Konkan have been witnessing incessant rain throughout on Tuesday. No fatalities have been reported in Konkan,” he said.Kundalika river in Raigad was flowing at 22.30m, nearing its danger level of 23.95m on Tuesday morning. Vashishti, Jagbudi, Ulhas rivers in Ratangiri and Raigad were way below their danger level, while Bavnadi, Shastri and Kajali rivers in Ratnagiri however had crossed either their warning or danger level till Tuesday evening. Godavari river in Nanded, Parbhani, Aurangabad has been flowing near its warning levels.Twelve deaths have been registered in six districts of Marathwada since September 1 due to heavy rainfall. Highest, four deaths, are registered in Beed district. Crops on 222,036 hectares have damaged, owing to the rainfall in eight districts of Marathwada over last one week.According to the statement issued by district collectorate, a few parts of Ratnagiri witnessed cloud burst-like rainfall recording 156 mm rainfall in 24 hours. Dapoli and Chiplun recorded highest 315 and 209mm rainfall in the last 24 hours till Tuesday evening. Many villages in Dapoli, Chiplun were submerged, while vehicular traffic on state highways in these tehsils was disrupted. The downpour over the past few days has resulted in the improvement in the water stock in the state reservoirs. The water stock has gone up 64.06% in 3267 dams of all size. Total water stock in the reservoirs has reached 33,340 million cubic metres. However, the water stock is less than last year on same day when it was 79.33%. The reservoirs in Konkan are 84.26% full, followed by 73% in Pune. The dams in drought-prone Marathwada are still 48.94% full.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rain-lashes-parts-of-maharashtra-rivers-near-danger-levels-101631033995165.html
07-09-2021||Other||Odisha Assembly passes bill to limit reservation in civic bodies to 50%||The uncertainties in the holding of elections to the three-tier panchayati raj institutions (PRI) as well as urban local bodies scheduled next year is likely to be over after the Odisha Assembly on Tuesday passed an amendment to limit the reservation at 50 per cent, a necessity in the light of a 2010 judgement of Supreme Court and 2018 order of Orissa High Court.The Assembly passed the amendments proposed to Odisha Municipal Act, 1950 and Odisha Municipal Corporation Act, 2003 while it is likely to pass similar amendments to Odisha Gram Panchayats Act, 1964, Odisha Panchayat Samiti Act, 1959 and Odisha Zilla Parishad Act, 1991.Odisha law minister Pratap Jena, who tabled the amendments, said at every level of PRIs, reservations of the seat for SC and ST have been made in conformity with provisions of Article 243-D of the Constitution of India.“The principle for reservations has been decided in the case of K Krishna Murthy versus Union of India where the apex court ruled that that total quantum of reservation should not exceed 50 per cent,” he said.In previous panchayat and urban body elections, the reservations were exceeding more than 50 per cent at many places due to 27 per cent reservation given to other backward caste candidates. This was challenged in Orissa High Court.In 2018, the HC said if the state government breached the upper limit of 50 per cent in the reservations, it would be unconstitutional. Though the judgment was challenged by the Odisha government in the Supreme Court, the apex court dismissed the special leave petition. This is the reason the government wants to amend existing laws,” said Jena.The panchayat polls in Odisha are due in February 2022 while the polls to urban bodies are due for the last 2 years.In every panchayat and municipality, the number of seats for scheduled tribes and scheduled castes is 22.5 and 16.25 per cent of the total seats respectively. As per the SC, Odisha can thus reserve 11.25 per cent seats for OBCs/SEBCs so as not to breach the 50 per cent mark. In earlier elections, the state government reserved 27 per cent of the seats on offer for OBCs/SEBCs which breached the 50 per cent cap.However, to get around the cap on reservation imposed by SC, last month Odisha chief minister and the Biju Janata Dal chief Naveen Patnaik said that his party will field candidates from Other Backward Castes (OBC) for 27 per cent of seats in the panchayat elections.The decision to give tickets to OBC candidates in at least 27 per cent of seats is a repeat of the party’s strategy of giving 33 per cent of the tickets to women in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In 2019, the party demanded that a law be passed in Parliament reserving one-third of the seats in Lok Sabha for women. It later gave tickets to 7 women out of the 21 Lok Sabha seats that went to polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-assembly-passes-bill-to-limit-reservation-in-civic-bodies-to-50-101631033816133.html
07-09-2021||Other||Pune ring road: Survey of 9 villages done, 37 remain in eastern sector||PUNE: Since beginning the joint measurement survey (JMS) for the eastern part of the Pune ring road on August 17, officials of the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) have completed the procedure in only nine out of the 46 affected villages. Whereas, the land survey of only three out of the 37 affected villages remains to be completed for the western part of the ring road after which officials aim to complete the land acquisition process for this part by December this year. On September 6, the state government approved a budget of Rs26,831.21 crore for the Pune ring road project which includes construction and land acquisition costs. Out of the Rs26,831.21 crore, Rs12,175.97 crore has been allocated for the western part of the ring road while a total Rs14,655.24 crore has been allocated for the eastern part of the project.Sandeep Patil, sub-divisional engineer, MSRDC, said, “There are four sections of the ring road; three on the eastern side and one on the western side. The state government has approved funds including land acquisition and construction of the ring road. The land measurement process for the western part is almost complete and our aim is to complete land acquisition before December for this part. Valuation of the compensation process has already begun for the western part.”“We want to complete land measurement for the eastern part in the next two months. After that, the valuation process would begin,” Patil said.The Pune ring road is a proposed circular outer road for the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) and is expected to solve the traffic woes of the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad cities. A total area of 1,526.1153 hectare is required for the 173km ring road/||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-ring-road-survey-of-9-villages-done-37-remain-in-eastern-sector-101631033702376.html
07-09-2021||Other||Modi govt selling public properties for a song: Maken||Lucknow: All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary (in charge Rajasthan) Ajay Maken on Tuesday targeted the Modi government for National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) and said public properties were being sold for a song. He said his party would soon launch a nationwide movement against the NMP that would directly affect Uttar Pradesh. “We will not allow them sell these public properties. The Congress has set up a committee headed by senior leader Digvijay Singh and it would come out with an agitation plan against the move. Wherever possible the Congress governments may also come forward to buy assets being sold by the government. Chhatisgarh chief minister has announced that his government will buy a unit to protect jobs,” said Maken while speaking to mediapersons at Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) headquarters here. He said “Out of 20 categories of properties listed for privatisation, the ones situated in UP include the Varanasi airport, set up in the name of former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri.” He said the Varanasi airport, valued for only ₹500 crore, would obviously be renamed after an industrialist. He said besides the Varanasi airport, other properties to be privatised included eight national highways passing from the state and Sports Authority of India’s Lucknow centre. He said the SAI centre being used to train sportspersons in various disciplines to win medals at international level would be uprooted to set up restaurants, bars and weddings etc, raising a question mark on how the sports persons would get training there. He said Delhi to Prayagraj railway line was also on the list of routes set for privatisation. Maken said the public properties had been built with public funds in the past 60 years. The manner in which the Modi government had announced the scheme raised a question over its intentions. He said the Modi government’s record about building infrastructure was poor. A sum of ₹7.20 lakh crore per annum was spent on infrastructure during the 12th plan period from 2012 to 2017 while the same came down to 5 lakh crore during the tenure of the Modi government. He said the government appeared to have no intention to build infrastructure and instead intended to provide monopoly to select friendly industrial groups. The UPA government had decided not to privatise strategic assets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/modi-govt-selling-public-properties-for-a-song-maken-101631033636011.html
07-09-2021||Other||Pune District Court back to normal timings||The Pune District Court resumed operations with full quorum on Tuesday. According to the Pune Bar Association (PBA), 97 per cent of lawyers have been vaccinated and all courts in the district would remain functional. Since March, district courts have been operating at a reduced capacity, to help prevent the spread of Covid-19.Till date the court was only hearing urgent and bail- related matters between 11am and 2pm.The Mumbai high court had issued a circular directing all district courts in 11 districts in Maharashtra, including Pune, to resume normal functioning from September 7. The court canteen and bar rooms were open throughout the day on Tuesday.PBA President Advocate Satish Mulik said, “PBA took a constant follow-up with over the functioning and a request was made to the Mumbai high court. Currently, 97% of lawyers in Pune have been vaccinated and of them, 58% have got both doses. However, corona still exists and we have appealed to the lawyers to maintain social distance and wear masks. Regular functioning will ensure speedy justice and ensure that the lawyers get back their livelihood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-court-back-to-normal-timings-101631033634482.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||No further curbs for now, says minister; Maharashtra sees 3,898 new Covid cases||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday indicated that it will not impose any further curbs as of now, despite a slight increase in Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 3,898 new cases along with 86 deaths. The state’s Covid tally now stands at 6,493,698.Health minister Rajesh Tope said, “I want to clarify that both the health department and the chief minister have not given any thought to impose curbs as of now. We are keeping a close watch on the entire situation, in terms of where and what are the reasons for the surge in the number of cases. We have the experience of both the first and second waves. Keeping this in mind, we will make the right decision.”With regards to the statement by power minister Nitin Raut on reimposing lockdown in Nagpur due to surge in cases, Tope said “The chief minister will take the decision based on his observation and figures.” He said that 70% of the total cases emerged from five districts of the state —Ahmednagar, Ratnagiri, Satara, Mumbai and Pune. “The people of these districts need to take more precautions and since it is festival time, we need to avoid gathering. Gatherings will facilitate the transmission of the virus,” warned Tope.Thackeray appealed to the political parties including Shiv Sena to act responsibly and not indulge in politicking. “The last one and half years was a testing time for all of us. For me, health centres are more important. We will open the temples, but it would be done in a phase-wise manner,” said Thackeray. “The political parties need to act with responsibility or else how will the citizens react if they violate rules,” said Thackeray.On Tuesday, Mumbai clocked 349 new Covid-19 cases with two deaths. The total number of cases in Mumbai reached 747,073 with 16,000 deaths to date.There were 1,59,889 tests done on Tuesday, while the number of recoveries clocked was 3,581.There are currently 47,926 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 12,409 patients followed by Thane with 7,459 active patients and Satara with 5,606.The death toll has now reached 1,37,897 with Pune leading with 19,313 deaths followed by Mumbai with 16,000 patients and Thane with 11,327.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-further-curbs-for-now-says-minister-maharashtra-sees-3-898-new-covid-cases-101631033515190.html
07-09-2021||Other||UP police security dept gets ISO certification||LUCKNOW The department of security, UP Police, which provides security cover to dignitaries and vital installations, brought laurels to the state police by meeting international standards of functioning and procuring the certificate of International Organization of Standardization (ISO), said UP additional director general (ADG) of police, security, Binod Kumar Singh here on Tuesday. At a press conference, the ADG said the department of security had formulated a quality policy to provide security to dignitaries and vital installations by adding modern safety gadgets as well as improving the performance of its personnel through rigorous training. He said the ISO had developed international standards on a variety of subjects and the government sector came under ISO-9001 certificate. He said the security department was awarded ISO 9001:2015 certificate last month. The ADG said it was the second police department after UP112 that had met international standards of functioning. Singh said the security department was further updating its standards to continue with international level functioning by setting up new composite indoor firing range for the training of security personnel. He said the new driving simulator for regular drivers was being set up, as well as formation of a new bomb disposal squad and anti-sabotage check teams. Moreover, 35 more bullet proof vehicles as well as other modern safety equipment were also in the pipeline, he added. “It is a great achievement to get an international certification, as the security department was recently involved in security arrangements of President Ram Nath Kovind’s three-day visit to Uttar Pradesh and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s four visits to the state in the recent past. Moreover, the security department is into fool proof security arrangements of chief minister Yogi Adityanath,” the ADG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-police-security-dept-gets-iso-certification-101631033041378.html
07-09-2021||Other||Pune’s eight major Ganesh mandals appeal for online darshan to be preferred option||PUNE In a bid to prevent the spread of the Covid virus during the Ganpati festival Pune’s five “Manache Ganpati” mandals appealed to devotees to opt for “online darshan” this year.The five main mandals and three other prominent mandals held a press conference on Tuesday. “As we all know that the pandemic is not over crowding would be not fine for public safety. It has been unanimously decided by all the prominent mandals in Pune not to have big mandaps, or sets this year. We will have online programmes and other interesting things for the public throughout the 10 days,” said Shrikant Shete, president, Kasba Ganpati mandal. The press conference was held at Patrakar Bhavan and presidents and volunteers representing all the Manche Ganpati mandals were present. Pune’s five Manache Ganpatis are the attraction for devotees during the festival. Kasba Ganpati is first, followed by Tambadi Jogeshwari, Guruji Talim, Tulshibaug and Kesariwada. The other there prominent manals in Pune are Shrimant Dagadusheth Ganapti, Akhil Mandai Sharda and Bhau Rangari. These are all referred to as Pune’s “Ashtvinayak Ganpati mandals”. “Our appeal to Punekars and all other people is to take darshan online and attend our programmes. Also we are organising vaccination drives at our mandal premises for free, so those citizens who want to get vaccinated can come with their identity cards and get vaccinated. Our volunteers will monitor the public during the 10 days,” said Pravin Pardeshi, president, Guruji Talim mandal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-eight-major-ganesh-mandals-appeal-for-online-darshan-to-be-preferred-option-101631032914403.html
07-09-2021||Other||Allahabad University convocation: List of 304 students to be awarded medals finalised||The Allahabad University (AU) officials have finalised a list of 304 meritorious students who would be awarded medals during the convocation ceremony scheduled on September 23, said a varsity official. Also, 550 PhD degrees would be awarded during the ceremony.“The convocation would witness medals and degrees being awarded to students of sessions 2018-19 and 2019-20. Of these, 146 students are of 2018-19 session and 158 students of 2019-20 session who would be awarded medals,” said Jaya Kapoor, public relation officer of AU.A total of 133 girl students, including 66 of 2018-19 session and 67 of 2019-20 session would be awarded medals during the function, she said. “The process of selection of Chancellor Medal winner is also in process and the names will be announced shortly. Besides, Dronacharya award for teachers and Meghnad Saha award for best research scholars will also be finalised soon,” Kapoor said.During the ceremony, Bollywood lyricist and poet Gulzar will be conferred with honorary degree of DLitt. The renowned poet has already given his consent for attending the ceremony. The special guest of the function would be chairman of University Grants Commission (UGC) prof DP Singh. The function will also be attended by chancellor of AU Ashish Chauhan and chief rector and governor Anandiben Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-university-convocation-list-of-304-students-to-be-awarded-medals-finalised-101631032797280.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||HC asks Punjab to set timeframe for installing CCTV cameras at police posts||The high court has asked additional chief secretary (home), Punjab, to give a timeframe by when the state will cover all police posts with closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras. The directions were given during the resumed hearing of a suo motu plea in which the high court is monitoring the issue. The court had taken note in July after it came to light that CCTV cameras were there at Sector-14, Panchkula, police station, but not at the police post. Following this, the high court had sought response from Punjab as well as Haryana. In its report, Punjab had told court that all entry and exit points and lockups in 423 police stations and 37 CIA staff buildings are covered by the CCTV cameras. However, as regards any time frame for installing CCTV cameras at all entry and exit points etc. in police posts, the response had “absolutely nothing”. As of Haryana, the court was informed that the state government has sought inputs from the DGP and an affidavit will be filed soon. The matter will be taken up on October 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-asks-punjab-to-set-timeframe-for-installing-cctv-cameras-at-police-posts-101631032794856.html
07-09-2021||Other||PMC develops system to monitor devp council’s work||PUNE: As a way to introduce checks and balances, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has developed an online monitoring system for District Planning and Development Council (DPDC) works. The move comes after the corporation found delays in and irregular working methods deployed for DPDC works.The PMC order issued by PMC coordinator and DPDC work and additional city engineer, Shrinivas Kandul, read, “When members of legislative council (MLCs) and members of legislative assembly (MLAs) suggest development works in the corporation jurisdiction, officials are found not using funds properly and on time. Work estimates are not prepared. Work is not divided into smaller batches. One tender is floated for many works or works are left incomplete. Bills are issued to contractors without verification of works. Funds are even used for other works.”“As per the state government’s order, funds that are not used should be returned to the finance department but this is not being done due to mismanagement. Hence, we have introduced a system to update all DPDC works,” Kandul said.Each of the seven districts has a DPDC with the district headquarters as main office. The function of the DPDC is to coordinate, monitor and review the implementation of district plans and programmes apart from making recommendations, projecting local needs and fixing priorities within the objectives of the state/national plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-develops-system-to-monitor-devp-council-s-work-101631032734289.html
07-09-2021||Other||BJP corporators clash with civic chief over cut on ward-level spending||PUNE A confrontation between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar ensued on Tuesday, with elected members refusing to attend the standing committee meeting. The move came after Kumar said he is not ready to allow spending as an allocation under the “budget of elected members”. Despite instructions from mayor Murlidhar Mohol and standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane, the commissioner has remained firm and has cut down the budgets for wards. Rasane said, “We are confused that despite instructions from the mayor and me, the commissioner has remained firm. He has continued with the existing revenue committee which was formed during Covid given the shortage of money at the time. This committee takes a call on spending. We have already asked that this committee be scrapped as it was temporary. “ According to Rasane, PMC has earned a record revenue in the last five months - almost Rs2,800 crore.“We are hoping to get better revenue in the coming seven months and are asking the administration to start administrative work and float tenders. If there is fall in revenue, then the administration can decide on whether to issue a work order or not,” said Rasane. This is the second time the BJP has accused the PMC chief of not cooperating, the last clash being in August. Rasane said, “Last year we asked the urban development department about spending as the government had restrictions due to Covid. The state government clearly said that as the PMC is spending its own money, it can consider new projects.” An official from the administration, speaking anonymously, said that the commissioner is firm on his stand of cutting down ward-level works as “most are either a duplication or unnecessary”. A senior corporator, also requesting his name be withheld, said, “Because of the upcoming elections, elected members are getting hyper.” Another elected member, also speaking anonymously, suggested that this fighting is not for development work, but over the loss of commissions on tenders awarded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-corporators-clash-with-civic-chief-over-cut-on-ward-level-spending-101631032616631.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra ministers targeted after BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis met IPS officers: Nawab Malik||Minority affairs minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) spokesperson Nawab Malik has accused that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers are being targeted after the leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis held meetings with Indian Police Service (IPS) officers in New Delhi and Mumbai recently. Malik said that a plot is being hatched against the state ministers after the meeting and central agencies are being used to target the ministers.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has, however, said that it is an excuse by the ruling parties to cover up the misdeeds of their leaders.Malik said that the government has the information about the meeting. “Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis held secret meetings with a few IPS officers first in Mumbai and then in Delhi. The meeting was followed by allegations and action against MVA ministers like Anil Deshmukh and Anil Parab. We have the proof of the meetings. Central agencies like CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) and ED (Enforcement Directorate) are being misused to target the ministers and leaders from the ruling parties,” he said.Malik further said that the Central government has been using the central agencies against the ruling party leaders in the states which are ruled by non-BJP parties. “Supreme Court has passed strictures against the style of working of these agencies. There is unrest among the people against the action by the agencies. Ultimately, the people of the state will take corrective steps,” he said.BJP has reacted sharply to the allegations and said that it is an attempt of covering up the misdeeds of the ministers. Leader of Opposition in legislative council Pravin Darekar said, “The accusation is nothing but an excuse to hide the misdeeds and thefts by the ministers. The MVA government is busy levelling allegations against the Central government to cover up its failure and blaming people for the rise in the Covid-19 cases. The ministers facing action announce to face the inquiry but keep sulking after warrants are issued. Malik should tell people why his colleague (Anil Deshmukh) is absconding for three-four months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mva-ministers-targeted-after-fadnavis-held-meeting-with-ips-officers-alleges-nawab-malik-101631032616042.html
07-09-2021||Other||Oppn to road widening: Post HC directive, PMC adopts wait and watch stance||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to “wait and watch” after the Bombay high court directed the state government to determine former Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) corporator Ujjwal Keskar’s application within 10 weeks. Keskar has demanded that the PMC’s decision on the proposed widening of city roads from the existing six metres to nine metres, be disposed of, which is interesting given that road widening is on the BJP’s own ambitious agenda.PMC legal advisor, advocate Nisha Chavan, said, “The Bombay high court has given directives to the state government to conduct hearing and take a decision on Keskar’s application within 10 weeks.”While the PMC completed the suggestions and objections process, it was delayed due to the pandemic. Meanwhile, former BJP corporator and office bearer Keskar took objection to the proposed road widening and approached urban development minister Eknath Shinde and urban development department officials claiming that the PMC’s decision is against the law and should be disposed of. Neither Shinde nor the department officials paid any heed apart from the fact that BJP MLA Chandrakant Patil and standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne were very aggressive about implementing the road widening decision. The party suffered a major setback however when Keskar subsequently filed a public interest litigation (PIL) against the state government in the Bombay high court.Keskar said, “The PMC decision proposing the widening of city roads from six to nine metre is unlawful and not useful for common people. It has been taken for developers and builders. So, I have demanded that the corporation’s decision be nullified. We first approached urban development minister Shinde and the urban development department but they did not consider the application. Finally, we filed a PIL against the state government. The court conducted the hearing last week and has issued an order to the state government.”Sudhar Kadam, executive engineer of the building permission and development department, said, “Due to the second wave of Covid-19, there were strict restrictions on meetings and people too were reluctant to visit the PMC office for hearing. So, we stopped hearing for some time. After easing of restrictions, we conducted the remaining hearing and completed it last month. Now, after the Bombay high court order, we will take legal opinion and prepare a final report which will be presented to the standing committee.”The PMC had appealed to citizens living in those areas where road widening was proposed to register their suggestions and objections. The PMC had proposed that a total 335 roads – 255 in the old city and 80 in the suburban areas – be widened. The civic body received both positive and negative responses from about 1,800 citizens. While a majority of the bungalow societies objected to the road widening, the PMC found that there were nearly no objections with respect to the widening of around 135 roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oppn-to-road-widening-post-hc-directive-pmc-adopts-wait-and-watch-stance-101631032614386.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||64-year-old Kalyan man recovers from Covid after 127 days of treatment||Akhtar Memon, a 64-year-old man who tested positive for Covid with 100% lung infection, has recovered completely after undergoing treatment for 127 days at a private hospital in Kalyan.Memon, a resident of Bail Bazaar who earlier suffered from multiple health complications, was admitted at Kalyan’s Meera Hospital on May 1 and was discharged on Tuesday after recovery.However, his family did not wish to reveal the expenses incurred on his hospitalisation. According to his family and the doctors who treated Memon, he suffered from obesity, sleeping apnea, diabetes mellitus and hypertension. He underwent brain operation twice for tumour in 1997 and for abscess in 2003, and has also done two angioplasty in 2013 and 2016.With the 100% lung involvement with Covid, he was on NIV (Bipap) for 90 days. Suddenly on June 3, he developed pneumothorax (leak in lungs) that was treated. Followed by this, on July 4, blood was reported in his cough due to fungal infection.“Being in the hospital for such a long time and seeing people lose their lives had caused a feeling of despair in my heart. However, during this time, I realised how fortunate I am to have a family that loves me so much. Not only my family members but also the hospital staff has been really cooperative and caring. I’ll always be thankful to them for their sincere services. By god’s grace, I am doing much better now and I hope to be a 100% fit again soon,” said Memon.MD physician, Dr Gautam Ganvir, who treated the patient, said, “There is a need to build trust and confidence in patients. The threat of Covid is very dangerous and we tried not to reveal to the patient his report. During the whole treatment, nursing care and hygiene are extremely necessary. Due to long treatment, chances of bed sore and fungal infection may occur.”Ganvir added that Memon was very positive during the treatment, though got anxious after a long treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/64yearold-kalyan-man-recovers-from-covid-after-127-days-treatment-101631032322669.html
07-09-2021||Other||Woman drying clothes on balcony falls to death from 8th floor in Jambhulwadi||PUNE Pitradevi Hariji Singh (56), fell from the gallery of an eighth floor apartment in Lakewood Society in Jambhulwadi, while drying clothes, and died on Tuesday morning.A case of accidental death has been registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. According to Bharati Vidyapeeth police, Singh was living on the eighth floor with her daughter-in-law. Her son lives in Mumbai as her husband is undergoing medical treatment in Mumbai.At 7.30 am on Tuesday, Singh was drying clothes while standing on a stool in the gallery, when she. She succumbed to injuries on the spot.ASI Deshmukh is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-drying-clothes-on-balcony-falls-to-death-from-8th-floor-in-jambhulwadi-101631032074296.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||No takers for 65 per cent FYJC seats in second round of admissions in Mumbai||Nearly 65% seats allocated in the second common admission round for first year junior college (FYJC) courses remained vacant, the office of the deputy director of education (DYDE), Mumbai region revealed on Tuesday. Authorities have announced that students who are yet to get admissions can change their college preference list between September 7 and 9, following which the third merit list will be announced on September 13 at 10am. According to the DYDE data, only 40.7% students confirmed admissions to the seats allotted in arts stream in the second round; 37.3% students in the commerce stream and 32.9% students in the science stream confirmed admissions in the second round. All vacant seats will now be reallocated in the third merit list. A total of 117,883 FYJC aspirants were allotted seats in the first merit list on August 27, however nearly 50% did not confirm admissions. In the second round, 60,037 students were allocated seats and only 21,116 (35.17%) of those confirmed admissions by Monday evening, as per deadline. This includes 2,087 students in arts stream, 6,467 and 12,249 students in science and commerce streams, respectively. “Students are not confirming seats even in popular colleges, which is surprising, considering the large number of students who cleared Class 10,” said the principal of a suburban college. Several college principals pointed at increasing displacement of students from Mumbai due to Covid-related issues as one of the reasons. Before the announcement of the first merit list on August 27, students were asked to fill a list of 10 colleges (and courses) they wish to apply to, based on their scores and previous years’ cut-offs of the respective colleges. The online admission process uses a system wherein students are allotted seats as per their college preference list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-takers-for-65-per-cent-fyjc-seats-in-second-round-of-admissions-in-mumbai-101631031955116.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||NEET admit cards issued, centres far-off, say Maharashtra aspirants||As the admit cards for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) scheduled coming Sunday were issued on Monday evening, many aspirants in the state said they have been allotted far-off centres. The National Testing Agency (NTA) is the nodal agency that conducts NEET. In Pune, Manish Deshmukh, whose son Sayuj will take the exam on Sunday, said the centre allotted to him was 105km away from home. “Our first and second preferences for exam centres were Pune city and Navi Mumbai, respectively. However, we’ve been allotted a centre in Baramati,” said Manish. “It is a nuisance. We have decided to reach Baramati a day ahead of the exams to avoid any rush, especially since it is the festive season. I’ll have to spend on our stay for the night as well. The students have been through a lot owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the uncertainties. Before the exam, they should have a calm mind,” he added. Another applicant, who is from Nashik, has been allocated a centre in Shirdi, around 95km away. Applicants in the city, too, said their centres were further than what they had set as preferences. Earlier, HT had reported that several NEET aspirants were unhappy with the centres allotted to them. At the time, Vineet Joshi, director general, NTA, had said that almost 99% of all candidates were asked to take the test from their first preferred centre. He had said that candidates unhappy with their centres could write to the agency and depending on the merit of the case, it may make some adjustments to accommodate the students. However, Joshi was unavailable for a comment this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/neet-admit-cards-issued-centres-far-off-say-maharashtra-aspirants-101631031835200.html
07-09-2021||Ranchi||No Covid deaths due to lack of oxygen: Jharkhand govt||Chief minister Hemant Soren-led Jharkhand government on Tuesday said that no Covid-19 death was reported in the state due to lack of oxygen. The comment came on the third day of the ongoing Monsoon session of the state Assembly.In a written reply to a short notice question by BJP legislator and former minister Amar Bauri on Tuesday, the health and family welfare department of the state said that as per the latest figures, 5,132 deaths have been registered in the state due to Covid-19, but none of these deaths were attributed to lack of oxygen. Hitting out at the Soren goverment, Bauri said the chief minister and the health minister should apologise for making false allegations against the Narendra Modi government. “By claiming that there was shortage of oxygen and people died due to it, they simply tried to create an impression that the Narendra Modi government at the Centre failed in handling the pandemic. Now, they are themselves saying no one died in the state due to lack of oxygen. They should now apologise for their false claims,” said Bauri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/no-covid-deaths-due-to-lack-of-oxygen-jharkhand-govt-101631031714905.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Drug money linked to August 26 heroin seizure recovered from Rajouri: DGP||Acting on the leads provided by the Punjab Police, the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Police in a joint search operation with the Indian Army on Tuesday recovered ₹1.64 crore drug money from Rajouri district in J&K, a press release from Punjab Police chief Dinkar Gupta said. The drug money is allegedly linked to the seizure of 17Kg heroin on August 26, 2021, from Amritsar-based Ranjit Singh alias Sonu. Gupta said during interrogation, Sonu revealed that he picked the consignment from Nowshera area of J&K from drug suppliers Sikander Hayyat, Mansur Hussain and Zaffar Hussain. “A police team was sent to Nowshera and with the support of J&K Police, Sikandar and Zaffar were arrested on August 29, 2021. On the disclosures of Sikandar and Zafar, police recovered ₹29.5 lakh drug money from their home in Nowshera,” the DGP said. During interrogation, the duo revealed about the drug money lying with Manzur Hussain at his premises. “The J&K Police along with Indian Army launched a search operation and recovered ₹1,64,70,600 from Manzur’s house. Efforts are on to arrest Manzur,” he said. Sonu, during his initial interrogation, had also exposed the jail-link, revealing that he had picked the consignment on the instructions of Ranjit Singh alias Rana of Patti in Tarn Taran (currently lodged in Faridkot Jail) and Malkeet Singh alias Laddu (lodged in Muktsar jail).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-money-linked-to-august-26-heroin-seizure-recovered-from-rajouri-dgp-101631031655279.html
07-09-2021||Other||Pune Railway division suspends 2 employees for alleged involvement in minor’s rape||PUNE Taking strict cognisance of the Pune police action, the Pune railway division suspended two of its class four employees, after they were allegedly arrested in the case involving the gangrape of a 14-year-old girl. The girl was kidnapped from the Pune railway station. The incident happened on August 31 As a precautionary measure the number of RPF policemen patrolling the railway station premises has been increased.“As we got to know about the incident officially from the Pune police department, immediately both were suspended from work. Both are class four employees from the electrical department at our division. We are continuously monitoring passenger movement through more than 50 CCTV cameras in and around the station premises. With the help of these cameras police were able to track the accused. Also our ticket checkers and RPF policemen are keeping a watch on suspicious people on the station premises,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. “It is unfortunate that such a case has happened, but our monitoring and vigilance around the station premises is going on 24x7 and if passengers find any suspicious activities or need help, they can contact policemen at the station,” added Jhawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-railway-division-suspends-2-employees-for-alleged-involvement-in-minor-s-rape-101631031534235.html
07-09-2021||Kolkata||Requested Unesco to declare Durga Puja a global festival, celebrations to abide by Covid-norms: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee told reporters on Tuesday she asked the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco) to declare “Durga Puja as intangible cultural Heritage of humanity and global festival”. She added that festivities will take place under similar Covid restrictions as last year.“Last year a series of measures were adopted to hold the Durga Puja amid Covid-19. I don’t think any additional measures are required. Whatever measures were introduced last year would be enough and may be followed this year too,” she said during a press briefing.The Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo also informed reporters that the government has not taken any decision on whether people would be allowed to visit puja pandals at night. “The decision on people visiting Durga puja pandals at night will be taken later, depending on how the expected third wave of Covid-19 surfaces,” she said.Also Read: Statue resembling CM Mamata with 10 hands set to share pandal space with Goddess DurgaThe TMC-led Bengal government has also announced a grant of ₹50,000 to each Durga Puja committee to help them make up for the sponsorships that dried up due to the coronavirus pandemic. A 50% reduction in electricity tariffs and free licenses will also be given to puja committees, chief secretary HK Dwivedi said on Tuesday.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had written to states urging them to impose local restrictions in order to curb mass gatherings during public celebrations of Onam, Ganesh Chaturthi, and Durga Puja. The health ministry cautioned states that mass gatherings have the potential to turn into super spreaders. "I would like to reiterate that any laxity in ensuring strict adherence to the five-fold strategy of 'Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate and Ensuring Covid-Appropriate Behaviour', may result in losing the impetus that our country has gained so far in managing the pandemic," Bhushan wrote to the states in August.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/requested-unesco-to-declare-durga-puja-a-global-festival-celebrations-to-abide-by-covid-norms-mamata-banerjee-101631030769080.html
07-09-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand assembly: Select committee clears Bill reserving 75% jobs in pvt sector for locals||The select committee formed by Jharkhand Assembly speaker to review the proposed law to reserve 75 per cent of existing jobs in the private sector for locals on Tuesday submitted its report in the House with some key changes in the Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021, which originally tabled in the budget session, paving way for the Act to be notified soon.Once notified, the Act would reserve 75 per cent of existing jobs with monthly salary up to ₹40,000 for the locals.Andhra Pradesh and Haryana have earlier passed similar laws reserving jobs for locals in the private sector. During the budget session this year, the government had decided to send the Bill to the select committee after several members sought amendments in it. The Speaker had formed the six-member select committee chaired by the state labour minister Satyanand Bhokta, who tabled the committee report with amendments in the Bill on Tuesday. The bill with amendments will be taken up for adoption by the House on Thursday.“The government would form the related rules and regulations to implement it. This is a landmark law as people, especially for those who are displaced for setting up industry and are often forced to protest and hit the streets for jobs. At present, they are often threatened with cases for raising their voice. With increasing privatization and the Centre pushing for NMP (national monetisation pipeline), this law would prove to be a boon for the locals,” said CPI (ML) legislator Binod Singh, one of the members of the select committee.BJP legislator and former health minister Ramchandra Chandrvanshi, who was also a member of the select committee, said they cleared the Bill as it is in the interest of the state.Few key changes made in the original Bill includes adding “Private Sector” in the amended Bill, now named “The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates in Private Sector Bill, 2021”. The Bill also increased the salary cut-off from ₹30,000 to ₹40,000 besides including a new clause vis-à-vis the public sector undertakings. The original Bill had kept these firms out of the purview of this law.“The central government of the state government shall not be included but the provisions of this Act shall apply on the organizations providing services through outsourcing to the central government or the state government organistaion/undertakings,” reads section 2(e) of the amended Bill.While the new law does not fix quota for any vulnerable group, including the displaced or social groups, as done in government jobs as affirmative action, the amended bill adds a new clause saying attention will be given for their representation. The amended Bill has also expanded the monitoring committee for implementation and addressing complaints. Now, deputy commissioner in each district would chair the committee which will have local MLAs, employment and labour department officers. Earlier, the deputy commissioner was given the sole right to settle disputes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-assembly-select-committee-clears-bill-reserving-75-jobs-in-pvt-sector-for-locals-101631029795170.html
07-09-2021||Patna||Rain hits Covid vaccination drive||Rain played spoilsport as the number of Covid-19 vaccinations in Bihar dropped from 17.30 lakh on Monday to 6,99,444 till 7pm on Tuesday, the second day of the mega vaccination drive in the state this month, said officials involved in the programme. The state had achieved its highest single-day vaccinations on August 31, having topped the national chart by administering 27,57,931 doses to beneficiaries. Vaccine hesitancy in rural Bihar seems to have turned now into vaccine eagerness, as more and more people queued up for taking the shots, said officials quoted above. Rural Bihar accounted for 15,85,006 doses out of the total 17,30,998 administered on Monday, the first day of the mega vaccination drive this month. Rural contribution was a whopping 25,30,676 as against 2,27,255 in urban areas on August 31, when the state logged the highest single-day vaccinations since the pan-India launch of the Covid-19 vaccination programme on January 16. The state health authorities were now encouraging beneficiaries to take their second dose. The department had come up with jingles to promote second dose vaccination, saying the vaccination would become ineffective if the second jab was not taken within the scheduled time period between the two doses. The state had completed 34,809,088 first dose vaccinations while the number of people who had taken both the shots was 7,222,141 out of the total 42,031,229 doses administered so far. As many as 23,212,243 doses were administered to people in the 18-44 years age category; 10,557,753 doses to those in the 45-60 years age group, while senior citizens, above 60 years of age, accounted for 8,261,233 jabs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rain-hits-covid-vaccination-drive-101631029135438.html
07-09-2021||Other||Former YSR Congress MLA arrested by Odisha police in chit fund scam||Odisha Police on Tuesday arrested Malla Vijay Prasad, a former MLA of Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSR Congress) and chairman of Andhra Pradesh Education and Welfare Infrastructure Development Corporation, over his alleged involvement in a chit fund scam worth ₹1,200 crore, officials said.Officials of the Economic Offence Wing (EOW) of Odisha police said Welfare Building & Estates Pvt. Ltd. was essentially a chit fund company of which Malla was the managing director. He lured people with false promises of returning a high rate of interest on deposits under different schemes of the company and unauthorisedly collected at least ₹1,200 crore from several investors before closing offices.“The company initially registered with the Registrar of Companies, Hyderabad and subsequently changed to Kolkata in 2011. It had its head office at Visakhapatnam. Between 2009 and 2014, Malla’s company was operating its branch offices in Bhubaneswar, Narsinghpur (Cuttack) and Nayagarh. It has been ascertained that M/s Welfare Building & Estates Pvt. Ltd. was also active in Berhampur, Jeypore, Similiguda, Bhadrak, Balasore and some coastal areas of Odisha where it collected a huge amount of money from people,” said DIG of Economic Offences Wing, JN Pankaj.A team of EOW officials on Monday raided his residence and office in Visakhapatnam and seized ₹45 lakh and several documents.Malla was charged under sections 420, 406, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the India Penal Code read with sections 4,5 & 6 of PC & Money Collection Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 / Sec 6 of Odisha Protection of Interests of Depositors Act.Mala was first produced before the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Visakhapatnam on Monday and before the Court of OPID, Cuttack, on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-ysr-congress-mla-arrested-by-odisha-police-in-chit-fund-scam-101631028835558.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||PTU skill institute work back on track as govt remits ₹11-crore map clearance fee||Inder Kumar Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKG-PTU), Kapurthala, got the green signal for construction of varsity’s new academic institution, Guru Gobind Singh Skill Institute at Chamkaur Sahib in Rupnagar district, with the state government remitting nearly ₹11 crore map clearance fee. The Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government had announced setting up of the skill institute in 2017. The PTU acquired 42 acres for the institute and the construction work started in April this year, but it came to a halt over the map clearance fee issue. In August this year, the executive officer of Chamkaur Sahib gram panchayat asked the PTU executive engineer to deposit nearly ₹11 crore as map clearance fee and three sets of the buildings plan with the local bodies department for approval. The PTU official privy to the development said that PTU registrar-cum-additional deputy commissioner, Jalandhar, Jaspreet Singh, raised the issue with the higher authorities, contesting the panchayat demand since the building had the approval of the chief architecture of the Punjab government. “The university was to pay ₹10.81 crore as map clearance fee to the gram panchayat,” added the official. The matter was subsequently put before the director of the local bodies department. On September 2, the director of the local bodies department issued a letter to all the municipal corporations and additional deputy commissioners (urban development) that they would not stop the construction of buildings whose maps were cleared by the chief architecture of the state government. He said the department has been preparing a separate policy for such buildings. On September 3, the Chamkaur Sahib panchayat gave university the go-ahead to continue the construction work. PTU registrar Jaspreet Singh confirmed the development, saying not only the university, but other government departments will also be benefited from the decision. “The need of the hour is to invest public money properly,” said Singh, while expressing his gratitude to the senior government officers who supported the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ptu-skill-institute-work-back-on-track-as-govt-remits-11-crore-map-clearance-fee-101631028175482.html
07-09-2021||Dehradun||Forest guard to pay ₹3.64 lakh as penalty for involvement in tree felling||A penalty of ₹3.64 lakh fine will be realised from a forest guard in case of illegal felling in the Terai Central Forest division in Kumaon division of Uttarakhand. The fine will be recovered from his salary in 50 instalments, forest officials said. Abhilasha Singh, divisional forest officer (DFO) Terai Central Forest division, said, “forest team had caught a pickup vehicle loaded with rosewood logs two years ago in July 2019. In this, about 8-10 logs of rosewood were recovered from the vehicle”. “In the initial investigation, a case of illegal felling from Tanda forest range came to light. After prima facie investigation, forest guard Pankaj Singh of Tanda range was suspended. Apart from this, the investigation of this case was handed over to SDO Shivraj Singh posted in Terai East Forest division,” she said. “Now, the SDO has completed the investigation of this case. According to the investigation report of the SDO, the forest guard has been found guilty in the illegal cutting,” she added. “Uttarakhand forest department has imposed a penalty of ₹3.64 lakh on Pankaj Singh. This fine will be recovered from his salary in 50 instalments” she said. According to forest officials, forest guard Pankaj Singh has been transferred from Terai Central Forest division to Forest Research Wing Haldwani. After this, the officials of the Terai Central Forest division have written a letter to the forest research officers for recovery of this fine. “We have written a letter to Sanjeev Chaturvedi chief conservator of forests and in-charge forest research wing to recover the file from Pankaj’s salary in 50 instalments” she added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/forest-guard-to-pay-rs-3-64-lakh-as-penalty-for-involvement-in-tree-felling-101631026856846.html
07-09-2021||Lucknow||AIMIM wants to ensure BJP’s defeat in UP polls: Owaisi||LUCKNOW All-India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi said the aim of his organisation was to ensure the defeat of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2022 assembly election. “The AIMIM is ready for talks on pre-poll alliance with the SP or BSP, but the dialogue would be over the share of the Muslim community in the power after the formation of the non-BJP government in Uttar Pradesh,” said Owaisiwhile launching the party’s election campaign in Rudauli town of Ayodhya on Tuesday. The successive governments of the Samajwadi Party (SP), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress were responsible for the plight of Muslims in UP, he said.Muslims constitute 19% of UP’s population whereas the Yadav community leader became CM though they were a mere 9% of the population. Muslims were denied government jobs, he added.“Muslims have been denied share in power, education and basic facilities and have been denied justice. The community in UP is leaderless and no political party is interested in addressing the grievances of Muslims. The interest of political parties is in the votes of the Muslim community,” said Owaisi.“Due to the support of Muslims, leaders of Congress, SP and BSP became Prime Minister and chief minister. Today, Muslims feel cheated as they have been dumped by parties who sought their votes in the name of secularism,” he said.“I have been raising my voice on the floor of the Lok Sabha for justice to the Muslim community. I have challenged the might of the BJP that has 300 members in the Lok Sabha,” said the AIMIM leader.Owaisi said he had urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make it clear if the Indian government considered Taliban a terrorist organisation. “The government should come out clear over the issue of Taliban as Pakistan is going to gain after Afghanistan’s takeover by Taliban. The Indian government has invested over ₹35,000 crore in the development of Afghanistan. Now, Taliban has taken over the country, which is not good for India,” he added. Earlier, addressing a press conference, Owaisi announced that gangster turned politician and former MP Atiq Ahmad and his wife Shaista Praveen had joined AIMIM. Charged in several criminal cases, Atiq is lodged in a jail in Gujarat.Replying to a question over Atiq’s joining, the AIMIM chief said several BJP leaders were facing criminal cases. While 37% of the BJP MLAs in UP had criminal cases against them, 116 MPs were also facing criminal cases, he added.Owaisi will address a ‘vanchit-shoshit’ conference in Sultanpur on Wednesday and in Barabanki on September 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aimim-wants-to-ensure-bjp-s-defeat-in-up-polls-owaisi-101631026736104.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Hurting religious sentiments: HC confirms anticipatory bail to BJP leader Sukhpal Sran||Chandigarh The high court has confirmed anticipatory bail to Punjab BJP secretary Sukhpal Singh Sran booked for hurting religious sentiments and promoting religious enmity. He was granted interim protection on June 29. The FIR in the case was registered on May 20 at the Bathinda Sadar police station. The allegations against Sukhpal Singh are that he hurt religious sentiments by releasing a video in which he made a granthi do an ‘ardas’ at the Bir Talaab gurdwara in Bathinda, praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for declaring a Dalit chief minister in Punjab, and also demanding release of Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh from jail. Sukhpal Singh Sran had told court that he had been implicated and that within a short span, four FIRs were registered against him by the ruling party as part of political vendetta. The state’s counsel had told the court that he had joined the investigation. The court confirmed his anticipatory bail observing that as no custodial interrogation is needed, the interim bail granted is made absolute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hurting-religious-sentiments-hc-confirms-anticipatory-bail-to-bjp-leader-sukhpal-sran-101631026497756.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panel formed to look into Delhi Police ‘atrocities’ on farmers, youth submits report||A special committee of Punjab Vidhan Sabha, constituted for probing into the atrocities by Delhi Police on farmers, youth and others in the aftermath of incidents on January 26, on Tuesday submitted its report to speaker Rana KP Singh. A spokesperson of the state assembly said this committee was constituted by the speaker following demands of members on March 5. The committee was formally constituted on March 30, with Kuldeep Singh Vaid as its chairperson and MLAs Kulbir Singh Zira, Fatehjung Singh Bajwa, Sarabjit Kaur Manuke and Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra as members. The panel had visited Ludhiana, Moga, Bathinda, Sangrur, Mansa, Nawanshehar, Jalandhar and Amritsar to meet farmers and the youth. It recorded the statements of the affected youth and farmers in the report so that it can be sent to the state government through the state assembly. Vaid, along with members Zira and Chandumajra, handed over the report to the speaker. Rana KP Singh said the report will be sent to the Punjab government through proper channel to ensure justice to the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panel-formed-to-look-into-delhi-police-atrocities-on-farmers-youth-submits-report-101631026136361.html
07-09-2021||Other||Odisha’s Manda buffalo 19th buffalo breed to be recognised by NBAGR||The Manda buffalo found in Odisha’s Koraput district and characterised by its flat forehead with short muzzle and broad semi circular horns has become the 19th buffalo breed in India to be recognised by National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources.A detailed survey was conducted by the Animal Resources Development Department of Odisha in collaboration with Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology in 2019.Dr Susanta Kumar Dash, an animal geneticist, said Manda are small, sturdy buffaloes, and both male and females are used for ploughing and in agricultural operations in Koraput, Malkangiri and Nabarangpur districts.“These buffaloes have ash grey and grey-coloured coats with copper colour hair. Their lower legs are light in colour with copper-coloured hair at the knee. Some animals are silver-white in colour. These animals are resistant to parasitic infection and less prone to disease,s and can live, produce and reproduce in a low/nil input system. These buffaloes mature at around three years and drop the first calf at around four years. Every 1.5 to 2 years they give birth to a calf for the whole life of around 20 years,” said the professor.There are around 100,000 Manda buffaloes in the Eastern Ghats.Dash said after the recognition, the state and Centre will make efforts to conserve this unique buffalo genetic resource of Odisha and enhance their productivity through breeding strategy. The governments will help in marketing the produce- milk, curd and ghee- at a premium price resulting in the improvement of the livelihood of the stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odishas-manda-buffalo-19th-buffalo-breed-to-be-recognised-by-nbagr-101631024876060.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai woman feeds sleeping pills to kids, kills herself||In a tragic incident, a 47-year-old Mumbai woman fed an overdose of sleeping pills to her mentally challenged children — a 21-year-old daughter and a 13-year-old son — and then consumed the same pills and killed herself.The woman divorced her husband a year ago and came to stay with her father at the Juhi Narendra CHS building at Mumbai's Mira Road. Her two children, on the night of the incident, fought over a soft drink bottle which irritated and depressed her, said the woman's father.The family went to sleep after settling the matter. On Tuesday morning, when the father went to wake up his daughter to fill water, he was shocked to see the three bodies.Read: Mumbai: 67-year-old kills mentally challenged son, ends lifeSenior inspector Jitendra Vankoti of Naya Nagar police station said, “The bodies have been sent to the Sir JJ Hospital for post-mortem and we have registered a case of accidental death. We have also seized used strip of sleeping pills and sent the contents for forensic analysis. We presume that the two children may be undergoing medical treatment as the sleeping pills are prescribed drugs and cannot be purchased over the counter at medical shops.”“The woman’s father is traumatised and we will question him after he is in a condition to speak. We have informed her ex-husband and we are investigating further. The father would take the financial responsibility for his daughter and his two grandchildren,” said the Mumbai police officer.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-woman-feeds-sleeping-pills-to-kids-kills-self-101631024874519.html
07-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 832 new Covid cases, 8 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 832 new Covid-19 cases and eight deaths in 24 hours on Tuesday. This took the progressive count to 1.125 million of which 1.093 million have recovered, 19,662 deaths and 12,409 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over one 0.1 million vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 424 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 348,891 and with six more deaths reported the death toll went up to 6,695. Pune city reported 238 new cases which took the progressive count to 513,154 and with two more deaths reported the death toll went up to 9,128. PCMC reported 170 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 263,325 and with no more deaths reported the toll stood at 3,490. Vaccine count After the state government sent a large stock of vaccines on Monday, Tuesday saw a surge in the number of vaccinations and over one lakh vaccines were administered on the day. Pune saw 182,957 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday and totally 8,739,284 vaccines have been administered in total, including 6,294,410 first dose and 2,444,874 are second dose. A total of 806 sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 545 are government and 261 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-832-new-covid-cases-8-deaths-101631024813866.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests four from Mumbai, Goa; seize multiple drugs||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) conducted raids at four places in Mumbai and Goa and arrested four people, including foreign nationals. Agency has claimed to have seized multiple drugs including 34.5kg codeine syrup, a commercial quantity of LSD, 105gm heroin, 400gm (700 tablets) nitrazepam, an intermediate quantity of cocaine and a small quantity of hydroponic multi-strain weed. The arrested accused are identified as Mohameed Nasir Saifur Rehman Khan, Mohammad Salman Shaikh, Ajay Nagraj and David Chibuike Chisom alias Eze Chukwebuka Joshua.As per the information received, the NCB Mumbai raided a house at Byculla (West) and allegedly seized 27kg of codeine syrup. The owner of the house Mohameed Nasir Saifur Rehman Khan and his associate Mohammad Salman Shaikh were taken into custody, said zonal director Sameer Wankhede of the NCB. During interrogation, Khan revealed the name of Ajay Nagraj who resides at Nariyalwadi area in Mazagaon and supplies contrabands. Based on his information, the NCB team raided his place and recovered 7.5kg of codeine syrup, 105gm of heroin, 400gm (700 tablets) nitrazepam and 250gm of ganja. The agency registered a case under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and arrested Khan, Shaikh and Nagraj.During an operation, the agency received input about one Nigerian national David being involved in supplying various drugs like LSD, coke, ecstasy in Goa and Mumbai through his peddlers. The NCB launched a manhunt and the Goa unit managed to nab the suspect near Nagoa Grand Hotel, Calangute-Mapusa Road, in North Goa, on Monday night. During the search, 11 blots of LSD, which are commercial quantity and intermediate quantity of cocaine were allegedly recovered from his possession. During interrogation, the accused confessed his real name David Chibuike Chisom alias Eze Chukwebuka Joshua, who hails from Nigeria and came to India a few years ago. Further investigation is going on.The third operation was launched at a foreign post office in Ballard Estate and the NCB allegedly seized 60gm of multi-strain buds (cannabis) from a parcel that was concealed in a chocolate box. During the investigation, it was learnt that the parcel was originated from Canada, said Wankhede. The price of multi-strain buds is around ₹5,000 to ₹8,000 per gram in the illicit market. Further investigation is going on to nab the receiver, added Wankhede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-four-from-mumbai-goa-seize-multiple-drugs-101631024634581.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports first Covid-19 death in September; overall toll rises to 25,083||Delhi on Tuesday reported the first fatality due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in September, according to the data shared by the health bulletin. This comes after the national capital witnessed zero deaths due to the infection for six days in a row. After today’s addition, the death toll in the city stands at 25,083.The number of daily caseload saw a rise with 50 new infections logged on Tuesday as opposed to Monday’s 32. The Union territory (UT) recorded 30 and 55 fresh cases on Sunday and Saturday, respectively. After today’s addition, the cumulative tally of coronavirus cases in Delhi stands at 14,38,041, according to the daily bulletin.The case fatality rate and overall positivity rate of the city stands at 1.74 per cent and 5.51 per cent, respectively. Meanwhile, Delhi on Tuesday recorded 30 fresh recoveries, taking the total number of recovered patients to 14,12,572. According to the health bulletin, a total of 237 patients are currently admitted to hospitals across the city while four people are at the dedicated Covid care centres.Also Read | For fourth straight day, Delhi reports no death due to Covid-19As far as vaccination is concerned, as many as 162,737 people were inoculated with Covid-19 vaccine shots in the past 24 hours – of which, 106,558 were administered the first dose and the remaining 56,209 received the second dose. So far, 1,42,51,101 people have been vaccinated in the national capital. As many as 1,01,34,046 people have been inoculated with the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine till now, while 41,17,055 people have been administered the second jab.The active case count in Delhi currently stands at 386, the health bulletin showed.Schools for standards 9 to 12 resumed physical classes on September 1 in Delhi. The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) laid down guidelines prior to the opening of the schools by directing that only a maximum of 50 per cent of students can be called for classrooms depending on the capacity and that the timetable should be made as per the occupancy limit of the classrooms.Also Read | ‘Decision at DDMA meeting’: Sisodia on reopening of schools for classes 6 to 8Schools for classes 6 to 8 are scheduled to open on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-first-covid-19-death-in-september-overall-toll-rises-to-25083-101631023737561.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC sets aside man’s jail term for possessing two 180ml liquor bottles||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court has struck down the three-year jail term handed down to a Chandrapur resident by a judicial magistrate after he was found to possess two 180ml liquor bottles in breach of prohibition orders.The single judge bench of justice Rohit Deo did not find any reason to interfere with the finding of the fact that the convict - Kamlesh Thombre - did possess the liquor bottles, but found that the punishment handed down to the 45-year-old paan shop owner was grossly disproportionate.“In my considered view the punishment is extremely harsh,” said justice Deo while releasing him on two years probation on furnishing a bond of good behaviour. The 45-year-old will remain under observation of a probation officer for this period.In 2015, Thombre was arrested by local police for the alleged possession of two 180ml liquor bottles in Chandrapur. The then government in Maharashtra had imposed complete liquor ban in Chandrapur district from April 1, 2015. The prohibition came to an end on May 28, 2021.On May 10, 2018, a judicial magistrate first class accepted the prosecution case in toto and sentenced Thombre to three years’ imprisonment and also imposed fine of ₹25,000 for flouting the ban.He had appealed in the sessions court, which upheld the magisterial order and on August 29, 2019, dismissed his appeal. The paan shop owner then approached the high court.The high court set him free after noting that it did not appear that “the applicant was involved in illegal trade of liquor.” “The liquor, which the applicant possessed, is more likely to be for personal consumption than for sale,” the high court concluded, and released him on two years probation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-sets-aside-man-s-jail-term-for-possessing-two-180ml-liquor-bottles-101631024395073.html
07-09-2021||Pune||Chakan: 1 arrested, 6 on the run for murder of minor over sexual harassment allegation||PUNE: One man was arrested and six others booked in a case of kidnapping and murder of a minor boy after the latter allegedly sexually harassed one of the accused’s younger sister. While the main accused is at large, the police have arrested one of his six accomplice who bludgeoned the boy. The arrested was identified as Yusuf Arshad Kakar (20), according to the police. The deceased’s 32-year-old mother lodged a police complaint against the six men. The boy was taken to an open ground of PWD grounds in front of Market Yard in Chakan village, according to the complainant. “All the accused either run meat shops or biryani eateries. The sexual harassment incident may have taken place in the past, but someone told the main accused about it on Monday,” said inspector (crime) Anil Devade of Chakan police station who is investigating the case. While the main accused used a metal rod to hit the teenager on the head, the arrested man used a stone to cause grievous head injuries, according to the police. A case under Sections 302(murder), 363 (kidnapping), 364 (kidnapping with intent of murder) and rioting of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chakan-1-arrested-6-on-the-run-for-murder-of-minor-over-sexual-harassment-allegation-101631024153704.html
07-09-2021||Pune||1 held, 6 on the run for murdering minor over sexual harassment allegation in Pune||One man was arrested while six others were booked in Chakan, Pune, for kidnapping and murdering a minor boy after he allegedly sexually harassed one of the accused men’s younger sister. While the main accused is at large, the police have arrested one of his six accomplices who bludgeoned the boy.The arrested man was identified as Yusuf Arshad Kakar (20), according to the police.The victim’s mother has lodged a complaint against the six men. “The sexual harassment incident had happened in the past but someone told the main accused about it on Monday,” said police inspector (crime) Anil Devade of Chakan police station who is investigating the case.While the main accused used a metal rod to hit the boy in the head, the arrested man used a stone to cause grievous head injuries, according to the police.A case under sections 302(murder), 363 (kidnapping), 364 (kidnapping with intent of murder) and rioting of Indian Penal Code was registered against the men at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/1-held-6-on-the-run-for-murdering-minor-over-sexual-harassment-allegation-in-pune-101631024094483.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police book 3 nightclubs for violating Covid-19 guidelines, arrest 1||Delhi Police have booked three nightclubs of the city for violating Covid-19 guidelines and also arrested the manager of one of the establishments but was released on bail later, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. The three nightclubs are Key Nightclub in Hotel Samrat in Chanakyapuri and Junkyard Cafe and The Amplifier in Connaught Place.Police took action against the Key Nightclub after a PCR call was received on August 30 from a person who alleged that some minors were attending a party inside the club. After reaching the club, the police didn't find any such party happening there, but many guests present there were either not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing, news agency PTI reported citing officials. The police registered an FIR against Key Nightclub on the same day.The FIRs against two other popular joints in Connaught Place were registered for the same reason and for serving hookahs at their outlets. Police registered the FIR against Junkyard on September 1, while Amplifier was booked on August 28. Both the FIRs were registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligently doing any act known to be likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) of Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act and COPTA (The Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act), according to the police.Delhi is functioning under partial restrictions after the government started lifting the Covid induced lockdown following the spurt in daily cases. Covid-19 cases have been falling in Delhi over the last few weeks and on Tuesday, the national capital recorded 50 new infections, according to the government's health department. This is a drastic drop from a peak of 25,000 Covid-19 cases every day in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-book-3-nightclubs-for-violating-covid-19-guidelines-arrest-1-101631023232751.html
07-09-2021||Other||Manipur continues unlock process, night curfew shortened||Even though the unlocking process is underway with stipulated regulations,the Manipur government will continue to extend the night curfew imposed in the state for 15 more days (till September 21) by reducing the duration of the night curfew by two hours. The new night curfew timing will be from 7pm to 4am.The state chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar, who is also the chairman of the executive committee of the state disaster management authority, issued a revised order in this regard on Monday.However, social gatherings/feasts are not permitted, the order said, adding that unavoidable customary and religious rituals can be performed in open sheds by restricting the number of invitees to 20 only.Micro containment zones shall be strictly monitored by dedicated police department teams and health department teams, the order said.As per new revised order, shopping malls will be allowed to open from 10am to 4pm, with limited numbers of customers and Covid-appropriate behaviour while gymnasium/fitness centres can open from 5am to 10am with strict observance of Covid-appropriate behaviour .The timing of showrooms and serving centres of vehicles will be from 8am to 5pm. At the same time, brick kilns, stone crushers and furniture manufacturing units are also included in the permitted list.According to the order, offices of insurance companies may have public transactions on all working days from 10am to 3.30pm, postal services from 10am to 3.30pm and banking from 10am to 2.30pm by taking adequate precaution and strictly following Covid-appropriate behaviour. Local grocery shops have been permitted to open from 7am to 5pm and shops selling fish, poultry and poultry products from 8 am to 5pm. Shops selling milk and fresh milk products will be allowed to operate from 6am to 2pm while local vegetable vendors are allowed to operate from 7am to 4pm on all days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manipur-continues-unlock-process-night-curfew-shortened-101631023674364.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||‘Decision at DDMA meeting’: Sisodia on reopening of schools for classes 6 to 8||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday that a decision regarding the reopening of schools for classes 6 to 8 will be taken in the meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). Students of classes 6 to 8 are expected to go back to school starting tomorrow (September 8). On August 27, the DDMA decided to reopen schools in a phased manner from September 1 onwards, with classes 9 to 12 resuming first. Coaching centres of students of higher classes have also been permitted to function.
07-09-2021||Kolkata||Mamata govt challenges Calcutta HC order of interim relief to Suvendu Adhikari||The West Bengal government on Tuesday moved the division bench of the Calcutta high court challenging an order of the single bench which had stayed the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) probe into the death of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari’s security guard, officials said.Adhikari, who is the Leader of the opposition in the West Bengal Legislative Assembly, did not appear before the CID in connection with the probe on Monday. “A single-judge bench of the Calcutta high court stayed the fresh probe initiated by the CID three years after the death of Adhikari’s security bodyguard in 2018,” B Bhattacharya, Adhikari’s lawyer, said on Monday. He also said that the court also put a stay on the two other cases in which Adhikari has been named. While one pertains to post-poll violence in Nandigram, another is a snatching case at Panskura. “In two other cases, the court has said that investigators can question him at a place of Adhikari’s choice, but would not be able to take any coercive action. In future too coercive actions can’t be taken against Adhikari without the court’s permission,” Bhattacharya added. On Tuesday, the state government moved the division bench of the Calcutta high court challenging the order. The matter is likely to be heard on Wednesday. In July, the CID initiated a fresh probe into the death of Adhikari’s security guard who reportedly died by suicide in 2018, officials said. The victim’s wife had lodged a complaint demanding a fresh probe. On Monday, Adhikari was summoned by the CID for questioning. He, however, skipped it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-govt-challenges-calcutta-hc-order-of-interim-relief-to-suvendu-adhikari-101631023556714.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||‘ICMR should look into complaints relating to private pathology labs’: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday said that ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) cannot be sitting in an ivory tower and said that it should look into the complaints relating to private pathology laboratories.A bench of Justice Najmi Waziri said ICMR should look into the complaints received against private pathology laboratories and opined that ICMR can revoke licences if there is any breach of conditions.The court noted that ICMR give licences to private labs. "The whole year has gone by. The whole nation is suffering. The whole NCR is suffering," the court said and listed the matter for further hearing for next week.In an affidavit filed, ICMR informed the Court that the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) certification is a must for enrollment of private labs for Covid-19 testing, ICMR has told the Delhi High Court adding that monitoring of the activities of online health service aggregators does not come under its purviewThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in its affidavit, told the Delhi High Court that monitoring the activities of online health service aggregators does not come under the purview of ICMR.ICMR has filed its affidavit in a petition seeking initiation of contempt proceedings for the Delhi government for allegedly not complying with the court's order to take action against illegal online health service aggregators operating in the national capital and to regulate online pathological labs."NABL certification is a must for enrollment of private labs for testing. NABL certifies the readiness of labs to undertake molecular testing of SARS-Cov2 before ICMR onboards them for testing. Through these parameters, it is ensured that labs meet the statutory standards for Covid-19 testing," ICMR said in its affidavit.ICMR also apprised the court that it has laid down SOPs and standard guidance for setting up Covid-19 testing labs and fourteen (14) mentor Institutes have been set up in India to guide the labs on implementing these SOPs and set up four testing labs. For Delhi, the mentor Institute is AIIMS, Delhi, ICMR said.ICMR submitted that as of August 16 2021, the ICMR has approved 134 (Govt. 35 and Private 99) labs at Delhi for RT-PCR, TrueNat, CBNAAT and Other M-NAT Testing Platforms.Advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, who appeared for petitioner Dr Rohit Jain, had alleged that no action has been taken by the government and in fact, there is a grave violation of the Supreme Court order. He had also added that contempt is remedial jurisprudence and not adversarial and public welfare is the highest law.Petitioner has alleged that the top official of respondents is equally responsible for restraining the illegal practices of online aggregators which are freely being carried out under the eyes of these officials in utter violations of the rules and regulations laid down by statutes and the guidelines issued by the respondents from time to time ever since the outbreak of deadly coronavirus."Several illegal online aggregators are advertising freely by offering attractive packages for the body check-up, including Covid-19 test through SMSs or various online modes. The applicant/petitioner has received an advertisement of the online aggregator through e-mail for getting tested," the plea stated.It had also submitted that it is an extremely serious issue that the online aggregators are operating without any authorisation and approval. Besides, these online aggregators are not accredited by any accreditation agency. The existence of such illegal online diagnostic aggregators is posing a serious health challenge as a large number of people are falling prey to the attractive health packages being offered by these illegal online aggregators, states the plea."The acts of respondents clearly constitute the contempt of the court and appropriate contempt proceedings should be initiated against them for acting against the order dated August 6, last year of this court. The respondent's officials have been playing with precious lives of innocent people by promoting unqualified, unregistered medical practitioners to sign the pathological report and exposing the common people to the mercy of untrained and highly incompetent medical/pathological professional," the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/icmr-should-look-into-complaints-relating-to-private-pathology-labs-delhi-hc-101631022006620.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar attacks Centre over ED cases in Maharashtra||PUNE: Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday said federal agency Enforcement Directorate’s actions against various Maharashtra leaders were an attempt to encroach on the state government’’s rights and discourage political opponents.“Never heard of so many ED actions in Maharashtra in the past. One action is going on against Khadse, another against Anil Deshmukh, also against Bhawna Gawali. There is an attempt to encroach upon the state government’’s rights case and discourage the opponents by using these agencies as tools,” said NCP chief, a key architect of Maharashtra’s Maha Vikas Aghadi government that came to power in November 2019 by stitching an alliance between NCP-Congress-Shiv Sena.Many senior leaders of the three-party coalition such as transport minister Anil Parab, Lok Sabha MP Bhavana Gawali and MLA Pratap Sarnaik (Shiv Sena), former home minister Anil Deshmukh, Eknath Khadse (NCP), among others have got notices from ED. In the case of Anil Deshmukh, both the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and ED are investigating allegations of extortion against him.To a specific question on ED searches at premises linked to Bhavana Gawali, Pawar said the raids were allegedly linked to educational institutions .“When there are allegations against these kinds of institutions, the complaints can be lodged before the charity commissioner. If not the charity commissioner, then there are state government agencies, but here, directly ED was involved,” the former Union minister said.Covid protocolOn crowds gathering at programmes attended by political leaders despite fears of a third Covid-19 wave, Sharad Pawar said, “I have seen many events happening where the (Covid-19 prevention) protocols are not being followed.”Pawar said since Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked political parties to immediately stop agitations, meetings and other events to avoid crowding, he will not attend programmes involving large gatherings. “I will only attend programmes organised indoors with a limited number of people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-attacks-centre-over-ed-cases-in-maharashtra-101631023314887.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Generous in spirit, caring to the core, he defined success||It was the first week of June in 1983. The results of the Class 10 exams of the Haryana board were out a few days ago and I had done well. Schools were closed for the summer break and I along with my friends, though nervous about our future, were singing and dancing with gay abandon under a neem tree behind our ramshackle kutcha house at a village in Ambala district. Suddenly, a green Fiat car came to a halt near us. As we gaped in awe, a man in his thirties stepped out of its rear door and walked towards my house with a confident gait. As soon as I realised that my youngest maternal uncle, DL Sharma, had come calling, I rushed home. Also read: Vardhman MD Sharma dies of Covid-19After exchanging pleasantries with the elders, his eyes fell on me. “Which class are you studying in?” I told him about my matriculation exams and added in a trembling voice that I had scored 73%. A rapid round of questions followed. I was getting uncomfortable with every question but in hindsight I think he was preparing me for the UPSC interview! Having lost my father at six, it was after a long time that someone was trying to take control of my life. My mother asked him to get me employed as a patwari in the state government but by that time he had made up his mind to send me for higher studies. He suggested that I take the non-medical stream and go for engineering. Having studied in a Hindi medium government school at a nearby village, I shuddered at the thought of having to read science in English. The thought of travelling to college in the city made me nervous. My mother and maternal grandparents resisted, but my uncle’s decision prevailed. His faith wasn’t misplaced for the village boy topped the BSc I (equivalent to 10+2) exam of Kurukshetra University and went on to become an engineer and then a civil servant. I observed that my uncle was cool and composed while handling professional challenges and family matters. An axis of rotation for the whole family, everyone used to hover around him. He set higher goals, dreams and aspirations for us. He was a sincere, altruistic person with no attachment to the material world. An epitome of discipline and compassion, he was like a Godfather for me and like a banyan tree providing shade and comfort to everyone, including the extended family. Helping everyone with patience and a smile, he changed the definition and sense of every relationship. With the passage of time, he became more of a friend, philosopher and guide. Anyone from the family could call him at any time and he always had a solution for their problems. A true karma yogi, he put duty before self. As a pillar of the textile industry in Punjab and as managing director of Vardhman Yarns & Threads Ltd, Ludhiana, he never missed his official duties even during the peak of the first Covid wave. I often ponder what makes us successful. Is it wealth, professional status or power? To me, the real measure of success of a man is how much he loves his family and those around him; how selflessly he shares his resources to help others; and how consistently he offers a kind word or lends a humble ear. Since the day Covid snatched him away from us a year ago, life has turned upside down. Hardly a day goes by without remembering him. I still feel my hero is around and see him in the clouds blessing us all. During poignant moments, I go back to Richard Bach’s lines from his book, The Bridge Across Forever: “That’s why love stories don’t have endings! They don’t have endings because love doesn’t end.” Some relationships have cosmic connections; they help us grow and change the course of our lives forever. sharmaajay25@yahoo.co.in The writer is an IRS officer in Mumbai||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/generous-in-spirit-caring-to-the-core-he-defined-success-101631023134253.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||KLF narco-terror module: NIA court frames charges against 10 people||AMRITSAR The National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court in Mohali has framed charges against 10 people in connection with a narco-terror module linked to Pakistan-based terror organisation Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF). The accused are Jasbir Singh Samra, Harpreet Singh, Varinder Singh, Nirmal Singh alias Neeldhari, Satpal Singh, Hira Lal, Harjit Singh alias Bagga, Dharminder Singh, Rajinder Singh alias Ganja, and Jasbeer Singh alias Shera. The charges were framed under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), sections 21-25-27-27A-29 of the NDPS Act, and sections 13, 17, 18, 18-B, 38 and 40 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 by special judge of the NIA court Karunesh Kumar on Monday. The court observed that the ‘prima facie a case is made out against the accused’. The judge has fixed the next date of hearing on September 27. The case dates back to May 31, 2019, when three of the accused—Nirmal Singh, Hira Singh and Satpal Singh—were arrested by Tarsikka police of Amritsar-rural district with 500gm heroin and ₹1,20,000 drug money. Primarily, a case under various sections of the NDPS Act was registered against the accused. The police had arrested three more persons in December 2019. During the police’s investigation, a narco-terror angle with its international ramifications emerged. The NIA registered the case in January 2020 under various sections of the NDPS Act and UAPA. During further investigation, the role of Harmeet Singh alias PHd, Pakistan-based chief of KLF, a proscribed terrorist organisation, emerged in running a cross-border narco-terror network through drug smugglers, militant elements, and hawala operatives based in Punjab and other states in India. Harmeet is believed to have been killed in Pakistan last year. One of the lawyers of the accused, Jaspal Singh Manjpur, said the court framed the charges against all the accused who were nominated by the NIA. A source in Punjab Police said the accused were allegedly found to be involved in smuggling of heroin and sending the proceeds to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and Pakistan through hawala to aid some terror organisations based in Pakistan to disrupt peace in India, including Punjab. Accused Jasbir Singh, Harpreet Singh, Varinder Singh, Nirmal Singh, Satpal Singh, Hira Singh, Harjit Singh and Dharminder Singh are currently lodged in Patiala Central jail while Rajinder Singh and Jasbeer Singh are in Amritsar and Hoshiarpur jails, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/klf-narco-terror-module-nia-court-frames-charges-against-10-people-101631022954391.html
07-09-2021||Kolkata||Woman, son found murdered in Kolkata home||A 45-year-old woman and her 13–year-old son were found murdered in their flat at Parnasree in southwest Kolkata late on Monday night. Sleuths suspect there could be more than one person involved in the crime. The woman Susmita Mondol was a school teacher while her son Tomojit was a student of Class 8. Her husband Tapan Mondol is an employee of a private bank. “The two bodies were found in adjacent rooms and their throats were slit. The bodies have been sent for post mortem and investigation is going on. A few people have been questioned,” said an officer of the Kolkata Police’s detective department. The incident came to light after the victim’s husband returned home late last night from work. He found the light switched off and there was no response on his wife’s mobile phone. Later he entered the flat to find that the woman and her son had been murdered, and informed his neighbours. A private tutor who used to teach Tomojit had come around 5pm but returned when he found the door closed and no one responded to his knocks. “I called my wife before reaching home but her mobile phone was switched off. After returning from office I could see from the road that the lights were switched off in our flat. I went inside and found they were murdered,” Tapan Mondol told media persons. The boy was found in uniform. Police suspects he was attending online classes. The woman’s mobile phone was missing. Neighbours told the police that they didn’t hear any screams. Police have found blood stains in the washroom. “We are probing all angles. Sniffer dogs are deployed. Investigation is going on,” said a senior officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/woman-son-found-murdered-in-kolkata-home-101631022354040.html
07-09-2021||Other||Crops in 102 of 314 blocks in Odisha affected by rain deficit||Odisha government on Monday told the state assembly that standing crops in at least 102 of the 314 blocks of Odisha have been affected by the rainfall deficit even as former chief minister Hemananda Biswal conducted a puja at his village to “propitiate the rain gods”.Responding to a discussion on the rain deficit affecting crops in the state, Odisha revenue minister Sudam Marndi on Tuesday said the current situation was a matter of concern and the state government will take necessary steps. “Though the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted normal monsoon rain in the country this year, it has not proved true for Odisha. What has worsened matters for us is huge deficiency of rains in August,” said Marndi.In August alone the state saw 44% less than expected rain, rendering the fate of transplanted paddy uncertain in most of the areas. Between June 1 and September 6, Odisha saw 29% less rain with 25 of 30 districts in Odisha receiving deficit rainfall between 59% and 20% in the last three months. Due to deficient rainfall, agricultural activities have been possible only on 56.33 lakh hectares of farmland against a target of 61.96 lakh hectares.The revenue minister said while 15 small and medium reservoirs in the state are almost dry, so far only the Mahanadi delta irrigation system and Subarnarekha irrigation system are holding up. Hirakud reservoir has now 62% of its capacity filled up compared to 83% last year while Rengali reservoir has 79% filled up compared to 103% last year. “Rains in September will be crucial for Odisha,” he said.In western Odisha district of Jharsuguda, former chief minister and tribal leader Hemananda Biswal on Sunday conducted a yagna at his village of Thakurpara in Kirimira block. Biswal said August is the crucial month for farmers in Odisha, and whenever monsoon has failed in August there has been a drought.“It has been our custom to do a puja invoking Lord Indra for adequate rain. It is an attempt to propitiate the rain Ggods,” said Biswal. “I hope the state government announces drought in the state.” In Kalahandi district, hundreds of farmers on Monday morning blocked the Khariar-Bhawanipatna road demanding a declaration of drought by government.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress have visited the districts hit by lack of rains and alleged that the state government took no measures to tackle the drought situation. A party delegation of the BJP led by senior leader Manmohan Samal visited Bolangir and Nuapada districts and discussed the ground situation with farmers who have lost their crops to erratic rainfall. “We demand that the government declare drought and pay compensation to farmers from the calamity relief fund which I had set up during my tenure as the revenue minister in 2007-08,” said Samal. The Congress delegation led by chief of Congress Kisan Cell Amiya Patnaik toured Boudh, Sonepur, Bolangir and Nuapada districts, and alleged that the drought is man-made and the state government is responsible for it.Meanwhile, agriculture minister Arun Sahoo asked his department officials to keep their mobile phones switched on all the time for the necessary dissemination of crucial information for execution on an immediate basis. He said officials of the block and district level have been asked to provide data of minor irrigation facilities, rainfall and drought situation in their regions regularly. Similarly, officials have been instructed to hold block and district level review meetings on all Saturdays at 5pm.Officials, however, said there is a glimmer of hope for farmers as India Meteorological Department predicted that a low-pressure area has formed over northwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal off south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coasts.The low-pressure system has developed under the influence of a cyclonic circulation and is likely to move west-northwest wards during the next two or three days. The system is likely to trigger heavy to very heavy rainfall in several parts of Odisha in the next 48 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crops-in-102-of-314-blocks-in-odisha-affected-by-rain-deficit-101631021514726.html
07-09-2021||Patna||Bihar floods: Govt pegs losses at ₹3,764 cr||The central government’s team, led by Rakesh Kumar Singh, joint secretary of the Union ministry of home affairs, carried out a field visit to Bhagalpur and Naugachhiya areas of Patna to assess the damages due to the floods in the light of the state government’s claim for compensation.On Monday, officials of the Bihar government made a formal claim for compensation worth ₹3,764 crore in lieu of damages caused by the ongoing spell of floods. Additional chief secretary, disaster management department (DMD), Pratyay Amrit, while making the presentation before the Central team, said that scale of damages could go up as the natural calamity wasn’t over yet.The central team earlier made an aerial survey of Darbhanga, Samastipur and Muzaffarpur districts and held meeting with the officials of concerned districts in Darbhanga to assess the scale of damages.So far, the floods have affected a population of nearly 15 lakh in 359 panchayats across 73 blocks of 13 districts. At least 53 people have lost their lives due to the floods in different districts.During the presentation before the Central team, the state officials said that the water resources department suffered the maximum damages, amounting to ₹1470 crore, followed by the DMD ( ₹1,165 crore) and agriculture department ( ₹661crore).The rural works department suffered a loss of ₹235 crore due to damages to roads and bridges in rural areas, while the road construction department assessed its loss of ₹203 crore owing to the floods, which started in June this year.Last year, the state government estimated its losses to be around ₹3,328.60 crore, in which a population of over 83.62 lakh living in 1,333 panchayats of 16 districts were hit. Over 100 people had lost their lives in 2020. Officials claimed that the Central government had offered nearly ₹1,255 crore against the claim.Additional chief secretary, roads, Amrit Lal Meena said that the state had presented its claims of losses due to natural calamity before the Central team. “We hope that the Central government would provide adequate financial support for the purpose. Additionally, the department has allocated necessary fund to carry out repair works to restore normal traffic on various roads,” said Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-pegs-flood-related-losses-at-rs-3-764-cr-central-team-visits-state-101631021275085.html
07-09-2021||Lucknow||Dengue-like cases on the rise in UP’s Rohilkhand region||LUCKNOW The Rohilkhand region of UP including Bareilly, Badaun, Moradabad and Pilibhit districts has witnessed a steady spike in viral fever, malaria and dengue-like cases over the past week.Hospital admissions due to viral fever and dengue-like symptoms had gone up in the past six days. The average daily figure was 22 and 27 in Badaun and Moradabad, respectively and 14 each in Bareilly and Pilibhit, said health department officials.In Bareilly, a 10-year-old boy succumbed to dengue-like symptoms on Monday while another 12-year-old was admitted to the district hospital in a critical condition. Chief medical superintendent Dr Subodh Sharma said, “A 10- year-old child, who had very low platelets count, was brought to the hospital in a critical state. He succumbed within hours of admission. He had dengue-like symptoms and we sent samples for confirmation.”The Bareilly administration set up dedicated dengue and malaria wards in response to the confirmed cases of these infections.Vijay Bahadur Raj, CMS of Badaun district hospital, said: “We receive 1,100 to 1,400 patients in the OPD every day. Most of them have symptoms of viral fever. The patients are being treated symptomatically.” The district reported 39 fresh cases of malaria on Tuesday.“So far, we have around 50 confirmed cases of malaria in Badaun but no case of dengue so far,” said the CMS. Close to 28 positive cases of malaria had been reported from Hasanganj village of Salarpur area of Badaun this week. The district administration sent a health team to prevent the spread of malaria infection in the area.Dr Balveer Singh, CMO, Badaun said, “There has been a sharp increase in cases of viral fever in the district. We are keeping an eye on the situation. Separate malaria and dengue wards have been established in the district hospital and tests are being done to confirm infection. The district has not reported any case of dengue yet.”On Tuesday, nearly 400 new patients showing symptoms of viral fever were reported in Moradabad while two cases of dengue and malaria each were confirmed. “We have sent 23 and 280 samples of suspected dengue and malaria patients to the lab. The results are awaited,” said MC Garg, chief medical officer (CMO) of Moradabad. The number of such patients with viral fever like symptoms in Bareilly and Pilibhit district was 700 and 500 respectively.The health administrations in Bareilly and Pilibhit were facing similar challenges. Health department officials claimed that the spike in viral fever cases was a norm post monsoon, asserting that the situation was under control.The Pilibhit administration also confirmed a case of dengue (a 12-year-old boy) on Tuesday. District magistrate Pulkit Khare said, “The health department is keeping a close watch on cases of dengue and malaria. There is no shortage of medicine to treat these infections in the district.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-rohilkhand-region-sees-spike-in-viral-fever-malaria-cases-101631020734099.html
07-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan man held for raping 6-year-old||A six-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man, aged around 40 years, in Banswara district of Rajasthan. The police arrested the accused on Tuesday. Station house officer, Anandpuri police station, Kapil Patidar said the incident occurred on Sunday evening. The girl was playing outside her house when the accused, who lived nearby, abducted her and took her to his house on a motorcycle, and allegedly raped her. He later dropped the girl outside her aunt’s residence. The girl narrated her ordeal to her mother, and they approached accused’s family, but he could not be found. An FIR in the matter was registered on Monday. Patidar said the case is being probed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-man-held-for-raping-6yearold-101631020675599.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||‘Parts of Konkan to receive extremely heavy rains in next 24 hours’: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has sounded a red category weather alert for the Konkan districts of Raigad and Ratnagiri for today, and one for Palghar district on Wednesday, indicating a high possibility of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in the region over the next two days.Parts of Konkan have been witnessing heavy rains for the last two days resulting in floods in several areas, including Chiplun in Ratnagiri district which witnessed devastating floods just over a month ago.The IMD’s monitoring station in Harnai, Ratnagiri district, for example, recorded a staggering 368.4mm of rainfall in just 24 hours ending 8:30 am on September 7. The whole district, on average, recorded 152.8mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8:30 am on September 7, against the daily normal of 14mm, as per rainfall information available with the IMD. All of the Konkan districts have recorded excess rainfall in the last 24 hours, with the exception of Palghar and Thane, the IMD data shows.Mumbai, Thane and Sindhudurg districts, meanwhile, have been placed under an orange category storm warning on Wednesday, with experts and officials warning of very heavy rains in these areas as well. The India Meteorological Department classifies 15.6-64.4 mm as moderate rain while 64.5-115.5 mm rain as heavy, 115.6-204.4 mm as very heavy, over 204.5 mm as extremely heavy rain, and over 300 mm as exceptionally heavy rain.“Areas in Konkan and western Maharashtra that witnessed flooding in July are set to witness moderate to heavy rainfall until 8 September. This will be the first major rainfall event since the July floods, so brace for a possible impact due to landslides and dam discharges,” cautioned Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, UK.Officials say it will be a rough couple of days ahead for the region, with a low-pressure area (which formed over the Bay of Bengal) moving inland and exerting influence on rainfall in central India. The system is now expected to pass over Mumbai sometime after midnight on September 8 and will bring widespread heavy showers to the region during the night and the early morning.“There is also an east-west shear zone of easterly and westerly winds that will come into the vicinity of the low-pressure zone as it moves from Vidarbha toward the coast, and this will increase the intensity of rainfall over Mumbai,” said an official with IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/parts-of-konkan-to-receive-extremely-heavy-rains-in-next-24-hours-imd-101631016598161.html
07-09-2021||Patna||Despite prohibition, continuing hooch deaths big challenge for Bihar govt||Even after nearly five years of prohibition in Bihar, easy liquor availability is not the only issue confronting the state government as deaths caused by spurious liquor point to gaping holes in the implementation of the stringent law.Despite the Covid-19 pandemic induced lockdowns this and previous year, the supply of illicit liquor has claimed several lives in the state. From January till August 26 this year, as many as 64 people died and many others lost their sight after consuming alleged spurious liquor in Nawada, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur and Rohtas districts, police records show.As per police headquarters records, only 70 people died in Bihar after consuming spurious liquor between 2012 and 2015, with maximum 48 deaths reported in 2012 and minimum six in 2015, a year before the prohibition was enforced in Bihar. Post prohibition, between 2016 and 2019, the state reported 58 deaths due to consumption of illicit liquor.“In most cases, however, the government later denies hooch as the cause of death, while family members of the deceased change their statements under pressure to avail compensation and avoid legal action. But everyone knows the reality in the area. The denial syndrome further emboldens those involved with the illicit liquor trade,” said a social activist-cum-prominent trader Hira Prasad. In Vaishali’s Judawanpur police station area, at least five persons died over Wednesday and Thursday last week, while two others were battling for their lives in a private nursing home in the state capital after they were reported to have consumed spurious liquor.The latest alleged hooch deaths were reported from Chaksinghar village of Raghopur riverine area, where Jitendra Kumar Ram and Shiv Kumar Ram died in their houses, while Shivji Paswan breathed his last at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital after consuming spurious liquor at a local party. Two more victims, Lakhwinder Ram and Dinesh Ram died on Thursday, last week, said Vaishali police chief Maneesh.The SP said that at least three suspects have been arrested and more than six have been detained. Earlier, on Thursday, Vaishali SP and district magistrate (DM) were told byLakhwinder’s wife Lalita that her husband consumed liquor and died after vomiting.Dinesh’s daughter Neha Devi alleged that liquor trade was thriving under the patronage of the police. In July this year, 16 persons died and several lost their eyesight in Lauriya and Ramnagar police stations area of West Champaran district in an alleged hooch tragedy. Till date police have arrested 31 persons and removed the entire police staff of Lauriya police station for inaction. West Champaran SP Upendra Nath Verma said the cause of deaths and eyesight loss has been established through scientific investigation but refused to divulge details till the arrest of an important accused. “Once police nab the last and important accused, we will be able to reply [to questions] in the case”, he added. Similarly, in Nawada, 16 persons, including a teenager, had died due to alleged hooch poisoning after Holi in March. The deceased belonged to Gondapur, Kharidi Bigha, Siswan and New area under Town police station of Nawada. Nawada SP Dhurat Saayli Savlram said that 10 FIRs have been lodged and 20 accused including two women have been arrested for deaths caused by suspected spurious liquor on Holi (March 31). Five officials, including the station house officer (SHO) of Town police station, and an excise sub-inspector, have been suspended. She said viscera reports of five persons had been sent to Patna FSL (Forensic Science Laboratory) to establish if methyl alcohol was used in making the hooch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/despite-prohibition-continuing-hooch-deaths-big-challenge-for-bihar-govt-101631015753509.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Compassion gives courage: Happy Teachers Day||Strap: ‘I have always felt that the true text-book for the pupil is his Teacher’, says Mahatma Gandhi. On Teachers’ Day, today we bring you three different stories of ordinary people who were doing their everyday job and decided to be a light in someone’s life to brighten up their path. This Police uncle teaches street kids Constable Than Singh, Delhi Police, is a man of grit. He began teaching underprivileged kids near the Red Fort area since 2016. “It’s been more than five years since I first taught these kids. I started with only five to six and now I have more than 35 students. It was not a cake walk. These kids used to pick garbage to earn money and spend it on tobacco and drugs. Their parents are labourers and were against the classes and I had to convince them. While some of my students were a part of the classes for five to six months, some are regular for the last five years. My senior officers visit regularly to motivate these kids. Some even bring their children along and celebrate their birthday. I am doing the best I could, and Delhi Police is my strength,” says Singh, who provides masks and sanitisers to these kids who lovingly call him ‘Police uncle teacher’.Transforming his village, one student at a timeBorn in Timli, Pauri Garhwal, a district in Uttarakhand, Ashish Dabral started working in an MNC in Gurugram, but he wanted to give back to his village. “It was in 2013 when I started travelling to my village on every weekend from Gurugram. In 2016, we started a primary school, Shri Timli Vidyapeeth, to impart education. There used to be a Sanskrit school in the village owned by my great-grandfather. The primary school I started imparts Vedic education along with science and technology. Students from my school even participated in World Robotic Olympiad. I make sure my kids interact with students from other countries through video conference to know their culture, education and thought process. We even engage parents in craft activities and sell products online to generate income. I have shifted to my village to devote myself completely,” he says. Ex-BSF officer whose heart beats for kidsHe runs Birsa Munda High School, Janho-Barwaiya in the tribal region of Jharkhand. Ranjan resigned from the rank of Assistant Commandant of BSF in 2015. “Fortunately, during leave before resignation, I followed a foreigner riding a bicycle in Ranchi and met Prof Jean Dreze. We started talking extensively on various issues specially education scenario of Jharkhand. After resignation I became part of ‘Right to Food Campaign’ and started visiting the remote areas. Then I along with prof Dreze started a initiative called ‘Sahpathi’ through which we invited students of Universities to volunteer in government residential schools of Jharkhand in remote area to interact and understand problems and dreams of Poor’s students. Birsa Munda High School was started in 2018, before which the premises remained non functional for almost a decade. Now we have more classrooms, bench desk, toilets, drinking water facility, a smart TV and few laptops for smart class, playing equipment and other facilities. Most importantly, we have installed 5kv solar plant which provides power supply 24*7. Currently, more than 200 students are staying in hostel of which 70% are girls from tribal and dalit communities,” says Ranjan. Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/compassion-gives-courage-happy-teachers-day-101631015397355.html
07-09-2021||Other||We have settled most of our differences: Kerala PCC chief K Sudhakaran||Last week, the Congress unit in Kerala plunged into a crisis after the release of the district office-bearers (DCC presidents) list was announced--it triggered public outbursts by several Congress leaders and a series of disciplinary actions followed. Party state president K Sudhakaran MP, a strongman from Communist heartland Kannur, in an interview with HT’s Ramesh Babu, said he is confident that everything will be settled soon, but insisted that discipline is paramount. Edited excerptsCongress in Kerala is in the news for all the wrong reasons. How long will the present stalemate continue?There is no big crisis here as portrayed by the media. In a democratic party like the Congress, it is natural that differences crop up, as is the present case. But discipline is paramount in the party. We have settled most of our differences. Leader of Opposition VD Satheesan had called on senior leaders Oommen Chandy, Ramesh Chennithala and Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan to iron out the wrinkles. I also met them. Since we settled everything, AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar does not need to visit the state now. We will hear seniors’ [grievances] properly. There is no question of any neglect or step-motherly attitude. Our aim is to strengthen the party and turn it into a well-oiled machine. A strong party is the need of hour.Can we call it a generational shift?The new leadership is a proper blend of fresh blood and experienced leaders--we need new ideas, mode and direction. It doesn’t mean seniors leaders will have to take a back-seat. The new team will take a leaf out of their rich experience to reinvigorate the party. The party is supreme and factions can take rest now. Senior leader Oommen Chandy said a couple of days back in Kottayam that the party is first, groups are second.You said the party will be semi-cadre soon. How you are planning it? Any plan to attract more youth? Yes, we will transform it to a new party in six months. It will be a semi-cadre outfit and you can see the difference soon. We will select 2,500 committed cadre--1,000 from Youth Congress and 1,500 from our trade wing INTUC. We will train and groom them. We have to attract more youth. There will be special drives at the grassroots and leaders will oversee them. All office-bearers will have to submit a performance report periodically. These posts are not showpieces--they will have to work on the ground. We will spot exceptional people and groom them. We have to strengthen our student and youth outfits. In 1970s and 1980s, a surge of youth leaders catapulted the party to new highs in the state. We need a similar move. The Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Development Studies in the state capital started regular workshops for them. The new DCC chiefs will also attend such workshop. The party will have a new look and vigour and this will be visible in six months.What do you think of the state’s tackling of the pandemic?I don’t have to say anything in detail--records tell the tale. The state continues to report over 65% of the total Covid-19 cases in the country. Another deadly threat of Nipah has also emerged. This is the third time Nipah cases have emerged--no serious study on the virus has been done. Even the source of the first outbreak in 2018 is still a mystery. My humble request to the government is to hear experts more and avoid politics. The state has the best health infrastructure in the country; despite this we are in a sorry state now. Inept handling and race for cheap publicity landed the government in such a mess. Hope the CM will realise his follies at least now and correct them.There are charges that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is taking the Congress’ space in the state. Do you agree?It is a baseless question. A desperate BJP has tried its best to widen its base but its lone account (a single MLA in the last assembly) was also closed. We played a vital role in that. Among all state units, BJP has the weakest one in Kerala--it doesn’t have a proper leader and infighting rules supreme.What we witness these days is a secret understanding between the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) and BJP. What happened to gold and dollar smuggling cases? High-profile probes stopped abruptly after the CM’s right-hand man was grilled. The Lavalin case (in which CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s name allegedly cropped up) was deferred 28 times in court and most at the initiative of the probe agency (CBI).In return, the CM is protecting state BJP leaders in highway heist and hawala cases (snatching of alleged fund meant for BJP electioneering in Thrissur in last April). The CPI(M)’s Congress-‘mukt’ Kerala will remain a dream. I am sure people will expose this unholy alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/we-have-settled-most-of-our-differences-kerala-pcc-chief-k-sudhakaran-101631015393587.html
07-09-2021||Other||Mehbooba claims she is under house arrest||Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday claimed she has been put under house arrest. In a tweet, Mufti said the administration has told her the situation is far from normal in Kashmir.“GOI expresses concern for the rights of Afghan people but willfully denies the same to Kashmiris. I’ve been placed under house arrest today because according to admin, the situation is far from normal in Kashmir. This exposes their fake claims of normalcy,” Mufti said in her tweet while posting locked gates of her Gupkar home ‘Fairview’ on the Twitter.Mufti had, on Monday, lashed out at the government for not allowing separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s family to conduct his last rites.“It’s the right of the family members to conduct the last rites of a person. Here the government didn’t allow family members to conduct last rites, instead the family members of Geelani were beaten, especially women, and also cases slapped against them. India is a very big country and this is against its culture. This country is respected across world for its democracy and in democracy, everybody has the right to put their perspective,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mehbooba-claims-she-is-under-house-arrest-101631015334774.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Modak and more: Food to please the Vighnaharta||Call him Lord Ganesha or call him Modakapriya (the one who relishes modak), the God of all things auspicious is also known for his love for food. And hence, Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations are never complete without a scrumptious spread. As the country gears up for the festival on September 10, we take a look at all the dishes that make it a foodie’s delight.From modaks to laddoos, devotees of the pot-bellied, elephant-headed, one-tusked God prepare various kinds of sweets as a part of the festivities. “During the prayer, 21 or 101 modaks are offered to Lord Ganesha and the same is then distributed as prasad. Modak is a sweet steamed dumpling prepared with rice flour and filled with jaggery and fresh grated coconut. It is often flavoured with green cardamom and nutmeg powder, and served hot drizzled with melted pure ghee. The steamed version is known as ukadiche modak. This is the traditional way,” says Mumbai-based chef Reetu Uday Kugaji. Other varieties of the modak include flavours such as chocolate, cranberry, coconut, baked orange, boondi modak and much more.However, there is more to the festival than just modaks. “The utterly crispy, spicy multigrain pancake, thalipeeth is a must-try during the festival. The main ingredients of it are chana daal, urad daal, wheat, and rice. One can also enjoy these toothsome pancakes with ghee, butter, pickle or curd,” says chef Santosh Rawat, executive pastry chef JW Marriott Mumbai Sahar. And the list goes on. Rawat continues, “Some of the other sweets made and served include puran poli, which is a flat bread made of refined flour stuffed with sweet lentils and jaggery. Another one is the motichoor laddoo, a delicious melt-in-the-mouth laddoo made with gram flour, sugar, and spices. Amrakhand, made using yogurt and mango puree, is a refreshing variation of the classic shrikhand.” The hotel has curated a decadent box of modaks handcrafted in six flavours such as kesar mawa, rose kalakand, dark chocolate, and slivered pistachio.The feast might be lavish but the ingredients used to prepare it are often simple. Rice, puffed rice, rice flour, semolina, whole-wheat flour, Bengal-gram flour, jaggery, saffron, green cardamom, chana daal, and banana are the usual elements. While the food is sattvic in most Maharashtrian homes, there are some sections, who offer non-veg dishes. “For the Kolis and in parts of Ratnagiri, naivedyam is fish. Some parts of Malwan present a naivedyam of non-veg delicacies, especially for Goddess Gauri. It is an interesting tradition. Day two of the celebration is Rishi Panchami for which Rishi Chi bhaji is made. It consists of vegetables grown without any involvement of cattle in the farming process. I make this every year and send it to friends as it is a rare and seasonal mélange of vegetables, which is fading out,” says chef Varun Inamdar, who serves a complete Maharashtrian fare at The Heritage Street.Recipe of Shrikhand Preparation Time: 10 minutesChilling Time in Refrigerator- 1 ½ hoursServes: 04 .Ingredients and Quantity:Hung Curds- 1 ½ cupPowdered Sugar, sifted- 1/4th cupMilk – 01 tbspChironji seeds, blanched- 02 tspGreen cardamom powder- 1/4 th tspSaffron steeped in a little warm milk-  a few strandsFor Garnish:Saffron strands- 1/4th gmAlmonds, blanched, peeled and slivered / Almond flakes-10 gmPistachio nuts, blanched, peeled and slivered – 10 gmRose petals (dried & edible): 01 tsp (Optional)Pepitas, lightly toasted- 1 tspMuskmelon seeds, lightly toasted-1 tspMethod:In a food processor, add Hung curds and sugarBlend it for 30 secondsAdd milk to adjust consistencyRemove in a glass bowl add green cardamom powder, charoli seeds, saffron steeped in warm milk and mix wellChill the shrikhand in the refrigerator for 1 ½ hourServe chilled garnished with slivered almonds, pistachio nuts , dried edible rose petals and  saffron strands.Recipe by chef Reetu Uday Kugaji||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/modak-and-more-food-to-please-the-vighnaharta-101631015276472.html
07-09-2021||Other||IYC members, national president lathi-charged, arrested for fuel hike protest||Members of the Indian Youth Congress, including national president BV Srinivas, were lathi-charged and later arrested by the Goa Police after they decided to march to the chief minister’s residence, officials said. The Youth Congress was holding a ‘peaceful’ agitation at the Azad Maidan in Panaji against hike in fuel prices.Around 40 members of the Youth Congress, including local youth Congress leaders, were arrested by the police. The Congress party condemned what they said was an unnecessary lathi-charge by the police and demanded the immediate release of the activists. “It is a fundamental right of the people to hold agitations and to protest. Nobody can stop this. I was a chief minister as well. Morchas used to come to my house. My private home was also not spared. Any function I used to attend, there they used to be morchas. I have faced it. I have never ordered a lathi-charge. I have faced it. Yesterday, some people who were asking questions of the chief minister were arrested. Is this democracy? What kind of democracy is this?” Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, who was present at the site of the protest, was not arrested,” Digambar Kamat. “Yesterday, some youths who were asking questions of the Chief Minister were arrested. Is this democracy? What kind of democracy? I condemn this lathi-charge. It is a fundamental principle of a democracy that raising your voice, holding agitations and speaking out. We will not hold back and our agitations will continue,” he added. The Congress had organised a protest against rising prices, the weakening economy as well as the ‘monetization pipeline’ that was launched by the Union government. No one was seriously injured in the incident.The protest began with a meeting at the Azad Maidan from where the youth Congress members began to march to the chief minister’s official residence which is a short distance from the Azad Maidan. However, the police set up a picket and didn’t allow the members to march to the CM’s residence prompting a scuffle which resulted in a lathi-charge. “The CM of Goa has failed the people of Goa. He has destroyed jobs. He has destroyed people’s savings and income. He has destroyed the environment of Goa. He has destroyed the pride of the Goan people. We strongly condemn the cowardly action to lathi-charge the YC people who were raising their voice, the pain of the people of Goa. If the CM cannot hear the voices of the people or the YC workers who were agitating for the people of Goa then I would like to tell the CM to step down else we will pull him down,” AICC in-charge, Youth Congress,” Krishna Alluvera said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iyc-members-national-president-lathi-charged-arrested-for-fuel-hike-protest-101631014616546.html
07-09-2021||City||Bengal govt moves Calcutta HC against arrest relief to BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari||The West Bengal government moved the division bench of the Calcutta high court on Tuesday challenging its ‘interim relief’ to BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari from arrest in the 2018 bodyguard death case.On Monday, the Calcutta high court granted relief to the Nandigram MLA from 'coercive action' against him without the permission of the court.Adhikari approached the court seeking relief from probes into six cases registered against him in four police stations across the state, alleging that they were “politically motivated."The Crime Investigation Department (CID) had on Sunday summoned Suvendu Adhikari for questioning in connection with a case related to the probe into the unnatural death of his personal security guard Subhabrata Chakraborty, who shot himself with his service revolver at a police barrack in 2018.The CID set up a team to probe Chakraborty's death based on a complaint filed by his wife. Earlier in June, a four-member team of CID sleuths visited Adhikari's home in East Medinipur as part of the ongoing investigation, in which at least 15 people, including some police personnel, have been questioned.The CID summons on a day the Enforcement Directorate asked West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee to appear before it in New Delhi for questioning in connection with an alleged money laundering case.A former henchman of Mamata Banerjee and a prominent leader of the Trinamool Congress, Suvendu Adhikari shifted allegiance to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) last December, months before the assembly elections in West Bengal. The BJP fielded Adhikari against chief minister Mamata Banerjee from the Nandigram assembly constituency. Even as the Trinamool Congress came back to power in the state with a thumping majority for the third term, Adhikari managed to win Nandigram with a wafer-thin margin of 1,900 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suvendu-adhikari-west-bengal-government-calcutta-high-court-nandigram-101631011241345.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Thane Mayor says corrupt TMC employees hand in glove with unruly hawkers||Mayor of Thane district in Maharashtra, Naresh Mhaske said he has proof that contract workers appointed by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) to act against unruly hawkers in the city were corrupt and compromised. Several Thane corporators, too, agreed that corruption was the root cause behind the hawkers’ menace in the city.“I can give proof that the contract workers appointed by the TMC are on the payrolls of hawkers. Most of the hawkers are from outside the city...,” Mhaske said.The discussion on the irregularities in management of hawkers went on for over eight hours on Monday following the last-month attack, by hawkers, on assistant municipal commissioner (AMC) Kalpita Pingle, when she was on an anti-encroachment drive.Mhaske said that 99% of hawkers in Thane were from outside the city since only 250 of them submitted their address proofs during the registration drive. Corporators from all political parties sought a permanent solution to the hawkers’ menace in the city through speedy implementation of the hawkers’ police and dissolution of the existing hawkers’ committee. Congress corporator Vikrant Chavan made a similar point and said, “Most of those appointed on contract to demolish unauthorised structures put up by hawkers collect bribes from them and allow them to conduct business illegally, leading to an increase in the number of hawkers on the road. There is also a delay in implementing the hawkers’ policy,” he said.Shiv Sena corporator Vikas Repale added, “The hawkers are alerted well in advance about any anti-encroachment drive by some corporation employees, who are hands in glove with them.” Mayor Mhaske said he had directed officials to remove all the hawkers obstructing the roads and footpaths in the city irrespective of the structures being old or new. The general body also passed a resolution to fast track the case against the hawker, who attacked Pingle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-mayor-says-corrupt-tmc-employees-hand-in-glove-with-unruly-hawkers-101631011373215.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 third wave is already here, people must celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi at home: Mumbai mayor||The third wave of Covid-19 is already here, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said on Tuesday as she cautioned people against celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi outside their homes amid the rising cases of Covid-19 and positivity rate over the past few days in the city as well as Maharashtra. "The third-wave [of Covid-19] is not coming, it is already here. It has already been declared in Nagpur,” Kishori Pednekar told reporters. Pednekar also urged people in Mumbai to remain at home during Ganesh Chaturthi, which will begin on September 10, as she stressed that they should wear masks and take other precautions to stop the spread of Covid-19.Kishori Pednekar was referring to Nagpur guardian minister Nitin Raut remarks that the city is already been hit by the third wave of Covid-19. "Today, after a long time, we have come down to twice as many positive cases. We have a third wave," Nitin Raut was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Can celebrate festivals later, save lives 1st: Maharashtra CM backs Covid curbsRaut also said more restrictions could be imposed in the district in the next three to four days as the daily infection count has been rising in double digits. There were 12 cases of Covid-19 in the city on Monday, which have taken its tally to 493,072.Also watch | 'Covid 3rd wave already here': Mumbai mayor's alert as festival season nears
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Chandiwal commission issues bailable warrant against Param Bir Singh||The Justice (retired) Kailas Uttamchand Chandiwal enquiry commission on Tuesday issued a bailable warrant for the arrest of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, as the senior IPS officer has failed to personally appear before the commission.The state government on March 30 appointed the single-member commission headed by the former Bombay high court judge to probe the allegations that Singh made in a letter to the governor and the chief minister. On March 20, three days after he was transferred out of the post of Mumbai CP, Singh shot off a letter to the governor, the CM and others, alleging that former home minister Anil Deshmukh would intermittently summon some Mumbai police officers, such as the then deputy commissioner of police (enforcement) Raju Bhujbal, assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Patil (social service branch) and dismissed assistant inspector Sachin Vaze of the criminal intelligence unit of the crime branch, to his official residence. Deshmukh would then give the officers a target to collect ₹100 crore every month from dance bars, hookah parlours and bars and restaurants in Mumbai, and even suggest that they could easily meet half of the target by simply recovering ₹3 lakh per month from each of the 1,750 establishments in the city, Singh alleged in his letter.Also Read | Corruption case: CBI arrests SI for leaking report, detains Deshmukh’s aideThe panel has been given six months to examine whether Singh submitted the proof to establish that Deshmukh or any staffer from his office committed any offence/ misconduct as alleged in the letter, and whether specific allegations levelled by Singh merited investigation by the state Anti-Corruption Bureau or any other agency.Though Singh is being represented by advocates Sanjay Jain and Anukul Seth before the commission, the one-man panel had earlier imposed a penalty of ₹50,000 on Singh for failing to appear in person and the senior IPS officer has deposited the amount in the state’s Covid Relief Fund, as directed by the panel.The commission has also directed the Maharashtra DGP to issue the warrant through a senior police officer.Advocate Shishir Hiray, who represented the commission, said while interacting with media persons, “The bailable warrant issued against Singh would be executed at the place where he is living now. To get the warrant cancelled he has to appear himself before the commission, along with a bond in the sum of ₹50,000, and only the commission can cancel the warrant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/chandiwal-commission-issues-bailable-warrant-against-param-bir-singh-101631009873289.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Rajesh Tope cites Kerala Covid-19 spike to warn people ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday cited Kerala as an example to ask the people to follow guidelines issued to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state, especially during the upcoming Ganesh Chaturthi festival.“During Ganeshotsav celebrations, everyone should follow Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government. The gathering of crowds leads to an increase in the possibility of the spread of infection. This has been seen in other states,” Rajesh Tope was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Ganesh Chaturthi will be celebrated across the country on September 10 this year.The Maharashtra health minister said the number of Covid-19 infections spiked in Kerala in the aftermath of the Onam festival, where thousands of people thronged crowded marketplaces with hardly any regard for physical distancing protocol.Tope cautioned about around four to five districts in Maharashtra, including Pune, where the number of Covid-19 patients is high.Earlier in the day, Tope ruled out any curbs in the state during the Ganesh Chaturthi festival. The minister said that the state government is closely monitoring the situation pertaining to the Covid-19. “The final decision will be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray,” Tope said.On Monday, Uddhav Thackeray urged the people of the state to avoid crowding during the upcoming festivities to avoid Covid-19 cases from rising. The chief minister also warned the political parties for demanding temples be reopened across the state. "Do not agitate for reopening of temples but do it against COVID-19," he had said.Maharashtra witnessed 3,626 Covid-19 cases on Monday — the state’s lowest daily count since February 15 — and 37 related deaths, taking the case positivity rate to 2.49%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ganesh-chaturthi-covid-19-rajesh-tope-maharashtra-coronavirus-protocol-101631006389992.html
07-09-2021||Other||TDP to defy Andhra govt’s order restricting Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations||The Andhra Pradesh government’s decision to disallow public celebrations of the upcoming Ganesh Chaturthi festival on September 10 is snowballing into a major controversy, as the main opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) on Tuesday announced that it will defy orders and celebrate the festival. TDP national spokesperson Pattabi Ram on Tuesday said that party MLAs and in-charges of all 175 assembly constituencies have been instructed to organise or celebrate the Ganesh Chaturthi festival in a “huge way” while following Covid-19 protocols. “We feel that it is a part of a larger conspiracy by Jagan Reddy to attack one religion,” he alleged. On September 6, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in AP also held state-wide protests demanding the state government allow public celebrations for the Ganesh Chaturthi festival. Party leaders, including state president Somu Veerraju and general secretary Vishnu Vardhan Reddy, and party workers were detained by the police.Also Read | Police detain Andhra BJP chief, gen secy during stir over idol immersion on Ganesh ChaturthiBoth Sudheesh Rambhotla, chief spokesperson for the BJP in AP, and Pattabi Ram pointed out that the ruling Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP), led by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, held a big gathering to observe the memorial of Jagan Mohan Reddy’s father and former chief minister of undivided Andhra Pradesh YS Rajasekhara Reddy on September 2.Chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy held a review meeting on September 2, wherein it was decided to continue the night curfew in AP from 11pm to 6am, keeping in mind the festival season. Based on suggestions from health department officials, it was also decided to limit Ganesh (or Vinayaka) Chaturthi celebrations within homes, instead of holding them in public places.The AP government decided that Ganesh idols cannot be installed in public places and that immersions this year, along with processions, should be avoided. Prior to this, union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on August 28 issued guidelines to chief secretaries of all states and union territories, informing them that Covid-19 guidelines have been extended till September 30.In his letter to the chief secretaries, Bhalla stated that state governments and union territory administrations have been advised to take suitable measures to avoid large gatherings during the coming festive season. He added that if required, local restrictions may be imposed with a view to curb such large gatherings. “In all crowded places, Covid-appropriate behaviour should be strictly enforced,” he wrote.Ganesh Chaturthi, to be celebrated on September 10 this year, is widely observed in cities like Mumbai and Hyderabad. As part of the celebrations, people gather in large numbers to immerse idols in lakes or other water bodies. Many also install Ganesh idols in public pandals. On September 6, AP reported 739 new cases, taking the state’s total tally to 2,022,064. Over the last fortnight, the state has recorded around 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases everydayThe ruling YSRCP called the TDP’s stand on the issue hypocritical. “The decision was taken with regard to the third (Covid-19) wave. We took a decision based on the Central government’s guidelines. If we would have allowed it, then TDP would have said we are allowing it despite the pandemic, and now they are saying this,” said YSRCP MLA and spokesperson Abbaya Chowdary Kothari.Kothari pointed out that the BJP-ruled neighbouring Karnataka has also placed restrictions on the Ganesh Chaturthi festival. “From our perspective, we are not trying to dictate anything to anyone. Everyone will celebrate the festival, but we don’t want massive rallies or public gatherings. Why are the TDP and BJP not questioning the Centre on this?” he questioned. Political analyst Palwai Raghavendra Reddy opined that the TDP is in a “clueless” position in AP currently because the BJP is trying to take over the main Opposition space. “On these issues, the BJP is taking an aggressive stance. The Telugu Desam is struggling as it cannot do too much of Hindutva, as that will benefit the YSRCP. The former will have to identify issues which are not religiously sensitive,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tdp-to-defy-andhra-govt-s-order-restricting-ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations-101631007892971.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Bailable warrant issued against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh||A bailable warrant has been issued against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh by the inquiry commission headed by retired Bombay high court judge, Justice Kailas Uttamchand Chandiwal, on Tuesday, for failing to appear before the probe panel in-person.The Maharashtra government had formed the one-person commission in March to probe the allegations levelled by Param Bir Singh against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh had accused Deshmukh of asking police officers in Mumbai to collect money from restaurant and bar owners.The commission was given six months to determine if the allegations levelled by Singh needed to be investigated by the state anti-corruption bureau, if he had submitted sufficient proof to establish that Deshmukh or any staffer from his office committed any misconduct as alleged in the letter, and to offer any suggestions the commission deemed fit. Singh had filed an appeal before the Bombay high court on August 4 seeking orders to disband the commission.In his appeal, Singh stated that since both the Supreme Court and the Bombay high court ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a probe into Singh’s allegations on Deshmukh there was no need for the Chandiwal commission to continue with their inquiry.The Chandiwal commission had issued summons to Singh multiple times but he failed to appear before it. The commission had also imposed penalties of Rs.5,000 in June and of Rs.25,000 twice last month on Singh for failing to appear before it.Four First Information Reports (FIR) have been filed against Singh, of which two have been filed in Mumbai and two in Thane. On August 21, the fourth FIR was registered against Singh by the Mumbai police on the basis of a complaint filed by a businessman accusing Singh of extortion. A lookout notice has also been issued against Singh by the Thane police to prevent him from leaving the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bailable-warrant-issued-against-param-bir-singh-101631006612989.html
07-09-2021||Patna||Bihar trader’s skeleton found in Jharkhand’s Garhwa district after 104 days||Jharkhand police late on Monday recovered skeletons of two persons including that of a cloth merchant from Bihar’s Aurangabad from a forest area in Garhwa district. Cloth merchant Mithlesh Prasad (68) and his driver Shrawan Prajapati were abducted on May 25 by armed men at around 11.15 pm Palamu district’s Kanda valley while returning from Chhattisgarh after visiting Prasad’s daughter. Prasad’s wife Rita Devi, who was let off by the kidnappers, lodged a police case against unidentified criminals. Later, Mithlesh’s brother Umashankar Prasad paid ₹10 lakh as ransom on June 11 but this didn’t lead to his brother’s safe return as promised. “Abductors assured us that we will find our brother at Hariharganj Bazar, Palamu, but he never returned,” said Umashankar. After June 13, the abductor’s phone was switched off.Mithlesh’s younger brother Sanjay Prasad then filed a petition in Ranchi high court seeking directions to the state police to trace his brother. Palamu police chief (SP) Chandan Kumar Sinha told HT that two history sheeters were arrested following a tip off and they confessed their involvement in the case and also revealed names of three other accused. Those arrested were identified as Premnath Yadav, his relative Ajay Yadav, Amresh Yadav, Shafik Ansari and Omprakash Chandravansi. They confessed to have collected the ransom after killing Mithlesh and his driver. The mastermind of the gang, Premnath Yadav was a police personnel posted at Deoghar, police said.Police recovered four rifles, 80 live cartridges, a Swift Dezire car, a bike and four cell phones from their possession apart from clothes, shoes and slippers of the two victims. The accused told police that they killed the victims on June 1 and dumped their bodies after keeping them hostage in a godown in Ramkanda, 65km from Kanda Valley. Based on Premnath’s confession, police on Monday recovered the buried bodies from Pundaga forest in presence of a scientific team. The skeletons have been sent for DNA testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-trader-s-skeleton-found-in-jharkhand-s-garhwa-district-after-104-days-101631005372960.html
07-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh night curfew timings eased. Here’s what you need to know||Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday relaxed night curfew timings by an hour, according to news agency ANI, as cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been coming down across the state. The state government said in its order that the night curfew will now be in place from 11pm to 6am every day—from 10pm to 6am before this.The Covid-19 tally of Uttar Pradesh stands at 17,09,457 and on Monday 12 new cases were reported from across the state, according to the state health department. Of the 12 Covid-19 cases, two each were reported from Jalaun, Badaun, one each from Lucknow, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Gorakhpur, Kannauj, Azamgarh, Lakhimpur Kheri, Moradabad and Amethi, the bulletin said. There was no fresh death and the toll stood at 22,861, it said. Also read | UP deaths caused by dengue, 2 other diseases: CentreThe active cases of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh stood at 227 of which 186 were in home isolation, it added. Last Saturday, the Uttar Pradesh government said that there were no new Covid-19 cases in 62 districts of the state. There are 75 districts in Uttar Pradesh. Meanwhile, India reported 31,222 fresh Covid-19 cases and 290 deaths taking the tally to 33,058,843, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s data earlier in the day. The country’s death toll has climbed to 441,042 and active cases have declined to 392,864, the Covid-19 dashboard also showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-night-curfew-timings-eased-here-s-what-you-need-to-know-101631003539057.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Belagavi civic polls: Shiv Sena calls BJP celebration insult to Maratha martyrs||Terming the loss of the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) in the Belagavi civic polls on Monday “unfortunate”, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut slammed the Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for celebrating the party’s victory by distributing sweets. Raut said the celebration was a betrayal of the 105 hutatma or martyrs who laid down their lives for a united Maharashtra. The BJP, meanwhile, called the win in the local body polls a victory of Hindutva and Marathi manoos.With local body polls approaching early next year in Maharashtra, including in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Nagpur, Aurangabad among others, the two former allies are targeting each other on the sons of the soil issue and Hindutva agenda. Also Read | BJP city unit demands police case against MP RautShiv Sena had extended its support to MES candidates in the Lok Sabha bypoll held earlier this year, and also during the Belagavi municipal corporation polls--the results of which were announced on Monday. The BJP won 35 of the 58 wards in the city, relegating MES, Congress and other parties to the Opposition benches.Raut, while speaking to reporters in Mumbai, said, “In Belagavi, Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress have never gone to campaign against Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti. The only exception was our old ally, Bharatiya Janata Party. Yesterday [Monday], Ekikaran Samiti lost [the polls], for which they (BJP) celebrated, distributed sweets, expressed joy. It can only be called a misfortune of the 105 hutatmas of Maharashtra that they should distribute sweets for the loss. This is against the sentiments of Maharashtra’s people.”The Sena MP said that the loss of MES was due to the sudden announcement of the polls, leaving little time for the to campaign. He also said that the government split Marathi votes by delimitation of wards. “The loss is unfortunate and the manner in which the Karnataka government is suppressing the voices of the people in the border areas is chilling,” he said.Attacking the BJP further, Raut said, “When the whole of Maharashtra was immersed in sorrow after Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj was arrested in Agra by Aurangzeb, some people here were rejoicing that Maharaj has been captured. Similar joy was seen on the faces of the ones who were distributed sweets.”Responding to the attack, BJP legislator and vice-president of the party Prasad Lad said, “I wish to ask Sanjay Raut that weren’t they ashamed to distribute sweets after joining hands with Congress, which had stood against Hindutva and Marathi manoos? The victory in Belagavi is a win for Hindutva and Marathi manoos. Raut saheb should bear in mind that BJP will never forget Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s saffron flag and the unity of Marathi manoos.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/belagavi-civic-polls-shiv-sena-calls-bjp-celebration-insult-to-maratha-martyrs-101631003212652.html
07-09-2021||Dehradun||Temporary bridge between Dehradun and Rishikesh washed away in heavy rain||The temporary bridge built following the collapse of the Rani Pokhari bridge on Dehradun Rishikesh highway on August 27, too, was washed away on Tuesday morning due to strong water current in the Jakhan river due to heavy rains in Dehradun over the last 12 hours. Dinesh Sindhwal, assistant engineer (AE) Rishikesh Public Works Department said the temporary bridge was built-- using large drainage pipes and stones taken from the riverbed--nearly 100 metres ahead of the main Pani Pokhari bridge, which collapsed last month-end. “As it rained heavily in the night, the water level in the river rose, washing the temporary bridge away. The bridge was around 600 metres long and its middle portion was washed away. Now, the traffic between Dehradun and Rishikesh has been diverted through Thano Bhopur,” he said. Rani Pokhari bridge, which is around 25 km from Dehradun, was built in 1964. Over 20 metre stretch of the bridge collapsed due to the fast and heavy flow of water in the Jakhan river due to incessant rain in Dehradun district on August 27. Later this temporary bridge was built near the collapsed bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/temporary-bridge-between-dehradun-and-rishikesh-washed-away-in-heavy-rains-101631002612906.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||PMLA court cancels warrants against Nirav Modi’s brother-in-law||The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Tuesday cancelled all warrants issued for arrest of Maianak Mehta, brother-in-law of fugitive diamond trader Nirav Modi, after he appeared before the court. The court has now asked Maianak Mehta to co-operate with the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is investigating money laundering aspects of the massive fraud allegedly perpetuated by Modi and his maternal uncle Mehul Choksi, and to intimate the agency before leaving the country.Maianak Mehta, husband of Modi’s sister Purvi Mehta and Purvi Mehta herself have agreed to become approvers in the case. Sources said Mehta travelled from Hong Kong to Mumbai and appeared before the special court, presided over by additional sessions judge VC Barde.ED had already recorded Maianak Mehta’s statement on video conference, which it needed to confirm.Also Read | Court allows PNB to sell Nirav Modi’s properties worth ₹440 croreThe couple had moved separate pleas urging the special court to cancel warrants issued against them on the ground that they had turned approvers and would be deposing as prosecution witnesses.Maianak Mehta had told the court that he wanted to come to India, but apprehended arrest in view of the warrants issued against him. Thereafter, the court had kept all warrants against him in abeyance and instructed the authorities to not take any action against him till he appears before the court.The court had issued several warrants for arrest of the couple; the Interpol had also issued a red notice against Purvi Mehta on the basis of the warrants.Nirav Modi is a prime accused in the ₹13,500 crore fraud at Punjab National Bank. Purvi Mehta had also been accused by ED in the money laundering case.The agency claimed that several of the properties owned by Purvi Mehta were acquired using the proceeds of crime by Nirav Modi in the name of his sister and several companies showed her as the owner.Purvi Mehta had even transferred ₹ 17.25 crore into government bank account as she was granted pardon by the court on the condition of making full and correct disclosure of facts.Senior counsel Amit Desai who appeared for Maianak Mehta told the court that he was ready to co-operate and had travelled to India just to co-operate with the agency, after which special judge Barde cancelled all the warrants against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pmla-court-cancels-warrants-against-nirav-modi-s-brotherinlaw-101631002552389.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||5 of family dead in collision with truck driven wrong side on Meerut Expressway||Two Indirapuram residents were among the five crushed to death when the car in which they were travelling collided head on with a mini-truck that was being driven on the wrong side on the Delhi Meerut Expressway late Monday night, police said. The dead include a one year old toddler and an 11-year old girl. The driver of the mini-truck was arrested and his truck seized soon after the accident. The deceased were identified as Ashish Sinha, 33, his wife Shilpi Sinha, 30, their one-year old son Dev Sinha, Shilpi Sinha’s brother Sonu Kumar, 35, and his daughter, Kavya, 11. Sonu’s wife Nidhi Kumar, 28, and their daughter, Shivi, 4, were admitted to a hospital in Kavi Nagar and are stated to be critical, police said. The impact of the accident was so fierce that the mangled remains of the Maruti Alto car were barely recognisable.“The families were returning late at night from Haridwar when their car collided head-on with a mini truck driven on the wrong side on the expressway near Masuri. The incident led to the death of five persons while two others were injured,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). The family of the deceased said that both the families were returning from Haridwar after the Mundan ceremony of Ashish’s toddler son. “It was the Mundan ceremony of Ashish’s son, Dev, and both families left for Haridwar during early hours on Monday. It was at about 11 pm when the accident took place while they were returning home,” said Pappu Kumar, Sonu’s brother. Ashish’s family is native of Alam Bagh in Lucknow while Sonu’s family resides in Makanpur (Indirapuram) in Ghaziabad. Police said the collision took place at an isolated spot on the expressway near the border area of Masuri and Bhojpur police stations in Ghaziabad. The cops said that the truck driver, identified as Bablu Singh, a native of Amroha, was heading to Rishikesh in Uttarakhand from Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/5-of-family-dead-in-collision-with-truck-driven-wrong-side-on-meerut-expressway-101631001172511.html
07-09-2021||Jaipur||Congress maintains dominance in Rajasthan Panchayat elections||The Congress government in Rajasthan managed to maintain its dominance in the Pradhan elections for 78 panchayat samitis held on Monday. Congress won 49 panchayat samitis, and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) 25. Congress had a clear majority in 26 panchayat samitis and BJP in 14 panchayat samitis, but both were helped by independent candidates. Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, led by MP Hanuman Beniwal won two panchayat samitis. The Congress and BJP both formed their boards in three zila parishads each out of six where elections were held Monday. In a major setback to the ruling Congress party, rebel Rama Devi won the Jaipur zila pramukh seat as a BJP candidate by defeating her rival by just one vote due to cross-voting in elections. State Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra termed the development “backstabbing and betrayal” by the party candidate and said that BJP formed the board by dishonesty. Also Read | Soldier ends life after fiancé’s suicide“Congress had got a majority in four out of six zila parishads while BJP gained a clear majority in one zila parishad and in one, it was near majority. However, the BJP has formed boards in three zila parishad and what happened in Jaipur was backstabbing by our colleagues,” Dotasra told reporters. Dotasra said that what happened in Jaipur was an example of what is taught by BJP, RSS, PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. “They grab power by strangulating and murdering democracy. They topple elected governments and this is what they tried to do in Rajasthan last year but could not succeed. BJP has managed to win the election of zila pramukh by dishonesty. It is not the BJP which has won, it is the backstabbing by our people; which has won,” Dotasra said. Rama Devi, who won the zila parishad election as a Congress candidate from ward 17 in the Chaksu assembly constituency, joined the BJP just hours before zila pramukh elections were held on Monday. The ward is part of the assembly constituency of Congress MLA Vedprakash Solanki, who is considered close to former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. She defeated Congress’ Saroj Devi by just one vote. Enthused with the results, BJP state president Satish Poonia said that this was a trailer for the 2023 assembly elections. “The results disappoint those who feel happy with the defeat of BJP. The public has rejected Congress due to its ideology and conduct. This is a trailer of the 2023 assembly elections,” he said. BJP national general secretary and in-charge, Rajasthan, Arun Singh tweeted that the election result shows that Congress ship is sinking. Despite misusing the government machinery they witnessed defeat, which is the result of infighting as they aren’t able to manage their house, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/congress-maintains-dominance-in-rajasthan-panchayat-elections-101631000992504.html
07-09-2021||Other||Pune: Man kills wife, locks body at home, goes on the run||The police are looking out for a man, suspected to have killed his wife during a fight in Moshi area of Pune, and leaving her body in their locked house until the police found it on Monday.The deceased woman was identified as Dr Sarla Vijaykumar Salve, while the husband, who is believed to have left a self-incriminating note in their house before going on the run, was identified as Vijaykumar Gajanan Salve, a local government official.“She was a doctor at Naidu Hospital. The man is a talathi in Pune. We are looking for him,” said senior police inspector Shivaji Gawari, of MIDC Bhosari police station, who is investigating the case. Also Read | Eight held for minor’s gang rape in PuneThe murder is suspected to have taken place between 11.30pm on Saturday and 11.50am on Monday when the body was discovered. The body was found in the bedroom of the 9th floor flat in Utopia society in Borhadewadi area of Moshi.The woman had head injuries, suspected to have been caused with a hammer and wounds suspected to have been caused with a sharp knife, according to the police.A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at MIDC Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-man-kills-wife-locks-body-at-home-goes-on-the-run-101630999072212.html
07-09-2021||Patna||Forest officials propose vulture conservation in Valmiki Tiger Reserve in Bihar||Forest officials have sent a proposal to the Bihar government to set up a vulture conservation centre in the Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VRT) in West Champaran district on the pattern of Uttarakhand’s Corbett National Park with the aim to save the endangered flying scavengers from extinction in the region, forest officials said.HK Rai, wildlife conservator and field director of the reserve, said a recent study has revealed the nesting of vultures at a few places in Valmiki Tiger Reserve. “It is certainly an optimistic sign and there is no reason why we cannot raise their number in VTR. We are planning the recovery programme for Himalayan Griffon vulture and its habitats, among other species of vultures, whose number have dwindled,” he said, citing the reasons behind the proposal, which may cost ₹57.15 lakh to implement, if approvedIn the course of the survey, the forest department says it has spotted the vultures nesting in Madanpur, Gonauli, Harnatand and Bhikhnathori areas of the reserve. “Our study indicates that these places are conducive for the conservation of vultures,” said the wildlife conservator and field director.Emboldened by the study, the forest officials have requested for the deployment of vulture trackers for protection and regular monitoring of their population. Among other measures for their preservation, they recommend commissioning of watch towers, rescue equipment, medicines and vulture-care and disease diagnosis facilities besides creation of water harvesting structures such as bunds, waterholes and ponds.Quoting some studies, Rai said the number of vultures had dwindled in the south Asian region owing to the use of diclofenac, a non-steroidal and anti-inflammatory drug “Though diclofenac is now banned, we still need to educate the villagers about the importance of vulture species in our environment,” Rai said, sharing his future action plan.In VTR, the Udaypur forest area is also known for a number of winged creatures which include jungle bush quail, red jungle fowl, Indian peafowl, cotton pygmy goose, great crested grebe, black bittern bird, little egroot, red-headed vulture, common moorhen, grey-headed lapwing, Asian cuckoo, blue-tailed beater, Indian grey hornbill, grey-capped pygmy, wood picker, yellow-crowned woodpecker and Himalayan gold black are among others. “Each of them has their own significance in maintaining ecological balance,” said a forest official.A vulture conservation centre has come a long way at Corbett National Park Uttarakhand, raising their population. Officials describe the vultures as scavenger birds which play a pivotal role in cleaning up and maintaining ecological balance.“The most striking attributes of vultures lie in more fact than one. Firstly, their beaks are potent enough to break the bones and thereby leave nothing behind. Secondly, they do not get infected even though they feed on dead animals and infected carcasses. For, the acid in their stomach kills the pathogen and thereby they help in breaking the chain of infection,” said JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand.“Needless to say they keep the spread of harmful pathogens at bay invisibly,” he added.Corbett National Park in Uttarakhand conserves as many as seven species of vultures which include cinereous vulture, Egyptian vulture, red headed vulture, slender billed vulture, white rumped vulture, Himalayan griffon vulture and Eurasian vulture. “These all are on the red list of the International Union for Conservation of Nature, (IUCN) with three of them in the critically endangered zone,” said Rajiv Bhartari, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), Uttrakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/forest-officials-propose-vulture-conservation-in-valmiki-tiger-reserve-in-bihar-101630998471567.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Third round of talks between Karnal admin, farmers fails||After three rounds, talks between the Karnal district administration and farmer leaders, including Rakesh Tikait and Gurnam Singh Charuni, failed. The talks lasted two-and-a-half hours.The farmer leaders are now on their way back from the meeting that was held at the mini secretariat in Karnal. They will discuss the matter at the grain market, the venue of the mahapanchayat, where the decision on the course of action will be taken.The Karnal district administration had offered to hold talks with representatives of protesting farmers on Tuesday. An 11-member delegation, comprising Bharatiya Kisan Union Haryana unit chief Gurnam Singh Charuni Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal attended the talks. Tikait, who is leading the protest to abolish the three controversial farm laws, is in Karnal for the mahapanchayat. Also Read | Ahead of kisan mahapanchayat, security beefed up, barricades in place in KarnalMeanwhile, farmers continue to arrive in large numbers from different parts of Haryana, besides neighbouring Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, to attend the mahapanchayat. The development comes in the backdrop of kisan mahapanchayat of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) at Karnal’s grain market being held Tuesday. The farmers had also decided to gherao the Karnal mini secretariat to protest the lathicharge against them on August 28. On Tuesday afternoon, the Karnal district administration and police quoted ground intelligence reports and said that some “elements” had reached the grain market armed with lathis, iron rods and other weapons. They added that “all such elements will be strictly dealt with in accordance with law”.“Ground intelligence reports indicate that some elements from Rambha, some from Nissing and some from other places have reached the Anaj Mandi armed with lathis, jellis, iron rods etc. It does not show a good intention on their part. Police and Administration have spoken to the Kisan leaders who have tried to persuade such elements to leave the venue, but they are not listening to their leaders. Karnal District Administration and Police is warning such mischievous elements not to take the law into their hands and maintain public order. All such elements will be strictly dealt with in accordance with law,” a notice issued by the administration said.Meanwhile, paramilitary jawans gathered in Karnal over the past 24 hours, and the administration deployed officials of different departments to monitor the barricading of Karnal grain market where the farmers are meeting. As per the officials monitoring the security arrangements, the administration had decided it will not allow the farmers to gherao the mini secretariat, which is around 5km away from the grain market. SKM leaders had said that they will break barricades on their way to the mini secretariat if the police try to stop them.However, movement of traffic on NH-44 remained normal in the morning. Police deployed at important locations in Karnal is not stopping the movement of farmers.Charuni also said that the police opened all the barricades in the morning and farmers were allowed to reach the grain market in Karnal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnal-admin-to-hold-talks-with-farmers-ahead-of-mini-secretariat-gherao-today-101630998412094.html
07-09-2021||Patna||Central team takes stock of damage done by floods in north Bihar||A Central team conducted an aerial survey of flood-hit districts in north Bihar on Monday to report on the extent of damages to the Central government, which could influence the proportion of monetary relief the state gets, said a senior government official. After conducting aerial survey of Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur districts, the 6-member Central team led by Rakesh Kumar Singh, joint secretary in the ministry of home affairs, convened a meeting of district magistrates (DMs) of Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur at Darbhanga collectorate on Monday evening. Darbhanga DM Thiyagrajan SM apprised the Central team about the devastation caused by the flooding of Bagmati, Kamla Balan and Adhwara groups of rivers besides a slew of measures taken to mitigate the miseries of flood-hit population in Keoti, Benipur, Kusheshwar Asthan, Hayaghat, Ghanshyampur and Goura Boram blocks. The DM pointed out that 267,000 families comprising 764,000 people in 130 panchayats were affected and crops in 26,940 acres had been damaged.He also briefed the Central team about the relief delivered to the affected population with the help of national disaster response force (NDRF) teams besides deployment of 410 boats and operation of 290 community kitchens in flood-hit pockets of the districts. Muzaffarpur DM Pranav Kumar said about 440,000 residents in the district were affected by the flooding of the Bagmati, Burhi Gandak and Gandak rivers, leading to 95 related-deaths.Samastipur was flooded in three different phases, affecting 406,000 residents. DM Shashank Shubhankar said during the phase 1 between July 7 and August 1, floods hit 50 villages, affecting 71 thousand people; while in second phase between August 12 and 29, as many as 329,000 residents were affected in 108 villages and in third phase, nearly six thousand people were affected by floods.Meanwhile, according to Samastipur railway division’s senior DCM-cum media incharge, Saraswati Chandra, rail traffic between Darbhanga - Samastipur section was restored after six days at 6.05pm on Monday.Train movements on Darbhanga-Samastipur section were suspended on August 31 as a precautionary measure after a flooded Bagmati river touched a girder of a railway bridge (no. 16) between Thalwara and Hayaghat railway stations in Samastipur rail division under East Central Railway, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/central-team-takes-stock-of-damage-done-by-floods-in-north-bihar-101630996492202.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi court grants relief to Ford India MD and director in cheating case||A Delhi court has granted relief to Ford India managing director Anurag Mehrotra and director David Allan Schock in a case of cheating filed by a dealer of the car maker. Additional sessions judge Raj Rani at the Rohini court, while allowing the bail application of Mehrotra and Schock on Monday, directed that “in the event of (their) arrest, applicant(s) be released on interim bail for a period of 30 days on furnishing of bail bonds in a sum of ₹5 lakh”. The judge asked them to join the investigation whenever asked by the investigating officer and not to tamper with the evidence/influence the witnesses. According to the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Delhi Police, a case was filed by Libra Cars, a Ford dealer located on GT Karnal Road, New Delhi, in November last year, alleging cheating and criminal breach of trust on the grounds that Ford India had violated the terms of the agreement between the parties by appointing another dealer within a radius of 10km from the complainant’s showroom. Also Read | Delhi HC tells govt to ensure court infra upgradedWhile advocate Vijay Aggarwal appeared for Mehrotra, advocate Rohit Kochhar represented Schock during the arguments. Aggarwal told the court that the allegations made in the First Information Report (FIR) were purely civil in nature and there was a delay of more than 18 months on part of the complainant in the registration of the case. The dealership was terminated in March 2019. Aggarwal and Kochhar further argued that Ford India has nothing to do with the alleged offences as it is not the company which cheated Libra Cars, rather the dealer himself cheated the public at large as he did not follow the terms and conditions in the agreement of dealership. While granting relief, the court observed that the investigating officer has nowhere stated that custodial interrogation/arrest of Ford India MD and director is required. “IO submitted that accused David Allan Schock, who is a resident of USA, has joined the investigation through video conferencing and Anurag Mehrotra has also joined the investigation. IO has also not stated that the specimen signature of applicant is required,” the order states. It says the reply filed by the investigating officer also states that the complaint (by Libra) is devoid of any substance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-grants-relief-to-ford-india-md-and-director-in-cheating-case-101630996072025.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Environment min unveils smog tower at Delhi’s Anand Vihar||The union environment ministry on Tuesday launched Prana, a portal on progress of the national clean air programme. It also inaugurated an experimental smog tower at Anand Vihar on the occasion of International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies. Bhupender Yadav, environment minister, said out of 132 cities that do not meet the clean air standards, 86 had shown improvement in air quality parameters in 2018, which increased to 104 cities in 2020. The environment ministry will be sharing the list and status of cities later in the day.The Supreme Court directed the government to explore the possibility of installing smog towers (giant air filters) in the national capital in 2019 following an episode of smog and very poor air quality.Also Read | Delhi weather: Cloudy sky with light rain likely today, says IMDThe smog tower has been developed by teams from IIT Delhi and Mumbai and will be used experimentally for two years before deciding on whether the technology can be scaled up. It is effective within 1km radius, according to environment ministry officials. India released its National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) in January 2019. NCAP doesn’t have a legal mandate but aims to achieve a 20% to 30% reduction in PM 2.5 (respirable, pollution particles) concentrations over 2017 annual levels in over a hundred cities by 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/env-min-unveils-smog-tower-at-delhi-s-anand-vihar-101630994632350.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP puts up Sikh faces in run-up to assembly elections||In the run-up to the Punjab assembly elections early next year, the state BJP unit has appointed columnist Colonel Jaibans Singh (retd) as its state media adviser and Kuldeep Singh Kahlon as its panellist for debates. Also read: Form panel and talk to us, Punjab SAD to farm bodiesApart from Col Singh and Kahlon, the Punjab unit of the BJP has appointed Harvinder Singh Kahlon of Jalandhar as the state spokesperson (TV), Dr Jaswinder Singh Dhillon of Amritsar as the state co-convener of its intellectual cell, Nirmaljit Singh of Mohali, Jagmohan Singh Saini of Patiala, Kavita Sarowal of Patiala and Jeevan Mahajan as special invitees, Sukhpal Brar of Faridkot and Baljinder Singh Dakoha of Batala as co-convenors of the panchayati raj cell. “By appointing this new set of office-bearers, the Punjab BJP has vested a high-level responsibility on all prominent Sikh faces of the state who were taken into the party fold on June 16. This move indicates the seriousness with which the party is pursuing its policy to create a pan-Punjab signature after its break-up with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD),” said a statement issued by the BJP. “The most prominent is the appointment of Col Jaibans Singh as media adviser for the Punjab BJP. He has vast experience in the field being a strategic analyst and commentator with expertise in Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab affairs,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-bjp-puts-up-sikh-faces-in-run-up-to-assembly-elections-101630993372017.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Kingpin of all women gang robbing women at Mumbai railway station nabbed||The Government Railway Police (GRP) arrested a 68-year-old member of an all-women gang, wanted for stealing from several long distance train passengers, in Kurla on Monday.Explaining their modus operandi, GRP officers said the three women, all from Solapur, would look for potential victims among women passengers of trains leaving from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus in Kurla, and steal their luggage after befriending and pretending to help them board with their luggage. “The three used to talk to women commuters, advising them like an elderly family member to keep their bags next to them and watch out for thieves before escaping with their valuable luggage,” said a officer from Kurla GRP.On July 16, the gang robbed a woman named Ilsi Varghese (40), who was travelling to Kerala by Netravati Express. They decamped with a bag containing valuables while feigning to help her. Verghese said the bag contained jewellery worth ₹2.81 lakh.She realised that she had been robbed only after reaching Kerala, following which she approached the GRP with a complaint.The GRP officers scanned the CCTV recordings of platform number one of Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, from where Vergese had boarded the train and were able to find the footage of the three women seen entering the station. They were identified by the victim.“We found out through our informers that the women were residents of Solapur,” said inspector Gajanan Shedge, from Kurla GRP.After obtaining their addresses, the GRP officers raided their houses but could only find one of them - Lakshmibai Maruti Jadhav. Her associates Shantibai Gaikwad (65) and Renuka Jadhav (60) had fled by the time and were now being hunted by the police force.The police arrested Jadhav and recovered gold jewellery worth ₹2.02 lakh from her possession. “Jadhav is the mastermind of the gang. We have arrested her for theft under Section 379 of the IPC,” said Shedge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kingpin-of-all-women-gang-robbing-women-at-mumbai-railway-station-nabbed-101630992531801.html
07-09-2021||Jaipur||Political message in tree plantation drive across Rajasthan on Pilot’s birthday||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s supporters are planting hundreds of thousands of trees across the state to mark his birthday on Tuesday and also to send a political message that the Congress leader enjoys support throughout Rajasthan.Pilot, who turned 44, will be meeting his supporters and party workers at his residence in Jaipur from 11 am onwards amid continuing tensions with the state unit of the Congress over the delay in cabinet rejig. Pilot’s supporters feel they have been hard done by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who, they believe, has resisted efforts to share power with the disgruntled group.Former general secretary of the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) Mahesh Sharma said the plantation drive was being conducted across 200 assembly constituencies to celebrate Pilot’s birthday and the target was to plant 1 million trees across the state.Pilot’s supporters said it will be a record-breaking exercise, surpassing the single-day record of planting 611,000 saplings in 2009 by a team of volunteers led by the then Dungarpur district magistrate.A minister in Gehlot’s cabinet said that “Pilot was making all efforts to maintain his relevance and this was not the first time that he was trying to remain in ‘charcha’ (public discourse).”On Pilot’s last birthday, around 45,000 units of blood were collected in 400 donation camps. Political analyst Manish Godha said the effort was to show his strength and how much people support him. Such a program, especially during the ongoing political crisis, was a message to the party high command that Pilot has mass support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/political-message-in-tree-plantation-drive-across-rajasthan-on-pilot-s-birthday-101630990492750.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of kisan mahapanchayat, security beefed up, barricades in place in Karnal||Hundreds of jawans of paramilitary forces and policemen from different districts of Haryana have been deputed to Karnal as chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s constituency emerges as the new epicentre of the ongoing farmers’ agitation.A kisan mahapanchayat of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) at Karnal’s grain market is due to be held Tuesday. The farmers have also decided to gherao the Karnal mini secretariat to protest the lathicharge against them on August 28.By deputing 40 companies of paramilitary forces, diverting traffic and barricading every nook and corner of Karnal, the administration has given the farmers to understand that they will not be allowed to gherao the mini secretariat.Also Read | We’re ready for the farmers: Haryana’s Anil Vij on Kisan Mahapanchayat in KarnalParamilitary jawans gathered in Karnal over the past 24 hours, and the administration deployed officials of different departments to monitor the barricading of Karnal grain market where the farmers are scheduled to hold a meeting at 10am. As per the officials monitoring the security arrangements, the administration will not allow the farmers to gherao the mini secretariat, which is around 5km away from the grain market. SKM leaders have said that they will break barricades on their way to the mini secretariat if the police try to stop them.However, movement of traffic on NH-44 remained normal in the morning. Police deployed at important locations in Karnal is not stopping the movement of farmers.Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said that the police opened all the barricades in the morning and farmers were allowed to reach the grain market in Karnal.Farmers to gather in groupsSKM leaders have asked farmers to gather in groups and requested those in nearby districts to bring their tractor- trolleys. “We request the farmers to come in groups, avoid any confrontation with the police, and cross the barricades peacefully. Even if the police beat you, don’t react,” said Charuni to farmers. There are reports that thousands of farmers will also come from Singhu and Tikri borders of Delhi, as senior leaders from SKM are likely to attend this meeting, to call for the action against Karnal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Ayush Sinha, who allegedly directed the police to hit farmers on the head if they crossed the barricades on August 28.Trucks to be used as barricadesBarricades from the nearby districts have also been brought to Karnal to barricade the Karnal mini secretariat.The Karnal district administration has also parked trucks carrying construction materials along highways to use them as barricades to stop the movement of farmers from Karnal grain market to mini secretariat. “We were told to park the truck near the grain market around 12pm on Monday and the cops also took the keys of my truck after I parked it near the main entrance. We were told not leave the truck despite not having anything to eat,” said a truck driver Mohammad Tanvir, who was transporting construction material from Yamunanagar to Shamli of Uttar Pradesh. However, they have not been used to barricade areas until nowPeople slam Internet suspensionHaryana government’s move to suspend Internet services in five districts has evoked severe criticism from people. The government clarified that the step was taken to prevent disturbance of peace and public order but people termed the move as a diktat. “District administration Karnal announces suspension of internet services from 12.30 am on 7th Sept to black out #FarmersProtest #InternetBlackoutByBJP”, wrote Kisan Ekta Morcha on Twitter.The farmer leaders alleged that the move to suspend Internet services was taken to avoid communication and sharing of videos by farmers on social media. Kurukshetra University had to postpone exams scheduled on September 7 due to the suspension of Internet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/security-beefed-up-prohibitory-orders-in-place-in-karnal-ahead-of-kisan-mahapanchayat-101630987311495.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records over 28% of August Covid-19 cases in first 6 days of Sept||The first six days of September have led to concern in Mumbai due to increase in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. According to BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, from September 1 to 6, the city recorded over 28 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases it had recorded in the entire month of August.The data from the civic body shows that Mumbai already reported 2,570 Covid-19 infections in the first six days of September, which comes at 28.9 per cent of the total 9,147 cases recorded in the entire month of August.Also Read | Can celebrate festivals later, save lives first, says Maharashtra CMThe spike in the cases has left the BMC officials worried ahead of the festive season beginning on September 10 with the Ganesh Chaturthi."One month is important for us. Currently, people are going out for the ten-day Ganpati festival (beginning September 10). They will return after immersion (Anant Chaturdashi). Hence this period and the next 15 days will be very crucial for us," additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani told news agency ANI.He also said that the civic body has decided to ramp up Covid-19 testing, hire more clean-up marshals to fine people spitting at public places and keep jumbo care centres ready.Civic officials said there might be a further spike a fortnight after the Ganesh festival.Mumbai on Monday reported 379 fresh coronavirus positive cases and five fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 7,46,725 and the death toll to 15,998. The city is now left with 3,771 active cases, a BMC official said.The city has been reporting over 400 cases for nearly a week now, but the BMC has attributed the spike to relaxations given in the past one month and said it was not the beginning of the third wave.With the surge in daily cases, the active Covid-19 cases, which had dipped to 2,700, jumped to 3,771 as of September 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-over-28-of-august-covid-19-cases-in-first-6-days-of-september-101630985391999.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CBI arrests 3 engineers in 2 cases of bribery||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested three engineers of the postal department and Central Public Works Department (CPWD) on Monday. The arrests were made in two separate cases of bribery.The first case was registered against Kul Bhushan, an assistant engineer (civil) at postal civil sub-division, Ambala Cantt, for allegedly soliciting a bribe of ₹10,000. The complainant, a contractor, had finished repairing two buildings at Kaithal and Gulha, after which he demanded that his payment of ₹94,000 (approximately) be cleared. However, the assistant engineer demanded a bribe of ₹10,000 to releasing the remaining payment.Soon after, CBI laid a trap based on the contractor’s complaint and caught the accused while demanding and accepting a bribe of ₹10,000. After investigation, it was found that the said bribe had to be shared with the executive engineer (current charge), who was also apprehended. Also Read | Lookout notice against ex-Maharashtra minister Deshmukh over corruption caseSubsequent searches were conducted at the premises of the accused in Ambala and Delhi, leading to the recovery of incriminating documents. Both the assistant engineer and the executive engineer were produced before the designated court in Panchkula. The court remanded them to judicial custody for 14 days.In another case, CBI arrested one Akshay Kumar, a junior engineer, CPWD, Chandigarh, for demanding and accepting a bribe of ₹55,000 from a contractor. The complainant had finished renovating a gym and a creche in a government building . When the complainant requested the accused to clear the payment of his bills for ₹14 lakh (approximately), the junior engineer allegedly demanded a bribe of ₹55,000 to do so.CBI laid a trap and caught the accused demanding and accepting a bribe of ₹55,000. Searches were also conducted at his premises in Chandigarh and Delhi. The accused was produced before the designated court, Chandigarh, following which the court remanded him to judicial custody for 14 days.Both cases are currently under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-cbi-arrests-3-engineers-in-2-cases-of-bribery-101630985451408.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Cloudy sky with light rain likely today, says IMD||Delhi is likely to witness a cloudy sky with light rain on Tuesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Tuesday is expected to touch 28 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 34 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Monday was 27.4 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 36.2 degrees Celsius.As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, light rain is expected on Wednesday, followed by moderate rain on Thursday and Friday.Also Read | 29% of India is witnessing dry weather, shows IIT studyDelhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Tuesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 99. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 122 in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".On Monday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the moderate category with lead pollutant PM10 as predicted due to stagnant condition arising from anti-cyclonic condition (merging of wind form south-west and east side of Delhi). With the change in wind mainly from the eastern side, and an increase in ventilation, AQI will improve to moderate with the inclusion of regional IGP pollution, and will remain so for the next two days due to very small/no rainfall.”.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-cloudy-sky-with-light-rain-likely-today-says-imd-101630984071407.html
07-09-2021||Lucknow||Asaduddin Owaisi to launch AIMIM's campaign for UP polls from Ayodhya today||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) national president Asaduddin Owaisi will on Tuesday address a conference of “vanchit-shoshit samaj” (deprived and victimised communities) in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya, thus launching the party’s campaign for the assembly elections which are slated to take place early next year. The conference will take place in Rudauli area of the district.Also Read | AIMIM to launch UP assembly poll campaign from Ayodhya on Sept 7Owaisi, the Lok Sabha MP from Hyderabad, will then address conferences in Sultanpur and Barabanki on September 8 and 9 respectively. The Barabanki visit will mark the conclusion of the AIMIM chief’s visit to the northern state.Owaisi’s visit to Ayodhya, however, comes in the backdrop of a massive controversy triggered by the AIMIM referring to the Ayodhya district by its old name of Faizabad. Local seers have raised objection to this and threatened that they will not allow the rally to take place if the word “Faizabad” is not dropped from the posters or if the posters are not taken down.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had renamed Faizabad to Ayodhya on November 6, 2018, on the occasion of Diwali. The previous month, Allahabad’s name was changed to Prayagraj, as it is known today.The AIMIM has announced it will field 100 candidates in Uttar Pradesh, which has a total of 403 assembly seats. It is also a member of the Bhagidari Sankalp Mprocha, which is an alliance of smaller political parties. Om Prakash Rajbhar’s Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), too, is a member of this alliance along with outfits such as Jan Adhikar Party, Rashtriya Uday Party and Janata Kranti Party.Invitation has also been extended to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Bhim Army to join this pre-poll alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/asaduddin-owaisi-to-launch-aimim-s-campaign-for-up-polls-from-ayodhya-today-101630973074752.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Smog tower to be inaugurated at Anand Vihar today||Delhi will get another smog tower on Tuesday near the Anand Vihar metro station. The area is one of the pollution hotspots in the national capital and the tower will help bring the levels of pollutants down.Union ministers Bhupendra Yadav and Ashwani Choubey are expected to participate in the inauguration function and dedicate the structure to the public under the 'National Clean Air Program'.The tower, built by Tata Company, has a capacity of 1,000 cubic metres per second.On August 23, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated a similar structure in Connaught Place in central Delhi. The smog tower was inaugurated at Baba Kharak Singh Marg months before the pollution level spikes in the national capital due to burning of crop waste by farmers.Smog towers are structures designed to work as large-scale air purifiers. They are fitted with multiple layers of air filters and fans at the base to suck the air.After the polluted air enters the smog tower, it is purified by the multiple layers before being re-circulated into the atmosphere. This is called the downdraft air-flow model.It is also built with similar technology used to construct the Connaught Place tower. Both the towers have been built by Tata Projects Limited (TPL), with technical assistance from IIT Bombay and in collaboration with IIT Delhi.Following high pollution levels in the national capital, the Supreme Court had in November 2019 asked the Centre and the Delhi government to come up with a road map on installing smog towers in the national capital region (NCR) to combat air pollution.Delhi was the most polluted capital city in the world in 2020 for the third consecutive year, according to a report by a Swiss group (released in March this year) that ranked cities based on their air quality measured in terms of the levels of ultrafine particulate matter (PM 2.5) that can enter the organs and cause lasting damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-smog-tower-to-be-inaugurated-at-anand-vihar-today-101630972423486.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Massive landslide blocks Shimla-Kinnaur highway||A massive landslide blocked the Shimla-Kinnaur highway (national highway five), which connects the mainland with strategic regions along the Chinese border, near Jeori in Rampur sub-division of Shimla district on Monday.A 100-m stretch of the highway was damaged in the landslide. However, no loss of life was reported. Rampur sub-divisional magistrate Yadvinder Paul said a portion of the hill crumbled around 9:30am. “Police personnel had already been deployed on both sides of the spot after the rockfall began around two days ago,” he said. The National Highway Authority Of India and Public Works Department has pressed men and machinery to clear the road of boulders and debris. Meanwhile, another landslide near Katgaon in Kinnaur district has blocked the Wangtu-Kafnu Link Road. A 40m stretch has caved in causing traffic jam on the road connecting Katgaon to Wangtu and Bhabanagar. This is the third landslide reported in Kinnaur district this season. In July, nine tourist had been killed after shooting stones propelled their vehicle into a deep gorge near Batseri village. Twenty-eight passangers of an HRTC bus were buried under a landslide near Negulaseri last month .This year, the state has suffered a loss of around ₹950 crores due to landslides, while around 350 people have died in rain-related incidents across the state.Yellow alert till September 10 Meanwhile, the Shimla centre has issued a yellow warning for heavy to very heavy rains, thunderstorm and lightening across Himachal Pradesh till September 10, except districts of Kinnaur, Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti.There is possibility of water accumulation in low lying areas and landslides in hills, said director of Shimla MeT centre Surender Paul.People have been advised to not to venture near water bodies and check travel advisory before starting their trip to hills.In last 24 hours, parts of the state have received moderate rainfall. Dharamshala was the wettest place recording 23.8mm of rainfall, Nalagarh 23.6mm and Bilaspur 17mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/massive-landslide-blocks-shimla-kinnaur-highway-101630964569707.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal high court issues notice to chief secretary over installation of stone crusher||The Himachal Pradesh high court issued notices to the chief secretary, State Pollution Control Board, Hamirpur deputy commissioner, Nadaun sub divisional magistrate, and Jol Sappar gram panchayat secretary over the installation of a stone crusher in the village, which is allegedly adversely affecting the ecology of the area. A division bench comprising acting chief justice Ravi Malimath and justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed these orders on a petition taken up suo moto by the court as a Public Interest Litigation on a letter addressed to the chief justice by one Dalip Singh. The petitioner has alleged that one Shri Ramesh Kumar had applied for a no objection certificate from the gram panchayat, for setting up a stone crusher and the panchayat had issued the same, without considering its adverse impact on the area. He alleged that along with the crusher, a water lifting project had been installed in the Kunah Khad, which is on the verge of closure as the water level is constantly dropping. Dalip also said that heavily loaded tippers are damaging the link roads connecting the national highway and that mining in the ravine was being carried out till a depth of 30-40 feet and that mining rules are being violated. He has alleged that on account of indiscriminate mining, the water level of hand pumps is also decreasing and the health of the humans and animals is also being adversely affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-hc-issues-notice-to-chief-secy-over-installation-of-stone-crusher-101630963607621.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Protest against IGMC’s decision to stop langar service grows shriller in Himachal||Two days after the langar run by philanthropist Sarabjit Singh Bobby’s charitable organisation Almighty Blessings was ‘forcibly’ shut down, the protest against Indira Gandhi Medical College authorities grew shriller on Monday with many social and non profit organisations threatening to launch a stir. Sarabjit Singh Bobby, who is better known as Bobby Vella, has been running the free food service since 2014. IGMC authorities have called the langar service ‘illegal’ as it was being run on the premises of a hospital building, without a regularised electricity and water connection. Different organisations in Shimla held a joint press conference condemning the action of the IGMC administration. The organisations, which included the Sanatan Dharma Sabha, Ganj Bazaar, Shimla; Sood Sabha, Shimla; Valmiki Sabha, Shimla; Gurdwara Singh Sabha and Baba Saheb Ambedkar Welfare Sabha, described the action taken against langar service as unfortunate. “We all strongly condemn the way in which the langar service was closed down at IGMC. It should continue in public interest and the sentiments of the people of Shimla should be honoured,” said Jaswinder Singh, president, Gurudwara Singh Sabha .On the other hand, senior medical superintendent Janak Raj said, “Hospitals are run as per rules and regulations, not sentiments. Activists of the Congress’ youth brigade led by Virender Singh Banshthu also staged a demonstration outside the hospital “How is it that the administration realised that the langar was being run illegally after seven years? The social service being rendered by Almighty Blessings should not be politicised,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protest-against-igmc-s-decision-to-stop-langar-service-grows-shriller-in-himachal-101630963428227.html
07-09-2021||Other||Himachal logs 228 fresh Covid infections||Himachal Pradesh recorded 228 fresh coronavirus infections on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 2,14,732, while the death toll mounted to 3,597 after two more patients succumbed. Of the new cases, 59 were reported in Mandi, 40 in Shimla, 39 in Hamirpur, 31 in Kangra, 25 in Bilaspur, 14 in Chamba, seven in Lahaul-Spiti, five each in Kullu and Una, two in Kinnaur and one in Solan. Active cases have touched 1,699, while 2,09,417 people have recovered in the state so far. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 47,896 cumulative cases, followed by Mandi and Shimla districts with 30,107 and 26,773 cases, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-logs-228-fresh-covid-infections-101630962828132.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||5 days after Geelani’s death, mobile internet restored in 8 districts of Kashmir||Mobile internet was restored in eight districts of Kashmir division on Monday, five days after a clampdown was imposed after separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani’s death. The services were restored after 7pm in all districts of the Valley, except Srinagar and Budgam. “Mobile internet will be open shortly today by 7pm in all districts except Srinagar & Budgam. Will review about Srinagar & Budgam tomorrow afternoon,” said inspector general of police (IGP, Kashmir) Vijay Kumar in a tweet. Businesses opened partially and traffic started plying in Jammu and Kashmir.In Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, markets and shops were opened partially, while public transport also resumed in some areas. Private vehicles were also seen plying on roads. Javaid Ahmad, who owns a shop in the city centre, says, “Many markets had opened in Lal Chowk by the afternoon, although not a 100%. Transport services have also resumed.” In the Old City, some areas remained shut. “Normal life is still partially affected. Shops remained closed in Nowhatta, Hawal and Eidgah, while markets opened in Khanyar, Rainawari and Khayam,” said Muzaffar Ahmad, a resident of Down Town. Complete shutdown in Kulgam A large number of security personnel were also deployed across Kashmir. Normality was established in Anantnag, Pulwama, Shopian and Baramulla, whereas a complete shutdown was observed in Kulgam. Authorities had imposed a clampdown across Kashmir after the death of 91-year-old separatist leader on Wednesday evening. Streets were barricaded and key roads were sealed to restrict the movement of people in a clampdown similar to the one imposed after the nullification of the region’s semi-autonomous status in 2019. Internet connections and mobile networks were snapped and only post-paid mobiles of BSNL and its broadband services were allowed to work. Mobile calling and broadband internet services were restored on Friday night and restrictions were partially eased, unannounced, in parts of Kashmir on Saturday.Geelani, who spent around two decades in jail, had died after a prolonged illness. He was buried at a graveyard near his residence in Srinagar’s Hyderpora around 4.30am on Thursday. However, his family alleged that the police had forcibly taken away his body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-days-after-geelani-s-death-mobile-internet-restored-in-8-districts-of-kashmir-101630962348920.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A cubicle like no other||It looks like a cave, but completely of wood. The tiny store in Old Delhi’s Galli Choori Wallan street has its doorway flanked on either side with a tall column of petis, or wooden crates. The boxy space inside the doorway is crammed on three sides by stacks of wooden slabs. And here sits Liyakatullah. It’s a sluggish afternoon and he is having his post-lunch chai. From across the street, the scene resembles a Mughal miniature painting.In his 50s, the nimble-limbed Liyakatullah makes petis for bazar merchants. “Before me, my father Barkatullah would sit here and make similar petis. Before my father, my grandfather Kifayatullah would sit here and make similar petis.”Like many people in the Walled City, Liyakatullah talks of the past as if it was something that had happened this morning, just after breakfast. “This lane used to be full of tinke wale, who would make tinke wali tokri,” he says, referring to little baskets woven out of jute grass. In the old times, he says, the shopkeepers here would have their lunch delivered from home in those quaint baskets—they are now replaced by plastic baskets. The tinke wale workers are gone too. “Only a few elderly people can tell you that this street wasn’t known as Galli Choori Wallan, or the bangle sellers street, but as Galli Tinke Walli.”As he stays perched on his heirloom seat, it is easy to reduce Liyakatullah to his cubicle. As if all of him consisted of his inherited occupation. But the modest man has transcended those limitations, and has lately earned the reputation of one of the Walled City’s most respected kabutarbaz, or pigeon trainer. It is said that a kabutar groomed by “Liyakat” can fly miles before returning to its owner’s rooftop—whereas an average pigeon might cross ten rooftops at best before returning. “I learned kabutarbazi from Ustad Sultan of Galli Bundu Paan Wali street in Urdu Bazar” he says in a low voice, as if embarrassed to talk of his distinguishing trait.By now the tea break is over, and Liyakatullah retreats to the concerns of his unique cubicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-cubicle-like-no-other-101630961655188.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||DDA revamp drive at fault for Nehru Place flooding: Traders||Basements of several buildings in Nehru Place flooded during last Wednesday’s heavy rains, and traders have blamed the mess on poor site management by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), which is undertaking a comprehensive redevelopment of one of the city’s key business hubs.Inder Kohli, a member of the Nehru Place Welfare Association, said, “Last Wednesday, basements of close to 20 buildings, including the cloth market, were flooded. Traders had to deploy people to pump out the water. DDA has dug up the market for redevelopment work. The market is haphazardly dug up and the pace of work is so slow.”Traders also alleged that DDA has not upgraded the stormwater drain network.“The rain water harvesting points are not constructed properly and are leaking. There is no drainage plan. We have the transformers in the base. It is so risky if the basements get flooded,” said Kohli.The authority started the ₹99-crore redevelopment work at Nehru Place in 2019. The work includes the revamp of plaza, facades, strengthening of storm water drain system and construction of toilets.A senior DDA official, however, said the basements of private buildings were flooded due to seepage.“DDA has close to 10 buildings in the market and no flooding was reported from there. Most of the buildings in the market have been constructed by private developers and property owners have to get the seepage problem fixed. The flooding has nothing to do with the ongoing development work,” said the official who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-revamp-drive-at-fault-for-nehru-place-flooding-traders-101630961502750.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Denial of last rites to Geelani’s family against humanity: Mehbooba Mufti||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Monday said that the current dispensation was afraid of the body of senior separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani and said that the government could not ask people to like or dislike a leader on gunpoint. The Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president said that the government should have allowed Geelani’s family to perform the last rites. “Instead, Geelani’s family members, including women, were beaten up and cases were slapped against them,” she said, adding, “India is respected across the world for its democracy and in a democracy everybody has right to put forth their perspective.” “You cannot ask people to Iike or dislike a leader on gunpoint,” she Mehbooba. “Without any call, people voluntarily closed their shops and business establishments. Even those who did not like Geelani’s ideology were hurt by the government’s treatment of Geelani’s body,” Mufti said. Geelani, 91, passed away on Wednesday night and his family alleged that his body was snatched by police forcibly and buried at Hyderpora graveyard without their consent. Former chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday had said that Kashmir has been turned into an open air prison. “Having turned Kashmir into an open air prison, now even the dead aren’t spared .A family isn’t allowed to mourn & bid a final farewell as per their wishes. Booking Geelani sahab’s family under UAPA shows GOI’s deep rooted paranoia & ruthlessness.This is New India’s Naya Kashmir,” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/denial-of-last-rites-to-geelani-s-family-against-humanity-mehbooba-mufti-101630961629101.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC tells govt to ensure court infra upgraded||The Delhi high court on Monday warned that it will call for records of the state government’s expenditure on advertisements and subsidies from April 2020 if a proposal to set up upgraded infrastructure at lower courts and quasi judicial bodies is turned down.Noting that “access to justice is the right of every citizen”, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said that hearings over video conferencing may continue for an indefinite period as Covid-19 is not showing any signs of subsiding.“We don’t want it to shuttle like a shuttlecock... It is not for luxury, it is absolutely essential... hearing of cases through online mode may have to be resorted to for an indefinite time before we are able to resume full physical functioning of courts,” the court said.“If the Delhi government turns down the proposal, it shall place before the court a complete statement of expenses incurred from April 2020 on subsidies and public advertisements,” the court added.On Monday, Delhi government counsel, Shadan Farasat, told the court that a proposal had been floated by the law department for consideration, approval and implementation of a hybrid hearing project in all the Delhi district courts, with a preliminary assessment estimating the cost at ₹227 crore.The bench said that the Delhi government cannot be seen as dithering in providing infrastructure and other facilities for functioning of trial courts through hybrid mode, adding that “this is a bullet which they have to bite”.The court was hearing two pleas by lawyers Anil Kumar Hajelay and Manashwy Jha seeking various prayers, including to conduct hybrid hearings in district courts on physical hearing days in view of Covid.On Monday, Farasat submitted that the proposal was forwarded to the Finance minister Manish Sisodia who has sent it back for discussion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-tells-govt-to-ensure-court-infra-upgraded-101630961187839.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Hurriyat faction condemns FIR against Geelani’s family||The Hurriyat Conference faction led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Monday condemned the filing of an FIR against Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s family members over the alleged draping of separatist leader’s body in a Pakistani flag on Wednesday night.In a statement, the Hurriyat said, “The details shared by Geelani’s son in media that the authorities took the body of the 92-year-old leader into their custody, and buried it on their own without the knowledge and participation of the family is appalling and painful to hear,” the amalgam said.“It is so tragically inhuman when a family is denied the basic right of burial of their loved one and one can only imagine what the family must have gone through. After such harshness the authorities are now harassing the family with FIRs and threats of arrests,” it said.The Hurriyat said the people of Kashmir stand with Geelani’s family “in this hour of grief and injustice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hurriyat-faction-condemns-fir-against-geelani-s-family-101630960847388.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||25-year-old found murdered in Kalyan near Mumbai||The body of a 25-year-old domestic help was found on the street in a plush residential area in Gandhari, Kalyan, on Monday morning. Khadakpada police officers found the husband of the victim missing and suspected that he allegedly murdered her by hitting her head with a rock. A team of officers is on the lookout for the accused.The victim , Lakshmi Mohite, a resident of Savad village in Bhiwandi, came to the locality every day to work in several households . Her body was spotted by residents around 10am, lying in a pool of blood on the side of the road that connects Kalyan city to Titwala. Most of the road is under construction.Ashok Pawar, senior inspector of Khadakpada, said that the investigation is in process. He added, “We found her head hit by a rock, which prima facie looks like the reason for her death. We have sent the body for post mortem and contacted her relatives. They informed us that the couple regularly fought with each other. Her husband is completely untraceable. We are checking the CCTV footage of the area and have begun the search for her husband Janardhan Mohite.”The woman was living with her maternal uncle and worked for a few relatives in Kalyan to repay a loan she had taken. Her husband was upset about it and would fight with her. Lakshmi was his second wife and he insisted that they live together with the first wife and add the name of the first wife in Lakshmi’s properties in her village. She refused to agree, because of which he would often allegedly hit her and tortured her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/25yearolds-body-found-in-kalyan-near-mumbai-101630960487388.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir emerging as golfing paradise||The picturesque Kashmir Valley is emerging as the country’s golfing capital with the number of visiting golfers up by 15 times this year. Buoyed by the response from golfers, the J&K administration is planning to hold seven golf tournaments in Kashmir over the next two months in which 126 top golfers from the country and abroad are participating. Jammu and Kashmir has six world standard golf courses, comprising three in Srinagar, one each at Pahalgam, Gulmarg and Jammu. The army and police have smaller golf courses for their personnel at different places in the valley. An upbeat tourism and culture secretary Sarmad Hafeez says, “The golfing circuit of Jammu and Kashmir, particularly Srinagar’s iconic Royal Springs Golf Course and Pahalgam Golf Course, provides unparalleled world-class experience. Seven golf tournaments of national and international standards are to be held over two months, including the PGTI-Pro tournament.” Hafeez says golf packages are being launched to attract more golfers. “This way, tourism in Jammu and Kashmir is picking up with heritage, adventure and golf being on the enquiry list of prospective tourists.” Preparations on in full swing According to officials, the Gulmarg Golf Course is being redone. The 18-hole course located in a meadow at an elevation of 2,650 metres, is the highest green golf course in the world. After remaining closed for seven years after the devastating floods of 2014, the Kashmir Golf Course, which has been relaid, and its fairways and greens redone, was thrown open last month. An academy has come up at the golf course where young boys and girls are being trained. The Jammu-Tawi Golf course has been developed to match international standards. The scenic Pahalgam Golf course at an altitude of 2,150m is surrounded by fir-covered mountains with bare, snow-capped peaks rising behind them. Hafeez says all 100 caddies and other staff members at the golf courses have been inoculated. “Now, all major cities in the country have direct air connectivity with Srinagar and Jammu. The tourist inflow to the Valley, includes golfers.” The Royal Springs Golf Course has hosted many national and international events and its beauty always attracts ace golfers from different places. In the backdrop of Zabarwan Forest Range, the course is surrounded by forests. This 18-hole golf course has practice fairways of approximately 225m with three lakes, two marshes, a club house, and 8.5km cart path. The course is spread over 100 hectares of land. Mega golf tournament in October Chairperson of the Kashmir chapter of PHD Chamber of Commerce, Baldev Singh, said a mega golf tournament will be organised in Srinagar in October. “As many as 200 golfers from India and abroad will take part in the mega tournament at the Royal Springs Golf Course. Invitation has been extended to many ambassadors and hopefully the event will attract a good number of tourists, especially golfers to Jammu and Kashmir,” he said.Dr Jaspreet Singh, who lives in Chandigarh, had recently travelled to Srinagar with his wife to play golf in the scenic Valley. “I regularly fly to Srinagar to play golf. Two months ago, I played at the Royal Springs Golf Course and am planing to return in October. Other golfers should also visit Kashmir as it is only a 35-minute journey.” Manzoor Ahmad, a local golfer, said Kashmir has lovely courses with international standards. “Golf can be promoted as tourism sport, but there is a lot that still needs to be done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-emerging-as-golfing-paradise-101630960247485.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Mangroves across Mumbai to get CCTV cameras||To stop destruction and encroachment on mangroves, the chief minister-headed Mangrove and Marine Biodiversity Conservation Foundation has approved a plan to install closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras at over 100 locations in Mumbai and around the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray gave nod to the plan to set up 279 CCTV cameras in three phases, which is expected to cost ₹35 crore over the next five years. Thackeray, during the fourth meeting of the foundation held at Varsha bungalow, said mangroves should be preserved and directed officials of the mangrove cell to plant more mangroves along the coastal areas of the state. The Mangrove and Marine Biodiversity Conservation Foundation of Maharashtra is an autonomous society that assists the state government in coastal marine conservation. Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests, mangrove cell, said the recurring cost of the CCTV network is expected to be ₹5 crore per year, while the one-time expense is ₹10 crore. “There are 106 spots where 279 cameras will be put up in phases. In phase one, we will have CCTVs installed at Bhiwandi and Mira-Bhayander, which are chronic spots. In the second phase, western suburbs areas like Charkop and Malwani will get the CCTV network, while in the third phase, it will be installed in the eastern suburbs and Navi Mumbai,” Tiwari said. The CM also approved setting up of a mangrove research and training centre at Bhakti Park, Wadala. According to a statement from the chief minister’s office, at the meeting, Thackeray suggested that a large-scale public awareness campaign should be carried out to save mangroves and that they should be planted in the coastal areas.He also said areas being developed by the Mangrove Cell, the flamingo santuary in Thane Creek and other activities should be promoted to boost nature tourism. Tiwari said the council also approved the purchase of patrolling boat which is estimated to cost ₹1 crore, which will patrol coastal areas to save mangroves, dolphines, turtles, and other marine animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eyes-on-mangroves-nod-for-plan-to-set-up-cctvs-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-101630959287289.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh record 7-wicket win over Baroda in JP Atray meet||With useful knocks from Taranpreet Singh (72) and Amrit Lubana (57 not out), UT cricket association recorded a fine seven-wicket win over Baroda in a match played during the 26th JP Atray memorial cricket tournament for Trident Cup at the Mahajan Cricket Ground, IT Park, on Monday.Batting first, Baroda scored 217 runs in 48.5 overs. In reply, UTCA achieved the target in 45.3 overs, losing three wickets. Himachal log thumping 181-run winHimachal Pradesh recorded a huge 181-run win over Bihar in a match played at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium. HP plundered 304 runs, losing seven wickets in the allotted 50 overs. Bihar XI were bundled out for 123 in 35.5 overs. Left-arm spinner Akash Vashisht bowled an incisive spell bowling claiming five wickets for 38 runs. RoundGlass Punjab FC sign 3 players
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: School bus operators seek road tax exemption||Members of the Chandigarh school bus operators’ welfare association (CSBOWA) have demanded exemption from road tax for the period between March 2020 and March 2022, in view of the losses they suffered due to the pandemic. CSBOWA is the apex body of nearly 500 school buses of Chandigarh catering the tricity. The association held a press conference on Monday.CSBOWA president Manjit Singh Saini said, “For the last 18 months, the operation of school buses has come to a complete halt, due to which it has become difficult for bus owners and their staff to make ends meet. Some had even bought the buses on instalment.” Two seed stores lose licence in MohaliThe chief agriculture officer has suspended the license of two seed stores after finding irregularities during regular checking to ensure quality agrochemicals and seeds supply to farmers in Mohali district. The firms are Thuha Pesticides and Seed Store, Zirakpur, and Rohit Fertilisers, Kurali, said assistant deputy commissioner Komal Mittal, adding that further action is being initiated against them.College teachers join protest at PULocal members of the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union joined the chain hunger strike at the Panjab University campus on Monday. The strike was kicked off on Sunday by the university and college teachers in Punjab and Chandigarh to push for UGC pay scales. ICSSR invites proposals for financial assistanceThe north-west regional centre of Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR), Panjab University, has invited proposals for financial assistance for organising seminars, conferences and workshops during the year 2021-22. They have also invited applications for study grant to the research scholars pursuing PhD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-school-bus-operators-seek-road-tax-exemption-101630959047101.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Highest pollution levels in Chembur, Deonar, Mahul: Mumbai Climate Action Plan data||According to information presented during a public consultation on Monday – pursuant to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) proposed climate action plan for the city – the M-East (M-E) ward was found to suffer from the highest levels of air pollution out of the 24 administrative wards in Mumbai.This is not out of the ordinary, experts and officials emphasised, as areas within M-E– Chembur, Deonar, Mahul, Govandi, among others – have long been notorious for higher pollution levels owing to the presence of a power plant at Trombay, the Deonar landfill and petroleum refineries among other contributing factors.Though raw data used by the World Resources Institute (WRI), India, in arriving at this assessment is not publicly available, experts working on drafting the Mumbai Climate Action Plan (MCAP) said that M-E ward suffers from “consistently higher levels” of gaseous pollutants, including sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide and nitrogen dioxide. This was based on the analysis of remote sensing data from June 2019 to May 2020, obtained from the European Space Agency’s Copernicus Sentinel-5P satellite.An official with the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), occupying the post of regional officer, said, on the condition of anonymity, said, “M-E ward is certainly the most polluted. There is presence of a power plant and refineries in addition to a construction boom in the past two decades which has led to illegal dumping of construction waste in open areas, contributing to air pollution. The geography of the area also does not allow for coastal winds to clean up particulate matter the way it happens on the western sea front, as Trombay hills act as windbreakers. Another major source of pollution in the area is informal recycling units, which burn waste to obtain scrappable metals from waste.”However, the problem of gaseous pollutants is not confined to M-E ward alone. WRI India’s presentation also showed other wards – M-West (Chembur), H-W (Bandra, Khar) and H-E (Bandra East, Dharavi, Mahim), G-North (Dadar), F-N (Matunga), K-E (Andheri East), L (Kurla) and N (Ghatkopar) wards –to be suffering from a high concentration of nitrogen dioxide (NO2), which emanates largely from power generation, industries and diesel use (mainly in heavy duty vehicles). Carbon monoxide pollution was also found to be high mainly in T (Mulund West), G-South (Worli), F-S (Parel) and M-W wards, while sulphur dioxide pollution was found to be highest in H-W, H-E, G-N, F-N, M-W and S (Bhandup) wards.In addition to gaseous pollutants, pollution control board and IIT Madras (IIT-M) data analysed by WRI found that south and central Mumbai suffer from the highest concentrations of PM2.5 – respirable particulate matter which is about thirty times thinner than a human hair – between June 2019 and May 2021. K-E ward (where the airport is located) was found to have an average annual concentration of around 100ug/m3 (micrograms per cubic metre of air), which is more than double the safe limit of 40ug/m3. However, the lack of disaggregated data in the WRI’s presentation makes it hard to pinpoint the distribution of PM2.5 across the city.Debi Goenka, executive trustee, conservation action group (CAG), said, “M-E ward may be the most polluted area in the city, but the BMC would have been aware of this since the early 1980s. The real question is why and who is accountable for this? Will BMC move the industries out of the area now? Authorities, including BMC and MPCB (Maharashtra Pollution Control Board), have both previously maintained that there is no air pollution in the area, especially when they wanted to set up slum rehabilitation projects in Mahul. It’s a bit too late to admit to the obvious now.”As a part of the environment status report for BMC, the Environmental Pollution Research Centre (EPRC) of King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital had carried out a respiratory morbidity survey of 2,483 patients across the city between 2015 -16, mostly focusing on workplaces and residential areas. The study stated that of the 406 residents surveyed at Mahul village in Chembur, 46.7% were unhealthy. At Bainganwadi in Deonar, more than four of every 10 respondents had respiratory problems. Chembur has also been recognised as a ‘critically polluted area’ with respect to air quality by the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) latest available Comprehensive Environmental Pollution Index (CEPI) assessment in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/highest-pollution-levels-in-chembur-deonar-mahul-mumbai-climate-action-plan-data-101630958867162.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||CHB to take up one-time settlement issue in Sept 8 meeting||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will take up the issue of regularisation of building violations and one-time settlement on Delhi pattern, in the board of directors meeting scheduled for September 8.CHB residents’ welfare federation has been demanding implementation of the “Delhi Model” for resolving the contentious issue, which affects the lives of more than 4 lakh city residents.Notably, earlier this year, the CHB had categorically stated that it will not re-examine the issue of regularisation of illegal constructions. CHB had in 2019 issued a policy to allow residents to regularise unauthorised constructions in their flats. Originally, the regularisation policy was announced in 2017. But only 40 applications were received whereas CHB’s 2020 survey had revealed that 90% of its 65,000-odd dwelling units had massive structural violations.The 2019 policy is applicable only for the additions or alterations within CHB dwelling units and not encroachments. In case violations are not removed, at own cost, allotment may be cancelled and possession resumed. CHB had directed that a certificate of structural stability of the building has to be submitted. In its April 2021 order, the CHB stated action against additional constructions or alterations will be kept pending till December 21, 2021. However, allottees who do not deposit the penal charge on the basis of self-certified area, may be issued notices of demolition or cancellation thereafter.The CHB allottees complain that need-based changes allowed by the CHB didn’t resolve their problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chb-to-take-up-one-time-settlement-issue-in-sept-8-meeting-101630958629506.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two held for duping Dhanas man at ATM booth||Two men who had swapped a customer’s debit card and cheated him of ₹50,000 at an ATM booth in Dhanas on August 1 have been arrested, Chandigarh Police said on Monday.They have been identified as Kuljit Kumar, alias Guddu, 29, of Dhanas and Rajat, 23, of Jhujhar Nagar, Mohali.According to the FIR, Dhanas resident Sagar Chand had gone to withdraw money when Kuljit, who was already standing in the booth, offered to help him. Later, Kuljit claimed that the ATM was not working and left with Rajat, who was waiting on a bike. Sagar realised that he had swapped his card when he received messages about five transactions worth ₹10,000 each. Booked under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code, the two were arrested following a tip-off. They were produced in court on Monday, and sent to four-day police remand. Man held with heroin in PanchkulaThe detective staff of Panchkula police arrested a 22-year-old man with 3.8gm heroin. The accused has been identified as Maninder Singh, 22, of Surajpur. As per the police, their team was patrolling in Rajipur village when they saw a youth coming from the opposite direction. On seeing the cops, the youth tried to hide in the bushes following which they nabbed him and found the contraband in his possession. A case under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhtwo-held-for-duping-dhanas-man-at-atm-booth-101630958628302.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||1,700 active mucormycosis cases in Maharashtra, protect Covid patients, say experts||More than 1,700 patients with mucormycosis — an invasive fungal infection — are currently under treatment in Maharashtra. State health authorities have expressed concern and have advised doctors to take utmost care in order to reduce the possibility of Covid-19 patients catching this opportunistic infection. “The fatality rate in mucormycosis is more than 20%,” additional chief secretary (health) Pradeep Vyas said in an online conference, which was attended by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and health authorities from across the state. “The surgery often involves removal of eyes and mandible, and causes disfigurement. The overall cost of treatment of mucormycosis is also very high,” he said, adding that mucormycosis cases go up when Covid-19 is not treated properly. Commonly known as black fungus, mucormycosis is caused by a group of molds called mucormycetes that are present in the environment. These fungi attack humans who are battling illnesses such as Covid-19, when the body’s immunity is at its lowest. A large number of mucormycosis cases have been seen in Covid-19 patients, who had undiagnosed diabetes or had uncontrolled sugar levels while undergoing the treatment. Nurse-driven sugar control protocols for mucormycosis“Nearly 80% of patients who have contracted mucormycosis had poor sugar control,” said Dr Rahul Pandit from Fortis Hospital who is a member of the Covid-19 task force. Read: Maharashtra govt caps rate for black fungus treatment at private hospitals“In our unit, we did not use a lot of steroids and we ensured good sugar control of patients. Due to these measures, we did not have a single case of mucormycosis between March 2020 and May 2021,” he said. The medicines given as standard in Covid-19 care, including steroids, contribute to increasing blood sugar level. Pandit advises that hospitals should have “nurse-driven sugar control protocols” for intensive care units (ICU) and high dependency units. Nurses should be trained to constantly monitor and update sugar fluctuations in patients and alert doctors. Covid-related mucormycosis cases so farMaharashtra has recorded 10,104 cases and 1,328 deaths due to mucormycosis so far. Of the 1,718 patients currently undergoing treatment, the highest number of cases is in Nagpur at 467. Many patients travel to bigger cities for mucormycosis surgeries as hospitals in rural areas don’t have specialists and advanced surgical setups. For instance, nearly half of the mucormycosis patients treated at the civic-run KEM Hospital in Mumbai were from outside Mumbai. “One-third of the patients required at least three surgeries to remove the infected tissues,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital. The hospital currently has 24 patients on treatment. During the peak in May, there were 124 mucormycosis patients being treated at one point in time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1700-active-mucormycosis-cases-in-maharashtra-protect-covid-patients-say-experts-101630958627148.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: NIA opposes Rona Wilson’s plea for bail to visit Kerala||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday opposed the temporary bail plea filed by Elgar Parishad accused and activist Rona Wilson to visit his native place in Kerala to attend the mass organised following his father’s death. The agency contended that Wilson’s brother can attend the family’s prayers and the presence of the accused was not necessary at the venue. Wilson had filed the plea on Saturday through advocates Satyanarayan Iyer and Neeraj Kumar and sought temporary bail for two weeks, starting September 13.NIA, through its counsel Prakash Shetty, filed a reply to the plea. “The final rites of Wilson’s father are already over. The family prayer on death of his father can be attended by brother and other family members of the applicant. The applicant’s presence is not necessary. He is simply creating a ground for his release. Accordingly, he may carry out illicit activities and influence and tamper with the prosecution’s evidence. The application is devoid of merits,” NIA has said in its reply.Kumar pointed out to the court that recently, the Bombay high court had granted temporary bail to another accused in the case, human rights lawyer Surendra Gadling, to visit his native place and perform rites on his mother’s first death anniversary.He also highlighted that Wilson had cooperated with the investigators till now, since his house had been searched on April 18, 2018, and his arrest on June 6, the same year.The jailed activist’s father had died on August 18. Wilson, through his counsel said, at this time, if he is given the liberty to meet his family and participate in the mass, the accused could get some solace and hence, filed the bail application.Wilson has said that as per customs, a function has been organised on the 30th-day ritual that falls on September 16. Wilson has also annexed a letter from St Sebastian Church about the function.Special NIA judge Dinesh E Kothalikar has posted the matter for decision on Tuesday.Meanwhile, the court on Monday also heard the bail application filed by another accused, Vernon Gonsalves, citing the Covid-19 recommendations of the state’s high-power committee. Gadling and Gonsalves had filed for bail citing the Covid-19 guidelines, while another accused, professor Shoma Sen, has filed a fresh bail application on health grounds. Kabir Kala Manch Members Sagar Gorkhe, Jyoti Jagtap and Ramesh Gaichor along with Mahesh Raut have also filed regular bail applications, citing that they have been framed in the case and there was no evidence against them.The court has kept their pleas for hearing on September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-nia-opposes-rona-wilson-s-plea-for-bail-to-visit-kerala-101630958507060.html
07-09-2021||Other||For jobs, research scholars protest outside Punjabi University Patiala||Patiala Research scholars of Punjabi University protested outside the varsity, claiming that the state government had failed to create jobs in government colleges and varsity institutions. They set up fruit and vegetable kiosks outside the varsity, claiming that if things did not improve, they could be forced to lead the life of a street vendor. Most of these research scholars have qualified the UGC-NET exam and are pursuing MPhil and PhD degrees. In Punjab, there are 1,873 sanctioned posts of lecturers, of which 1,292 are vacant. To tide over the staff shortage, the department has roped in 882 guest faculty and 251 part-time lecturers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/for-jobs-research-scholars-protest-outside-punjabi-university-patiala-101630958447138.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Now, get occupancy updates at parking lot entrance||Now, before entering a parking lot, vehicle users in Chandigarh will be able to know how much space is available.MC commissioner Anindita Mitra said on Monday that display boards to share live updates of occupancy have been made operational at 80 of the 89 parking lots under the MC.The development comes after Mitra held a meeting with parking contractors on September 1 and directed them to implement the “in-out information system” and all other facilities mandated under the contract within a week.The working of parking lots has come under severe criticism as they lack proper facilities for motorists. Even UT adviser Dharam Pal had highlighted the poor management of these lots.During the meeting on September 1, the MC chief had also told the parking contractors to prominently display rate lists besides “No Parking” and “No Haphazard Parking” signs wherever needed. Pictures of number plates of serious violators have to be taken and action must be initiated against them in coordination with police and MC authorities. A WhatsApp group has been created for the purpose.Contractors will also have to ensure proper quality uniform for attendants deployed at the parking lots. “The MC had got all men trained again. I have directed that all personnel be given whistles and extra manpower be provided to manage internal parking. Inspections will be carried out Friday onwards,” said Mitra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhnow-get-occupancy-updates-at-parking-lot-entrance-101630958388147.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: OPD registration for GMSH-16 at Sampark Centres too||In view of rush at Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, patients will be able to do OPD registration at Sampark Centres in Chandigarh. Also, online OPD slots at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, will be increased by 33%.UT health secretary Yashpal Garg made these announcements after a surprise visit to the two government hospitals on Monday. “At GMSH, there was a huge rush for OPD registration and it was very difficult to maintain social distancing. During the day, about 1,800 OPD registrations were done,” said Garg. He said the issue was discussed with the Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC) and it was found feasible to allow registrations at Sampark Centres for nominal charges around ₹10.It was also decided that online registration should be encouraged and a separate window should be created at GMSH so that online registered patients can get barcode printed OPD cards without any hassle, Garg said. Accommodation for attendants“A front desk is also to be provided at the hospital so that all information about the indoor patients is available at one place and the visitors don’t have to run around,” directed Garg.For the attendants of indoor patients at the two hospitals, dormitory accommodation will be provided at UT Guest House No 2 (earlier known as Panchayat Bhawan) on priority.“The director hospitality is to provide such accommodation out of the available 100 dormitories, on the basis of documents relating to indoor admission,” Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhopd-registration-for-gmsh-16-at-sampark-centres-too-101630958208250.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||PMLA case: Deepak Kochhar challenges special court order against him||Deepak Kochhar, the husband of former managing director (MD) and chief executive officer (CEO) of ICICI Bank Chanda Kochhar, has approached Bombay high court (HC), seeking quashing of the January 30 order of the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court which had directed initiation of process against him being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The agency’s investigation relates to siphoning off high value loans from ICICI Bank worth ₹300 crore. Kochhar has claimed that while in 2020, the statutory adjudicating authority under PMLA had clearly stated that the said property was not proceeds of crime, ED had suppressed the fact before the special court and got an order for seizure. In light of this, Kochhar sought quashing of the PMLA court order. In the petition filed through advocate Dadhichi Mhaispurkar, Kochhar has challenged the order of the special judge which is based on the Enforcement Case Information Report of ED. Through the order, the special judge had not only taken cognisance but also summoned Kochhar as well as other accused in the offence. The petition stated that the order is without jurisdiction and was obtained by ED after suppression of the fact that on November 6, 2020, the adjudicating authority under PMLA Act had held: “The very same properties which are alleged as proceeds of crime in the prosecution complaint did not amount to proceeds of crime and thus not involved in money laundering.” Kochhar has also pointed out that in 2019 the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had not found any evidence to file a charge sheet against Kochhar or any other person. The petition stated that the special court’s order amounted to violation of his rights under Article 21 and hence sought its quashing, and also sought a stay on the operation of the order till the petition is heard. The petition will come up for hearing on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pmla-case-deepak-kochhar-challenges-special-court-order-against-him-101630958206935.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cotton growers, agri dept on toes as pink bollworm pest spreads tentacles in south Punjab||Cotton growers in south Punjab are a worried lot these days as pink bollworm infestation has been reported in more areas ahead of the main harvesting period of the kharif crop starting next week. According to the state agriculture department, all 14 blocks of Bathinda and Mansa, the two biggest cotton-producing districts of Punjab, have reported the pest attack. A total of 3.25 lakh hectares is under cotton cultivation in Punjab. Nearly 5% of the area under the crop in Bathinda (96,000 hectares) and Mansa (65,000 hectares) is under the pest attack. Agriculture officials said presently there is no serious threat to cotton production. The maiden picking of the three-picking cycle of cotton is expected to begin after September 15 whereas farmers have started harvesting in the early-sown fields.BT cotton is resistant to American bollworm, but experts say it is susceptible to the pink bollworm as has been seen in Maharashtra, Gujarat and now in Punjab for the second consecutive year. Sources said last year, traces of pink bollworm were found in few pockets of 20 villages in Bathinda and Mansa but in the last few weeks, the pest’s presence is felt in the larger area of the cotton belt.Experts and the agriculture department blame oil mills, cotton ginning units and a section of villagers for ignoring the laid-down protocol to avoid the pest.Bathinda chief agriculture officer Manjit Singh said an intense surveillance was started at the village level from Monday.“Our teams have started holding awareness and field inspection camps and the task in both districts would be completed by Saturday. At present, the economic threshold level of the pest is within permissible limits,” said Singh, who also is in charge of Mansa.Economic threshold level is pest density at which control measures should be applied to prevent increasing pest population. Agriculture development officer Ajaypal Brar said the permissible limit is five adults per cotton ball or flower and the initial inputs suggest in the most area the infestation is not critical.“The next 15-20 days are crucial to containing the infestation. Farmers have been advised for regular inspection of fields and go for spray only if the pest infestation is beyond ETL,” said Brar. Sharanjit Singh, a progressive farmer from Mansa’s Mann Khera village, said cotton growers were hoping for a remunerative season due to high prices being offered by traders but the pest attack in the region is a cause of concern.“Farmers should have completely removed cotton straw, which is used as firewood or consumed to energise brick kilns completely from the fields. Now, the use of additional sprays of pesticides means an avoidable increase in the cost of production,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cotton-growers-agri-dept-on-toes-as-pink-bollworm-pest-spreads-tentacles-in-south-punjab-101630958148259.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||4 ASIs booked for taking bribe for letting off men carrying unaccounted cash in Jalandhar, 2 held||Four assistant sub inspectors (ASIs) of Jalalndhar rural police have been booked under charges of corruption and extortion for allegedly accepting ₹4 lakh bribe for letting off two men who were carrying ₹25 lakh unaccounted cash at Phillaur on September 3. The accused ASIs are Husan Lal, Sukhwinder Singh, Kuldeep Singh and Parmod Kumar who were on duty at a checkpoint on the Jalandhar-Ludhiana national highway in Phillaur. While Hussan Lal and Sukhwinder have been arrested, Kuldeep and Parmod were absconding, officials said. The police have recovered ₹3.97 lakh bribe amount from the arrested accused. “The four stopped a Maruti Alto car for checking at the high-tech checkpoint, where high-resolution CCTV cameras are installed. When they found ₹25 lakh unaccounted cash in the car, they demanded ₹4 lakh from the vehicle occupants, identified as Vishal Bajaj of Abohar and Jasbir Singh of Tarn Taran. The cops let the two off after accepting the money,” a police official said. When Phillaur police station in-charge Sanjeev Kapoor learnt about the incident, he informed his senior officials and lodged a case against the ASIs. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Harneel Singh said the source of the money the car occupants were carrying will be clear once they are arrested. “Our teams are trying to trace the ASIs and the two car occupants. A case was registered against the accused cops under section 384 (punishment for extortion) of the Indian Penal Code and section 7of the Prevention of Corruption Act,” he added. Interestingly, the police checkpoint is monitored by the office of the Jalandhar senior superintendent of police (SSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-asis-booked-for-taking-bribe-for-letting-off-men-carrying-unaccounted-cash-in-jalandhar-2-held-101630958146857.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bus services in Punjab hit as roadways contractual staff goes on strike||Seeking regularisation of their jobs, nearly 8,200 outsourced and contractual employees of the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), Punjab Roadways and the Punbus on Monday went on a strike for an indefinite period. Bus services remained largely affected in different parts of the state, causing inconvenience to the general public. As per reports, at least 80% of buses remained off the road. Only 30% of the PRTC’s 1,100 buses plied on their routes. The protesting employees staged protests at bus stands across the state. The commuters were a harried lot as heavy rush could be witnessed at bus stands and bus stops. Many were seen hiring private taxis to reach their destinations.The transport department has directed the managements of the state transport undertakings to deploy their regular staff, presently doing desk jobs, on field duties so as to minimise the impact of the strike. Harkesh Kumar, state general secretary of the Punjab Roadways, Punbus and PRTC Contractual Workers’ Union, said they held meetings with several ministers and senior officials in the last one month but nothing concrete came out.“We were told that the government would discuss the matter in a cabinet meeting in August but no agenda related to our jobs was tabled. The contractual conductors are being paid a meager ₹9,118 per month, while the drivers are getting ₹10,200. We are being exploited for the past 15 years,” he said. The union is also demanding stringent measures to check the transport mafia, streamlining of daily roaster, implementation of equal work and equal salary and to stop unnecessary harassment of employees on the pretext of daily reports.PRTC managing director Bhupinder Singh said they somehow managed to run 30-35% of buses on different routes so that people do not face any inconvenience. “We are hopeful that the situation will improve in the coming days as more regular employee will be deployed on field duties,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bus-services-in-punjab-hit-as-roadways-contractual-staff-goes-on-strike-101630958093036.html
07-09-2021||Other||Defunct toilet reopens in Ambala slum||The sole community toilet catering to over 150 slum families in Ambala City’s Amba Market has been finally restored, after remaining defunct for almost a year. Hindustan Times had earlier highlighted the plight of slum dwellers, especially women, who were forced to defecate in the open.Municipal corporation commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata on Monday said, “The toilet services have been restored. The sewer pipe of the particular toilet was choked, due to which it was closed. I had already written to the public health engineering department (PHED) for cleaning it and work was completed last week.” Civic affairs experts had also pointed to the violation of open defecation-free (ODF)++ status that mentioned “…not a single person is found defecating and/or urinating in the open, all community and public toilets are functional and well-maintained….” Khadgata had, however, rejected the claim and vouched for the presence of two more toilets in the area.‘It will choke again’Meanwhile, Mukesh, a slum dweller, contended that the re-opening was temporary. “The pipe will get choked again,” he said.Seconding his apprehension, ward councillor Mithun Verma said the sewer line of the toilet is not connected to any main line and so the problem will prevail in future too. “I will raise it before PHED officials,” the Congress leader said.Dinesh Gaba, executive engineer, PHED, said, “There will be no such problem in the future and the concern will be cleared out with the councillor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/defunct-toilet-reopens-in-ambala-slum-101630958090218.html
07-09-2021||Other||Accomplices of jailed gangster fired at Moga cop: SSP||Moga Two bike-borne men, who fired at a Moga police head constable at a check-post near Darapur village are accomplices of gangster Navdeep Singh, alias Jon Butter, police said on Monday. Navdeep is lodged at Faridkot Modern Jail and faces 25 FIRs. Moga SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the accused have been identified as Darshan Singh, alias Kala, of Korewala village and Nirmal Singh, of Bhagthalan Kalan village, of Faridkot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/accomplices-of-jailed-gangster-fired-at-moga-cop-ssp-101630958089125.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||High court seeks Punjab’s reply on old pension for teachers hired under zila parishads||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought a response from the Punjab government on a petition challenging imposition of the new pension scheme (NPS) on teachers recruited under the zila parishads.The response has been sought by December 14.The court was informed that 268 teachers were appointed by the department of rural development and panchayats in 2006-07 under the zila parishads on a regular basis. Their services were to be governed by Punjab Panchayati Raj Institutions Primary Teachers (Recruitment & Conditions of Services) Rules, 2006, and the Punjab Panchayat Samitis and Parishads Employees Pension and Provident Fund Rules, 2000, which entitle them for the benefit of contributory provident fund scheme and pension as admissible to the regular employees under the Punjab Civil Services Rules. It was further argued that due to the state’s policy, the services of these teachers were merged with the education department in 2014 with protection to their pay, pension etc. However, on the merger, the NPS was imposed upon them from January 2015. The NPS was introduced by the Centre in 2004 and subsequently adopted by the states.It was also argued that on February 23, 2017, instructions were issued that the employees recruited prior to July 9, 2012 would be entitled for old pension scheme under the Punjab Civil Services Rules. Since these teachers were appointed under zila parishads they are entitled for benefit of the old pension scheme and imposition of NPS upon them is illegal and unjust, it was contended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-seeks-punjab-s-reply-on-old-pension-for-teachers-hired-under-zila-parishads-101630958086932.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||No Covid third wave in Mumbai yet, says BMC||While the city has witnessed a spike in the number of cases in the past few days, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday said it was not the beginning of the third wave, but added that the next 30 days would be crucial. Civic officials said there might be a further spike a fortnight after the Ganesh festival, which begins on Friday. The city has been reporting over 400 cases for nearly a week now, but the BMC has attributed the spike to relaxations given in the past one month. The BMC recently allowed shops to stay open till 10pm, opening of malls and restaurants etc. due to which there was a possibility of cases going up. Further, starting August 15, fully vaccinated citizens were also allowed to travel on suburban local trains.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We are closely monitoring the situation and are preparing to tackle the spike in the number of cases. However, the spike is not the third wave or start of the third wave. It will be very premature to say that now… The next 30 days are going to be crucial in terms of the spike. We are going to have people travel, mingle and socialise during the Ganesh festival and post that a spike is expected. It might be in the next 30 days or even by the end of September.”Read: Maharashtra Covid-19 surge: Don’t hold gatherings, Uddhav Thackeray requests political partiesFurther, the BMC has also decided to ramp up its testing, as the city has opened and is now reporting a spike. From testing around 30,000-35,000 samples daily in the first week of August, the city has increased testing to 40,000-45,000 in the first week of September. In the coming days, testing will increase further, said BMC officials. The BMC has also asked all hospitals in the city to be on alert and also started to work towards arranging oxygen cylinders, medicines and essential injections.Dr Madhav Sathe, former microbiology professor at Nair hospital, said, “There has been a slight rise in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and Thane for the past few days, but this was expected amid the increase in travelling. In the backdrop of Ganesh festival, there has been a significant rush in markets and a lot of people are going to their native places, as many could not go last year due to the travel ban. We will not witness the third wave and if it does come, it will not be severe due to vaccination that has taken place so far. We still need to take safety precautions.”On Monday, the city reported 383 cases and five deaths, taking the case tally to 746,724 and toll to 15,998. There were 724,011 recoveries in the city with 96% recovery rate. The city’s mortality rate is 2.14% and there are 4,273 active cases in the city.Meanwhile, HT had reported on Sunday that there has been a 20% spike in Covid-19 infections in the past seven days, compared to the previous week. According to the data, between August 21 and 27, 1,893 Covid-19 cases and 22 deaths were reported in the city that took the tally to 742,763 from 740,870. Between August 28 and September 3, 2,279 cases and 15 deaths were reported in the city, owing to which the tally surged from 743,154 to 745,433 and toll increased to 15,987. However, although the cases surged, the number of deaths has gone down in the city.Dr Sonam Solanki, consultant pulmonologist and bronchoscopist, Masina Hospital, said, “It is no surprise that we are seeing an increase in the number of Covid cases right now. India is catching up with the global trend in countries that are few months ahead of us in the pandemic. Currently, due to the relaxation of lockdown restrictions, public spaces such as malls, restaurants and mass gatherings have opened up, leading to the rise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-covid-third-wave-in-mumbai-yet-says-bmc-101630957908155.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Man held for murder of 23-yr-old in Nallasopara near Mumbai||A 28-year-old man, Abhinash Kumar, has been arrested by Tulinj police for allegedly strangulating a Nallasopara (East) resident to death on Sunday night.The accused and the victim hailed from Unnao in Uttar Pradesh and were allegedly in love with each other, said the police. However, the 23-year-old victim was living with another man in a rented flat in Jai Ambe Welfare Society at Sari Compound since September 1, said an officer from Tulinj police station.“This enraged Kumar and he visited the victim. In a fit of rage, he began to strangle her. Hearing her screams, neighbours called us. We reached the spot and arrested Kumar under section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code. On Monday, the Vasai court remanded him in police custody. We are probing further,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-held-for-killing-23-yr-old-in-nallasopara-101630957906988.html
07-09-2021||Other||Punjab govt releases ₹3 crore for sports infra of 116 schools||Chandigarh The Punjab government has released ₹3 crore for development of sports infrastructure in 116 government schools. Playgrounds will be constructed and sports equipment will be purchased from this money, with the department also issuing guidelines to ensure transparency in expenditure. Schools have been directed to constitute a five-member committee, which will comprise the school head, and two members each from the SMC (school management committee) and teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-govt-releases-rs-3-crore-for-sports-infra-of-116-schools-101630957847967.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Graft: Executive engineer among two held in Ambala Cantt||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested two engineers of the postal department in Ambala Cantt and another of the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) in Chandigarh in two separate cases of graft, officials said on Monday.The accused in the first case have been identified as executive engineer Alok Saxena and assistant engineer (civil) Kul Bhushan of the postal civil subdivision, Ambala Cantt.The case was registered on the complaint of a contractor. He alleged that after completion of the work on two buildings in Kaithal, he met Bhushan at his office to request the releasing of the pending payment of ₹94,000. It was alleged the assistant engineer sought ₹10,000 bribe to release the amount.The CBI laid a trap and caught Bhushan while accepting the bribe. Further probe revealed that he was to share the amount with Saxena, who was subsequently arrested. Searches were also conducted at properties owned by the premises in Ambala and Delhi.JE held in ChandigarhIn the other case, the accused has been identified as junior engineer Akshay Kumar, who was posted with the CPWD in Chandigarh. Kumar for allegedly caught accepting ₹55,000 from a CPWD contractor.The contractor had sought the payment of ₹14 lakh dues after completing the renovation of a gym and creche at the AG office, Punjab, in Sector 17, Chandigarh.All the three officials were produced before the CBI court in Panchkula and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/graft-executive-engineer-among-two-held-in-ambala-cantt-101630957846767.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid update: Chandigarh records just one case, tricity count 8||The UT health department on Monday recorded only one fresh Covid-19 infection, making it the lowest single-day count in twelve days. The previous low, also with one case, was on August 24. Meanwhile, the tricity’s daily count on Monday stood at eight, with four cases surfacing from Panchkula and three from Mohali. On Sunday, the tricity had reported nine cases.Also, no death owing to the virus was reported in any of the three jurisdictions, for the fifth consecutive day. In Chandigarh, the sole infection was detected in Sector 38 while in Panchkula, two cases were from Sector 11 while the other two were from Sector 2 and 4. In Mohali, two cases were detected in Mohali and one in Dhakoli. The active caseload of the tricity now stands at 97, with 50 patients in Mohali, 35 in Chandigarh and 12 in Panchkula.So far, 65,122 people in Chandigarh have tested positive for the virus of whom, 64,273 have recovered, while 814 have succumbed to the disease.Of 68,637 cases in Mohali, 67,527 have been cured and 1,060 have ended in fatalities. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 30,692 of which, 30,303 patients have been cured and 377 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-update-chandigarh-records-just-one-case-tricity-count-8-101630957727721.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||PMLA case against Anil Deshmukh: ED grills Nagpur deputy RTO Bajrang Kharmate||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday questioned Nagpur’s deputy regional transport officer (RTO) Bajrang Kharmate – said to be a close associate of Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab – for seven-and-a-half hours, in connection with an alleged money laundering case in which former state home minister Anil Deshmukh is an accused. Kharmate reached the ED office at noon after he was summoned by the agency. ED sources said Kharmate was grilled over his suspected role in the alleged collection of money for ministers for securing plum postings for certain government officials. His name is said to have cropped up in the statements of some of the witnesses in the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act (PMLA) case against Deshmukh.Last week, ED had raided some places linked to Kharmate in Pune and had also recorded statements of a few witnesses. ED suspects that Kharmate has amassed huge properties in the name of his family members. He is also suspected to have owned franchises of some top brands in Pune and also has commercial properties. However, the agency is still collecting evidence to ascertain if the said properties were proceeds of the crime.Parab had also been summoned by the agency last week. However, he has sought two weeks’ time citing some important public events that he needed to attend.The money laundering case against Deshmukh was registered after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) against him on April 21. Deshmukh had in the past said that the allegations against him are false. The central agency has alleged that while serving as the home minister, Deshmukh misused his position, and through assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze – who has now been dismissed and is in Taloja jail for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases – collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”. Later, through hawala channels, this money was sent to two brothers in Delhi who operated bogus companies, said the agency. It claimed that at the behest of Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh, the two brothers diverted the money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by the ex-home minister’s family. ED has also claimed that Vaze told them that a part of the amount collected from the bar owners was to go to an entity – ‘No 1’ – as well as the crime and social service branches of Mumbai Police. The anti-money laundering agency has also said that Vaze in his statement to ED said he was called to Deshmukh’s official residence and directed to collect ₹3 lakh from every bar and restaurant in the city. He was also given a list of the establishments. During investigation, ED has identified 24 private entities that are controlled by the Deshmukhs and found that huge sums of money had been transacted among them without any rationale. “From the analysis of the bank accounts of these companies, it is clear that there is no rationale for the transfers, and thus, it can be said that these series of transactions were meant for inflating balance sheets and layering of money from one company to other,” ED had stated. The agency then arrested Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and assistant Kundan Shinde on June 26, claiming that they had handled the money laundering linked to the extortions for Deshmukh. In mid-July, the anti-money laundering agency provisionally attached Deshmukh’s properties, worth ₹4.2 crore. The attached assets include a residential flat in Worli valued at ₹1.54 crore and 25 land parcels of book value ₹2.67 crore at Dhutum village at Uran in the neighbouring Raigad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pmla-case-against-anil-deshmukh-ed-grills-nagpur-deputy-rto-bajrang-kharmate-101630957666970.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||80-year-old Navi Mumbai man murdered for demanding sex from man’s wife||The police has cracked the case of an 80-year-old man whose body was found at a pond in Ulwe’s sector 19 on Saturday and arrested 33-year-old shopkeeper Mohan Chaudhary on Monday. The NRI Coastal police said that they had CCTV footage which showed Chaudhary carrying a body wrapped in bedsheet, on the back of his bike on August 31. Chaudhary had accompanied the deceased’s son Shekhar Naik to file a missing person’s report on August 29. The deceased, identified as Shamakant Tukaram Naik, owned several properties in Ulwe including shops, flats and plots and was worth several crores, senior police inspector Ravindra Patil from NRI Coastal police station informed. Patil added, “Naik used to visit Chaudhary’s grocery shop. Naik had offered Chaudhary Rs5,000 to sleep with his wife. On August 29, Naik offered him Rs10,000 and told Chaudhary to send his wife Heena to Naik’s godown” “Irked by his demand, Chaudhary pushed Naik, following which he fell on ground and started bleeding after his head hit against the corner of a table. Chaudhary immediately closed the shutter of the shop and then strangulated Naik. He kept the body in the washroom,”Patil added. The body was kept in the toilet till August 31, when at 5am, Chaudhary wrapped the body in a bedsheet and carrying it on his bike, dumped it in a pond. The accused in his statement claimed that he threw the clothes and mobile phone of the deceased in a garbage bin. It was not found yet by the police.Naik’s family told the police that he had left home on the afternoon of August 29 and did not return home. His mobile was switched off. The police initially suspected that Naik was killed over property but CCTV footage led them to Chaudhary||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/80yearold-navi-mumbai-man-murdered-for-demanding-sex-from-man-s-wife-101630957608255.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Adviser asks PGIMER to shift food vans inside campus||In a bid to make serving of free food outside the PGIMER safer and to beautify the area, UT adviser Dharam Pal on Monday asked the hospital authorities to shift the langar services inside the institution.“The area needs to be maintained better. It is an entry point to the city, and needs beautification. It is a very important part of our perception of the city. Serving of food here, on the road, is a health hazard. An area inside the PGIMER campus has been identified and I have asked the hospital authorities to shift it there,” said Pal, who made a surprise visit to the area along with senior officials on Monday.Many people, predominantly attendants of patients admitted to the hospital, take free meals distributed by NGOs through vans in the area. Pal said he had recently crossed the area and saw its “poor condition”, after which he decided to bring along other officials.Pal also pointed to the lack of maintenance of the roundabout and the surroundings, and directed the horticulture wing of the UT engineering department to beautify the area. On spotting a number of street vendors, he directed the municipal authorities to verify whether they are authorised.On the adviser’s visit, PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said: “We haven’t received any verbal or written orders yet. But if the authorities want the langar vans to be shifted inside the campus, we will definitely discuss the matter and act accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhadviser-asks-pgimer-to-shift-food-vans-inside-campus-101630957546920.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC, health workers gear up to tackle Covid third wave in Mumbai||As Covid-19 infections are once again beginning to gradually rise in Mumbai, health experts have warned of another increase after Ganesh Chaturthi festival. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has predicted around 1.25 lakh individuals in Mumbai could contract Covid-19 in the anticipated third wave, and officials are working in full swing to take preparatory measures. While emotionally exhausted healthcare workers (HCWs) are preparing themselves to serve needy patients again, they have also raised their demand to fill vacant posts that will disperse the workload.The second wave that hit the city earlier this year was worse than the first wave. In April, when the pandemic curve was at its peak, the daily Covid-19 count crossed 10,000 on three days. Although unlike the first wave, the number of beds was almost adequate, the city faced acute shortage of oxygen as the cumulative number of active patients stood at 87,698 on April 17 and the demand for oxygen surged to 270 metric tonnes per day. Now, expecting all possible scenarios, BMC has decided to increase their oxygen production from 50 metric tonnes to 250 metric tonnes before another surge. The civic body has, therefore, plans to set up 16 oxygen generation plants in hospitals by investing over ₹90 crore, to ensure that the city becomes partially self-reliant for its oxygen needs.Read: Maharashtra aims to vaccinate 20mn in September to ‘prevent or delay’ 3rd wave Nine oxygen plants have already been put in place at nine civic-run hospitals including the four major hospitals — King Edward Memorial (KEM), Parel; BYL Nair at Mumbai Central; Dr RN Cooper Hospital in Juhu; and Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital also known as Sion Hospital. Talking about the preparatory plans, Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC, said around 1.25 lakh Covid-19 infection have been predicted in the third wave. He, however, did not mention the time span. “Around 20% of these patients will require hospitalisation. The cumulative bed strength will be increased to 30,000 for severely infected patients. Along with this, we plan to keep 70,000 beds in Covid Care Centres (CCCs) for moderately and mildly infected patients and 60% beds will have oxygen support,” he said. Though medical experts are unable to predict anything about the epidemiological pattern of the virus in the third wave, they will take lessons from the United States (US) where the pandemic has worsened in the third wave. The US has been witnessing a surge in its daily figures since July, when the Delta variant of the Sars-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — hit the country. As of August 18, the seven-day average of daily new cases was 13.2% higher than the previous week and 1,016.8% higher than the lowest average in June 2021, as per the US Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). “We are hopeful that the impact of the third wave will be lesser compared to the earlier waves due to mass vaccination. But it would be tough to predict anything in this situation. So, we have to be fully prepared,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state Covid-19 task force. Meanwhile, emotionally and physically exhausted HCWs, who have been working round the clock since the outbreak in March 2020, are getting mentally prepared to face another surge.“The nurses have been the pillar of hospitals in taking care of the patients. We know that once another wave hits us, we will again have to work round the clock. It becomes overwhelming for us to handle so many patients. But we are getting mentally ready as the city is witnessing a gradual rise in cases,” said Rucha Salgoankar, senior nurse at BYL Nair Hospital.Many nurses want to take a break from work and go on a vacation to spend some quality time with their families. But due to the work pressure related to monsoon-related patients, they are unable to get one. Many nurses are also stationed in vaccination centres as vaccinators. “I had to stay away from my family for five months when the pandemic broke. I haven’t taken a day off since last year. Even before we could get a breathing space after the second wave, monsoon-related diseases like dengue, malaria, chikungunya among others surged,” said a nurse from Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital.Resident doctors are also ready to serve again, but they have raised the need to fill vacant posts in government and civic-run hospitals to lessen the burden on them which also hampers their studies. They have already lost 18 months of their postgraduate course, and if another wave strikes, their specialisation studies will again hit a roadblock.“MBBS students want to do PG as they want to gain knowledge in a specific field of medicine. We want to become competent specialist doctors. But in the past 18 months, we have been working like MBBS doctors in Covid-19 wards. We haven’t learnt anything in our subjects,” said Dr Dyaneshwar Dobale, president of central MARD. “If another wave hits the city, we will again work with full dedication to treat patients. But authorities should focus on filling vacant posts in peripheral hospitals for distribution of workload,” he said. BMC claimed they are already in the process to fill vacant posts and added that if required, they will hire private doctors like they did during the first and second waves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-health-workers-gear-up-to-tackle-covid-third-wave-in-mumbai-101630957487061.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: MC app to auto-escalate service requests, complaints||The Chandigarh municipal corporation is working on a major revamp of all citizen services and a user-friendly mobile app to avail them.The new features will be added and procedures for availing the services will be simplified and rationalised on the app “Im Chandigarh”, which jointly offers services of the MC and Chandigarh Smart City Limited.An important feature of the app will be auto-escalation of grievances and service requests to senior officials if they are not addressed on time.“All services should be citizen-friendly. Currently, a lot of issues mar the speedy and efficient delivery of these services. All 85 MC services will be simplified and rationalised so that citizens can fully benefit from them,” said MC commissioner Anindita Mitra.After joining the post, Mitra has started reviewing working of each department and the services being provided by them. The emphasis is on identifying reasons for delay in delivery of services.Two departments — booking and horticulture — have already started implementing the changes. The former takes care of booking of community centres and other such MC properties by citizens. “After a review of their working, I have directed them to makes changes within a week’s time,” said Mitra, adding that all departments and services will be covered in three months.How it will work“The time period allotted for grievance redressal or delivery of services is also being reviewed. We are trying to reduce the stipulated time for delivery of each service,” said the MC chief.Explaining the auto-escalation feature that is being added to the app, she said: “If a service is not delivered in the stipulated time by a designated officer, then after the expiry of this period, the service request or complaint will be automatically forwarded to the higher authority. This will help in ensuring accountability of officials and timely delivery of services.” For the delivery of services, if an approval is required from a senior official, it takes time as the entire process is physical with files moving from one desk to another. But under the revamped system, after the approval of the senior official, an SMS will be immediately sent to the implementing authority, so that action on the service request can be immediately initiated. The physical approval can come even later. All the services available on the app will be made bilingual. Initially, the users will be able to use the services both in English and Hindi, and if required other languages will also be added to the app.Currently, forms for services requisite, to be filled by users, have many mandatory fields to be filled. “Many of these are unnecessary. For instance, what is the need for email or Aadhaar for getting a tree pruned in front of your house. This discourages residents from availing MC services. Such unnecessary mandatory fields are being removed and minimised,” said Mitra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhmc-app-to-auto-escalate-service-requests-plaints-101630957307002.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Four injured in RBI cash vans’ pile-up on Madhya Marg||A woman constable suffered fractures in both her legs while three others were injured after three cash vans of the Reserve Bank of India were involved in a pile-up on Madhya Marg near Haryana Panchayat Bhawan in Sector 28. Five cash vans were on their way to the RBI office in Sector 17 when the mishap took place around 2pm, as the driver of the second vehicle suddenly slammed the brakes. The third van crashed into it and the fourth rammed into the third one, as drivers of both vehicles were allegedly speeding. While drivers of both these vans and a constable sitting in the third van were rescued by passersby, woman constable Pavita, who was on cash protection duty and sitting next to the driver in the fourth van, got stuck between the crashed vehicles. It took about 40 minutes for a JCB machine to reach the spot after which the rescue workers took another half an hour to pull out Pavita and rush her to hospital. Some witnesses claimed that the driver of the second van had slammed the brakes as a car had suddenly appeared in front of it. Superintendent of Police (SP, City) Ketan Bansal said they are looking into circumstances that led to the pile-up. Meanwhile, based on the testimony of constable Ram Singh (who is among the injured), the drivers of third and fourth van Tajinder and Gurbhej (who too are injured) have been booked for negligent and rash driving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhfour-injured-in-rbi-cash-vans-pile-up-on-madhya-marg-101630957069154.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||AJL case: Kapil Sibal wants to appear through virtual mode only; hearing adjourned||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday adjourned hearing in an alleged illegal allotment of a plot in Panchkula to Associated Journal Limited (AJL), being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and AJL, publisher of the National Herald newspaper are accused in the case. The HC had stayed the trial on July 1.As the case was taken up by the bench of justice GS Sandhawalia, the court was apprised that one of the counsel, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, due to his age and prevailing conditions, can’t appear as he has to come from Delhi. The case was taken up on Monday through physical mode.The CBI had opposed the adjournment submitting that a stay on proceedings is operating in favour of Hooda and AJL.The court, while deferring the hearing for September 20, observed that in case the bench takes up cases through physical mode on the said date, the case be listed a day after.It also observed that physical hearings have been started in view of demand from the Bar and if the stay is vacated, the plea will become infructuous.On April 16, a special CBI court had framed charges against Hooda and AJL. Acting on the plea against that order, HC had stayed further proceedings. The FIR was registered in 2016 during the BJP regime for the alleged offences in 2005 when the Congress leader was the chief minister.According to the CBI, the Sector 6, Panchkula land was re-allotted by the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) to AJL at old rates when Hooda was the CM and chairman, HUDA.Charges were framed under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ajl-case-kapil-sibal-wants-to-appear-through-virtual-mode-only-hearing-adjourned-101630957007840.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Foreign travel: Visa at your doorstep service sees six-fold rise||With international travel opening in a phased manner, data shows the emergence of travellers opting for premium services such as visa at your doorstep (VAYD) for safe and convenient travel experience. According to data analysis by VFS Global, foreign-bound travellers from India who opted for doorstep services grew by more than six times between January and July this year. Data trends also indicate large group bookings of Visa At Your Doorstep (VAYD) service from relatively smaller cities such as Goa. VFS Global said there was a significant increase in customers requesting for VAYD service. Currently, VAYD service is available to Indian travellers visiting the UK, Austria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Slovenia, Portugal, Slovakia, Switzerland, and Ukraine.In this optional service, customers complete their entire visa application submission process from their home or any other location of their choice. Read: India extends visas, stay period for stranded foreign nationals till Sep 30“Given international borders began to reopen only in June following the setback caused by the second wave till May, the number has more than doubled in just over a month,” VFS spokesperson said.“Touchless travel with an enhanced focus on safety and well-being are key to travellers today. With the digital consumer experience evolving rapidly, we foresee a higher demand for such premium services that enable our customers to prioritise safe travel,” said Vinay Malhotra, regional group COO - South Asia, Middle East and North Africa and Americas, VFS Global.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/foreign-travel-visa-at-your-doorstep-service-sees-six-fold-rise-101630957006647.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to get 2.9 lakh vaccine doses in September||Even though the UT health department has already achieved 100% first dose coverage, the central government has allocated 2,95,810 vaccine doses to Chandigarh for the month of September.The stock will be supplied to the government sector for free inoculation. Officials believe that the vaccine will be effectively used this month as the health department is expecting a rush of people looking to get their second dose. In June, as many as 89,140 doses were supplied to Chandigarh, against the allocation of 61,940. In July, 1,50,110 doses were allocated but the health department received 2,19,160 doses. Similarly in August, 27,91,60 doses were received against the allocated 16,91,60 doses.So far, the UT health department has administered 11, 63, 844 doses to beneficiaries, including the first and second dose.According to the latest electoral list, around 7,29,822 people in Chandigarh are above the age of 18 and are eligible to get vaccinated. As on Monday, 8,31,313 (114%), including migrants, had taken their first shot while 3,32,531 (46%) were fully vaccinated. In the last seven days, around 8,000 people a day were vaccinated in the city.After the UT health department announced on August 14 that 100% of its eligible population has been inoculated with the first dose, at least one lakh more beneficiaries have been jabbed with the first dose at the city’s vaccination sites. “There is no shortage of vaccines in Chandigarh and people are welcome to walk in to the centres to get their shots, without prior registration. People from neighbouring states, especially from Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, continue to throng Chandigarh government vaccination centres. Most people getting the first dose, these days, are residents of other states,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, Chandigarh. Dr Kang added that the UT health department has already received the first batch of 98,640 vaccine doses for September. “We keep monitoring the vaccination stock and when we are left with the supply for only a day or two, we send a letter to the central government asking for more doses. Since people from other states also prefer taking the vaccine in Chandigarh, we are vaccinating more people than expected. We are still organising special evening camps and intensifying door-to-door vaccination drives, to inoculate the people who are still left out,” Dr Kang further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-get-2-9-lakh-vaccine-doses-in-september-101630956886633.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Policy for fixation of market rate of government land comes into force in Haryana||The Haryana government has notified a policy for fixation of market rate of land for all departments, boards, corporations, Panchayati Raj institutions and urban local bodies.Financial commissioner (revenue) Sanjeev Kaushal said in the absence of clear guidelines, many departments were experiencing difficulties in transferring their unutilised lands of minor nature including abandoned paths to private bodies situated in between their lands.This proved a stumbling block in the development of projects and also affected the revenue of the state government to a considerable extent.Moreover, there were instances of encroachment or unauthorised possession over such immovable properties resulting in unfruitful litigation. So, there was a need to formulate this policy.He said at present, committees have been constituted by various departments of the government, corporations and urban local bodies organisations to determine the market rates of land.Consequently, this gives rise to multiplicity of legal complications. Thus, this policy has been made with the objective of creating a uniform criterion in determining the market price of the land for all departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/policy-for-fixation-of-market-rate-of-government-land-comes-into-force-in-haryana-101630956830407.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana AAP demands increase in patwari posts in Punjab||Aam Aadmi Party’s district unit has demanded an increase in the regular posts of patwaris and to not re-recruit retired ones.Amandeep Singh Mohi, Lok Sabha in-charge, Ludhiana, Navjot Singh Jarg, Lok Sabha in-charge, Fatehgarh Sahib, said that thousands of youth of Punjab were protesting every day demanding jobs. “Unemployed people from all walks of life have taken to the streets in every nook and corner of the state. There is no solution,” said AAP leaders Harbhupinder Singh Dharor and Suresh Goyal.Daljit Singh Bhola Grewal, Madan Lal Bagga, Kulwant Singh Sidhu, Jagtar Singh Dayalpur and Manvinder Singh Gyaspura were present on the occasion.Bhola Grewal said that at present, patwari posts were lying vacant in around 8,000 villages of Punjab due to which the people of the villages were facing huge difficulties. A few days back the government had issued an advertisement for filling only 1,090 posts in this regard for which around 2.3 lakh people from all over Punjab had applied, he added.He further said that the government had decided to re-employ 1,766 retired patwaris, robbing the rights of the unemployed and reneging on its promise to provide employment to the youth. Gurdarshan Singh Kohli and Sharanpal Singh Makkar said that this decision was a big blow to millions of unemployed youth.AAP leaders demanded the Punjab government to increase the regular posts of patwaris and provide employment opportunities to the unemployed youth by restricting the re-recruitment of retired patwaris. Recalling the promise made by chief minister Amarinder Singh during the elections to provide door-to-door employment to the youth of Punjab, they said that it would be a small step towards fulfilling that promise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-aap-demands-increase-in-patwari-posts-in-punjab-101630956827995.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh airport: Sharjah, Dubai flights to resume in October||With India formalising air bubble arrangements with 18 countries, flights to Sharjah and Dubai will resume from the Chandigarh International Airport in the first week of October.An air bubble is a special bilateral agreement between two countries to enable seamless travelling with scheduled flights and a set of regulations and restrictions. Among other countries, India has signed the agreement with the United Arab Emirates (UAE).“Both international flights will be resumed in the first week of October,” confirmed Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, on Monday. However, the frequency and timings are still to be worked out. Flights to Sharjah and Dubai in the UAE were launched in 2016 after the Chandigarh airport got the international tag. While the Sharjah flight was operating twice a week, the Dubai one flew on all days but Sunday. The pandemic grounded these flights in March last year. Thereon, scheduled flights from Dubai remained cancelled, though arrivals continued to bring any stranded citizen. In the case of Sharjah, operations resumed in December, but were discontinued once again due to the second wave in March this year.New flights on cardsChandigarh will also get direct connectivity to Jodhpur and Ranchi next month. The airport will resume flights to Jammu and Patna too.“We are also adding direct flights to Jodhpur and resuming Jammu and Patna flights. After a halt at Patna, the flight will depart to Ranchi and will cover both cities. The new flights have been added in the winter schedule, which will be released in the second week of October,” said Bhardwaj.IndiGo had started the direct flight between Patna and Chandigarh in March last year, but it was grounded soon after. The operations resumed in January this year, but had to be suspended once again in March. Set to resume again, the flight will operate six days a week. ”Due to Covid-19 restrictions, some airlines have reduced their flights. At present, there are 30 flights operating from the airport, with a footfall of around 6,500 per day, at both the departure and arrival. In the winter schedule, we are expecting around 36 flights,” said Bhardwaj.Before the lockdown, there were around 44 flights operating from the Chandigarh airport, connecting it to major cities across the country besides Sharjah and Dubai. Dharamshala, Srinagar flights delayed on MondayThe flights to and from Dharamshala and Srinagar were delayed due to operationals reasons at the Chandigarh International Airport on Monday. The Dharamshala flight’s departure was delayed by two hours, as it took off at 10:33 am instead of 8:30 am. It led to a delay in the return flight too. Meanwhile, the Srinagar flight operated by GoAir was also delayed by 25 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-airport-sharjah-dubai-flights-to-resume-in-october-101630956826820.html
07-09-2021||Other||Jallianwala Bagh: Kin of martyrs continue protest against revamp||Amritsar The row over renovation of Jallianwala Bagh, where the then British rulers fired at and killed hundreds of peacefully protesting Indians on April 13, 1919, refuses to die down. Questions have been raised on the ₹20 crore renovation, with the kin of those killed claiming that historic facts have been twisted under the garb of renovation and beatification. The families also claim that the original structure has been changed as well, and names of some martyrs are missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jallianwala-bagh-kin-of-martyrs-continue-protest-against-revamp-101630956588619.html
07-09-2021||Other||Four cops booked for custodial death of man in Haryana’s Bhiwani||Three policemen, including the station house officer (SHO) of Bawani Khera police station, were booked after a 21-year-old man accused of abducting a minor had died in custody on the night of September 4.Accused SHO Hari Om, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sudesh, and munshi Sombir, all posted at Bawani Khera police station, and the unidentified maternal uncle of the minor girl, who is also a Haryana Police personnel, have been booked under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance with common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Sections 7 and 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and Section 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act.In his complaint, the deceased’s brother Kashmiri said that his brother Raj Kumar had left the house on August 27 saying he will visit their maternal uncle’s village but did not come back.“Police called my family to Bawani Khera police station on September 2 and released us in the wee hours of September 3 after thrashing us. Police arrested my brother and his minor friend from Ambala on September 3. The next day, my brother was found dead inside a washroom and police claimed that he had committed suicide by hanging himself but there were injury marks on his body,” he added.The complainant alleged that they had paid ₹55,000 to investigating officer (IO) Sudesh after selling their buffalo in lieu of not thrashing his brother.Police have booked a case against cops on Sunday night after the victim’s family kept his body on the road demanding registration of an FIR against them. They left after registration of the FIR.Hari Om, SHO of the Bawani Khera police station, said all allegations against them are false and baseless. “The man had died after hanging himself with a cable inside the washroom. We are ready to face the investigation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-cops-booked-for-custodial-death-of-man-in-haryana-s-bhiwani-101630956527863.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Fire in Mumbai’s Dharavi: Death toll rises to 5||The number of casualties in the gas leak and fire incident in Dharavi’s Shahu Nagar last Sunday rose to five with four of the 17 people injured in the incident succumbing to their injuries over the past four days. They were being treated at Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital or Sion hospital. An eight-year-old, identified as Sonu Jaiswal, who was injured in the incident died on last Tuesday morning. Sitaradevi Jaiswal, 40, who had sustained 50% to 60% burns and was critical, succumbed to her injuries on Wednesday. Anju Goutam, 28, was also in a critical condition and died on Thursday. Shoukat Ali, 58, who had sustained 50% to 60% burns, and Feroz Ahmed, 35, succumbed on Friday. The gas cylinder, abandoned in a narrow lane, had started leaking and caught fire opposite Hotel Mubarak in Dharavi around 12.15pm last Sunday. According to a civic official who spoke at the time, the fire occurred as someone dropped a cigarette beside it, unknowingly. Of those injured in the incident, four have been discharged from the hospital, five are in a stable condition and three are critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-death-toll-rises-to-5-101630956526718.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||SAD accuses Congress, AAP of foiling rallies in garb of farmer protest||Four days after farmers staged a dharna and stopped the cavalcade of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal in Mattewara and Sahnewal area, SAD leader and MLA from Sahnewal Sharanjit Singh Dhillon alleged that it was Congress and AAP workers in the garb of farmers who blocked the road and staged protests to stop the SAD chief from reaching the rally venue.Dhillon shared photographs of nine persons who were among the protesters. “We have identified Congress and AAP workers from video footage. We have a detailed list of almost all the workers of both the parties who were disguisedly planted as farmers to deliberately disrupt the Mattewara and Sahnewal rallies,” said he.Both the parties were feeling threatened by SAD’s increasing popularity and that was the reason why they wanted to colour the ruckus as farmer protest, claimed Dhillon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-accuses-congress-aap-of-foiling-rallies-in-garb-of-farmer-protest-101630956346665.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||BJP MLA alleges scam in Mumbai coastal road project works; BMC refutes claims||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Ashish Shelar on Monday demanded an investigation into the construction of Mumbai coastal road. He alleged that there was an irregularity of over ₹1,000 crore in the construction, as low quality material was used for reclamation, which resulted in massive damage during the two cyclones (Tauktae and Nisarga) that had affected the city. The civic body said it will look into the complaint if Shelar has lodged one with its office. In a press conference on Monday, Shelar said, “Mud from unregistered quarries was brought for the construction of coastal road and an additional number of truck movements were shown against which bills were cleared.” Shelar alleged fraud of around ₹634 crore in 3,300,000 tonnes of filling material used for reclamation and royalty theft of ₹437 crore on procuring this filling material.He further alleged that BMC paid an additional ₹48 crore for procuring high-density filing material for reclamation, which was in violation of its own tender conditions. Shelar also claimed that the project caused loss of government revenues worth ₹81 crore due to non-payment of penalty for overloading trucks for illegally transporting construction material. Shelar said if no action is taken, he will approach the court.“I have information that 35,000 bogus rounds were shown of trucks, but in reality nothing like this has happened. The BMC or the state government needs to order an SIT (special investigation team) investigation into this or else, we will explore legal options. I have also written to BMC regarding this,” said Shelar.The BMC in a statement said, “Allegations are being spread in the media that a total of ₹1,000 crore has been embezzled in three packages in the coastal road project being constructed by the BMC. However, there is no fact in these allegations and they are baseless. There is no fact in the allegations of fraud in the coastal road works.”Municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal said, “Above is the detailed clarification of BMC to various allegations made regarding alleged corruption in coastal road project as reported in certain section of the media today afternoon. All allegations are absolutely baseless and that too made on a day when 1km of tunnel length got completed under Malabar Hill.”BMC issued a point-by-point reply stating that the materials required for the filling of the beach road phase-1 have been taken from the mine approved by the consultant. Royalties are mutually paid by the mine owner. The material used for filling is as per the specification in the contract. This material has been tested from time to time. So the question of additional recovery does not arise.The coastal road project, measuring around 10-km between Princess Street Flyover and the Worli-end of the Bandra-Worli sea link, is expected to be ready by July 2023. The tunnelling work has been much delayed owing to the Covid-19 pandemic as the delivery of the tunnel-boring machine (TBM) from China arrived late. Until Saturday, BMC had completed 1-km of tunnelling work for the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-mla-alleges-scam-in-mumbai-coastal-road-project-works-bmc-refutes-claims-101630956286782.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal prepares for mahapanchayat, internet, SMS services to remain suspended||At least 40 companies of additional forces, five SP-rank officials and 25 DSP-rank officials along with thousands of cops from Karnal and nearby districts will be deployed in Karnal ahead of a crucial mahapanchayat of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday.The mahapanchayat is being held against police lathi-charge on farmers here on August 28.The traffic on NH-44, which connects Delhi to Chandigarh, will remain diverted from Karnal. Mobile internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), all SMS services, including bulk SMS (excluding banking and mobile recharge), and all dongle services will remain suspended from Monday midnight.Late evening the government has also issued orders to suspend mobile internet services in the nearby districts of Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Jind and Panipat from for 24 hours from 12am on September 7. As per the orders issued by the home department the decision was taken to avoid peace and public order in these districts.This move comes in wake of talks between Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni and Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar failing on Monday.Farm union leaders from Haryana had demanded registration of FIRs against Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha and police officials involved in the lathi-charge which left around 40 farmers injured, a compensation of ₹25 lakh and a government job to next of kin of farmer Sushil Kajal, who they claimed died due to police action, financial assistance of ₹2 lakh each for all injured farmers, and free treatment to them at government hospitals.BKU Haryana chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “The deputy commissioner could not give any satisfactory response on the demands raised by the Morcha leaders. We will go ahead with our mahapanchayat and gherao the mini secretariat as per schedule as the deadline of our ultimatum will expire this evening.”“The government may stop us even before reaching the grain market but we will protest wherever they stop us and will cross their barricades,” he added.The Karnal deputy commissioner said farmers were told that their genuine demands might be considered but their “illegal” demands cannot be accepted.“We are fully prepared to deal with any situation and nobody will be allowed to disturb the law and order situation and gherao the mini-secretariat,” said the district magistrate.He requested people to avoid travelling on NH-44 in the limits of Karnal and security personnel will be deployed on the highway to avoid traffic congestions. The DM said Section 144 of the CrPC has already been imposed in district to avoid gathering of people subjected to the threat to law and order.Karnal district administration officials said the government will also try to stop the movement of farmers from Punjab and Uttar Pradesh as a traffic advisory for commuters travelling on NH-44 has already been issued.Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia said a local court has passed an order and directions have been issued to eight farm leaders and they have been directed not to block any highway.Haryana additional director general of police (ADGP, law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said primary objective of the arrangements is to maintain peace and order, prevent violence, facilitate functioning of traffic and public transport, and safeguard public property across state.IGP Karnal Range and all district SPs have been directed to take necessary preventive measures to maintain law and order and peace in Karnal and adjoining districts.He appealed to farmers to maintain law and order and raise their issues peacefully without disrupting the general public. He said stern action will be taken against people trying to disturb the law and order situation.The Karnal district court, responding to a civil suit filed by a Karnal resident, has restrained farm leaders from disturbing the law and order. The court of civil judge senior division Harish Goel directed the Karnal DC and SP to take all measures to ensure the law and order if anyone break the law or create inconvenience to general public by blocking highway and traffic.The court restricted eight farmer leaders, including Charuni, not to block NH-44 or any roads. It has directed the DC and SP to provide a place if the farm unions want to protest peacefully.On the other hand, Charuni urged the farmers from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh to reach the Karnal grain market at 10am and march towards Karnal mini-secretariat after the meeting.“The administration may try to stop farmers coming in from different parts of the state. We request farmers to come on tractor-trolleys and break the barricades without causing violence,” he added. “Let the police beat you but don’t attack them as it may harm our cause,” he added.Traffic advisoryThe main NH-44 (Ambala-Delhi) may see some traffic disruptions in Karnal. People using NH-44 are advised to avoid journey through Karnal and use alternate routes to go to their destination on September 7.Vehicles coming from Delhi side will be allowed to reach Chandigarh via Pepsi Bridge (Panipat) via Munak to Assandh and Munak to Gagsina, via Ghoghadipur to Hansi Chowk in Karnal, via Bypass Western Yamuna Canal to Karna Lake via GT Road 44.Apart from this, light vehicles will be diverted towards Chandigarh via Madhuban, Daha, Bajida, Ghogharipur, Hansi Chowk, Bypass Yamuna Canal, Karna Lake, GT Road 44.Vehicles coming from Chandigarh side will be diverted from Pipli Chowk (Kurukshetra) via Ladwa, Indri, Bayana, Neval, Kunjpura via Nangla Megha, Meerut via Amritpur Khurd, Kairavali and Gharaunda via GT Road 44.Apart from this, light vehicles will be allowed from Ramba Cut Tarawadi via Ramba Chowk Indri Road via Sangoha, Ghid, Baragaon, Newal, Kunjpura via Nangla Megha, Meerut Road via Amrutpanur Khurd, Kairavali and Gharaunda via GT Road.Meanwhile, a Haryana Police spokesperson has clarified that the planned route diversions on NH-44 between Delhi and Ambala have not been brought into effect so far. In case the need arises, these diversions will be brought into effect from around 9am on Tuesday. Before that, the traffic flow will be normal.Protest peacefully: Vij to farmers
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Admissions: After first counselling, 1,380 BCom seats vacant in Chandigarh colleges||After the first round of counselling, as many as 1,380 seats of BCom are still vacant in various colleges of Chandigarh, as per the list of vacant seats published by the department of higher education on Monday.The first counselling was held from September 1 to 3 for the centralised courses in colleges. While 668 seats are vacant in Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA), 471 seats are vacant in Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in the different city colleges. The higher education department has also issued the provisional admission list of centralised courses with allotted colleges for second counselling. For BSc (non-medical), around 1,197 seats are vacant and in BSc (medical), 750 seats are vacant in seven colleges. While a total of 49 seats are vacant in BSc medical and non-medical biochemistry (elective), 58 seats are vacant in BSc non-medical, computer application. In BSc biotechnology (honours), 163 seats are vacant in five colleges.The second round of counselling is scheduled to be held from September 8 to 10. On September 8 and 9, the admission will be done for UT pool (general category) and for UT pool (reserved category), the admission will be done on September 9.For the general pool (outside UT) general category and reserved category, the admission will be done on September 10. The counselling for additional seats will also be held on September 10.“Since the competition is very high in commerce, we are hopeful that all seats in BCom will be filled in the second round of counselling,” said an education department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/admissions-after-first-counselling-1-380-bcom-seats-vacant-in-chandigarh-colleges-101630956109735.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai-Pune Deccan Queen vistadome coach hit among train travellers||The vistadome coach on the iconic Deccan Queen has become quite popular among Punekars. The 40-seater coach had over 95% occupancy between Pune and Mumbai while that in the Mumbai-Pune coach was around 50%.Between September 1 and 6, a total of 626 passengers travelled onboard the vistadome coach between Pune and Mumbai and 316 passengers travelled between Mumbai and Pune. “The coach is popular on the Mumbai-Pune route and we have seen this on the second outstation train. The occupancy has been above 95% between Pune and Mumbai on most days,” said a senior Central Railway official.The vistadome coach was introduced for Deccan Queen on August 15 and entire compartment was booked for its inaugural run. The coach is popular between Mumbai and Pune as passengers get to have a panoramic view of the Western Ghats. The glass-roofed vistadome coach has wide window panes and seats that rotate 360 degrees to provide passengers with a better sightseeing experience. The coach also has 12 LCD television screens for entertainment, a mini-fridge, automatic sliding compartment doors, an oven, juicer grinder and toilets fitted with ceramic tiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaipune-deccan-queen-vistadome-coach-hit-among-train-travellers-101630956046771.html
07-09-2021||Other||Students of Haryana varsities seek resumption of physical classes||A day after the Haryana government directed the vice-chancellors (V-Cs) of the universities in state to continue conducting online classes till October 15; it received sharp criticism from students, who demanded resumption of physical classes.Students have expressed their disappointment regarding the government’s move not to open the universities till October 15.The state government has opened schools for senior secondary, secondary, middle and primary (4 and 5) classes but is yet to resume offline classes at universities.At present, only research scholars are visiting the universities. No new students are being given hostel facilities.Gaurav Kumar, a student of Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak, said all activities, except offline classes are taking place on campus but the authorities have turned a deaf ear to their problems.“Online classes are not helping us. The university officials and the state government are planning to make our future darker. We did not take admission here to read notes through PDFs and appear for exams,” he added.A group of Afghan national students, who are studying at MDU, said the varsity officials had promised to open hostels for them after they were unable to contact their families.“We are forced to stay outside hostels. The officials failed to help us. We are waiting for reopening of campus so that we can avail hostel facility,” they added.Ankit Kumar, a student of Hisar’s Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, said they have not learnt anything through online classes since the first wave of the pandemic hit.“If children, who are at high risk of the possible third wave of Covid-19, are going to school, why are our offline classes not being resumed? The government and the varsity authorities are trying to delay our next session. A year has gone by. What is the benefit of getting a master’s degree without visiting the campus? Our all-round development has been stopped. During online classes, we face internet connectivity issues and our doubts are not cleared,” he added.Pardeep Deswal, national president of JJP’s student wing Indian National Student Organisation (INSO), said the government and the varsities authorities are responsible for delaying physical classes.“This is a tactic of the government to stop students from gaining knowledge. If the government fails to open universities and colleges, we will hold demonstrations across all educational institutes in state. If all political, cultural and religious programmes are organised on the university campuses, why are physical classes being barred?” he said.“Graduation and post-graduation students are appearing for their semester exams across state. If these students are allowed to take the exams, what is the problem in resuming offline classes? Many students have to bear added expenses by staying in PGs as their examinations are on,” he added.Waiting for government approval: Varsity officialsRakesh Wadhwa, registrar of Sirsa’s Chaudhary Devi Lal University, said they are planning to vaccinate all students before reopening the campus.“We have already opened research laboratories and campus for research scholars. Today, we discussed the issue of reopening the varsity for physical classes,” he added.Rajesh Bansal, acting registrar of Chaudhary Ranbir Singh University in Jind, said they have completed all preparations regarding reopening the varsity.“Exams of all classes are on and we will open the varsity after completion of their exams. We are waiting for the government’s nod to reopen the campus. We are hoping that the new session will be started on time and students will be able to attend physical classes,” he added.Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar registrar Avnesh Verma said they had formed a committee to take a decision regarding conducting physical classes.The registrar and vice-chancellor of Rohtak’s Maharshi Dayanand University could not be reached for a comment on the issue despite multiple attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/students-of-haryana-varsities-seek-resumption-of-physical-classes-101630955867753.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Congress MP Bittu pays surprise visit to injured traffic cop in Ludhiana||Congress member of parliament (MP) Ravneet Singh Bittu on Monday paid a surprise visit to a traffic cop who was attacked by a commuter last week.Bittu stopped his cavalcade near Fountain Chowk to see the Homeguard jawan and enquire about his well-being. Bittu said that he was impressed by the cop who performed his duty honestly and managed traffic at one of the busiest crossroads of the city for many years.Homeguard jawan Jasbir Singh is deputed in the traffic wing. He was assaulted by a commuter with a helmet. Jasbir Singh had suffered head injury following which he remained on medical leave for at least one week.Bittu said that he used to see the traffic cop performing his duty despite harsh weather conditions and was impressed by him. When he came to know that Jasbir Singh was assaulted by a reveller, he stopped to enquire about his health. Bittu also posted his picture with the jawan on his Facebook page.Joint commissioner of police (JCP, city) Deepak Pareek said that Jasbir Singh was hardworking and had received appreciation from all senior officers. He was also honoured by Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu at a district-level function on Independence Day for his services.Singh was attacked on August 18 by a motorcycle-borne man, who had hit him with his bike and later assaulted him with his helmet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-mp-bittu-pays-surprise-visit-to-injured-traffic-cop-in-ludhiana-101630955866606.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Row over sale of prime land in Ludhiana: BJP leader stages dharna||Alleging a scam in the sale of a prime chunk of land in Model Town Extension area, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader sat on dharna outside the deputy commissioner’s office on Monday, demanding a CBI and vigilance probe into the matter.BJP leader Vineetpal Singh Monga alleged that the prime land, estimated to be worth ₹350 crore, was sold for a mere ₹98 crore by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust.He handed over a memorandum to the office, alleging that the 3.75-acre property was sold in connivance with land mafia, causing loss worth over ₹250 crore.LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam had recently refuted the allegations, while maintaining that the land’s reserve price was fixed by a deputy commissioner-led panel.However, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma had rebutted the claim and said that only rates for residential plots and built-up booths in Model Town Extension were fixed by the panel.Monga said, “Now the cat is out of the bag. The contradictory statements of LIT chairman and DC indicate a murky deal. A high-level probe should be initiated to get into the depth of the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/row-over-sale-of-prime-land-in-ludhiana-bjp-leader-stages-dharna-101630955687854.html
07-09-2021||Other||Fearing defeat, BJP delaying Ellenabad bypoll: Chautala||Former Haryana chief minister OP Chautala on Monday alleged that the government is deliberately delaying the Ellenabad bypoll as the ruling BJP is not in a position to win this elections.“The alliance candidate will lose security deposit which is why they are delaying the bypoll even as the statutory six-month deadline for holding bypoll to the Ellenabad assembly segment ended in July,” Chautala said.Ellenabad seat, considered a stronghold of the Chautala family, has fallen vacant after INLD’s only MLA Abhay Chautala had resigned on January 27, expressing solidarity with the farmers’ agitation.Chautala alleged that people have lost faith in the BJP-JJP alliance. Chatuala slammed the BJP government and Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar for police action on farmers.“Holding peaceful protests is right of every citizen but this government wants to suppress the voice of people which is undemocratic,” he added.Chautala reached the residence of his worker at Samalkha in Panipat and held a meeting with party workers. He asked the workers to work on ground and strengthen the party as there is unrest among people against the ruling alliance.He said corruption is at its peak and the government is rubbing salt on the wounds of people with regular hikes in LPG and fuel prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fearing-defeat-bjp-delaying-ellenabad-bypoll-chautala-101630955626958.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC to appoint agency for bi-annual inspection of all bridges in Mumbai||In a first-of-its-kind decision, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has proposed to appoint an agency to conduct the bi-annual structural inspections of all bridges in the city for a period of five years. The agency is required to consist of structural auditors, engineers, or consultants, and will be in-charge of conducting routine inspections twice every year and principal inspections once every five years.There are 344 bridges in Mumbai, including road and rail overbridges. BMC’s bridges department has floated tenders to appoint the agency for inspections of bridges in the Island city at an estimated cost of ₹4.11 crore. Similar tenders will be floated to appoint an agency in the western and eastern suburbs too.Regular structural audits of all bridges in Mumbai were on the cards for BMC, following the collapse of the Himalaya Bridge at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) in March 2019. BMC had also proposed to set up a bridges’ inspection authority and appoint a bridges’ inspector for periodic audits. These suggestions were a part of a preliminary report submitted by then municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta to the Maharashtra government. Following the Himalaya bridge collapse, Mehta had ordered a re-audit of all bridges in the city, even though an audit of all bridges was concluded a year prior to the CSMT incident, in the aftermath of the partial collapse of the Gokhale Bridge in Andheri. As an immediate measure, all bridges in the suburbs were re-audited by the same structural auditors and a new one was appointed for auditing the bridges in the Island city.A senior civic official from BMC’s bridges department said, “We need a rolling mechanism for regular inspection of bridges in the city. The bridges department does not have the manpower to do so annually. Hence, we are appointing consultants for the task. As of now, we have floated a tender to appoint an agency for the audit of bridges in the island city. We are working out the cost of appointing agencies for the suburbs as well, and those tenders will be floated soon.”Leader of opposition Ravi Raja said, “The administration needs to set up a mechanism to ensure its projects or any decision is implemented on a timely basis, as over two years have passed since the Himalaya Bridge collapse incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-appoint-agency-for-bi-annual-inspection-of-all-bridges-in-mumbai-101630955507033.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||30-bed mother, child care centre in Samrala soon: Punjab health minister||To provide quality health services to women and infants in Samrala sub-division, Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday announced a 30-bed mother and child care centre.Sidhu was presiding over the installation ceremony of the first chairman of newly set-up Machhiwara Improvement Trust, Shakti Anand.The Cabinet minister said that the new mother and child care centre would ensure best treatment facilities to the mothers and newborns of the area. He said that this would be a separate building from the Samrala civil hospital, adding that the work would start soon.He added that once the building was operational, the required infrastructure and equipment would also be arranged and required gynaecologists, paediatricians, staff nurses, and other paramedical staff would also be appointed.Sidhu said that the mother and child care centre would provide free treatment including medicines, food, newborn diet and transportation to the mother and child.The minister also announced the upgrading of the Jhar Sahib Panjgrain and Hambowal health sub-centres to primary health centres. He also detailed the gathering about steps taken by the government during the first and second waves of Covid-19. He also appealed to the people to take optimum benefit of the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna by enrolling themselves for cashless treatment in government and private health institutions.Meanwhile, Samrala MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon said that the formation of an Improvement Trust in Machhiwara would give impetus to the overall development of the historic town.He said that this would further open new avenues of development and prosperity of the area in general and Ludhiana district in particular. The projects of food processing industry and ITI at Machhiwara would be completed soon, he said, and added that every village panchayat in the constituency had received developmental grants worth ₹25 lakh to ₹50 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/30bed-mother-child-care-centre-in-samrala-soon-punjab-health-minister-101630955450114.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana schools celebrate Teachers’ Day with fervour||BCM SchoolBCM School, Chandigarh Road, celebrated National Teachers’ Day with great enthusiasm. The staff and students gave a reverential tribute to Dr S Radhakrishan. The event commenced with lighting of the lamp and prayers. The school choir welcomed the guests and teachers with melodious compositions. The school alumni association presented an array of activities expressing their gratitude towards teachers.Atam Devki NiketanAtam Devki Niketan, Kidwai Nagar, celebrated Teachers’ Day with great zeal. The function began with prayer recitation followed by a tribute to Dr S Radhakrishnan by members of SS Jain Girls School Committee and staff. Various activities were held such as singing, dancing, modelling, etc. Committee president congratulated the teachers and said that we were indebted to our parents for our living, but to our teachers for living well.Bhartiya Vidya MandirTeachers’ Day was celebrated at BVM USN on Monday following all Covid protocols. The event, with a limited gathering, commenced with lamp-lighting and prayers. Students performed a group song, recited poems, delivered speeches and gave presentations expressing their gratitude towards teachers. A solo dance was followed by a song. The striking feature of the celebration was felicitation of the teachers who completed 25 and 15 years of their journey at Bhartiya Vidya Mandir.Sat Paul Mittal SchoolTo felicitate the hard work and dedication of the teachers especially during the testing times of the pandemic, Teachers’ Day was celebrated with great enthusiasm at Sat Paul Mittal School. Satyans celebrated the occasion by sending heartfelt messages and expressing their immense love and respect to their teachers through texts. An event was held in the Mittal Auditorium on Sunday. Special attention was paid towards the strict adherence to government-issued Covid guidelines with proper distancing and facemasks. To recognise the outstanding service rendered to the institution, teachers were conferred awards and workers, including security guards, appreciated.Shri Harkrishan Sahib Public Sr Sec SchoolShri Harkrishan Sahib Public Senior Secondary School, Daba Road, Ludhiana, commemorated Teachers’ Day with fervor and zeal to acknowledge the dedicated efforts of teachers. The event began with a speech and a poem by students. Students of pre-primary presented hand-made flowers and badges virtually to the teachers. A programme was put up by the management to express gratitude to the teachers, who were felicitated.Shree Atam Vallabh Jain College inducts new studentsShree Atam Vallabh Jain College on Monday organised an induction lecture to welcome the new session that started with celebrations of Teachers’ Day. Principal Dr Sandeep Kumar welcomed the first-year students and assured them all necessary facilities. He highlighted the importance of maintaining discipline and sanctity of the campus with a special emphasis on saying no to drugs and violence.Photography contest, plantation drive heldThe public action committee (PAC) for Sutlej and Mattewara Forest organised a photo walk, photography competition and a tree plantation drive to celebrate Teachers’ Day in the Mattewara Forest region and Sutlej bank to raise awareness about the natural beauty of the area on Sunday. A large number of residents including children, students and teachers participated in the activities. Ludhiana-based photographer Janmeja Singh Johl was the judge for the photography competition. Dr Balbir Shah who retired as a medical superintendent of DMC said that it was nice to see people waking up to preserve nature.GNKCW holds awareness drive on CovidInternal quality assurance cell and NSS unit of Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women, Gujarkhan campus, Model Town, on Monday organised an extension lecture on “Sensitisation awareness drive for Covid protocols” under the Rashtriya Poshan Maah 2021. Dr Gurpreet Singh, medical officer, RC Model Gram Dispensary, Ludhiana, was the resource person, who talked about the various phases of Covid, precautions to be taken, home isolation and other related facts. The lecture was followed by an interactive session.CT varsity holds free health, eye check-up campCT University in association with Sood Charity Foundation, Mohandai Oswal Hospital, Sankara Eye Hospital, Jerath Path Lab and Lok Jagrukta Foundation organised a mega free health check-up and eye surgery camp on its campus on Monday. Over 225 residents from nearby villages and towns availed healthcare facilities which included free consultation from neurosurgeon, gynaecologist, orthopaedic surgeon, ophthalmologist and general physician. Over 100 blood samples were taken by more than 50 team members consisting of doctors, paramedics, nurses, support staff, faculty, students, marketing, transport and volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-schools-celebrate-teachers-day-with-fervour-101630955448948.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt delaying panchayat polls: Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday accused the state government of intentionally delaying the Ellenabad assembly bypoll and panchayat polls.Hooda said the government knows that people are disillusioned with them and is thus avoiding the polls. “There is anger in every section, including farmers, against the policies of the alliance,” he said.The leader of Opposition said youth of Haryana are facing highest unemployment in country. “Lakhs apply when recruitments are advertised for government jobs in state which clearly tells us the status of unemployment in state,” he said.“The government does not have any effective policy to overcome this problem as it is neither filling thousands of vacant posts in government departments nor is it able to bring any investment to the state to create new employment opportunities in the private sector,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-govt-delaying-panchayat-polls-hooda-101630955447740.html
07-09-2021||Other||Panchkula MC to submit report on mobile towers, underground cables||The Panchkula municipal corporation (MC) has been directed to submit a detailed report about the mobile towers installed and underground cables laid by various telecom companies in the city. The directions were issued by Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta during a meeting to review progress of development works of Panchkula assembly constituency.“At present, 292 mobile towers of various telecom companies are installed at different places in Panchkula. MC officials should prepare a report having details of revenue received from these mobile towers and also the amount pending as rent towards these telecom companies. Apart from this, they should also mention in the report whether prior approval was taken by the telecom companies for laying underground pipelines,” said Gupta. The MLA said he has received several complaints that pits dug up for laying underground cables in front of houses were not filled by telecom companies even after completion of the work, thus causing lot of inconvenience to residents.Apart from this, he also directed to make permanent arrangements for small vendors in Rehri Markets of Sector-7, 9, 11 and 17 who have been paying rent to Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) for the last several years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchkula-mc-to-submit-report-on-mobile-towers-underground-cables-101630955086370.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana adds another Covid death after 11 days||The district recorded a Covid-19 fatality after a gap of 11 days on Monday.It was on August 26 last that a virus-related death was registered in Ludhiana.The latest fatality, a 57-year-old man, was a resident of Machhiwara and undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.With this, the district’s toll reached 2,098, while with five fresh cases on Monday, the caseload rose to 87,488. Currently, 27 people are still infected in the district and 85,363 people have successfully defeated the virus since the pandemic started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-adds-another-covid-death-after-11-days-101630955026464.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Four submersible pump connections snapped in Ludhiana||The municipal corporation on Monday snapped four illegal submersible pump connections in various parts of the city. While two connections were disconnected in Sriyansh Nagar, one connection each was cut at Model Town Extension and Jalandhar Bypass area, said Rajinder Singh, executive engineer, operations and maintenance cell, MC, who was heading the team that also issued notices to the land owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-submersible-pump-connections-snapped-in-ludhiana-101630954737133.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 surge: Don’t hold gatherings, Uddhav Thackeray requests political parties||In the wake of the slight rise in Covid-19 cases in the past few days across Maharashtra, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday appealed to political parties and organisations to not organise political rallies, meetings and protests to prevent crowds. He also sought to justify restrictions, saying that festivals can be celebrated later, but preventing another surge is important. “The priority is the lives of people,” he said. “The demands to open up activities have led to the risk of a spread. There will not be any need for curbs if rules and restrictions are properly followed. I am, therefore, appealing to all political parties, including Sena, to follow restrictions. Our priority should be the lives of people. Festivals can be celebrated even next year, if everything is well at home. To protect human lives, everyone should follow health restrictions meticulously. Avoid crowding and public events. Do not encourage political meetings, rallies and even Lord Ganesha would wish so,” Thackeray said in a statement on Monday.Amid the rise in cases and high growth and positivity rates in some districts, the state authorities have termed Pune, Ahmednagar, Satara, Solapur, Sangli, Rantagiri and Sindhudurg as districts of concern.“The growth rate and weekly positivity rate in these districts are too high. Pune has clocked the highest — 6.58% positivity rate — while it’s more than 5% in Ahmednagar. With the Ganesh festival, beginning from Friday, celebrated on a large extent in these districts, there are chances of the third wave initiating or the cases in second wave increasing from these districts. The district administrations need to take utmost care in these districts,” Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary of public health department had said during a presentation on Sunday.Both Maharashtra and Mumbai has been witnessing a rise in the daily caseload over the past few days. The state and Mumbai recorded fewer Covid-19 patients due to the less number of tests conducted in the last 24 hours, owing to holidays on the weekend. State witnessed 3,626 Covid-19 new cases and 37 deaths. Mumbai recorded 383 new cases and five deaths, taking the toll to 15,998.The cases dipped on Monday as there were just 145,457 tests done in the past 24 hours. In contrast, Sunday recorded 4,057 new cases as the tests conducted were 193,193. The total active patients in Maharashtra, currently stands at 47,695. Pune tops ctive cases with 12,413 patients, followed by Thane with 7,275 patients and Satara with 6,328 patients.“I have been repeatedly appealing because the cases are on the rise and challenge is going to intensify in near future. Political parties should play an important role to ensure that the situation does not go out of hands. We have bitter experience of the shortage of oxygen during the second wave on hand. Entire country is standing on the verge of the third wave, which has started showing an indication of its arrival. US and China have been witnessing the third wave. Kerala has been reporting 30,000 patients daily. This is an alarm bell for us and if not taken seriously, we will have to pay a heavy price with respect to lives of the people,” the CM said.He said that the administration has been asked for the preparations for the third wave, but it would be better if we could avert the wave to avoid the use of it. In Nagpur, district guardian minister Nitin Raut said that the third wave has begun in the district and the curbs on public activities will be imposed in next 3-4 days. “After containing the spread of the virus for few weeks, the number of positive cases has reached in double digit. We found 10 new patients on Sunday and 13 on Monday. Of the new patients found today, 12 are fully vaccinated people and the 13th patient is a child. This is an indication of the beginning of the third wave and we have no other option, but to go for re-imposing the curbs in rural and urban parts of the districts,” he said.Raut after holding a review meeting at the divisional commissioner’s office on Monday said, “During third wave, the curbs were imposed little late, following requests by traders and hotel associations. It resulted in the situation going out of hands due to the sudden spurt in the cases. We are speaking to various stakeholders and elected representatives before imposing the curbs. The timing of the hotels, shops will be reduced, besides the curfew on weekends to avoid crowding at public places. It will come into effect in next three-four days.”Responding to the appeal from the CM, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) announced to not organise any political event which will lead to the gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-surge-don-t-hold-gatherings-uddhav-thackeray-requests-political-parties-101630954735893.html
07-09-2021||Other||Form panel and talk to us, Punjab SAD to farm bodies||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has invited all 32 farmer organisations, including the BKU (Ekta), headed by Joginder Singh Ugrahan, to form a committee to hold talks with it, to remove all misgivings regarding the ‘Gal Punjab Di’ campaign, launched as a mobilisation tool for the 2022 state assembly polls. In a letter written to all these farm bodies, former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra said the SAD had always stood up the cause of farmers and supported every decision of the Samyukat Kisam Morcha (SKM). “It is with this spirit and the welfare of farmers that we wish to engage with farmer organizations and address all their concerns as well as work unitedly to ensure the repeal of the three black laws. This is also why we have postponed our campaign for one week,” he said, adding that Balwinder Bhunder and Manjinder Singh Sirsa will engage with farmers, at the time and place that their leaders will choose.The SAD leader said the Congress party in Punjab was a divided house, with the government not fulfilling promises made to citizens. He claimed that on similar lines, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had worked against the interests of Punjab, be it adopting double standards on the Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) issue in Punjab or demanding action against Punjab’s farmers for burning stubble and calling for closure of the thermal plants of the state in the Supreme Court. Chandumajra said that the SAD was the only hope for the people of Punjab and that was why people were turning out in huge numbers to attend the recent party programmes. ‘CHANDIGARH AIRPORT TO HAVE CARGO FACILITY BY DECEMBER’Senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Prem Singh Chandumajra on Monday said a new cargo facility would become operational at the Chandigarh airport in Mohali in December this year. “This development will make the region a hub for export of fruit and vegetable and flowers,” he said, adding that he had taken up the issue with Union civil aviation minister, Jyotiraditya Scindia, who had assured him that the cargo facility was under construction and would be completed by the year-end. “Diversification of agriculture will also get a boost. Now, our perishable goods will be transported to West Asia within hours. The farmers will earn more, with new jobs and trade opportunities an added bonus,” he said, adding that farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir will benefit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/form-panel-and-talk-to-us-punjab-sad-to-farm-bodies-101630954608092.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Vakul Sharma clinches three titles at Ludhiana District Badminton Championship||Showcasing blazing performance in all three categories, Vakul Sharma won the finals of men’s singles, men’s doubles and mixed doubles categories on the third day of the Ludhiana District Badminton Championship being organised at Shastri Hall, near Guru Nanak Stadium.In the men’s singles category, Vakul beat Hakam Singh who had to quit at the score of 8-7 following a cramp. In the men’s doubles game, the pair of Vakul and Hakam Singh defeated Lakshay Songal and Mitaksh Gandhi, while Vakul and Arunima Pal outwitted Sanvi and Sannidhya in the mixed doubles final.Earlier in the day, in the semifinal of men’s singles category, Vakul beat Vishwas Suri in two straight sets of 21-10, 21-7. In a tight men’s doubles game, the pair of Vakul and Hakam Singh defeated Sannidhya Nautiyal and Vishwas Suri by 21-17, 21-17.Similarly, in mixed doubles, Vakul and Arunima Pal outwitted Harpuneet and Reet Kwatra with a score of 21-17, 21-17.In the other men’s singles semifinal match, Hakam Singh defeated Arman Jain by 9-21, 21-19, 21-11, while Mitaksh Gandhi and Lakshay Singal defeated Anand Tiwari and Lakshay Sharma by 21-16, 19-21, 21-18 in the men’s doubles category.Sannidhya Nautiyal and Saanvi Nautiyal had an easy win over Mitaksh Gandhi and Prerna Dawar by 21-12, 21-19 to reach the finals in mixed doubles.In the women’s singles category, Prerna Dawar beat Navya Mahajan by 21-17, 21-14and Surinder Kaur beat Trisha Mahajan 21-12, 24-22 in a close-fought match, reaching the finals of the category.Other semifinal resultsBoys’ singles under-17: Krish Chadha bt Akshit Maiyhani 21-19, 21-16;Tanmay Tomar bt Prabhjot Singh 21-13, 21-13Boys’ doubles under -17: Akshit Maithani and Milan Malhotra bt Rajveer Singh Yadav and Pratham Sood 21-19, 21-13; Tanmay Tomar and Krish Chadha bt Yogeshwar Narang and Vaibhav Gossain 21-17, 21-15Girls’ singles under-17: Arunima Pal bt Saanvi Nautiyal 21-16, 21-6; Tarishi Singla bt Tia Mahajan 21-17, 21-14Boys’ singles under-13: Madhav bt Kartik Kalra 21-3, 21-5; Aditya Sharma bt Raghav Bhaatia 21-14, 21-14Boys’ doubles under-13: Stavan Jain and Raghav Bhatia bt Shehan and Suryansh 21-8, 21-14; Arnav Negi and Aditya Sharma bt Kartik Kalra and Vansh Gupta 21-15, 21-19Girls’ singles under-13: Gurleen Kaur bt Upneet Kaur 21-8, 21-12; Shenaya Chadha bt Prabhnoor Kaur 14-21, 21-14, 23-21Girls’ doubles under-13: Upneet Kaur and Amelta Bhakoo bt Sanchi Arora and Aadhira 21-8, 21-5||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vakul-sharma-clinches-three-titles-at-ludhiana-district-badminton-championship-101630954486385.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana govt school head rebuked: Action sought against two education dept staffers||The staff at Government Primary School, Purana Bazaar, Sahnewal, have filed a police complaint against two employees of the District Education Office for misbehaving with the school head, humiliating her and threatening her. In their complaint to commissioner of police Naunihal Singh, they alleged that due to the mistreatment by deputy district education officer (elementary) Kuldeep Singh and clerk Harminder Singh Romi, the school head, Sapandeep Kaur, suffered a paralysis attack.The complainants stated that a vaccination camp was organised at the school on August 31 without prior information, yet they cooperated with the health department team. On September 1, a health team again arrived, but left after finding all classrooms occupied. Minutes later, deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh and clerk Harminder Singh Romi reached the school, and rebuked the school head teacher for not accommodating the health team for organising a vaccination camp.“We told them that no information was received for the camp. Moreover, the school is already facing a space crunch and is accommodating 610 students in five rooms, with two classrooms still under construction,” said the staffers.“Still, following the order of the deputy DEO, we emptied one classroom and made the students sit on the floor. But the official insulted the head teacher, and a political leader who was accompanying him threatened her of a transfer,” he added.After sometime, the head teacher suffered a paralysis attack and was rushed to a hospital.A copy of complaint has also been marked to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Punjab and Haryana high court chief justice, and the education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-govt-school-head-rebuked-action-sought-against-two-education-dept-staffers-101630954366733.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Defamation case: Will not interfere with single-judge order, says high court||The Delhi high court on Monday refused to interfere with a single judge order declining to remove the alleged defamatory statements and posts shared by BJP MLA Vijender Gupta against Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot over alleged irregularities in the procurement of 1000 low-floor buses.“We do not want to pass an order because this may have some repercussion on one or the other party,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said.“In politics...I mean….you don’t have to be so sensitive about this,” the court remarked.Gupta’s counsel verbally assured the court that till the next date of hearing on September 20, before the single judge, his client will not make any press statements or tweets on the issue.The bench, taking note of this, ordered that on the next date of hearing, none of the parties would seek adjournment and requested the judge to proceed with the matter.The court’s order came on an appeal filed by Gahlot against the single judge’s August 27 order refusing to pass an ex parte order in the civil defamation suit against the BJP MLA. The court, while issuing summons to Gupta, also gave him 30 days to respond to the suit saying that prima facie no personal allegations were made against Gahlot.On Monday, senior advocate Rajiv Nayar, representing Gahlot, argued that the approach of single judge was erroneous and that the personal allegations were made against the AAP leader by Gupta. He said an LG appointed committee has already given the government a clean chit in the matter.Nayar argued that even after filing a civil and a criminal defamation plea, Gupta released a press note stating that the high court has “rejected” all the contentions and arguments of the Delhi minister.When the court asked Gupta’s counsel Ranjit Kumar about it, he replied that it was Gupta’s understanding of the order and maybe wrongly worded.Taking note of Gupta’s lawyer’s submission, the high court disposed of Gahlot’s appeal.In the civil defamation suit, Gahlot has sought ₹5 crore damages from Gupta for allegedly making scandalous statements relating to irregularities in the procurement of low floor buses. He also demanded the removal of alleged defamatory posts by Gupta on the social media.HT reported on July 11 that the L-G-appointed panel gave a clean chit to the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) in the tendering and procurement of the buses, although it found some “procedural lapses” arising out of “a bona fide decision making”.Last month, the Union government recommended a CBI probe in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/defamation-case-will-not-interfere-with-single-judge-order-says-high-court-101630954307510.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Weather update: Light to moderate showers likely in Chandigarh today||After a dry spell, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that light to moderate rain up to 30mm is likely in the city on Tuesday. The officials said, “Rain is expected at many places in the region on Tuesday. The chances of rain will drop on Wednesday and Thursday but from Friday, some rain is expected. The temperature will also fall if it rains during the day.”The maximum temperature went up from 35.2°C on Sunday to 35.8°C on Monday. The minimum temperature went up from 26.5°C on Sunday to 28°C on Monday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 31°C and 34°C while the minimum temperature will remain between 26°C and 28°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-weather-update-light-to-moderate-showers-likely-today-101630954187995.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Battle Honour Day of 2 Sikh Regiment celebrated at Maharaja Ranjit Singh War Museum in Ludhiana||Remembering martyrs, serving and veteran soldiers for their courage on Battle Honour Day of 2 Sikh Regiment, state information commissioner (SIC) Lt Gen AK Sharma (retd) on Monday said the day was an opportunity to celebrate the historic day and reiterate the solidarity with the armed forces.Paying floral tributes to the martyrs at Maharaja Ranjit Singh War Museum, the SIC said that every soldier had a commitment to sacrifice his life for the sake of nation and serving the country by donning a uniform was a matter of great pride and satisfaction for every individual.Sharma said the country would be indebted forever to the soldiers as they laid their lives for the country.Col (retd) Anup Singh Dharni who was part of the regiment and fought in the 1965 war and later captured Raja Picquet also paid tributes to the martyrs.Battle Honour Day is celebrated to mark the day of victory. The regiment lost 40 men, including its commanding officer Lt Col NN Khanna. Col TS Kalra (retd), Col KK Verma (retd), deputy director Cdr BS Virk (retd) and others were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/battle-honour-day-of-2-sikh-regiment-celebrated-at-maharaja-ranjit-singh-war-museum-in-ludhiana-101630954126215.html
07-09-2021||Other||Delhi govt school children in classes 11, 12 to get ₹2,000 seed fund: Sisodia||Encouraged by the success of 41 government school students who used the seed money of ₹1,000 per student to deliver nine profitable entrepreneurial projects, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that the pilot will be extended to all government school students of classes 11 and 12 with the amount being increased to ₹2,000 as announced during the annual budget this year.As part of its Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum introduced in 2019, students at Delhi government schools received ₹1,000 as seed money for their approved business ideas. This March, the Delhi government proposed to increase the seed money to ₹2,000.The scheme will benefit nearly 350,000 students, Sisodia said.Sisodia also said that based on the results of the pilot project, the government may include a component of the EMC projects in its start-up policy that is currently in the works.From selling refurbished mobile phones, handmade chocolates, handicrafts, and jewellery to building low-cost bluetooth speakers, 41 students from School of Excellence in Khichripur – where the pilot was made operational – on Monday exhibited their projects at an event organised by the Delhi government.The project leaders, who are now in Class 12, said they used the lessons learned in EMC classes to turn their skills and hobbies into profitable ventures. For instance, Abhishek Soni, a Class 12 student at the Khichripur school, and a self-trained sketch artist, has been selling his artwork for over a year to pay his tuition fee. Following the EMC classes, Soni and four of his classmates got together to develop their business idea “Tap and Draw” using the collective seed money of Rs.5,000. The students said they have sold artwork worth Rs.20,000 so far.“We have also set up a sales commission of 20% to resolve conflict within the group. Each student is excited to bring in more orders. The quality of our products speaks for itself, and our business is mainly based on orders from social media or through word-of-mouth promotion,” said Soni.The students also plan to expand their ‘businesses’ to rope in members of their community to generate jobs. “We have approached women living on the streets and are collaborating with them to ensure they get some work. Since we will have our board exams soon, we can outsource the work so that both of us can gain something in the process,” said Shiza Ali and Sakshi Jha, two best friends who collaborated on the project ‘Home 2 creation’ to sell handmade handicrafts and chocolates.“We were instructed by our business coach to conduct market survey to look for quality products under affordable range. Most of the bakeries were not keen on sharing their recipe for chocolates so I had to learn through other channels, including YouTube. We hope to turn this into a profitable model so that we can rope in interested homemakers who may want to earn some money during their free time,” said Jha, who made a profit of around ₹9,500.Students pursuing masters in business administration course at the state government’s Delhi Technological University were roped to mentor the students as business coaches.The pandemic-induced economic crisis made it challenging for most students to convince their customers to go for their product. “People were facing economic hardships during the lockdown and many struggled to even get two meals per day. It was difficult to get customers and even if we did, sometimes they did not like the handmade jewellery and would return the product. We were taught by our instructors to keep all this in mind while investing in the business and marketing the products,” said Muskan Soni, who recovered her seed money and earned a profit of ₹1,865.Class 12 student Sukh Sagar, who was a part of the eight-member group MOBISITE, knew the basics of repairing a mobile phone due to a close friend working in the profession. “I learned more about the job after we decided to set up this projects. Our team members work on different areas of the business including marketing, managing content, handling social media,” he said, adding that their business of selling refurbished mobile phones made a profit of nearly ₹22,000.Other projects include selling personalised mugs, T-shirts, keychains and other accessories; cultural paintings; developing low-cost bluetooth speakers; eco-friendly compost; and a system to share subscriptions for OTT platforms at a low cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-school-children-in-classes-11-12-to-get-rs-2-000-seed-fundsisodia-101630954067719.html
07-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh Congress minority department targets SP over riots, promises judicial probe||The Uttar Pradesh Congress’s minority department on Monday passed a 16-point resolution promising a judicial probe into riots that took place during the Samajwadi Party (SP) government’s tenure, thereby indicating that the party is getting ready to go it alone in the 2022 assembly election in the state. The Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee’s minority department resolution also promises a law against mob lynching on the pattern of a bill passed by the Rajasthan government. It said that on coming to power the party would get a bill passed in the state legislature and send the same to the President for approval. “The UPCC minority department has passed a 16-point resolution at the convention here on Monday,” said UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu. This is yet another move by the Congress which has targeted the SP along with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee recently brought out a booklet to be distributed to party workers targeting the SP, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the BJP alike. The resolution was passed at the Parivartan Sankalp Sammelan that All India Congress Committee minority department chairman Imran Pratapgarhi and UPCC minority department chief Shah Nawaz Alam attended at the UPCC headquarters here. “We will discuss the 16-point resolution at the meetings of minority department to be held at the district level and all-important points will be incorporated in the Congress manifesto for the 2022 assembly election in Uttar Pradesh,” said Alam. Besides the promise of an inquiry into riots and law against mob lynching, the Uttar Pradesh Congress minority department resolution also promises opening of tanneries closed during the SP government’s tenure, withdraw cases registered during agitation against CAA-NRC (Citizenship Amendment Act-National Register for Citizens), the probe into irregularities in waqf properties in the past 30 years, implementation of ₹2350 crore package for minorities announced by Manmohan Singh government, Maulana Azad hostels for students of minorities, implementation of the Mathur Commission report into the 1992 riots in Kanpur and compensation to such innocent persons against whom cases under cow protection law have been rejected by the Allahabad high court. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in an informal interaction with media persons, had recently indicated her party was open to an alliance in 2022 assembly elections. Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu has asserted that his party would only align with the smaller parties. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has also declared that the SP will join hands only with smaller parties in the 2022 polls. Other party leaders say the Congress is not a serious contender for power in Uttar Pradesh. “The Congress is nowhere in the picture and the SP is going to come to power in 2022 elections in Uttar Pradesh,” said Rajendra Chaudhary, the SP spokesman. Speaking to media persons, Imran Pratapgarhi said the Congress organisation structure has been strengthened in the past two years and he will go door to door to bring the minorities back into the party fold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-congress-minority-department-targets-sp-over-riots-promises-judicial-probe-101630954008501.html
07-09-2021||Other||Akal Takht jathedar may attend Joti Jot in Pakistan||Amritsar Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh may attend the Joti Jot (immersion in eternal light) gurpurb of Sikhism’s founder Guru Nanak being observed at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan from September 20-22. The Pakistan Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) and the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) are the organisers.On Monday, they held a meeting in Lahore to review preparation at the last resting place of Guru Nanak. PSGPC chief Satwant Singh said, “We know that sangat from other countries will not be able to attend this gurpurb due to global Covid-19 restrictions. Indian devotees, however, can do so through the corridor. We request the Indian government to allow devotees to attend the gurpurb through this corridor and reopen it from their side.”He added that Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur had a role to play in ensuring that this happens. “On our request, Giani Harpreet Singh is attending the gurpurb,” he added.“I have received an invitation from the PSGPC and the Pakistan government may grant me visa. It remains to be seen, however, if the Centre allows me to cross-over to Pakistan through the Attari-Wagah border. There are still restrictions on the international border.” The corridor was opened by India and Pakistan on November 9, 2019 to provide Indian devotees visa-free access to the historic Sikh shrine, which is just 4km from the international border. “It remained operational for four months before the governments of both the countries closed it in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akal-takht-jathedar-may-attend-joti-jot-in-pakistan-101630953827249.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||DDA giving final touches to policy for green area development||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is in the process of finalising the Green Development Area policy to pave the way for planned development in the city’s green belt, said senior officials.The policy, which was placed in public domain recently, will be tabled in the upcoming authority meeting, officials added.“We held a public meeting earlier this year and are in the process of finalising it. Once approved in the DDA meeting, it will be sent to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry for notification,” said a senior DDA official.The policy, DDA officials said, will regulate development in green belt villages located on the city’s periphery. Currently, no new construction, either residential or commercial, is allowed in the 47 rural villages located on the city’s periphery, such as Dhansa, Mitraon, Tikri Kalan, Kapashera, parts of Rajokri, Ghumanhera, Bamnoli and Bijwasan.The policy allows educational institutions, medical facilities, agricultural activities, big parks, sports facilities and non-polluting industries, among others, to come up in the peripheral villages. A total of 70 villages in the urban extensions of the national capital will benefit from the policy once it is approved.The policy allows for construction in three grades, based on the size of the plot. The minimum land required, a senior official said, will be 600 sqm, where permitted development works will be limited to agricultural, horticultural and solar fields, among others.Farmhouses, open markets and sports facilities etc will be allowed on a minimum plot size of 4,000 sqm while educational institutions, non-polluting industries etc can come up on plots of size 10,000 sqm and above.Residents of these villages have been demanding permission to construct their houses and also give their land for commercial activities. Residents claim that due to restrictions on construction, the villages are devoid of essential infrastructure like education institutions and medical facilities, among others, and also left without much source of income.Bhupinder Bazad, president of master plan committee of Delhi Dehat Vikas Manch, an association of villagers, said, “With increase in population, residents need space to construct new houses and also look for opportunities to earn their livelihood. While we need to protect the green lungs of the city, we also have to provide avenues for villagers to earn their livelihood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-giving-final-touches-to-policy-for-green-area-development-101630953826137.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi civic bodies dispose waste at landfills, get more than they bargained for||The three municipal corporations working on reducing the garbage at the three landfills in Delhi --- Okhla, Bhalswa and Ghazipur -- have a new problem at hand. The civic bodies are looking at ways to dispose of at least 1.8 million metric tonnes of inert waste that the processing of waste at the landfills has generated. The civic bodies have deployed trommel machines at these landfills to segregate the waste and decrease pressure on the sites. A trommel machine is a huge mechanical sieve that separates the landfill waste into three components -- municipal solid waste, construction and demolition waste or debris and soil or sand. According to the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), which manages the Okhla landfill site, at least 625,000 metric tonnes of inert waste was piling up at the site, leaving little space for moving of machines and handling the legacy waste. To find a way to dispose of this residue, the SDMC standing committee on August 31 approved the proposal to shift the inert waste to two sites, NTPC Eco Park and Tajpur Pahadi (both near Badarpur) at an estimated cost of ₹19.50 crore. “A tender for the same will be floated this month. The two sites together can accommodate 690,000 metric tonnes of waste. An administrative approval has been given. This will help in fast-tracking the bio-mining process,” said Colonel (retd) B K Oberoi, chairperson, SDMC standing committee.Since last year, the civic body, under a temporary arrangement, has been sending some of the inert material at these two sites. Some of this waste was also being used for making temporary roads at the landfill site. “Already 350,000 metric tonnes of inert waste has been removed from the landfill,” he said.Oberoi said the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which had earlier agreed to use inert waste for building of roads, has refused to use it after testing material. “The NHAI told us that the material could not be used for base-filling, as the road may sink. We are now looking for alternative ways to dump it,” he said. NHAI officials did not comment on the issue.The Okhla landfill is spread over an area of 46 acres. Currently, areas under SDMC generate approximately 3,600 metric tonnes of waste every day, almost 50% of which is dumped at Okhla landfill.North and east Delhi municipal bodies also said that piling up of inert waste was hindering their plans to deploy more trommel machines to expedite the processing of waste at the Bhalswa and Ghazipur landfill sites. According to the officials of the civic bodies, mining of the waste at the three landfills has led to significant reduction in their heights. The height of garbage dump at Bhalswa has come down from 65 metres to 54 metres, from 65 metres to 50 metres at Ghazipur, and from 55 metres to 38 metres at Okhla, officials of the three bodies said. “At the Bhalswa landfill, we plan to increase the number of trommel machines from 24 to 60 by next month. We have been using the inert waste in filling up low-lying areas such as streets of unauthorised colonies and vacant spaces in areas such as Narela, Rohini, Rani Khera, among others,” said a senior North corporation official, who asked not to be named. At least 2,500 metric tonnes of solid waste is dumped at the Bhalswa landfill daily. East Delhi Municipal Corporation officials said they were going to hire an agency to handle both processing of waste and dumping of the resultant inert waste. “We plan to increase the number of machines at the site from 20 to 30. Currently, dumping of inert material is too much to handle, and it will be more organised once a single agency is handling the entire work,” said a senior EDMC official. Experts said mining of waste has to be done in a structured manner. Atin Biswas, programme director, solid waste management project, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said a single agency should handle the processing of waste and dumping of resultant inert waste. “The cost of transporting waste is huge. While the civic bodies are employing trommel machines, they also need to get the same agency to dump the inert waste as well so that the space reclaimed from the landfill is not lost to another pile of waste. Simultaneously, the civic bodies should take steps to reduce the amount of waste is dumped daily at the landfills, and focus on segregation of waste is done at source,” said Biswas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-civic-bodies-dispose-waste-at-landfills-but-get-more-than-they-bargained-for-101630953586204.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 aftermath: Longer traffic jams, newer choke points in Delhi||The Covid lockdowns have had a major impact on traffic and mobility patterns in the Capital -- jams are continuing beyond peak hours, new chaos hot spots are emerging, and fewer rides are being made to public transport hubs once restrictions have been lifted, according to assessments by the traffic police and data from Google Mobility Trends.During the first lockdown imposed in March 2020 to curb spread of Covid-19, the city of cars – as Delhi is often referred to since it has over 10 million vehicles, the maximum in the country -- fell silent with its chock-a-block abruptly empty. An analysis by the Delhi traffic police shows that between March and June 2020, the travel time in the city reduced by 40-60%, depending on the location. For instance, travelling from residential localities in east Delhi to west Delhi took around 40 minutes as opposed to over an hour in the pre-pandemic days.The situation, however, changed quickly after June 2020, as people started resuming travel to workplaces, recreational spots, and to supermarkets and malls, with the government relaxing curbs as part of its unlock guidelines.New choke points The return of vehicles led to new traffic patterns emerging. Senior traffic police officials said that over the last year, at least 20 arterial stretches where traffic was not heavy have become new congestion points.“By November last year, we started noticing increased traffic jams. In fact, over the last year, there is a change in traffic patterns. We are seeing more roads turning into congestion points in addition to the existing choke points,” said a senior traffic official, who asked not to be named.Traffic police records show that stretches such as the Ring Road near Safdarjung Hospital, Sri Aurobindo Marg near Hauz Khas, Rajouri Garden (Najafgarh Road), Ajmal Khan Road (near Karol Bagh), Pankha Road (near Hari Nagar) are some of the stretches where heavy traffic jams are being reported more frequently.“A stretch emerges on our radar if there are recurrent traffic jams being reported from there over a significant period of time. The criteria is that the traffic on these roads are not caused by a temporary reason such as a vehicle breakdown or an accident, but because of high traffic volume,” the traffic official added.Heavier traffic at regular trouble spotsAs new traffic choke points were emerging, snarls on the regular chaos hot spots was getting denser too, said traffic police. Estimates show that on the busiest stretches of the city, including ITO junction, Ashram Chowk, Britannia Chowk, Mukarba Chowk, Delhi-Noida Direct Flyway, and Dhaula Kuan crossing, the traffic volume during peak rush hours increased by 10-12% over the last year compared to the pre-lockdown period. Some of these stretches are also breaking away from the original patterns of “peak hour traffic”— which was categorised by the traffic police as 8am to 12pm and 4pm to 8pm, when the traffic picked up on roads.Complaints received by the traffic department’s control room between June 1 and July 20 this year show that stretches such as the ITO intersection, Mukarba Chowk, Ring Road (from Hyatt Hotel to AIIMS flyover), Ashram intersection, Britannia Chowk, Kashmere Gate (near ISBT), Rajouri Garden crossing (Najafgarh Road), Dwarka Road (near the Palam flyover) and Outer Ring Road (near Hauz Khas metro station) are now reporting traffic jams beyond peak hours. To be sure, some of these stretches -- such as Ashram -- have peculiar problems such as haphazard construction work.At the ITO intersection, which is categorised as one of the busiest stretches in the Capital, traffic volume during the pre-pandemic days was around 250,000 to 300,000 vehicles (during peak hours). In September 2020, the traffic volume increased marginally to around 325,000 to 340,000, but jams were still limited to the four hours in the morning and four hours in the evening with relatively smooth flow during the rest of the day. Since June 10 this year, when traffic movement resumed after the second lockdown imposed in April this year, the traffic volume has been high through the day. A short-period estimate shows that the intersection has been recording around 400,000 vehicles during peak hours, and jams now continue on the stretch for almost the entire day.Mobility trendsAccording to Google’s mobility trends the city’s traffic pattern was changed by the pandemic. The tool tracks the number and length of visits people make to certain kinds of places compared to a baseline – in this case, a five-week period between January 3 and February 6 this year.After the lockdown was announced last year, Delhi saw a drop of nearly 80% in people’s trips to retail and recreational places, parks, supermarkets, pharmacies and workplaces, the trends show.Public transit, which includes places such as bus and train stations, saw the highest drop in people’s mobility in a week after the lockdown was announced, as much as 88%.This, however, has been gradually changing with the Capital easing lockdown measures over time. For example, on April 1 last year there was a 73% drop in visits to supermarkets and pharmacies compared to the baseline, but the drop was 64% on May 1, 27% on June 1, 26% on July 1 and 20% on August 1 last year.The most recent mobility trends, of July 26 this year, show that the drop in visits to retail and recreational spots such as cafes, shopping centres cinemas and libraries has reduced to 29% and to workplaces has dropped to 30%. Movement around residential areas across the city has seen an upward swing, with a 9% increase.Fewer trips to public transport hubsThe most worrying trend, according to experts, is that fewer trips are being made to public transport hubs such as Metro stations and bus stands. The mobility trends show that even after the public transport modes resumed services, there was a drop of 24% in mobility around these spots as compared to the baseline.To be sure, curbs were imposed on seating capacity in public buses and the Metro in accordance with the Covid protocols. Though 100% seating has now been allowed in DTC buses and the Metro, standing is not allowed to discourage crowding.Experts say that besides the curbs on seating capacity, the concern over health and safety in public transport also discourage people from using them. This, they said, means that even those who used their private vehicles only for shorter commutes have started using private vehicles more often, leading to a more vehicles on city roads than during the pre-pandemic days.An analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), an organisation focusing on public interest research and advocacy, showed that the mean travel speed on 12 major stretches in Delhi increased from 24 kmph pre-lockdown to 46 kmph during the lockdown. This again reduced again to 29 kmph after the lockdown between October and November 2020 as the government announced phased reopening of activities.Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said even after full seating capacity has been allowed inside the trains, the network is running at 20% of its capacity. This is also resulting in long queues outside stations.“Even though the public transport modes are now operational there is a fear among people that travelling in such close proximity with others might increase the chances of infection. This could undo the years of work that has been done in getting people to ditch their private cars and use public transport modes,” Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director research and advocacy, CSE, said.She added, “People who owned a private vehicle, but chose to travel in metros and buses, now prefer to travel via their own cars, because of safety and convenience.”This, however, is not a trend unique to Delhi. Researchers at Vanderbilt University, Nashville, predicted in June last year the possibility of a sweeping switch to “single-occupancy vehicle” dominating the roads of at least 16 US cities, resulting in the risk of extreme traffic post pandemic.Focus on congestion managementTraffic police and experts said that, in a post-pandemic world, the focus will have to be on congestion management and on coming up with innovative measures to control dependence on private vehicles.“Policing will have to focus on congestion management. As enforcers of traffic rules, it is certainly our job to ensure that traffic rules are followed and if not people are penalised, but the focus should be to manage congestion and along with it create awareness of best practices,” said Muktesh Chander, special commissioner of police (traffic).Chander said that he wrote to his colleagues in July, asking them to shift their focus on congestion management on arterial roads, as opposed to penalty-based policing.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), said that the new commuting patterns of the city will have to be studied thoroughly so that a holistic plan can be made around it.“This is a scenario that no one in the world has seen before. The increase in congestion could be a temporary impact of the pandemic, but we must prepare for the worst and plan on how the city’s infrastructure needs to be prepared to handle this new load,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-aftermath-longer-traffic-jams-newer-choke-points-in-delhi-101630953528718.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Following plaints of ‘confusion’, Chandigarh to review traffic lights on its slip roads||The Chandigarh traffic police will be reviewing the efficacy of traffic lights recently installed on slip roads in the city. The development comes after residents raised the issue of confusion caused by these traffic lights, during a recent meeting of the Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC).“New measures are introduced on roundabouts but the public isn’t made aware of them. Now, these lights have been installed on slip roads, which were meant to help traffic to slip away from the main stream of traffic. So residents are confused whether they should stop here or not,” said Pardeep Chopra, secretary, residents’ welfare association (RWA), Sector 21, adding that traffic cops are stationed at the slip road’s exit to cut challans of such unsuspecting people.FOSWAC member Rajan Brar said: “What is the point of having traffic lights at only some roundabouts. There should be uniformity. Authorities must consider having blinker lights here instead of red lights.” While FOSWAC had orally apprised the police officers about this, general secretary JS Gogia will also send a formal complaint to the department.When contacted, SP (traffic) Ketan Bansal said, “This is a genuine problem. We have asked the Children’s Traffic Park (CTP) teams to conduct awareness drives for people. We will also review how much of a difference these lights have had on the roundabouts -- whether they are actually needed or not.”City-based road safety activist Harpreet Singh added, “The traffic police can work on awareness. Even their social media handles have a lot of followers, and it will only take a few days to launch a campaign regarding this.” Singh further added that traffic cops shouldn’t hide at these spots to issue challans. “Traffic cops should be present at the front so that the rules can be followed, and people stay safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/following-plaints-of-confusion-chandigarh-to-review-traffic-lights-on-its-slip-roads-101630953526027.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Maintenance cost of Delhi’s DTC buses nearly double in a decade, shows govt data||The maintenance cost of buses operated by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) has increased by over 98% in around a decade as the state transport unit continues to operate the vehicles beyond their shelf life, government data showed. The operational costs too shot up by around 80% in five years.On July 26, HT reported that the entire fleet of 3,760 buses run by DTC has been officially declared “overage” this year, a first in the history of the state transport utility since its inception in 1971. Data for the month of August showed that the maintenance cost, including material and spare part costs, of these buses in 2019-20 was ₹817.27 crore, which is 98.2% more than the cost of ₹412.33 crore incurred by the DTC in 2010-11.Further, operational costs of these buses have also shot up -- it rose from ₹1,019.36 crore in 2014-15 to ₹1,834.67 crore in 2019-20, marking an 80% increase in operational costs over a span of five years, a period when the number of DTC buses has been on a steady decline. Between 2011 and 2017, 368 buses were scrapped on an average annually with 2,209 vehicles being withdrawn during this period.According to DTC records, 99% of its bus fleet has crossed the technical operational limit for low-floor CNG buses. The DTC categorises a bus as “overage” after a run of more than eight years. As per the procurement contracts under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM), the maximum operational life of a low-floor CNG bus is 12 years or 750,000km, whichever is later.Of the total 3,760 DTC buses currently operational, none of them is even as young as 6-8 years. At least 32 of the buses are 8-10 years old, 3,072 are between 10 and 12 years old, and 656 are older than 12 years. The number is alarming considering that the city needs 11,000 buses, according to a government affidavit submitted to the high court in 2018, and that the DTC itself is mandated to have 5,500 buses.Even if the 2,990 cluster buses, which are run by private operators, are included, Delhi’s current state run buses strength goes up to just 6,750. New buses are being added only in the cluster model. The DTC tried to float a tender for 1,000 buses, but it has been withdrawn because the procurement process is undergoing a CBI investigation.“We hoped to add new buses this year. Tendering and the entire process was complete. But then the whole process has now been cancelled due to the ongoing investigation. We are looking forward to adding around 300 electric buses next year now,” said a senior DTC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/maintenance-cost-of-delhi-s-dtc-buses-nearly-double-in-a-decade-shows-govt-data-101630953287402.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||JNU will open in a phased manner, non-PhD students need to be patient, says V-C||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar on Monday said the varsity is working towards a phased reopening and asked students of non-PhD courses to exercise patience. Kumar, along with other officials of JNU, said this while addressing students through a Facebook Live session on the staggered reopening of the campus to PhD students. Asking students of masters and other courses to exercise patience, he said a committee on reopening was working towards the initiation of in-person classes. “Be it Jamia or other universities, we are all working on a phased reopening. If we suddenly let in a large number of students and they do not follow Covid protocols, that can lead to a situation where Covid may come back. We would like everyone (back) on campus sooner or later,” said Kumar. He said the university will be holding its convocation ceremony in the last week of this month. During the Live session, officials also informed students that the executive council of the university has decided to waive the hostel fee for all students. Officials also answered student queries ranging from admissions to scholarships and hostel allotments. On the resumption of in-person classes for all courses, Kumar said online classes will continue till the government gives permission for initiation of classes for all. Referring to the reopening of schools, he said it was important to understand that students of a university came from different parts of the country, whereas school students belonged to the local area. “We need to understand that a school has students from a local area whereas in a university, we have students from across the country. Many of our students are living in regions where Covid is still quite prevalent. Thus, it is not advisable to start offline classes as of now,” said Kumar. Professor RP Singh, the rector 3 of the university and a member of the Covid monitoring committee, said, “In the next meeting of the committee, we will be discussing the opening of the campus for final year students of masters courses who have to complete their studies, especially those who need to access labs for practicals or those who have to submit their dissertations.”The JNU students union on Monday also started an indefinite protest outside the dean of students’ office. Seeking the reopening of the university, student union members met the dean and put forth demands which included the immediate commencement of allotment of hostel rooms to 2020 and 2019 batch students, the issuance of identity card to first-year students, improvement in hostel infrastructure, and universal vaccination, among other demands. The student body has called for a protest march on Tuesday. “Upon receiving no concrete response on any of the demands from the dean of students, JNUSU has given a call for an indefinite sit-in before the dean’s office starting now ( Monday),” the JNUSU said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnu-will-open-in-a-phased-manner-non-phd-students-need-to-be-patient-says-vc-101630953285947.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Jalandhar man, cousin attacked at Ludhiana court complex||A Jalandhar resident and his cousin were attacked by 10 unidentified men in the parking of the New Court Complex on Monday afternoon.The victim, Daljit Singh, 38, and his cousin Harpreet Singh, 37, were at the court for a hearing into his matrimonial dispute case, pending for the past four years.Daljit said while they were walking towards the parking lot to pick up their car, at least 10 men attacked them with iron rods and baseball bats. In the melee, they suffered injuries and their turbans were tossed in the air. As they raised the alarm, the accused fled the spot.Police rushed the victims to the civil hospital, where Daljit accused his in-laws of attacking him.“We received information about the scuffle in the afternoon. The victims went to the civil hospital for treatment. We will take action after recording their statements,” said ASI Sukhpal Singh, in-charge, court complex police post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jalandhar-man-cousin-attacked-at-ludhiana-court-complex-101630953172190.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Final-year undergrad, post-grad students of DU allowed on campus from Sept 15||The Delhi University on Monday announced a phase-wise reopening of the varsity, and said all final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students, requiring lab work or practical classes, may return to campus from September 15. The varsity has made it mandatory for all students returning to colleges and departments to be at least partially vaccinated. Department and college libraries have been allowed to reopen from Monday, DU officials said.“Laboratory or practical classes and similar activities for final-year UG/PG students may be allowed in the offline mode from September 15 with maximum 50% of the working capacity of classroom/laboratory/hall room following the principle of rotation. Only a limited number of experiments/exercises/practicals may be selected that are considered essential or important in the semester,” the university order, released on Monday, said.DU registrar Vikas Gupta, who issued the order, said teaching and non-teaching staff must be fully vaccinated at the earliest. “It is further advised that all students entering the college/department/university receive at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine. However, for hostel residents, although both doses of Covid-19 vaccine are essential but ensure that the residents have at least one dose of vaccine,” he said.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on August 30 issued the standard operating procedure (SOP) for reopening of schools, colleges, and other educational institutes, and emphasised on finalising readiness plans in consultation with parent groups, monitoring compliance of Covid-19 protocols, and according top priority to vaccination of teaching and non-teaching staff.While theory classes for all UG and PG courses shall continue in the online mode until further notification, students are allowed to return for academic consultations and placement purposes, provided their numbers do not exceed the 50% seating capacity at any point, the DU said. Attendance for all classes will not be mandatory, the university administration further said. The university has also asked libraries to ensure that they work out a schedule for issuing books or for students to visit the library to ensure that there is no overcrowding of such premises.Varsity officials, including Gupta and acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi, held meetings with college principals to discuss the reopening plans. Manoj Sinha, principal of Aryabhatta College and general secretary of DU principals’ association, said, “Holding online classes parallel to practical work will not be a challenge since we have a set-up in place. While students want to return to the campuses, parents are concerned about their safety due to the previous waves of Covid. It is a sensible step to continue online classes because we need to tread carefully.”Sinha also said within the DDMA and University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines, colleges can also arrange for academic tutorials, if needed. “Although the teaching workload will increase, it will be manageable. We are enabling our classrooms so that teachers can use internet facilities in college to take online classes from our premises and conduct the lab work offline, as per a fixed timetable.”Hardeep Kaur, a teacher of Zoology in Ramjas College, said, “It was difficult to manage offline and online classes when the in-person practicals resumed last year. I had to repeat one experiment six to seven times to ensure that physical distancing was maintained among students at all times. Students also need hands-on experience in conducting the experiments so that they build on their skills. However, the rising Covid-19 cases along with making these classes non-mandatory may lead to a low attendance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-final-year-undergrad-and-post-grad-students-of-du-allowed-back-on-campus-from-sept-15-101630953107735.html
07-09-2021||Lucknow||UP govt committed to doubling farmers’ income: Minister||State minister for horticulture and agriculture marketing, Sriram Chauhan, on Monday said that the state government was committed to doubling farmers’ income and ensuring a good price for their crops. Addressing the gathering at an awareness programme organised by the Uttar Pradesh chapter of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry in collaboration with Arthur D Little, Chauhan said: “Farmers are backbone of the country’s economy. The state government is working towards making farmers’ income double.” The minister further stressed on using latest techniques in horticulture for increasing crops’ production. The programme was organised to educate farmers and other stakeholders about latest innovations and technological advancements in the field of horticulture to help improve their crop productivity and enhance farmer incomes. On the occasion, Chauhan also felicitated farmers. In the workshop, Alok Ranjan, former chief secretary, UP, stressed on associating farmers with entrepreneurs so that farmers were able to find good market and price for their crops. Lalit Khaitan, chairman, UP Chapter, PHD chamber, said: “Last year when economy of the state was badly disrupted, agriculture was one sector which saved the state and contributed significantly to the economy.” Uttar Pradesh has made tremendous advancement in food production, he added. Mukesh Singh, senior advisor, PHD chamber, UP chapter, assured farmers all support from the PHD chamber. Anjani Kumar Srivastava, MD, HOFED, informed that UP State Horticultural Co-operative Marketing Federation (HOFED) has several units across the state and more than 300 farmers’ groups were directly linked to the federation. Baljit Singh, deputy director, department of Horticulture and Food Processing, Kanpur, apprised the gathering about various schemes and subsidies of the department of Horticulture and Food Processing, Uttar Pradesh government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-committed-to-doubling-farmers-income-minister-101630953106261.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Umar Khalid files fresh bail plea after police’s objection||Former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Umar Khalid, an accused in the northeast Delhi riots conspiracy case, withdrew his bail plea and filed a fresh one after the city police objected on technical grounds, a Delhi court was informed on Monday.Senior advocate Trideep Pais, appearing for Khalid, told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat that the application seeking bail under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) has been substituted with one under Section 437.Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad, representing the police, objected to the fresh plea and said, “In the interim application you have filed, you have made certain allegations that the objections taken by the prosecution are dilatory tactics. Therefore, to paint the prosecution by saying that it is dilatory tactics is not fair,” the prosecutor said.The fresh application was filed after Prasad submitted that the court hearing the plea is a special court designated under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and so exercises powers that are before the court of magistrate within the ambit of Section 437 of the CrPC.ASJ Rawat sought the police reply on the fresh bail application and posted the matter for hearing September 8.In the last hearing on the bail plea on September 3, Khalid told the court that the chargesheet in the case has made hyperbolic allegations without any factual basis and reads like a script from a web series and news channels.The Delhi Police had earlier said the bail plea had no merit and that it will demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the charge sheet filed in the case.Khalid, along with several others, has been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. They are accused of being the “masterminds” of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. He has sought bail in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/umar-khalid-accused-in-delhi-riots-conspiracy-case-files-fresh-bail-plea-after-police-s-objection-101630952630403.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to install 140,000 devices under second phase of CCTV camera project||The Delhi government has started the second phase of its project to install 280,000 CCTV cameras across the national capital, senior officials involved in the project said on Monday. Along with the CCTV cameras, the government is also installing Wi-Fi routers at the same spots for providing people with internet connectivity, the officials said. In the second phase, the government will install an additional 140,000 cameras at both residential and market places that have not been covered so far. The entire project will be completed in six months to a year, depending on the Covid-19 situation, officials said. The project is being carried out by the government’s public works department (PWD). The first phase of the project kicked off in June 2019 and about 140,000 cameras were installed in that phase.“Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, especially the back-to-back Covid-19 waves that Delhi witnessed, the launch of the second phase of our CCTV project kept getting delayed. Tenders and everything else were done, still it could not take off due to restrictions on non-Covid projects. Now that the ban has been lifted, we have started the second phase of the CCTV camera project wherein another 1.4 lakh (140,000) surveillance devices will be installed on the recommendations of the MLAs,” said a senior government official involved in the project, asking not to be named.Data seen by Hindustan Times shows that Delhi currently has approximately 236,000 CCTV cameras of which 140,000 are of the PWD while the remaining have either been installed by the Delhi Police or the MLAs using their local area development funds. Of the 70 assembly constituencies in Delhi, the New Delhi constituency, whose MLA is chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, has the highest number of CCTV cameras at approximately 4,000, government data showed. Along with the CCTV systems, the government is also setting up Wi-Fi networks and around 35,000 Wi-Fi routers will be installed along with cameras in the second phase. PWD officials said for every four cameras, there will be a utility box with an NVR (network video recorder), a Wi-Fi router, a UPS for power backup lasting an hour, and a SIM card to locate the cameras and for network connectivity.People who will be allowed access to the live camera feed include one resident welfare association member, PWD officials, Delhi Police and a representative of the company that is installing and maintaining these cameras. To protect the cameras from damage, theft and prevent changes in the set angle, the cameras will be put in cages. Besides, the cameras have at least five types of notification system. “The cameras can also send an alarm to the common control room whenever its angle is fiddled with; there is a power failure; the camera is covered or damaged; or there is a perimeter defying movement in high security areas,” a second official said, also on condition of anonymity. The PWD is operating a central command and control centre on the 11th floor of its headquarters at ITO where a specialised team of officials will monitor the live feed round the clock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-install-140-000-devices-under-second-phase-of-cctv-camera-project-101630952450042.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Over 6k apply for Delhi govt’s one-time aid scheme for families of Covid victims||The Delhi government has so far received over 6,000 applications from families of Covid-19 victims for ₹50,000 financial aid, as against 25,082 recorded deaths of the infection in the city, said senior government officials. Disbursements began on September 1, and of the 6,036 applications till Monday, 660 families have received the money. Of the rest, 1,381 families are yet to be paid, despite their applications being approved, and the remaining 3,995 are pending approval, said two senior government officials who did not wish to be named. A government official said the approved claims are being processed on a ‘first-in-first-out basis’, which is causing a delay for some recipients.On June 23, the Delhi government promised one-time financial assistance of ₹50,000 for each Covid-19 victim’s family, and ₹2,500 monthly assistance for households that lost their sole breadwinner and for orphaned children. The government has also separately received 4,024 applications for monthly financial aid, after households lost their sole breadwinner to the viral infection. However, payments to such families are yet to begin. Senior government officials said such a monthly system needs more coordination among departments and the bureaucratic processes to set up..It was not immediately clear how many of these applications were cleared. A Delhi government spokesperson said, “The government, under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, has been working on this initiative on a war footing. Necessary directions have been issued in this regard. The government will ensure that no family, which is eligible for financial assistance under this scheme, is left out.”Even though the government has deployed teams to go door-to-door and help people complete the process, several applicants said the exercise is overly convoluted. “We did not know there would be so much paperwork. We have been told that our application is incomplete and now we are heading from one office to another to get things done so that we can complete the application and claim the money. We need it,” said Renu Tarafdar, a domestic worker based in southeast Delhi’s Dakshinpuri whose husband died of Covid-19 in April this year. Manishankar Jha, a factory worker who lives in Kirti Nagar and lost his brother to Covid-19 in May, said, “Government officials have visited our residence twice and we have managed to complete our applications along with all documents necessary. But we are still waiting for the money. When I last checked, I was told that the application is awaiting approval.” To claim financial assistance under the programme, an applicant has to submit five documents online, including death certificate, proof of death caused by Covid-19, residence proof and a document named ‘surviving member certificate’, which has to be obtained from the revenue department office concerned. “Currently, all 33 SDM [sub-divisional magistrate] offices in the city are dealing with a large number of applications for surviving member certificates and the government is trying its best to ease the process,” said the first senior government official. But there are some more issues which the government is trying to resolve, the second senior government official pointed out. “Other than documents, each application has to pass at least one more crucial test. The death certificate must specifically mention Covid-19 as a cause, as per protocols chalked out by the Union government. Every state has its format of issuing death certificates. In Delhi, the municipal corporations issue the document and in most cases the cause of death is not specifically detailed.” “If that condition is not met, then only deaths that have happened within one month of a person testing positive qualify for further verification rounds. The government is trying to tweak these requirements for people’s convenience at the earliest. Orders to expedite processing of the applications have been issued twice by the social welfare minister in the last one month,” said the second official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-6-000-apply-for-delhi-govt-s-one-time-aid-scheme-for-families-of-covid-19-victims-101630952445880.html
07-09-2021||Lucknow||Scrapping of triple talaq: Connect with Muslim women who benefited, Yogi tells BJP women’s wing||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday tasked women members of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) women wing in Uttar Pradesh (UP) to connect with those Muslim women who benefitted from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to scrap the practice of instant triple talaq. “Prime Minister Modi helped free several Muslim women from the ill effects of the instant divorce practice. The BJP women’s wing must connect with these women,” the chief minister said at a women’s wing function of the party. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya who spoke before the chief minister, had also made a similar point and urged the women’s wing to launch a mass connect campaign by talking about the various initiatives of the Modi government at the centre and Yogi Adityanath government in the state. Yogi was referring to the Muslim women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill that became a law after being cleared by both houses of parliament in July 2019. The law provides for punishment including jail term for the husband accused of pronouncing instant triple talaq divorce on his wife. It was in 2016 that in the run up to the 2017 UP polls, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first promised to abolish the practice of instant triple talaq at a public meeting in Mahoba in Bundelkhand. Listing various initiatives of the Modi government to promote women, Yogi said that the Prime Minister promoted women in leadership positions. “It was PM Modi who appointed maximum women as governors. For the first time, three women judges were appointed to the Supreme Court,” Yogi said. “Do you remember how bad things were before 2017, especially in western Uttar Pradesh? Our daughters were unable to go to school, none knew if our daughters would return home safe. But today, women can go anywhere without any fear as criminals are either behind bars or on the run. The BJP women’s wing must talk about this to the people,” Yogi said.He also referred to ‘Mission Shakti’ campaign the BJP government in UP has taken up for women’s safety. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev, state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal also addressed the party women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/scrapping-of-triple-talaq-connect-with-muslim-women-who-benefited-cm-tells-bjp-women-s-wing-101630952328839.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||4 more arrested for helping conman operate cheating racket||A day after actress Leena Maria Paul was arrested for allegedly helping her husband, Sukesh Chandrashekhar, pull off a multi-crore cheating and extortion racket from inside the Tihar prison complex, Delhi Police on Monday said they arrested four more Chennai-based associates of the couple, taking the total number of arrests in the case to 13.The four arrested suspects -- identified as Kamlesh Kothari, Joel Jose Matthews, Arun Muthu, and B Mohan Raj -- and Paul were produced before a Delhi court that sent them to police custody for further interrogation in the case. While Paul, Muthu and Raj have been sent to police custody for 15 days, the others will remain with the police for a week.Police told the court that Paul was required to be taken to Mumbai and other states like Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala for recovery and verification of several properties purchased from the proceeds of crime.According to police, Kothari is a real estate agent who helped the couple buy a bungalow in Chennai, Matthews is Paul’s manager and Muthu helped the couple buy luxury cars. Raj is a lawyer by profession and has been representing Chandrashekhar in his cases for a long time, said a senior police officer in the Economic Offences Wing (EOW), which is probing the cheating and extortion case.Police recently also invoked stringent provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against Chandrashekhar and the others.Chandrashekhar, an alleged conman and an accused in 21 cases, is already in police custody since Saturday, when the court granted his custody to the EOW for 16 days. Police said Chandrashekhar, who was already in Tihar jail, was allegedly running the cheating and extortion racket in connivance with jail officials and some associates outside.The arrests pertain to investigation into a complaint, alleging duping of several crores, filed by Aditi Singh, the wife of former promoter of Religare Enterprises Shivinder Mohan Singh, who was arrested in October 2019 in a case related to alleged misappropriation of funds at Religare Finvest Ltd. Chandrashekhar and his associates reportedly took money from her after posing as government officials and promising to get bail for her husband.Police suspect Chandrashekhar also allegedly duped the wife of Shivinder’s brother Malvinder Singh who is also currently in jail. It is not clear if a separate case was registered by the EOW on the complaint of Malvinder’s wife.Apart from the EOW, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also been looking into the case.ED officials had recently conducted raids at Chandrashekhar’s sea-facing bungalow in Chennai and had found a fleet of 16 luxury cars worth crores of rupees.“Investigators will confront the arrested persons with each other to know how exactly they pulled off the multi-crore cheating and extortion racket and assess their roles. More arrests are likely in the case,” said another police officer, privy to the developments in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-more-arrested-for-helping-conman-operate-a-multi-crore-cheating-racket-from-inside-tihar-jail-101630952085950.html
07-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Home guard jawan dies by suicide, family says was being harassed||A 46-year-old Delhi home guard personnel allegedly died by suicide at his room in Pandav Nagar police station in east Delhi on Monday, police said.The exact reason behind his extreme step is not known, police said, but his family members have alleged that he was being harassed by a police officer at the station for the past few months. Taking their allegations into account, a medical board was constituted to conduct the autopsy and the examination was carried out late Monday evening. The report is awaited, said deputy commissioner of police (east) Priyanka Kashyap.Police are also looking into reports that the man was heavily in debt and had a bank loan of around ₹30 lakh.Late Monday evening, station house officer (SHO) of Pandav Nagar police station was removed and sent to the district lines. DCP Kashyap confirmed the development.A police officer, who asked not to be named, said the home guard jawan was working at the Pandav Nagar police station for the past five years. Footage from the CCTV cameras on the station premises showed him entering the building around 8am. Around 10am, a policeman found him hanging from a ceiling fan in his room on the second floor of the station building.The policeman raised the alarm and the jawan was rushed to Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The police informed his family members, who arrived at the hospital. They said he was depressed for the past few months allegedly because of the ill-treatment meted out to him by a police officer at the station.“We have initiated an inquiry into these allegations made by the jawan’s family members. He is survived by his wife and four children,” said DCP Kashyap.Help is just a call awaySnehi: 011-65978181Sumaitri: 011-23389090||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhihome-guard-jawan-found-dead-in-his-room-at-pandav-nagar-police-station-cops-say-suicide-101630951966753.html
07-09-2021||Pune||ADB’s Rs5,000 crore fund for health infrastructure awaits Centre’s approval: Tope||Pune: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state government has sought ₹5,000 crore from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) which is awaiting a final approval from the central government’s finance department. The fund when approved would be put to use for the development of the pending health infrastructure projects like hospitals, sub-district hospitals and other health infrastructure. Tope assured that over 17,000 posts vacant in the health department would be filled within this month. Tope was speaking at an event at Symbiosis Lavale institute during the inaugural function of the Symbiosis Women’s Medical College and Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre. He said, “The state government has approved the ₹5000 crore loan from Asian Development Bank which would be available at a low interest rate. The proposal is currently with the central government finance department since it is a foreign institute loan.” The minister said that despite the planning commission’s repeated recommendations to increase expenditure on health infrastructure to at least 5% of the GDP, currently only 0.9% is spent on health. “Now with Covid-19 everyone has understood the importance of health and expenditure on the same would rise. We are also filling in all the 17,000 vacant posts in the health department within a month.” The minister said that due to Covid, focus on non-communicable diseases has reduced which would now be brought back. He said, “Lifestyle diseases and other ailments, especially cancer; oral cancer, breast cancer and cervical cancer would also be focused on now. We are in talks with Tata institute and one cancer unit which can provide chemotherapy, radiation and other cancer care can be set up in ₹20 crore and so with ₹200 crore saved from the MPJAY funds ten districts in the state would get cancer treatment at government centres wherein government would put in capital investment and Tata institute would provide technical support so that screening and treatment can start at the right time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/adb-approves-rs5-000-crore-for-health-infrastructure-tope-101630949204744.html
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali CJM issues show-cause notice to Sumedh Saini for ‘misguiding court’||The court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM), Mohali, Pamalpreet Grewal Kahal, on Monday issued a show-cause notice to former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and his counsels, asking why contempt proceedings shouldn’t be taken up against them for misguiding the court in the WWICS land fraud case. The notice has been issued for September 14. The notice was issued, after Punjab vigilance bureau filed a petition in the court through AIG Ashish Kapoor and the investigating officer DSP Harvinder Singh. In its application, the vigilance bureau alleged that Saini and his counsels made a misstatement in the court of CJM that Punjab and Haryana high court had stayed proceedings of remand of Sumedh Singh Saini on August 19 in the WWICS land fraud case, and thereby stalling the proceedings of the lower court. In the application the VB said, “It is therefore respectfully prayed that cognisance of the criminal contempt of this court committed by Sumedh Singh Saini and anyone else be taken into account and in pursuance thereof, reference be made to the Punjab and Haryana high court for taking up proceedings against the said persons for punishing them under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, in the interest of justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-cjm-issues-show-case-notice-to-sumedh-saini-for-misguiding-court-101630948065809.html
07-09-2021||Pune||Hinjewadi residents ‘plant’ 181 nests in trees to draw in birds||PUNE: Rendering working from home greener and more ecologically-friendly, residents of Life Republic Society, Marunji, Hinjewadi, have set up 181 nest boxes in their society. The initiative has proved a boon not only for birds that frequent the society in search of food and water, but also for residents, especially children, who can savour the greenery and beauty of their surroundings. Recalling how it all began, Sandeep Pal, a member of the society, said, “I observed during the first lockdown that many sparrows would come to our balcony every day in search of food and water. That’s when the idea struck to create a favourable environment in the society so that birds could get food and water while we could get a better living environment. All society members including the kids took active part in the initiative.”Ahead of putting up the nest boxes, the society members decided to plant fruit trees and those of pearl millet (bajra), sorghum (jowar) and maize for the birds.“We bought fruit trees that were one- or two- years’ old so they started to bear fruit after six months. Once bajra, jowar and maize started growing, birds had adequate food stock available,” Pal said.While the nest count has now increased to 181, sparrows, pigeons, kingfishers and many other colourful birds whose names even are not known to society members have become regular visitors to the society premises.Dattatray Tambe, a resident, said, “What gives us satisfaction is that most of the trees namely, chickoo, guava, mango and anjeer have started bearing fruit and the birds are enjoying them.”To make planting a continuous activity, the residents have started planting trees on special occasions like birthdays and wedding anniversaries. This in turn is increasing green cover in the society.Pankaj Shetty, another resident, said, “The children are enjoying this environment as the birds that they see in the form of pictures in textbooks or on the internet are now seen in their own society. All the children take the initiative to water the plants and place food in the nests.”Members of the society are delighted and hope that other societies in the city will also follow in their footsteps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hinjewadi-residents-plant-181-nests-in-trees-to-draw-in-birds-101630945424116.html
07-09-2021||Pune||73,752 FYJC seats vacant in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad||PUNE After the completion of the second round of admission to Class 11 (first year junior college - FYJC), an overall total of 73,752 seats have remained vacant in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. In the second round, of a total of 84,455 students registered for the online centralised admission process, 38,973 students gained admission.Now, the third regular round for admissions begins and students who have not yet registered can register for admission.In this second regular round, a total of 63,805 seats were available, for which 35,694 students were eligible. Of this, 15,967 students were allotted a college. Of the 15,967 allotted students, 6,005 students were given the college of their first preference, 3,231 students were given the college of their second preference and 1,988 students were given the college of their third preference. Meanwhile, the detailed schedule of the regular round round 3 for the Pune region was declared on Monday by the Director of Education (Secondary and Higher Secondary), Pune. A vacancy list will be displayed by colleges and the allotment list of round 3 will be declared on September 6 at 10 pm.As per the new schedule of round 3, from September 7 new submissions and updating of part 2 of the forms will begin. On September 9 till 8 pm, the application form (Part-1) edit and choice filling or updating of option form (Part-2) for round 3 will be available online.On September 4, the junior college allotment list for round 3 will be displayed online. Accordingly, a display of cut-offs will be sent to students by SMS. “Then from September 13 at 10 am to September 15, 6 pm, students need to confirm their admission in the allotted colleges. Admission confirmation, rejection or cancellation needs to be done with the student login,” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of the secondary and higher secondary education department.“New student registration will continue for the next round. For such students who have confirmed their admission through the centralised admission round or through any quota admissions, the admission process is complete. Junior colleges will be permitted to surrender the vacant minority and in-house quota seats after round 3. Schedule for further admission rounds will be declared thereafter,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/73752-fyjc-seats-vacant-in-pune-and-pimpri-chinchwad-101630944883921.html
07-09-2021||Pune||Sharad Pawar to meet NCP candidates defeated in last assembly election||PUNE: In a bid to boost the morale of party workers and strengthen the party, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has called a meeting with all candidates who suffered defeat in the last assembly elections, along with ministers, on September 8 in Mumbai.This will be the second such meeting held by Pawar with NCP’s assembly candidates.One of the candidates confirmed saying, “The meeting has been called at Yeshwantrao Chavan auditorium in Mumbai on September 8 and we have been invited. The party has asked members to bring along issues that they feel are important and pending with the state government.”Another candidate said, “All NCP ministers will be present at the meeting as Pawar too will be there. They will hear all the proposals and are expected to follow-up on the issues raised with the concerned departments.”An NCP candidate who was defeated by a few votes in Pune on condition of anonymity said, “It is wrong for me to discuss this with the press, but it is true that this is the second such meeting. Although we suffered defeat earlier, the meeting will be a good platform to put up issues before the ministers and try and get solutions. It will definitely help us rebuild our image in our respective constituencies. And if the issues get sorted out, we can take credit for the same too.”A senior NCP leader said, “Pawar is very serious about this meeting and has instructed all party members to raise important issues in their respective constituencies. The candidates will discuss these issues with the ministers and try and get immediate solutions. The meeting will also help candidates who have suffered defeat to engage with the party again.”An assembly candidate from Pune said, “As I am going to attend the meeting, I will study pending subjects in detail and speak with the concerned citizens. The meeting has prompted me to initiate dialogue with various sections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sharad-pawar-to-meet-ncp-candidates-defeated-in-last-assembly-election-101630944403844.html
07-09-2021||Pune||Man falls into open manhole in Pune, suffers injuries||Pune: Ramesh Koli, 22, suffered injuries on legs, hands and trunk after falling into a 10-foot-deep uncovered manhole at Prabhatnagar in Pimple Gurav. The bike-borne labourer had a lucky escape as he did not get hurt by uncovered iron rods after falling into the hole, according to bystanders who rescued him. “I am a daily wage worker and was going to the labour pick-up point (Majur aada) on Bhagat Singh road when the incident happened. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is carrying out road repairs but has not put any signs near uncovered chambers. The accident has left me without work for five days as doctors have advised bed rest. There are a couple of more chambers which are open with no barricades,” said Koli. The nearby residents rescued Koli after hearing a loud noise as the bike fell into the uncovered chamber. Former Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator Rajendra Jagtap, who visited the spot after the incident, said, “It is fortunate that Koli did not suffer any major injury. The civic body should take immediate steps and accept the responsibility.” Residents claim that the road repairs in Pimple Gurav under the smart area-based development project is going at a snail’s speed. “Pedestrians are daily facing inconvenience due to incomplete road words,” said resident Nitin Kadam. Vijay Bhojane, PCMC additional city engineer, said, “We have ordered the contractor to take extra precautionary measures to prevent such incidents. Almost 80% of ongoing road works in Pimple Gurav is carried out and the rest will be completed by December. Repairs on some narrow roads is taking time because of traffic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-falls-into-open-manhole-in-pune-suffers-injuries-101630939064599.html
07-09-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya: Queen Heo Hwang-ok park project likely to be opened during Deepotsav||The Queen Heo Hwang-ok memorial park named after a Korean queen with Ayodhya roots is in the last stage of completion in Ayodhya, where it is undergoing expansion and beautification, and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is likely to inaugurate it during the Deepotsav celebrations on the festive occasion of Diwali in the temple town. Diwali falls on November 4 this year and the Yogi Adityanath government has celebrated Deepotsav the day before Diwali in the last four years since 2017.According to the Ayodhya administration, beautification work will be completed by the first week of October.The memorial will portray the journey of Princess Suriratna of Ayodhya, who had travelled to Korea and married King Kim Suro and became Queen Heo Hwang-ok in 48 AD. Many Koreans trace their ancestry to the legendary princess. The state government has allocated ₹24 crore for the project.“The memorial will also depict the cultures of both the countries through various means and journey of the Princess from Ayodhya to Korea,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, the Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Ayodhya Sadar constituency in Uttar Pradesh.This park is expected to be a major tourist attraction in Ayodhya. The sea journey of the Princess is being recreated at the memorial with the help of a pond.The south-east corner of the memorial will have a statue of Queen Heo Hwang-ok and the north-east corner a statue of King Kim Suro. The pond will also have a foot over bridge.As, according to legend, Princess Suriratna got a golden egg during her sea journey to Korea, the park will also have an egg made of granite.The South Korean government has also carried out beautification work at the park and developed the King and Queen pavilions there.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and South Korean President Moon Jae-in had signed an MoU (memorandum of understanding) for expansion and beautification of the existing memorial of Queen Heo Hwang-ok, near banks of the Saryu in Ayodhya.South Korean First Lady Kim Jung-sook was the chief guest at the Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya in November 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-memorial-park-named-after-korean-queen-likely-to-be-opened-during-deepotsav-101630937744016.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC extends Varavara Rao’s bail, NIA insists on his surrender||The Bombay high court said on Monday that activist P Varavara Rao, an accused in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case, need not return to jail till September 25 but the National Investigation Agency continued to oppose the extension of medical bail for the 82-year-old suffering from multiple ailments. The high court extended Rao’s date of surrender because it could not hear his application for a six-month extension of temporary bail on medical grounds due to paucity of time last week. The 82-year-old activist was granted interim bail on medical grounds in February 22 this year, was scheduled to surrender and return to judicial custody on September 5. Last week, the activist filed an application seeking extension of the bail and permission to stay in his hometown Hyderabad while out on bail, saying he found living in Mumbai and accessing health facilities unaffordable.In his application, the activist said the neurological problem he faced while in Taloja jail had deteriorated and that he was suffering from memory loss due to lacunar infarcts in six major lobes of the brain. He said a urinary tract infection had not improved and he required a hernia operation, all of which would result in further aggravation of his condition if he were asked to surrender to Taloja jail.But the NIA, which is conducting a probe into the case, opposed Rao’s plea and to shift to Hyderabad from Mumbai, saying his medical reports did not indicate that he suffers from any serious medical ailment.“The medical reports filed by the applicant do not disclose any major ailment which necessitates him to take treatment at Hyderabad, neither it forms a ground for further extension (of bail).” The NIA, in its affidavit, further said the Taloja prison, located in Navi Mumbai, had adequate health care facilities and Rao could be provided with the”best medical facilities” there. The NIA affidavit also said that Taloja jail authorities provided the best medical facilities as per jail manual.“It is submitted that surgery for cataract and hernia can be done in judicial custody under the supervision of doctors of government hospitals at Mumbai and as such there is no need of supervision for four months,” the NIA told the court. The agency also said Rao should not be granted bail extension or allowed to shift to Hyderabad as he is accused of committing a “serious” offence. “They (Rao) cannot expect the Hon’ble courts to pass orders as per their convenience, especially when the accused has prima facie committed offence of serious nature,” the NIA said.But in his application, Rao contended that if he returned to Taloja jail, his health would certainly deteriorate and he might die. Another accused in the case, activist Stan Swamy, died in May while his bail application was being heard in the Bombay high court. The 84-year-old Swamy suffered from Parkinson’s disease and his death prompted Opposition politicians to criticise the authorities for opposing his bail application. On Monday, senior lawyer Anand Grover, representing Rao, told the court that after being granted bail on February 22, Rao was discharged from Nanavati Hospital -- where he was shifted earlier from Taloja jail due to health issues -- and rented a flat at Malad (East) and was living there with his wife and two servants. He said Rao had regularly been going to the hospital for check-ups and was found to be suffering from three more conditions now.When the court expressed its inability to hear the application due to other administrative commitments, Grover sought an order extending the date of surrender. The high court agreed and said Rao needn’t surrender till September 25, but added that he must continue adhering to the bail conditions until then.Rao is among the oldest of the 15 activists and lawyers arrested on charges of conspiring to foment violence at Bhima Koregaon village in Maharashtra on January 1, 2018. The village was rocked by caste clashes during the bicentennial celebration of a British-era war by Dalits.The accused are charged with making inflammatory speeches during an event in Pune on December 31, 2017 called Elgar Parishad. The prosecution claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.Rao and others have been charged under various sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Rao was arrested on January 1, 2018. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-extends-varavara-rao-s-surrender-date-to-sept-25-101630927902878.html
07-09-2021||Mumbai||Builder assaulted to death on way to temple in Virar near Mumbai||A Virar builder was assaulted with iron rods to death by unknown assailants early on Monday morning. Thirty-one-year-old Nishant Kadam from Phoolpada was on his way to the Shiv temple near the Papadkhind dam at around 3am when he was fatally attacked. The killers escaped in the dark. Kadam would visit the temple every Monday to offer prayers during the auspicious month of Shravan, this Monday being the last one. Despite all religious places being closed due to Covid-19, a few Shiv temples would open the gates in the early hours for Shravan month till 7am for devotees. Also Read | Maharashtra aims to vaccinate 20mn in September to ‘prevent or delay’ 3rd waveSenior inspector Suresh Warade of Virar police, said, “The assailants were hiding behind a tree and assaulted him with iron rods several times, killing him on the spot. They then fled the spot. We have registered a case of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and against unknown persons and checking the CCTV footage from the vicinity.” The police are also awaiting the post-mortem report. Preliminary reports say business rivalry could be the motive but the Virar police are probing all angles and are to question the family about Kadam’s weekly visits to the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/builder-stabbed-to-death-on-way-to-temple-in-mumbai-s-virar-101630907441880.html
07-09-2021||Bangalore||Ganesh Chaturthi: Karnataka govt issues Covid-19 guidelines ahead of festival||The Karnataka government on Sunday issued guidelines for the Ganesh Chaturthi festivities, which, for the second time in a row are being held under the shadow of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic across the nation.The Karnataka government said that no cultural events will be allowed in districts which have a positivity rate above 2%, according to news agency ANI. It also said that not more than 20 people will be allowed during celebrations as well as during the immersion ceremony. It banned processions with the idols as well.During the celebrations, the state government barred the distribution of food and prasad. It also put a cap on the celebration till 9pm.The Karnataka government highlighted that the night curfew will continue as usual during the 5-day celebrations.Karnataka recorded 983 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday which took the tally to 2.95 million. The state logged 21 deaths which took the death toll due to Covid-19 to 37,401.The Centre earlier this week issued a strict advisory saying that people should be fully vaccinated if they are going to attend the gatherings during the upcoming festive season. It also asked government officials to ensure that mass gatherings are discouraged as Covid-19 second wave continues in the country.Niti Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said during the Covid-19 press briefing that it is not yet time to celebrate festivals like it was done during pre-Covid-19 period. He also advised that despite being vaccinated people should continue to follow Covid-19 preventive measures in order to avoid spreading the disease which could lead to a surge of infections. The government said that the second-wave of Covid-19 in India is still not under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ganesh-chaturthi-karnataka-govt-issues-covid-19-guidelines-ahead-of-festival-101630846479493.html
