09-09-2021||Delhi||JNU teachers’ body condemns ‘hasty decisions’ of varsity body||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) on Thursday condemned the university administration for “eroding the autonomy of statutory bodies” and “taking hasty decisions” during the last executive council (EC) meeting, in particular the decisions to set up a medical school and to continue with the current security agency despite the January 5 attack on students on campus. In a statement issued on Thursday, the teachers’ body said, “The undue haste with which during the course of the 296th EC meeting, decisions confirming the appointment of 13 chairpersons, 4 deans, 2 associate deans, 16 Statutory and non-statutory officers, 25 members of the academic council, a large number of “experts” and changes in the composition of the executive council were passed, points to an attempt to proxy control the bodies even after the V-C’s term is over.” JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar could not be contacted as calls and a text message sent to him remained unanswered.JNUTA said no criterion or rationale was provided for the appointments that were made and neither was any substantial discussion allowed during the meeting. JNUTA officer bearers also said EC members were not apprised about the relevant court decisions on matters pertaining to appointments. The teacher’s body said the proposal to establish a medical school was also passed by falsifying the minutes of the EC meeting. JNUTA said while a point on the agenda of the EC meeting specifically sought approval for the cancellation of a previous EC resolution (dated 17.8.1998) concerning the establishment of BC Roy Super Specialty Hospital and Medical Centre on the JNU Campus, in the minutes that were later brought out, a further decision was added which sought to approve the transfer of the “land earmarked for the proposed medical school” to the School of Engineering and Atal Bihari Vajpayee School of Management and Entrepreneurship. “JNUTA strongly condemns the devious manner in which earmarked land approved for one project 23 years ago is sought to be transferred to another through a false recording of the minutes,” the teacher’s body said. The body also expressed its disapproval over the renewal of contract with the current security agency in light of the January 5 attack on campus. They said the contract was renewed despite the agency’s failure to prevent incidents of violence and burglaries on campus.Meanwhile, the JNU students’ union on Thursday continued with its indefinite protest outside the dean of students’ office for the fourth consecutive day. Protesting students are demanding that the dean approves the phase-wise return of students to campus, commencement of hostel allotment to first-year students and the batch of 2020, along with issuance of ID cards, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnu-teachers-body-condemns-hasty-decisions-of-varsity-body-101631212196979.html
09-09-2021||Lucknow||Dhannipur project in Ayodhya: Trust formed by Sunni Board may look for foreign contributions||The Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), the trust formed by the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) to look after the Dhannipur project in Ayodhya, on Thursday said that it would look for foreign contributions if a sizable amount did not come from domestic sources.The project includes a mosque, a hospital and other structures of public utility on five-acre land allotted to UPSCWB at Dhannipur village in Ayodhya after the Supreme Court verdict of November 9, 2019 in the Ayodhya title dispute case.“We don’t have any competition, neither are we going for crowd funding as is being done in case of the Ram Mandir construction. On failing to get a sizable amount from India, we would be looking forward to foreign contributions, once we are done with formalities,” said Athar Hussain, spokesperson for IICF.The Dhannipur project has been named after freedom fighter and revolutionary Maulvi Ahmadullah Shah Faizabadi.So far, the board has received around ₹34 lakh in its account that became functional in October 2020. Rohit Srivastava, an employee with the faculty of law at University of Lucknow, was the first to contribute to the project that would cost around ₹800 crore. Srivastava donated ₹21,000 for the Dhannipur project.The board members said ₹300 crore would be utilised in the construction of hospital, while the remaining amount would be spent on construction of the mosque, Indo-Islamic centre and community kitchen. The first phase of the project, the estimated cost of which is ₹100 crore, was expected to take off by the next month, the board members said.“Some approvals from the development authority and some paper work is pending with the development authority. The approval is expected soon,” said Hussain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dhannipur-project-in-ayodhya-trust-formed-by-sunni-board-may-look-for-foreign-contributions-101631211598036.html
09-09-2021||Other||Gupta period stairs, pillars found in Etah||Agra The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) found stairs and platform of a temple dating back to the Gupta period, during excavation at a protected site near Aliganj town of Etah district. “There is a protected site in Bilsad village near Aliganj area of Etah district in Uttar Pradesh. It is believed to be the site of a temple built during the rule of the Gupta dynasty. Here we excavated two pillars on which there is an inscription about Kumargupta, the powerful ruler of Gupta dynasty, in ‘sankh lipi’ (conch script or shell script) typical of the fifth century AD,” informed Vasant Swarnkar, superintending archaeologist of Agra circle of ASI on Thursday. ‘”These inscriptions related to Kumargupta are already published and are well-known. At present cleaning work is underway at the site,” he said. “When further excavation was undertaken to know the depth of the two pillars, we traced a well-finished stair and thereafter three more stairs, indicating that they must have been part of the entrance to a temple. In the centre there was a platform but cleaning work was stopped as there was no space. The fourth stair was the biggest and there were inscriptions in ‘sankh lipi’ (conch script or shell script) typical of fifth century,” said Swarnkar. “The inscription was deciphered as ‘Mahendraditya’ which was the title of king Kumargupta who had even conducted ‘ashwamedh yagya’ during his rule. The statue of a horse having similar inscription is at the state museum in Lucknow,” he said. “These excavations and inscription make us believe that they were part of a temple like structure but it is unknown as to which god or deity the temple is dedicated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gupta-period-stairs-pillars-found-in-etah-101631211596907.html
09-09-2021||Other||Anticipatory bail for couple who duped builder of ₹13 lakh denied||PUNE A court in Pune on Wednesday, denied anticipatory bail to a couple who posed as lawyers and duped a builder of ₹13 lakh, and forged Rera registration documents. The two have been at large ever since the anticipatory bail was rejected, according to the police.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Amit Dattatray Ghule (42), a resident of Manjri, Haveli. He has two complete projects in rural areas, completed before registration rules changed and the government made it mandatory for old rural constructions to be registered retrospectively, according to Police inspector Jitendra Kadam of Bhosari police station who is investigating the case.The couple met the complainant at the sub-registrar’s office in Dapodi in April when the man was trying to get his registration done.The two offered their services to get 13 of his flats registered. The two forged documents from Rera as well as PMRDA to falsely show successful registration of Ghule’s projects. They managed to forge papers for seven of 13 flats in two projects. They took a total of ₹13,08,000 from the complainant.“The papers were submitted to the sub-registrar’s office where one of them has signed as a lawyer. The sub-registrar found something amiss and upon investigation found that the documents were fake and informed the complainant. Later when the complainant and the accused were called for mediation, the man was trying to tell even the police that he was a lawyer while his wife was not,” said PI Kadam.The police are now on a lookout for the two and will be investigating if they have duped other people by posing as lawyers.The decision was taken by Judge GG Bhalchandra with public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal.A case under Sections 429 (personation), 420 (cheating), 465 467, 468, 471, and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/anticipatory-bail-for-couple-who-duped-builder-of-13-lakh-denied-101631211054608.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||Chhagan Bhujbal, son, nephew discharged in Maharashtra Sadan case||A special anti-corruption bureau (ACB) court on Thursday discharged from the Maharashtra Sadan scam Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and cabinet minister Chhagan Bhujbal, his son Pankaj and nephew Sameer, along with then public works department (PWD) secretary Deodatta Marathe, and employees of Bhujbal’s Mumbai Educational Trust (MET) Tanveer Shaikh, Iram Shaikh, Sanjay Joshi and Geeta Joshi. Earlier, the court had discharged five accused – Arun Deodhar, Krishna Chamankar, Pravina Chamankar, Pranita Chamankar and Prasanna Chamankar. On Thursday, Bhujbal and Sameer were present in the court, when special ACB judge HS Satbhai pronounced its order discharging him and others from the case. Bhujbal, who wore a light blue kurta and a purple shawl, was accompanied by several bodyguards who waited at the court verandah. Bhujbal’s five to six supporters waited outside the courtroom for the leader. Senior counsel Prasad Dhakephalkar, Sajal Yadav and Sudarshan Khawase who had appeared for the Bhujbals and had filed discharge application under section 227 of the Criminal Procedure Code had said that there was no loss to the state exchequer and all allegations made against the applicants were false based on wrong calculations, assumptions and presumptions. Despite filing a charge sheet running into thousands of pages in 2016, the agency has been unable to show sufficient evidence against the accused to frame charges and proceed with the trial. All decisions were taken by the Cabinet Infrastructure Committee (CIC) and the meeting was headed by then chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh wherein several other ministers and senior bureaucrats had also taken part. Developer KS Chamankar Enterprises was not selected by Bhujbal, but appointed by the Slum Dwellers and Slum Rehabilitation Authority, the lawyers said. The lawyers further argued before the judge that there was no material to show that the Bhujbals got any monetary gain in the matter or that he was behind helping the developer get quantum benefits. They had argued that there is no evidence of any irregularities of corruption by Bhujbal as then state minister of the Public Works Department (PWD) and the then deputy chief minister. They had claimed there was no material to support the allegations of cheating, conspiracy and forgery. Special public pleader Ajay Misar for the state ACB had objected to the discharge application and had told the court that the Bhujbals had received kickbacks for giving the work to KS Chamankar Enterprises. There was already a 20,000-page charge sheet filed in the matter against 14 accused. Misar had further argued there were 14 accused in the matter, who despite being minister, bureaucrats, developers and architects had hatched a conspiracy of causing wrongful loss to the state government and wrongful gain to the developer and for that a false status report cum proposal cum feasibility report having an inappropriate calculations of prospective profits to the developer was prepared and submitted to the committee of ministers and got the proposal sanctioned by the committee in its meeting from June 5, 2006 to August 28, 2006. The committee was misled to solicit the sanction to the proposal of the developer. Activist Anjali Damania who was also a whistleblower in the matter had also joined the case as an intervenor and had submitted her written submissions opposing the application of discharge. While discharging the directors of KS Chamankar Enterprises, the court had observed in its previous orders in August that the ACB had registered the FIRs in a hurry. Most of the calculations in the matter were made by Narendra Talegaonkar who was the ACP with ACB; he was neither an architect nor an engineer and he was no expert to do calculations related to said matters. The ACB had registered an FIR against all accused on June 11, 2015, much before the appointment of an architect who is an expert on such matters who was officially appointed on June 30, 2015. The architect had submitted a report on June 9, 2015, but prior to it on June 4 a sanction was asked to register an FIR in the case where points of the report were mentioned. The court had further said that the PWD report came in December 2015, which said that there was no illegality in the contract and the feasibility report was prepared as per prevailing rules and practices followed in PWD however the FIR was already registered by then by the ACB on June 11, 2015. Background The case dates back to 2005 when Bhujbal was the Public Works Department (PWD) minister. The contract for the Maharashtra Sadan was allegedly given out without inviting tenders to KS Chamankar Enterprises. The ACB had registered a case in the matter in 2015 after the Bombay High Court had observed there was prima facie evidence and ACB can register FIR if a case of corruption is made out. The ACB had registered a case against 11 people alleging that a developer was favoured for a project under which an RTO land in Andheri was to be handed over for a project in lieu of construction to the tune of ₹100 crore at Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi and RTO building in Tardeo. The ACB had filed a charge sheet in the matter in 2016 against Bhujbal and others. Bhujbal was arrested in March 2016, by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a case related to money laundering after the Maharashtra Sadan Scam. The ACB arrested Bhujbal the same month and he managed to get bail in June in the ACB case however managed to get bail in the ED case only in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/chhagan-bhujbal-son-nephew-discharged-in-maharashtra-sadan-case-101631210275247.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Daily Covid bulletin: Two deaths, 29 fresh cases in Punjab, infection toll reaches 16,451||Two more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Thursday as 29 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection count to 6,00,940, according to a medical bulletin of the state health department. Till now, the infection has claimed 16,451 lives in the state. Among the fresh cases, Mohali reported seven cases, followed by four each in Barnala and Pathankot. The number of active cases in the state was 320. Twenty-three people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,84,169.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/daily-covid-bulletin-two-deaths-29-fresh-cases-in-punjab-infection-toll-reaches-16451-101631210096613.html
09-09-2021||Gurugram||Man booked under Pocso Act for raping minor in Badshahpur||A 19-year-old man was booked for allegedly raping a 10-year-old girl at a hutment in Badshahpur on August 20 last year, the police said.The girl, who lives in a welfare home in Delhi at present, shared the ordeal with a non-governmental body during an interaction, following which a complaint was registered with the Delhi Police, who forwarded the same to their Gurugram counterparts.A case was registered against the suspect under Section 6 of the Protection Of Children against Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code at the Badshahpur police station.According to the police, the girl alleged that the suspect was accompanying her on her way home after an event when he took her to a vacant hut and raped her.In another incident, the police booked a man for allegedly raping a woman on the pretext of marriage and taking money from her. The woman alleged that the incident took place in a hotel, following which she got pregnant and was forced to undergo an abortion. The police said a case of rape and under other relevant sections of the IPC was registered at the Manesar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-booked-under-pocso-act-for-raping-minor-in-badshahpur-101631209256337.html
09-09-2021||Gurugram||Municipal services to be hit as MCG staff announce indefinite protest in support of suspended engineer||Municipal services in the city are likely to be hit as officials and contractual workers of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) are set to go on an indefinite strike from Friday, demanding the reinstatement of a suspended superintending engineer (SE).MCG officials and contractual workers on Thursday refused to carry out their work in the offices and held a demonstration at the MCG’s Sector 34 office.“Due to the strike, municipal services will take a hit and the public will be inconvenienced. However, it is unavoidable as we want the MCG and the ULB [Urban Local Bodies] to reinstate the SE,” TL Sharma, the MCG’s chief engineer, said.Services such as internal roads and drains, garbage collection and streetlights, among others, are likely to be affected.On Monday, the SE, Ramesh Sharma, and the mayor, Madhu Azad, clashed during a review meeting with regard to clearing a blocked drain in Ward 22. While Azad alleged dereliction of duty and misbehaviour by Sharma, he alleged that the mayor took action as he refused to carry out favours.On Wednesday, Azad and a group of councillors met ULB minister Anil Vij during his visit to the city and demanded action against the SE. On Vij’s direction, the ULB suspended Sharma.However, the ULB’s order evoked strong opposition from MCG employees. The MCG’s engineering wing initially observed a “pen down” protest on Thursday, but they received support from other wings, with most of the civic body’s senior officials and workers from other branches joining them, along with the sanitation workers and their union.Although officials and workers were present at MCG offices, official work was not carried out as they gathered in a garden on the MCG’s Sector 34 office premises.A senior MCG official, requesting anonymity, said that additional commissioner Rohtash Bishnoi, on behalf of MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, requested a group of officials and workers’ union to visit the commissioner at his camp office in Civil Lines to discuss the matter but they refused.“The union and officials wanted the MCG commissioner to come to the Sector 34 office to discuss the matter. However, the commissioner did not visit MCG office,” the official said.Ahuja said, “I met with both the SE and chief engineer today (Thursday), asking them to withdraw the strike. They said they will consult with other workers and their union, and get back to me. I am still awaiting their response on the matter.”Ahuja said that he directed senior MCG officials to pacify the protesting staff by explaining that the SE could register his version of events with higher authorities and that the issue will be investigated.“We have to obey and respect the office-bearers as they are public representatives. Further, I have directed all MCG staff members to discharge their duties as per usual and ensure no public services get affected,” said Ahuja.Sharma, however, declined that he met the MCG commissioner. “Only the chief engineer met the MCG commissioner today (Thursday). My colleagues are aware of my working style, which is transparent and completely honest. In my support, they will be staging an indefinite protest,” Sharma said.Azad said, “I have already given my representation to the ULB and they have, accordingly, taken action against the SE. Although I accept the protest by MCG workers and officials, regardless of their or my stance on the matter, I only request them to not do it at the public’s cost. This is an internal matter and public services should not be affected.”Thursday’s demonstration was the first instance of a protest by MCG officials since its inception in 2008.“The SE’s suspension was incorrect as he did not do anything wrong. He has always worked in a transparent and fair manner. We want him reinstated and from tomorrow (Friday) will carry out an indefinite strike until it is done,” TL Sharma said.On Thursday evening, the MCG commissioner issued an order to all heads of MCG branches to maintain decorum and respect all office-bearers.In a related issue, Ahuja stated in the order that only “members of the meetings” (MCG officials and councillors) can attend meetings about administrative matters and business of the MCG, according to the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994. This was in reference to the presence of relatives of councillors, which has been a common practice.“There is no reason or right that relatives of councillors should be present at MCG meetings. They unnecessarily create ruckus and get into arguments. We support the MCG commissioner’s order on this and hope it paves the way for the civic body to function in a more efficient manner,” TL Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/municipal-services-to-be-hit-as-mcg-staff-announce-indefinite-protest-in-support-of-suspended-engineer-101631209198812.html
09-09-2021||Gurugram||DHBVN officials suspended for denying commercial power connection||Two employees of the power distribution company Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) were suspended on Thursday for allegedly arbitrarily rejecting a commercial power connection.PC Meena, the managing director of DHBVN, said that a subdivisional officer (SDO) of operation and an upper-division clerk with the South City subdivision in Kanhai were suspended with immediate effect after a preliminary inquiry.“An industrial firm had sought a commercial connection of 1550 KW, completed almost 90% of the formalities and deposited the money as per the rules. Despite this, the two officials rejected the application without any justification. Such kind of arbitrary actions will not be tolerated. Whether it is a domestic consumer or a commercial consumer, DHBVN officials must ensure that decisions are taken on merit,” Meena said.According to details shared by DHBVN, a private industrial firm had applied for a non-domestic (NDS) connection and deposited the requisite amount after a demand notice was issued by the company. An independent feeder was erected by the consumer and the infrastructure was also inspected, following which the application was rejected.Meena directed DHBVN officials to ensure that applications for electricity connections be issued within the stipulated time and better service be provided to consumers. He warned officials against negligence in duty pertaining to consumer services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dhbvn-officials-suspended-for-denying-commercial-power-connection-101631209197653.html
09-09-2021||Gurugram||Ardee City: Registrations to be stopped after DTCP cancels licence||After cancelling the licence of the Ardee City colony and a mall in Sector 52 on September 2, the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Thursday wrote to the revenue department recommending a ban on registration of property deeds in the colony. DTCP officials said that since the licence of the colony was cancelled, the registration of the property deeds must be automatically stopped. “We have informed the revenue department regarding the cancellation of the licence of the colony and asked to stop registration of deeds,” RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said. Officials said that despite repeated notices, the developer failed to comply with directions to clear the issues regarding the title deeds of a few plots. The developer, however, said that they had already obtained a stay from the high court in this matter. “We have already obtained a stay in the matter pertaining to the cancellation of licence. What can we do if such an order has been issued?” Anil Hasija, the vice-president of Ardee Infrastructure Private Limited, said. The DTCP’s move was also opposed by the residents. They demanded that instead of a blanket ban, the sale and registration of the properties owned by the developer should be stopped.Pravin Yadav, the president of Ardee City residents’ association, said, “All the residents will suffer due to this decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ardee-city-registrations-to-be-stopped-after-dtcp-cancels-licence-101631209196488.html
09-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram’s sectors 81 to 95 to get roads after several delays||Construction of two major sector dividing roads between sectors 81 and 95, a longstanding demand of residents, is likely to happen soon as the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Tuesday demarcated land for the same. Officials said that the plots will be transferred to the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), which will undertake construction of the roads.Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, HSVP, said that they demarcated a 400-metre stretch on which the road between sectors 81 and 82 has to be constructed. “Due to non-availability of this land, this crucial sector road could not be completed. The land will now be transferred to the GMDA whenever they want it. This road will connect National Highway-48 with the Pataudi highway,” he said. GMDA officials, however, said that the structures on the demarcated land must be removed first before the handover. “The demarcation of land is fine but the HSVP must remove the existing structures and hand it over to GMDA. As soon as the land is handed over to us, we will construct the road,” Shweta Sharma, executive engineer, GMDA, said. The other important road will be constructed between sectors 81 and 81A, for which another 400-metre stretch has been demarcated, officials said. These roads have been pending for the past three years, due to which residents have been facing problems in commute, especially during monsoon, due to potholes and waterlogging.Pravin Malik, a resident of Sare Homes in Sector 92, said that completion of these roads will greatly boost connectivity and help residents move with ease. “During monsoon, the problem becomes more acute due to waterlogging in these areas. Also, the value of property has gone down due to lack of access roads, but this will be corrected after these roads are made,” said Malik. However, residents also sought clarity on the status of land litigation and if the court decided in favour of HSVP or if this was a routine exercise.HSVP officials said that encroachments in other pockets are also being removed on priority and a major drive has been planned for next week to eliminate any hindrances to the construction process. “The authority has also planned a large-scale drive next week to clear all encroachments from land which are needed to construct missing roads in these sectors. The patches which are free of litigation have been identified and these will be cleared,” said Lot. Officials also identified encroachments and obstacles on plots needed to construct sector-dividing roads between sectors 81 and 86, 94 and 95, 82 and 82A, 90 and 93, 82A and 82A, and 86 and 90. In July, HSVP formed two committees to expedite the transfer of land to GMDA for construction of roads as well as completion of pending sewage and stormwater projects in developing sectors. The committees were constituted after the chief principal secretary to the chief minister directed officials to complete pending infrastructure works in new sectors on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugrams-sectors-81-to-95-to-get-roads-after-several-delays-101631209195256.html
09-09-2021||Lucknow||129 fresh dengue cases surface in 14 districts of UP||LUCKNOW Fourteen districts of UP logged 129 cases of dengue and 61 districts did not report any case in the past 24 hours, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health in a press conference on Thursday. “In such diseases, platelet count falls but people should not panic and go by doctors’ advice as the level of platelets rises naturally,” he said. “We are taking all the possible steps to control the outbreak of viral fever in the state. Door-to-door surveys will be conducted and medicines will also be provided to children,” said health minister Jai Pratap Singh. The minister informed that the government noticed loopholes in the working of officials and that’s the main reason for the viral outbreak in the city.The surge in viral fever cases had been reported amongst children in various hospitals of Lucknow.Speaking on viral fever cases, SK Nanda, chief medical superintendent of Shyama Prasad Mukherjee hospital in Lucknow, said: “Till now, we have around 20 patients admitted due to viral fever and around 80 cases in the outpatient department (OPD).”“The cases are not so severe right now and we are doing the platelet count to check the cases of dengue,” he added.“Dengue mosquitoes breed in clean water, hence people should follow preventive steps including removing sources of mosquito breeding such as stagnant water from the house and its surroundings. Wearing full sleeves shirts and trousers can save people from mosquito bite,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. “In Lucknow, health officials inspected 1,404 houses and found mosquito larvae in 14. Notices were served to all such places where larvae were found,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer, Lucknow. The teams asked residents to clean coolers and remove water from the tank completely to check mosquito breeding. Inputs from ANI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/129-fresh-dengue-cases-surface-in-14-districts-of-up-101631209075360.html
09-09-2021||Lucknow||ABA election: Lawyers move SC against HC’s Lucknow bench decision||The Allahabad high court’s Lucknow bench order regarding election of the Awadh Bar Association of the high court has been challenged in the Supreme Court. Earlier this week, lawyers Amit Sachan and Alok Tripathi filed a Special Leave Petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court challenging the high court’s August 24 and 27 order cancelling the election process and imposing some restrictions while conducting election of the Awadh Bar Association afresh. The petitioners have pointed out that once the Bar Council of India and Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh have verified credential of advocates and issued certificate of practice (CoP), how can a lawyer be barred from contesting election or casting vote in the bar association election of which he/she is a member. The Awadh Bar Association elections held on August 14 were cancelled by the returning officer due to the alleged misconduct of lawyers. A division bench of Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh took suo motu cognizance of the incident on August 16. The high court on August 24 cancelled the entire election process of the ABA and issued a set of guidelines for conducting fresh election on September 25. Hearing a recall application on August 27, the court relaxed guidelines issued by it for the ABA election. The court relaxed conditions of becoming a valid voter and issued new guidelines for it. Guidelines for ABA polls-The period of three years to be reduced to two years (for listing of cases) -Minimum cases filed in a year for last two years will be 10 cases for 2019 and five cases for the year 2020 -Lawyers whose houses are on Lucknow-Barabanki road or in colonies on the Lucknow-Barabanki road will be treated as residents of Lucknow -Advocate-Oath Commissioners shall be treated as regular practitioners -All the chamber allottees will be included in the definition of regular practitioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aba-election-lawyers-move-sc-against-hc-s-lucknow-bench-decision-101631208835157.html
09-09-2021||Other||Gorakhpur flood: Rapti, Rohini rivers recede marginally||Just days after flood wreaked havoc leading to collapse of 23 of the total 35 homes of Jagdishpur village of Barhalganj block of Gorakhpur district located on the Rapti banks, the remaining 12 houses were also swept away between Tuesday and Wednesday, officials confirmed.A video footage showing these brick houses caving in like a pack of cards in the flooded river has also gone viral. The village has a total population of 653 people with 330 listed voters and 56 families. The only house remaining in the region is located200-metre away from the village. As the river water continued to recedes marginally, the helpless families could be seen waiting for the condition to be improved inside their makeshift arrangements along the road.“How long we will continue to suffer even when the government has given funds to rehabilitate those displaced by the flood,” asked one affected villager Pawan who lost his house in the calamity.Assuring the affected people all help, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Gola, Rajendra Bahadur said: “Arrangement of land has been made for such flood victims. After the flood, they will be allotted land and talks are also under way to build colonies for them.”As per disaster management flood bulletin, both the Rapti and the Rohini rivers in Gorakhpur continued to recede on Thursday. The Rohini, which until now was flowing at 3m above the danger mark of 82.44m, was now flowing at 81.58m— 86 centimetre below the danger mark. Similarly, the Rapti river, which was until now flowing at 76.66m which was 1.68-metre above the danger mark, recorded a marginal decrease of 8-centimetre on Thursday. In all, 391 villages of Gorakhpur have been affected by the flood and so far, hitting a population of 3.12 lakh. Besides, 56,000-hectare of land has also been hit by the flood, said disaster management officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gorakhpur-flood-rapti-rohini-rivers-recede-marginally-101631208775157.html
09-09-2021||Other||Himachal CM invites President Kovind to address special assembly session||Chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday called on President Ram Nath Kovind in New Delhi to extend a formal invitation to address a special Vidhan Sabha session being held to mark 50 years of Himachal’s statehood.Thakur informed the President of India that government was holding Swarnim Himachal celebrations across the state through various events as the state had turned 50 this year on January 25. He said the year-long celebrations will be held to mark the golden jubilee.HP Vidhan Sabha speaker Vipin Parmar and chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh were present on the occasion.As per the tentative schedule, Kovind will reach Shimla on September 16 on a five-day visit. He will stay at the President’s official residence ‘The Retreat’ at Chharbra with his wife and close relatives. All staff at The Retreat will undergo RT-PCR test 24 hours before the President’s arrival.In wake of Covid-19, no one shall be allowed to present cap, flowers or any gift to the President.The President will address the special session of the Himachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly on September 17. Himachal Pradesh became the 18th state of the Republic of India on January 25, 1971.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-cm-invites-president-kovind-to-address-special-assembly-session-101631207755081.html
09-09-2021||Other||2nd-dose beneficiaries opt for pvt hosps to not delay vaccinations||PUNE In Pune, Covid vaccine beneficiaries prefer to take their first dose at a government centre, while for the second dose, private hospitals are the preferred choice, as per data furnished by the district health officials. In the last one week, private hospitals have seen more vaccinations for second-dose beneficiaries than government hospitals. On Thursday, 61,364 beneficiaries were inoculated in the district, as per the CoWin app. So far, a total of 6,402,749 beneficiaries have received the first dose and 2,513,206 beneficiaries have received their second dose.As per authorities, on September 7, 129,647 beneficiaries received their first dose at government hospitals, whereas only 7,282 beneficiaries took their first jab at private vaccination centres. Whereas 38,387 beneficiaries received their second dose at government hospitals and 15,262 beneficiaries received their second jab at private hospitals in the district. With a regular supply of vaccine doses, Pune district on September 7 inoculated 190,398 beneficiaries. On Tuesday, around 75.4 per cent of beneficiaries were in the age group of 18 to 44 years. And 15.7 per cent beneficiaries were from the age group of 45 to 60 years; 7.3 per cent beneficiaries were 60 years of age and above. Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said, “There is a steady flow of second-dose beneficiaries at the hospital. As many beneficiaries have completed 84 days after their first jab, they are coming to the private centres for the second inoculation. As compared to when we started vaccination at our hospital, the overall daily number is the same, but we can see that the second-dose beneficiaries are more in number now as compared to the first-dose beneficiaries. Many citizens are trying for free vaccines at government centres. However, they are also not delaying their vaccination now and choosing a private centre,” said Dr Kelkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2nddose-beneficiaries-opt-for-pvt-hosps-to-not-delay-vaccinations-101631207394371.html
09-09-2021||Other||World Suicide Prevention Day: Psychiatrists say depression, anxiety on the rise, may get worse||PUNE: On the occasion of World Suicide Prevention Day on September 10, psychiatrists and counsellors across the city have said that there has been a surge in stress and anxiety among a lot of people due to the ongoing pandemic and that with many families losing their loved ones during the second wave, the grief and mental trauma caused can lead to more mental health issues.Dr Haritha S Kumar, resident, department of psychiatry, Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital, said that there is a lot of uncertainty associated with the ongoing pandemic as to how long it will last or whether the virus will infect loved ones or worse still, near and dear ones will die from it. “The deaths, economic regression and curbs on social interaction have affected people’s mental health and led to an increase in anxiety, stress and depression. However, suicide can be prevented in many ways,” Dr Kumar said.On a personal level, getting enough rest, eating regular meals and staying hydrated, connecting with family and friends, discussing problems with someone trustworthy, indulging in relaxing activities and exercising regularly all help in improving one’s mental health, she said. “Also, set short‐term goals and act on them. As a result of keeping the mind and body active and occupied, there is less time to dwell on fears and worries,” she advised.About the need to create more awareness regarding suicide prevention, especially during the pandemic, Arnavaz Damania, founder of Connecting Trust, an NGO working to create awareness against suicide, said that suicide survivors face negatives such as stigma, discrimination and medico-legal inquiries. “During the pandemic, stress, anxiety, depression, and suicide attempts/deaths were on the rise which reflected in calls and emails. Our distress helpline volunteers responded to 2,427 calls and 717 emails between April 2020 and March 2021. Our survivor support programme is actually a field programme where our volunteers, through hospital and community visits, meet suicide survivors and provide them with emotional support. Looking at the situation during the pandemic, we took our survivor support programme telephonically from Sept 2020 to reach out to suicide survivors and managed to reach 69 survivors just within seven months till March 2021,” said Damania.She added that children are also facing stress during the pandemic.“During the pandemic, we took our peer educator programme online with three schools and reached out to 920 students, 178 parents, and 120 teachers through our orientation. During this academic year, 160 students became peer educators ready to support their peers. We reached out to 2,976 people in this manner. All this was possible because of the hard work and dedication of our volunteers towards the cause,” said Damania.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/world-suicide-prevention-day-psychiatrists-say-depression-anxiety-on-the-rise-may-get-worse-101631207094396.html
09-09-2021||Other||NCP announces jumbo executive committee for Pune ahead of civic polls||PUNE: With the civic elections only a few months away, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has announced a jumbo executive committee for Pune city while giving opportunity to many fresh faces.NCP Pune unit president Prashant Jagtap announced an over 240 member-strong executive committee and said, “We have tried to give a chance to new faces along with senior leaders. For the first time, we have given a chance to 15% women in the main executive committee otherwise they were kept busy only in the women’s cell.”“As new areas got merged with the PMC, the city now comes under the jurisdiction of 11 MLAs and 3 MPs. The Pune, Baramati and Khed Lok Sabha constituencies are part of the PMC. We have given representation to all the areas,” Jagtap said.All positions except OBC president, student union president and those in the youth wing have been announced. As the candidates in the Parvati assembly constituency are more willing, the state leadership will take a call on them.With the civic elections inching closer, the NCP decided to activate the party cadre and make new appointments, according to the party office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncp-announces-jumbo-executive-committee-for-pune-ahead-of-civic-polls-101631207034440.html
09-09-2021||Other||24x7 water project: PMC calculation error results in fresh ₹52 cr tender||PUNE: After completing 30% of the works on 24x7 regular and equitable water supply projects, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has now found an error in calculating the transmission line components, causing it to float a fresh tender of ₹52 crore for laying transmission lines across the city more than two years since the works started. The civic body had initiated the project in February 2018 at a cost of ₹2,550 crore but the newly-floated tender has raised total project cost, and activists are now demanding action against the concerned officials for their lackadaisical supervision.Nandkumar Jagtap, superintendent engineer of the water supply department, said, “We have floated a tender for purchasing and laying transmission lines across the city. There are two methods to quantify transmission lines. One is running metres (length) and the other is weight. Earlier, consultants considered transmission lines in running metres. During calculation of the transmission lines, the consultant made an error and calculated a quantity of 7,500 metric tonne instead of 15,000 metric tonne. The contractor purchased a quantity of 7,500 metric tonne of transmission lines as mentioned in the detailed project report prepared by the consultant. We realised this while laying the transmission lines. Therefore, we floated a tender of ₹52 crore for the transmission lines.”“We have saved money on the project while laying the pipelines in redesign. We have also used the existing pipe network which is in good condition and as per our specifications. Therefore, we will utilise the saved money in the transmission line tender,” Jagtap claimed.However, Vivek Velankar, a civic activist, said, “The PMC should take legal action against the consultant and blacklist him. It should also take strict action against the officials responsible. After all, it is the duty of the officials to cross-check information. It has become common for PMC officials to blindly trust consultants and contractors, which must stop. And it will stop only when someone is punished. The corporation is paying hefty salaries out of the taxpayers’ money.”“Even in the closed pipeline project from Khadakwasla to Parvati, the contractor implemented a faulty design and the PMC had to spend additional crores of rupees to lay another closed pipeline to fetch water from the Khadakwasla dam to the Parvati water pumping and purification station,” Velankar said.Work on the transmission lines’ project – which aims at safe and equitable water supply to all areas for the next 30 years – began last December. The PMC originally awarded the project contract to Larsen & Toubro Limited (L&T) and Jain Irrigation. However, only L&T is now working on the project with PMC having nixed the contract of Jain Irrigation which was supposed to cover the Hadapsar area.When the laying of transmission lines across the city is complete, water will be supplied 24x7; water losses will be reduced; and technological, economic and environmental sustainability of the water supply service will be ensured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/24x7-water-project-pmc-calculation-error-results-in-fresh-52-cr-tender-101631206854326.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court refuses bail to two accused in fake vaccination scam||The sessions court on Thursday rejected bail applications of two accused arrested for allegedly organising fake vaccination camps at Podar Centre, Parel and other places in Mumbai in May. The accused put several lives at risk by administering fake vaccines and they may threaten witnesses if released on bail, additional sessions judge Chitra Hankare said while rejecting the bail pleas of Shrikhant Mane, a resident of Kalyan, and Seema Ahuja, a resident of Majiwada in Thane. The judge said that as the investigation is ongoing, if granted bail, the accused may tamper with evidence and jump bail. The duo had approached the court for bail in a case registered against them at Bhoiwada police station. They had said they knew one Mahendra Singh, an employee of Malad Medical Association, who had shown his willingness to carry out vaccination drives for corporates, and that the accused agreed to participate in the drive as they believed Singh. Ahuja further claimed that she herself and some of her relatives got vaccinated in one of the camps organised by the group.As per their statement, Singh had told them that vaccination certificates would be generated in 10 days but later when certificates were not generated, he started giving excuses. The accused further claimed that they had also lodged a complaint against Singh at Bhoiwada, Borivli and Nagpada police stations. Thus, the applicants claimed, they were innocent and falsely implicated in the case and had fallen prey to Singh’s scam. They said that they had no mala fide intention in arranging the vaccination camps.The prosecution opposed the bail applications saying the offence was of serious nature and various offences are registered in the city against the accused. It further claimed that the handwriting and signature samples of the accused are yet to be taken, charge sheet is yet to be filed in the case and the investigation is on. The prosecution added that accused may threaten witnesses if released on bail which may hamper the investigations as the main accused is yet to be arrested.Judge Hankare, while rejecting the bail applications, observed that the accused are travel consultants by profession and had arranged trips for Malad Medical Association and that they knew various doctors of Malad Medical Association; hence they should have confirmed all the legal necessities for the vaccination camps.On May 28 and 29, the group had organised a vaccination camp at Podar Centre in Parel in which around 207 staff members of the institute were vaccinated. The duo had coordinated with Singh and four others for the camp and had received ₹244,000 for the same.The vaccination scam came to light after Hiranandani Heritage Society in Kandivli approached the police saying they were duped by Singh and four others who administered fake vaccines to their society members on May 30. The society members claimed they received vaccination certificates which had names of different hospitals and different dates, and the same was not reflected on Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-refuses-bail-to-two-accused-in-fake-vaccination-scam-101631206675033.html
09-09-2021||Other||Pune Police lookout notice for Narayan Rane’s wife Neelam, and son Nitesh||PUNE The Pune Police have issued a lookout circular (LOC) against BJP leader Nitesh Narayan Rane and his mother Neelam Rane, in a case involving the failure to repay a loan of over ₹61 crore.. The circular was issued on September 3 by the Pune Crime Branch citing that the “co-borrower may leave the country anytime with malafide intention”. The circular was issued after the state government received a letter from the Centre, which was approached by the lending firm. “The agency which had lent money to Rane wrote to centre. They wrote a letter to state government and accordingly it has reached the Maharashtra DG’s office. The DG has the right to take appropriate action and hence, it came to Pune police,” said Maharashtra’s home minister Dilip Walse-Patil on Thursday in Pune. The 1ookout circular was served days after Rane’s father, Union minister Narayan Rane, was arrested by the Raigad police for his “would have slapped the CM” remarks. As per the lookout circular, Airline Properties controlled by Nilam Rane had taken a loan of ₹25 crore from Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL), while Nitesh Rane had taken loan of ₹34 crore for Nilam Hotels. The accounts were later classified as non-performing assets, as loan amounts outstanding. “In the aforesaid circumstances, there is an apprehension and fear that the said co-borrower may leave the country anytime with malafide intension to evade repayment of the loan granted by DHFL and escape legal actions that may be taken against him (civil/criminal) by DHFL,” stated the LOC, signed by deputy commissioner of police (Crime branch) Shrinivas Ghadge. “Both were business loans. Neelam Rane took a loan of ₹27,13,18,931 for Artline Properties Pvt Ltd and Nitesh Rane took ₹34,09,61,771 for Neelam Hotels Pvt Ltd. Both are now non-performing assets,” said Ghadge. Responding to the lookout notice, Nitesh Rane, an MLA from Sindhudurg, said the action is being taken under pressure from the MVA government. “We are in the process of trying to settle the loan and correspondence in this regard is underway with the finance firm. Yet, a lookout notice was issued against us. This is being done under pressure from the state government,” Rane told a TV channel. The circular addressed to assistant director (administration), Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, stated, “Whenever the said co-borrower is intercepted at the airport, please inform the crime branch of his arrival and departure.” The BJP reacted sharply to the lookout notice against Rane saying the MVA government is bringing politics everywhere. “I do not know the technical aspects of this case. However, a lookout notice is served against a person when s/he fails to appear before investigating agencies, despite repeated summons. In this case, police are acting under pressure from their masters in the MVA government,” said BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-police-lookout-notice-for-narayan-rane-s-wife-neelam-and-son-nitesh-101631206555490.html
09-09-2021||Lucknow||Congress in poll mode in Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka arrives in Lucknow for feedback on candidates||With the Congress gearing up for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly poll, the party’s national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday arrived in Lucknow where she is expected to get feedback on short-listing party candidates at the poll committee’s first meeting.While reviewing the poll strategy, Priyanka will scrutinise the suggestions of party workers about the probable candidates at the first meeting of the Pradesh Election Committee (PEC) in Lucknow on Friday.Although the Congress usually makes a formal announcement about the candidates after taking PEC and Central Election Committee (CEC) routes, a number of senior leaders have confirmed that the party has already shortlisted about 40 to 50 candidates and many of them have been informally sounded out about the move. “Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who arrived here on Thursday, will attend the PEC meeting in Lucknow on Friday. She will interact with party leaders and get their feedback on the selection of candidates. A list of 40 to 50 (would-be) candidates has been worked out and Priyanka has spoken to some of these leaders in recent weeks. The PEC and the party’s advisory and strategy committees will also take a call on the issue of going it alone or likely alliance for the 2022 polls,” said a senior Congress leader on condition of anonymity.As many probable candidates may include UPCC office bearers, the party could consider making arrangements to run the organisation during the polls. Those whose names are being considered final and are set to figure on the first list for the 2022 polls include Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Aradhana Mishra “Mona”, former MLA Lalitesh Tripathi, former MLA Anugraha Narain Singh and former MLA Pankaj Malik, along with some other UPCC office bearers. After her arrival, Priyanka was closeted with senior party leaders to get feedback on various political and organisational issues. She will preside over a meeting of the Pradesh Election Committee, the UPCC office bearers and the party’s advisory committee on Friday.“Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will attend the first meeting of PEC. The party has received recommendations from the District Congress Committees and City Congress Committees as well. PEC will discuss these lists and may also seek suggestions from leaders, including those from frontal organisations, before sending them to CEC for final approval,” said a party functionary.At a meeting in New Delhi early this week, Priyanka asked the party’s secretaries in charge of various districts to get a report about the functioning of the party organisation at various levels.“Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will meet secretaries and district/city unit presidents who have been asked to come up with a report about the activities of the party organisation in the districts under their charge. She will also review progress of “Har Gaon Congress” (Congress in every village) and the Prashikshan Se Parakram (Training for valour) programmes,” said UPCC organisation secretary Anil Yadav.Priyanka is likely to undertake a visit to Rae Bareli on September 12 and 13. Rae Bareli is the Lok Sabha constituency of Congress president Sonia Gandhi.“We have indications that Priyanka Gandhi will be visiting Rae Bareli and meet the party workers. We are keenly waiting for her visit that has been delayed obviously due to the Covid-19 restrictions,” said a party leader from Rae Bareli.A party leader from Amethi said there was the possibility of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s visit to Amethi as well.“If Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is holding review sessions it may be a bit late. This should have been a constant process and not undertaken only at the time of elections. If this would have been done earlier it could have been more advantageous,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-in-poll-mode-in-uttar-pradesh-priyanka-arrives-in-lucknow-for-feedback-on-candidates-101631206376282.html
09-09-2021||Other||No additional restrictions for Ganesh fest: Dilip Walse-Patil||PUNE This Ganesh festival will not have additional restrictions aside from the ones already in place to curb Covid-19. State home minister Dilip Walse-Patil, in Pune for an award ceremony on Thursday, urged the people of Pune to follow the Covid-19 regulations - no crowding, social distancing, use of mask and sanitiser.“Instead of huge displays, mandals should work towards spreading awareness about vaccination. Crowding on roads should be avoided. We cannot think that corona (pandemic) is over,” said Walse-Patil.Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of police; deputy commissioner of police, Rajendra Dahale; standing committee chief Hemant Rasane; Mandai Ganeshotsav Mandal’s Annasaheb Thorat; and Pratap Pardeshi of the Pune Parivar were present at a press conference where this was announced.The police will be on the lookout for crowding even if the no new restrictions are introduced. This will be the second year with toned-down celebrations due to the Covid-19 pandemic.A text message claiming imposition of Section 144 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in Pune was circulated through social media and published by local language news organisations. However, the claim was refuted by Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-additional-restrictions-for-ganesh-fest-dilip-walsepatil-101631206314356.html
09-09-2021||Lucknow||NIRF ranking: IIM Lucknow goes down three rungs, figures in seventh spot||Indian Institute of Management Lucknow (IIML) slipped three rungs from the previous year in the management category in National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) released by the Union ministry of education on Thursday and ranked seventh this year, three places down from its 2020 rank of fourth in the top-100 management category.IIM Lucknow now ranks below IIM Indore, a newer institution that ranked sixth, one spot up from 2020.IIM Lucknow director Archana Shukla said, “We will analyse the data released by the Ministry of Education, Government of India, in the NIRF ranking 2021 for improvement.”In its silver jubilee year, IIM Kozhikode also surpassed IIM Lucknow and attained the fourth rank in the category. IIM Lucknow was established in 1984 while IIM Indore and IIM Kozhikode came into being in 1996. The top three spots in management rankings were taken by IIM Ahmedabad, IIM Bengaluru and IIM Kolkata respectively.Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (IIT-K) improved its ranking by one position and stood fifth on the overall top 100 list.In the law category, three institutes from Uttar Pradesh figured among the top 30. Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) ranked 11th, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia National Law University ranked 15th and Banaras Hindu University 23rd.No Uttar Pradesh government engineering institute, not even Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU), made it into the list in engineering category. AMU is the only institution from Uttar Pradesh that figured in the top 25 in the architecture category.Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) has retained its fifth rank this year in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) despite an increase in the number of medical institutions applying for NIRF India Ranking each year.SGPGIMS director professor Radha Krishna Dhiman said, “The ranking parameters broadly cover teaching, learning and resources, research and professional practices, graduation outcomes, outreach and inclusivity, and perception.”He said, “Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow participated in NIRF Ranking 2021 in the medical institute category and was ranked 5th in the country and first in Uttar Pradesh with the score of 72.45, which is more as compared to the NIRF India Ranking 2020 score (70.21). The difference between the score obtained by rank 4 and rank 5 medical institutes is 1.17 in the NIRF India Ranking 2021.”“Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU), Lucknow has achieved great success in the NIRF ranking, bringing itself to the 65th position. Vice Chancellor Acharya Sanjay Singh congratulated students and staff for the recognition,” said BBAU spokesperson Rachana Gangwar.Kavita Pathak, director, Jaipuria Institute of Management (JIM), Lucknow, said, “JIM Lucknow is ranked 68th in the top 100 list in the management category… In a very competitive space where new IIMs and IITs have entered the management education space along with large private universities; the institution has taken a leap of five places. This reflects the quality of work and extent of efforts made by the institution. It is a remarkable achievement of Team Jaipuria Lucknow in a very hard year.”University of Lucknow, a first-time applicant to National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) made it to the top 200 list in the universities category.Vice chancellor Alok Kumar Rai said, “LU has broken through the glass ceiling by being listed in NIRF 2021 rankings. It opens many academic and financial avenues for the faculty and institution.”Lucknow University completed 100 years in November 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nirfranking-iim-lucknow-goes-down-three-rungs-figures-in-seventh-spot-101631206255162.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||ITI admissions underway, 68 per cent seats allotted in first round in Maharashtra||The Directorate of Vocational Education and Training (DVET) recently announced the first merit list for aspirants interested in Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs). Nearly 68% seats across government and private ITIs have been allotted in the first round itself. Once again, applications for government institutes are higher and this shows in allotment statistics as well. As per information shared by the DVET, there are 417 government-funded and 559 private ITIs in the state. This takes the total intake capacity of the institutes to 1.33 lakh, which includes 92,311 seats in government institutions and 53,948 seats in private institutions. “Government ITIs give students the option of fee reimbursement, as well as provide better internship and job opportunities after the two-year course ends. Such reasons attract more students to government institutions,” said the principal of a government ITI in the city. Nearly 2.86 lakh Class 10 pass-outs registered for admissions this year, of which, 2.62 lakh completed the registration process by paying the necessary fee. In the first round, 75.061 (81.3%) of seats in government institutes have been allotted and 15,480 (37.9%) seats in private institutes have been allotted.“The overall allotment doesn’t necessarily convert into confirmed admissions. DVET will be conducting four rounds of admissions followed by one round of counselling, so several students end up waiting till the last round hoping to bag a seat in a government ITI,” said Yogesh Patil, joint director, DVET. He added that the last date of admissions is October 15 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iti-admissions-underway-68-per-cent-seats-allotted-in-first-round-in-maharashtra-101631206195006.html
09-09-2021||Other||MSRTC reports increase in passengers travelling home for Ganesh fest||PUNE The Pune division of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is seeing a rush of passengers leaving the city for the Ganesh festival, all travelling to home towns across Maharashtra. MSRTC has additional buses plying several routes. Covid norms like social distancing are being maintained at all the ST stands in the Pune division. “For the last one week we have increased the number of buses on major routes like Kolhapur, Satara, Aurangabad, and Solapur for the Ganpati festival. After the Gauri visarjan day people start travelling. Once the festival ends, the number of passengers coming back to the city will also increase,” said MSRTC Pune divisional controller Ramakant Gaikwad. Prior to the state-wide lockdown, on an average, 850 buses used to run from the Pune MSRTC division daily. A majority of the buses would start from three major ST stands in Pune – Swargate ST stand, the newly started ST stand at Wakdewadi (earlier at Shivajinagar) and the Pune railway station ST stand. Private tourist buses are not seeing the same passenger foot-fall. “There is certainly less business this year and not many passengers are travelling due to the Covid pandemic. Already, a large number of students who were studying in Pune are not there and now even the working people are travelling less,” said Santosh Kadam, owner of Isha travel agency in Swargate. Ashok Shewale, secretary of the ST bus passengers group, Pune, said, “Pune is the city where hundreds of thousands of students come to study and youth come in search of job opportunities. Due to the pandemic all these passengers have gone away. Once people know they are getting an ST bus to their desired destination, the flow of passengers will increase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/msrtc-reports-increase-in-passengers-travelling-home-for-ganesh-fest-101631206134339.html
09-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath unveils statue of Bhartendu Harishchandra in Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath unveiled the statue of noted Hindi writer Bhartendu Harishchandra at a function at the Bhartendu Natya Akademi on the occasion of the poet-playwright’s 171st birth anniversary in Lucknow on Thursday.“A century back, Bhartendu Harishchandra infused the feeling of nationalism through his writings,” the chief minister said on the occasion.He also said the country’s independence had needed intense nationalism and Bharatendu Harish Chandra had worked for it.“With nationalism inculcated by such writings, India managed to break the shackles of slavery and today we call his period (in Hindi literature) the era of Bhartendu Harishchandra,” he added.“To carry forward the legacy of freedom fighters of India, every department should identify such leaders and organise programmes to celebrate the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav,” Yogi Adityanath added.Bhartenu Harishchandra is considered to be the father of Hindu literature and theatre.The programme was organised under the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav to commemorate 75 years of Independence and Chauri Chaura Mahotsav, which would mark 100 years of the Chauri Chaura incident in 2022.The chief minister also said, “I congratulate the administration of the Bhartendu Natya Akademi for installing the statue of a man who brought freedom struggle into the minds of every Indian. The statue of Bhartendu Harishchandra is a tribute by the government to him.”Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, law and justice minister Brijesh Pathak, minister of state for tourism, culture and religious affairs (independent charge) Neelkanth Tiwari and others were also present on the occasion.The chief minister honoured noted theatre personality Raj Bisaria and others on the occasion.A painting exhibition by artists of the Lalit Kala Akademi on the life of Bhartendu Harishchandra was also organised.Born on September 9, 1850, Bharatendu Harishchandra is known as one of the pre-eminent Hindi writers, novelists and playwrights of modern India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-chief-minister-yogi-adityanath-unveils-statue-of-bhartendu-harishchandra-in-lucknow-101631206015526.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||New high-speed train corridors planned to connect Mumbai with Pune, Nagpur||While the Maharashtra section of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project is stuck due to a delay in land acquisition, plans are afoot for new high-speed train corridors to connect Mumbai with Pune and Nagpur.Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation (MRIDC) Limited, a joint venture of the railway ministry and Maharashtra government, is planning a semi high-speed train corridor between Mumbai and Pune which could reduce travel time between both the cities to 90 minutes. Mumbai-Nagpur high-speed corridorThe National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), which is building the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed train corridor (also called bullet train), has completed its ridership survey for the 753km Mumbai-Nagpur high-speed corridor project.“The detailed project report (DPR) for the Mumbai and Nagpur project will be prepared. Finalisation of alignment is being done and social impact assessment and environment impact assessment are ongoing,” said a senior NHSRCL official.The travel time between the two cities is expected to reduce by 50%. Presently, the fastest travel distance between Mumbai and Nagpur is 11.30 hours.Mumbai-Pune corridorFor the Mumbai-Pune corridor, a feasibility study has been initiated.After conducting the feasibility study, an assessment of land acquisition required for the project will be done, later the project will be sent for approval to the government of Maharashtra and the railway ministry.If the project is approved the travel time between Mumbai and Pune is likely to reduce to nearly 90 minutes. Presently it takes three hours to reach Pune from Mumbai by outstation trains operated by the Central Railway. “The project is at an initial stage and a feasibility study is being conducted. Only after the feasibility study, we will be able to decide a further course of action.” said an MRIDC official.“Justification for the need of a semi high-speed rail corridor between Mumbai-Pune and Mumbai-Nagpur should be taken into consideration. Both Mumbai and Pune are well connected and if a passenger wants to travel to Nagpur in a short amount of time, then they could just travel by an airplane. The pricing of the tickets also needs to be inspected. The projects should be cross-examined to check if they are really necessary.” said urban planner Sulakshana Mahajan. Former railway officers opined that land acquisition in a proper manner was needed and also raised doubts about whether a semi high-speed train corridor between Mumbai and Pune will be feasible due to the Western ghats.“Any high-speed train corridor will require to be operated at 320kmph which will not be feasible between Mumbai and Pune due to the ghat section (mountain pass areas). If the land acquisition is being done for projects, then the railway projects should serve their purpose. There have been instances wherein the landowner has not received the entire compensation, as middlemen are involved. Full compensation should be given,” said Subodh Jain, retired member of the Railway Board and former general manager of Central Railway. However, the passenger associations have welcomed the move and have stated that the reduction in time will help passengers to travel swiftly. “When people travel between both the city by road, they get stuck in traffic and by railways it takes time. A semi high-speed train would help people to travel quickly and swiftly between the cities,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad. Bullet train may miss deadlineSenior Railway ministry officials expect the state government to help acquire land in a short period to get the projects moving. They also think the push to other projects would prompt the Maharashtra government to help complete the Mumbai-Ahmedabad project faster. The project which is touted as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream project is likely to miss its 2023 deadline as only 30% of the required land is acquired in Maharashtra. “All the projects including Mumbai and Ahmedabad bullet trains will be beneficial for the people residing in both the cities. We have acquired 30% land in Maharashtra and are hoping to acquire more land by the end of this year with cooperation from the Maharashtra government. The project will also create jobs in the state,” said a senior railway official, who did not wish to be named. Urban planners have asked the railway authorities to study the requirements of the projects and conduct social and environmental assessments.Meanwhile, the NHSRCL is also planning the Mumbai-Hyderabad high-speed train corridor for which it is undertaking finalisation of designs, operational plans including costing for the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-high-speed-train-corridors-planned-to-connect-mumbai-with-pune-nagpur-101631205955055.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||Centre recommends final notice on ESZ around Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary||After several months of being in the offing, the Centre has recommended final notification for the delineated eco-sensitive zones (ESZ) around the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS). The decision was taken during the Union environment ministry’s ESZ Expert Committee meeting on August 17, minutes of which were published on September 8. An ESZ is a buffer area created around a wildlife sanctuary or national park to reduce developmental pressures.The draft notification for the declaration of ESZ around Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary was first notified on November 6, 2019 but was subsequently re-notified on April 30 this year after the Maharashtra government revised its proposal to increase the area earmarked for protection by the forest department. It was initially proposed to include 34.06 sq km of adjacent land within the ESZ, but the state government in March this year wrote to the Centre proposing to include an additional 14 sq km of land therein.The proposal also increased the maximum width of the originally proposed buffer area to a maximum of 3.98km, as compared to 3.5km earlier. At its southernmost point near Vashi bridge, the width of ESZ is 0km, while at its northernmost point at Thane-Kalwa bridge, the width is 2km. “Zero extent at few stretches of the eco-sensitive zone for Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary is due to its location being at the intersection of the highly urbanized areas of Mumbai and Navi Mumbai and being close to another major city viz. Thane,” the ministry’s expert committee has noted.Spread across 1,690.5 hectares (ha) across Mulund, Vikhroli, Bhandup, Kanjurmarg and parts of Mandale village, TCFS is home to 12 true mangrove species, 39 mangrove associates, 167 species of birds including flamingos, 45 fish species, 59 species of butterflies, 67 insect species, among other mammals such as jackals. In May 2018, the state had declared it a flamingo sanctuary.About 1,400ha of mangrove forests towards the Navi Mumbai side of ESZ were not originally covered in the ambit of the original ESZ delineation because they were already declared as reserve forests under the Indian Forest Act, forest department officials said. They are also covered under CRZ (coastal regulation zone). However, last February, the ministry recommended their inclusion in ESZ. “The final step in the process now will be when the Government of India’s publishes the notification in their official Gazette, which is expected soon,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), mangrove cell.The ESZ notification does not mitigate developmental pressures entirely, however. HT had reported, on August 28, that the Union environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) for CRZ clearances has given a go-ahead for setting up 47 transmission towers in Mumbai, a portion of which will pass through the TCFS for less than half a kilometre. The EAC has recommended that bird diverters should be installed among the transmission lines “so as to avoid accidental collision of birds ie flamingos”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-recommends-final-notice-on-esz-around-thane-creek-flamingo-sanctuary-101631205655111.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||HC judgment on interim protection from arrest to ex-DGP Sumedh Saini today||A high court bench on Friday would pronounce the judgment on a 2018 plea from former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, seeking protection from arrest by Punjab Police. The high court bench of justice Arvind Sangwan on Thursday reserved the plea for final judgment after hearing arguments from counsels roped in by Saini and Punjab Police. In the October 2018 petition, Saini had demanded that directions be given to the state to get the probe done by the Central Bureau of Investigation in the event of any FIR against him since he feared false implication due to “mala fide and ulterior motives” on the part of the political party in power in Punjab. He had also sought blanket bail. From time to time, the protection given from arrest was modified and the September 23, 2020, order covered any FIR registered by the police for any incident during his entire service period. It was ordered that his arrest could be effected only after a prior notice of seven days. However, Saini was arrested by Punjab vigilance bureau on August 18 in connection with a September 2020 FIR. A day later, high court ordered his release, terming the arrest illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-judgment-on-interim-protection-from-arrest-to-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-today-101631205596512.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch arrests two with 5.91kg whale vomit||The Mumbai crime branch arrested two persons from Bhandup area who were allegedly trying to sell 5.91 kilograms ‘whale vomit’ or ambergris, produced in the digestive system of sperm whales. The police claim the seized ambergris is worth ₹5.91 crore and is highly valued and used in perfume manufacture. Ambergris is in high demand in the international markets. The arrested accused Yogesh Ramesh Chawhan, 37, is a resident of Mulund, while Surender Chotto Sav, 39, lives in Malad. Both have been arrested under the charges of the Wildlife (Protection) Act. The accused were produced in court and remanded in police custody till September 13. The officers traced the accused after receiving a tip-off about two persons searching for potential buyers, as they wanted to sell a huge quantity of ambergris. “We informed the forest officer and meanwhile also conducted an investigation to verify the facts. Once it was confirmed that the two have ambergris, we then laid a trap on Eastern Express Highway (EEH) in Bhandup, as per their movement and intercepted them,” said deputy commissioner of police Datta Nalawade. We recovered 5.9kg of substance from their possession, which they were carrying in a bag. The substance which was looking like wax and forest official verified to be ambergris, added Mala wade. “The accused brought ambergris from outside of Mumbai and we are inquiring about the supplier,” added officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-arrests-two-with-5-91kg-whale-vomit-101631205594890.html
09-09-2021||Other||Man claiming cancer cure booked for taking ₹2.5 lakh from family||PUNE The Pune rural police, on Thursday, booked Manohar Bhosale, a self-proclaimed “godman”, for duping a family of ₹ 2.5 lakh by promising a miracle cure for cancer.Two other people have also been booked in the case registered under the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013.“For the past five years he has been claiming to have magical powers to cure cancer and started his ashrams in Baramati, Pune and Undargain, Karmala, Solapur. A lot of people used to go to him with a hope for finding cure to terminal health issues and financial problems. They were made to pay in the fractions of ₹5,000, ₹11,000 or ₹21,000,” read a statement from Maharashtra Andhashradha Nirmoolan Samiti (MNS), an organisation started by slain rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar. The statement was shared by Dr Dabholkar’s son Dr Hamid Dabholkar.A complaint in the case was registered by Shashikant Kharat (23), whose father has throat cancer. The man who claims to have powers of some character called “Balumama”, told Kharat that his father needed to drink ashes with water and put on paste of some leaves that he recommended, according to the complainant. He also asked them for a fee of ₹2.5 lakh.When none of his hacks worked, the family asked for the money back. That is when Bhosale threatened to kill Kharat’s family after which Kharat decided to lodge a complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-claiming-cancer-cure-booked-for-taking-2-5-lakh-from-family-101631205474294.html
09-09-2021||Other||State increases incentives for EV buyers: ₹10,000 for two-wheelers||PUNE The Maharashtra government under its electric vehicle (EV) policy has increased its incentivisation to promote the use of battery-operated electric vehiclesOn Thursday, the state proposed a base incentive of ₹10,000 buyers of two-wheeler EVs.For the buyer of a four-wheeler EV the maximum incentive is capped at ₹1.5 lakh and at ₹30,000 for a buyer of a three-wheeler EV.Ravindra Gurav, joint secretary of state government’s Industries, energy and labour department, issued an order specifying the incentives under the EV policy 2021.The state has increased incentives from ₹5,000 to ₹10,000 for two-wheeler EVs; from ₹10,000 to ₹15,000 for three-wheeler EVs; and from ₹1 lakh to ₹1.5 lakh for four-wheeler EVs.Incentives shall be admissible only for EVs sold in Maharashtra the first time as new vehicles and registered with Maharashtra’s RTO as battery-operated electric vehicles. The subsidy shall also be admissible on the basis of the battery capacity of the vehicle.To claim the subsidy, users need to register and file and application on the website di.maharashtra.gov.in Once a valid application form with required documents is uploaded, the Directorate of Industries shall verify validity of documents and information provided with transport authorities of Maharashtra. Thereafter, a subsidy approval letter mentioning the quantum of eligible subsidy shall be generated and sent by email to the applicant. This process shall be completed within a maximum period of 15 days.Mangesh Dighe, environment officer, PMC, said, “The decision will help to promote EVs in Pune city. We are already working on an EV plan for the city. It will help people to purchase more EVs in Pune.”As per the Road Transport Office (RTO) upto June 2021, of the 38,293 electrical vehicles in the state, 5,875 EVs have been registered by the Pune RTO, 3,886 in Pimpri-Chinchwad and Mumbai has 3,408 EVs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-increases-incentives-for-ev-buyers-10-000-for-twowheelers-101631205294289.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cong’s Khemkaran MLA, father omit Navjot Sidhu, commend Capt Amarinder in turnaround||Days after supporting state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu openly and launching veiled attacks on Capt Amarinder government, Congress’ Khemkaran MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar and his father Gurchet Singh Bhullar (former minister) took a turnaround on Thursday at a rally organised during the foundation-laying function of Centre for Training and Employment of Punjab Youth (C-Pyte) being set up at Asal Uttar in Tarn Taran district. Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and four MLAs were present in the rally. Praising Capt Amarinder, Gurchet said, “From 24x7 electricity supply to the hassle-free lifting of wheat and paddy from grain markets, the CM has left no stone unturned to make the life of Punjab people better.” Both the father-son duo, however, didn’t mention Navjot Sidhu’s name during the rally even as they had openly supported the PPCC chief during a rally organised at their native Mehmoodpura village. They had also criticised the Capt’s working style. Gurchet had even predicted Sidhu as the party’s CM face. Sukhpal, during the rally, also projected himself as the party’s candidate from Khemkaran for the forthcoming assembly polls. “There have been talks that former minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon would replace Virsa Singh Valtoha by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). Our fight is against the SAD, irrespective of the candidate it fields. But it is sure that with your benediction, from Congress party, the election will be fought by me,” said Sukhpal while addressing the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congs-khemkaran-mla-father-omit-navjot-sidhu-commend-capt-amarinder-in-turnaround-101631204995402.html
09-09-2021||Other||Roadways staff strike disrupts Punjab bus service for hours; commuters harried||Patiala/Bathinda/Amritsar/Jalandhar Contract and outsourced employees of State Transport Undertakings (STUs) laid siege to bus stands across Punjab for over four hours on Thursday. Nearly 8,200 employees under this category for the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), the Punjab Roadways and the Punbus have been protesting for regularisation of service, as they have been working for over 10 years. The protest caused huge inconvenience to commuters. The service, mainly of private operators resumed only after 2pm, with protesters blocking entry and exit since 10am. Responding to the protest, the state government has directed managements of STUs to take immediate steps for resumption of bus services. Protesters, however, claimed they would surround chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s farmhouse in Siswan on Friday. Harkesh Kumar, state secretary, Punjab Roadways, Punbus and PRTC Contract Workers Union, said outsourced employees have received warning letters from the company that PRTC had hired, to resume work or face termination. “Employees are being threatened that their contract will be terminated if they fail to return to their jobs by Friday. Punjab Roadways is also planning to open fresh recruitment, on contract, of over 700 new drivers and conductors,” Kumar added. The other major demands of the staff are checking the transport mafia; streamlining of daily hourly roster; strengthening state transport undertakings, implementation of equal work equal pay and to stop unnecessary harassment of employees on day-to-day reports.Private buses overcrowded; revenue loss of 80%With most state buses staying off road in south Malwa, private buses were overcrowded, leading to the violation of the key Covid-19 guideline of social distancing. Protesting employees shut the entry of the Bathinda bus stand for over two hours, hitting traffic movement as well on the Bathinda Dabwali road.Bathinda depot general manager Raman Sharma said of 190 buses at the local depot, only 25 were in service on Thursday. “The average daily income of Bathinda depot from the sale of tickets dropped from ₹35 lakh to 7 lakh. We are trying to deploy at least one bus on key routes with regular staff and some of those on contract,” said Sharma.In Amritsar, protesters blocked the Amritsar bus stand for at least five hours on Thursday morning by parking their vehicles on bus counters. Private operators also could not run their buses. Heavy police force was deployed at the bus stand to avert clashes between employees and private bus employees. Traffic was diverted.“The government wants to handover the department to private firms, but we will not let it happen,” said Sukchain Singh, of Amritsar Punjab Roadways Union. In Jalandhar, Contract Workers’ Union president Gurpreet Singh said, “We will not let bus service resume till our demands are not met.” Women claimed that private bus operators charged them money, as otherwise the government bus service is free for them. Students wanting to travel to educational institutions were also hassled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/roadways-staff-strike-disrupts-punjab-bus-service-for-hours-commuters-harried-101631204815005.html
09-09-2021||Patna||Bihar Guv directs V-Cs to restore JP, Lohiya in syllabus; Edu minister says removal not right||Governor Phagu Chauhan, who happens to be the chancellor of state universities, Thursday directed vice-chancellors to include topics on social thinkers like Ram Manohar Lohiya and Loknayak Jai Prakash Narayan in the universities’ syllabi through due procedure. This came after backlash to omission of topis about the two leaders from the new post-graduation syllabus of political science at JP University (JPU) in Chhapra.“These leaders have had profound impact on the masses and a large number of people actively participated in the JP movement. So, the students of Bihar must get to study about them,” he said. Education minister Vijay Kumar. Choudhary, who met the Governor on Monday in this regard, presented the government’s viewpoint before the V-Cs and the sensitivity of the matter. “Honouring the sentiments of the people of the state, it is extremely important to restore the topics in the syllabus,” he added.Choudhary said that thinkers like Lohiya and Loknayak Jai Prakash Narayan we’re role models not only in the state, but the country over and the state’s politics had deep imprint of the ideology of JP. He thanked the Governor for calling a meeting of V-Cs on the issue. “Other courses will also be made more relevant as per modern needs through prescribed norms and vetting from the Bihar state higher education council and the Raj Bhawan,” he added.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who is himself a product of the JP movement, had also expressed his surprise and dismay at the removal of topics related to JP in whose name the institution was established in 1990 and asked the education minister to resolve it.RJD chief also expressed his anguish and sought immediate intervention from the matter and had blamed the RSS for the change through his tweets.During the meeting, the discussion also revolved around stepping up efforts for accreditation of state institutions from the NAAC, appointment of principals, implementation of choice-based credit system (CBCS) at the under-graduate level and other issues. Many constituent colleges in Bihar are without full-time principals for a long time and are under additional charge, while CBCS has remained stuck in colleges and NAAC accreditation is very slow in the state despite the deadline of 2022 for all institutions in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-guv-directs-v-cs-to-restore-jp-lohiya-in-syllabus-edu-minister-says-removal-not-right-101631203555550.html
09-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 951 new Covid cases, 8 deaths on Thursday||Pune: As per the state health authorities, Pune district reported 951 new Covid positive cases and eight deaths in the last 24 hours. All deaths were reported from Pune rural. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 513,612 Covid cases and 9,130 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 263,846 cases so far and a total of 3,491 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 350,072 total cases and 6,704 deaths. In the district, there are a total of 1,127,530 Covid cases. Of these, 1,095,098 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 19,674 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 12,758 active cases in the district. As per the state health department, 2,538 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,295,236. The recovery rate in the state is 97.04%. Across Maharashtra, 4,219 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 55 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. The state health department stated that of 55,519,679 laboratory samples, 6,487,025 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 11.68% of patients till Thursday. Currently 292,510 people are in home quarantine and 1,911 in institutional quarantine. Pune district figures Covid-19 cases: 1,127,530 Recovered patients: 1,095,098 Deaths: 19,674 Active cases: 12,758 New cases: 951 New deaths: 8||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-951-new-covid-cases-8-deaths-on-thursday-101631203554199.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||Section 144 in Mumbai till September 19, no Ganesh Chaturthi procession allowed||Mumbai police on Thursday imposed orders under Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) Section 144 in the city, prohibiting assembly of five or more persons during Ganesh Chaturthi festivities between September 10 to 19. No processions of any kind would be allowed in the city during this period and devotees have been barred from visiting puja pandals. All these preventative steps have been taken on account of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city, Mumbai police said.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that all prominent puja pandals will be offering ‘digital darshan’ so devotees can witness the festivities from the comfort of their home. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar urged Mumbaikars to abide by Covid-19 norms and follow 'Mera Ghar, Mera Bappa' (My house, My lord Ganesha) by celebrating the festival at home.Also Read: ‘Sentiments’ shouldn't be hurt, says Mumbai mayor as city gears up to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi under strict norms"Being the Mumbai Mayor, I am going to follow 'Mera Ghar, Mera Bappa'. I will not go anywhere nor will I bring anyone near my lord. This is important to curb the third wave in the state," she saidCity police commissioner Hemant Nagrale released a video message urging citizens to abide by Covid-19 preventative norms. Earlier this week, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also urged citizens to avoid crowding during the festive season. “Our priority should be [saving] the lives of people. Festivals can be celebrated even next year, if everything is well at home. To protect human lives, everyone should follow health restrictions meticulously. Avoid crowding and public events. Do not encourage political meetings, rallies and even Lord Ganesha would wish so,” Thackeray said.The Maharashtra government has also restricted the height of idols to four feet for public celebrations and to two feet for household celebrations. All these prohibitions have been adopted due to the rising number of cases in Mumbai, the city reported 532 cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day jump since July 15. The tally came down slightly on Thursday, as the city recorded 457 cases in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/section-144-in-mumbai-till-september-19-no-ganesh-chaturthi-procession-allowed-101631202831492.html
09-09-2021||Other||12,000 CCTVs to be installed in Jalandhar under Smart City project||Jalandhar Punjab Infrastructure Development Corporation has started the process of floating tenders for installing 12,000 CCTVs in Jalandhar. A senior municipal corporation official said the estimated cost of the project is ₹100 crore, with an Integrated Control and Command Centre to also be set up. “Street crime and major traffic violations can be checked. After tendering, the project will be completed within 10 months,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12000-cctvs-to-be-installed-in-jalandhar-under-smart-city-project-101631203074703.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin MP condemns killing of 23-yr-old Sikh youth in Canada||An Indo-Canadian lawmaker on Thursday condemned the murder of an Indian youth in Canada’s Nova Scotia province, saying hate, violence and racism have no place in the country and the fight to eradicate these menaces must continue. Prabhjot Singh Katri, 23, was found murdered at an apartment in Truro town on Sunday in a suspected case of racially-motivated hate crime. Katri, who worked for a taxi service company as well as one or two restaurants in Truro, had come to Canada from India in 2017 to study. “My heart goes out to the family and loved ones of Prabhjot Singh Katri who was killed in Truro, NS. This is an unacceptable act of hate,” tweeted Sonia Sidhu, member of parliament for Brampton South. “Hate, online hate, violence and racism have no place in our country and we must continue our fight to eradicate it,” the 53-year-old parliamentarian added. According to a CBC Canada report, police are treating the death as a homicide. A man was arrested in connection with the murder but was later released. A GoFundMe has been set up in an effort to send Singh’s body to India, CTV News reported. Singh’s friends are worried that the attack was a racially motivated hate crime, the report said. There were over one million registered Indians in Canada as of December 2019, according to database company Statista. There have been several incidents of racially-motivated crimes against Indians in Canada over the past few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjaborigin-mp-condemns-killing-of-23-yr-old-sikh-youth-in-canada-101631202234674.html
09-09-2021||Pune||24-year-old in custody for killing 34-year-old live-in partner in Pune||PUNE: A 24-year-old woman was remanded to two days in police custody for the murder of her 34-year-old live-in partner in Hadapsar on Wednesday. After the murder on August 29 midnight, the woman reported the incident to the police as death by suicide the next morning. The woman, identified as Rohini Ramdas Yunate, was refusing to have physical relationship with her now-deceased partner and a fight resulting out of the tiff led to his murder, according to a police source. The deceased was identified as Sonal Porshottam Davade (34) of Purvi Hindi Colony in Bhekrainagar area of Hadapsar. “They were live-in partners and during a fight over a domestic issue she pushed him and he hit his head. There were scratch marks on his neck and chest. He was later strangled to death,” said inspector Digambar Shinde of Hadapsar police station. On August 29, the police registered an accidental death report. Later, on interrogation, the girl told the police that she had killed him, according to Shinde. The two had met in 2012 at a wedding in Amravati from where the deceased belongs. The woman was a teenager when they met and they had a physical relationship which later turned into partnership, she told the police. A case under Sections 302 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar police station. Assistant inspector Sachin Thorat is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/24yearold-in-custody-for-killing-34-year-old-live-in-partner-in-pune-101631202115361.html
09-09-2021||Other||Viral fever: Teams rushed as 4 kids die in Gopalganj in four days||Bihar’s health department has dispatched a team of Integrated Disease Surveillance Project (ISDP) to affected areas to study the impact of “viral fever” among children which has claimed four lives in Gopalganj district in four days.Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted on Thursday that three teams have been sent to Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur and Siwan districts. “The teams will conduct a study about conditions of child patients undergoing treatment there and furnish exact information to the health department,” Pandey said in his tweet.Gopalganj civil surgeon Dr Yogendra Mahto said on Thursday that the exact cause of death in the cases of child patients suffering from viral fever was not conclusive. “Two child patients admitted to Sadar hospital on Wednesday succumbed to the ailment soon upon arrival in emergency ward. In another case, a child referred from Gopalganj sadar hospital to Muzaffarpur died on Monday. In the latest case as reported on Thursday from Thawe block, another child died during treatment. However, we have learnt that infant was also suffering from malnutrition”, the civil surgeon said.At Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital, all children admitted with symptoms resembling respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) tested negative in antigen test for detection of Covid-19, a hospital official said.‘It’s an annual feature with negligible morbidity,” said Dr Om Prakash, medical officer in the paediatric ward of DMCH. “We are seeing slight change in pattern. Unlike previous years, this time around, infants less than two months old are also falling prey to viral fever with symptoms of fast breathing and discomfort”.According to him, the patients look very sick with respiratory distress.”We provide supportive care like maintaining oxygenation, hydration and nutritional aspects of treatment and the illness resolves without further complications”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/viral-fever-teams-rushed-as-4-kids-die-in-gopalganj-in-four-days-101631201874778.html
09-09-2021||Patna||Kanhaiya trashes talks of joining Congress||Communist Part of India (CPI) leader and former president of JNU Students’ Union Kanhaiya Kumar has dismissed the speculation that he was planning to join Congress.“There is no truth in it. I am in mainstream politics and a member of a registered national party. When in politics, one interacts with so many people. Currently, I am in Delhi to attend our party’s national executive,” Kanahiya told HT on phone. Congress sources say Kanhaiya had met former party president Rahul Gandhi twice in the recent past. “Prashant Kishor was present during both the meeting. Negotiations are in the final stages,” claimed a Congress leader from Bihar, wishing not to be named. Kanhaiya, however, said there was no such meeting. “What has fuelled the rumours is my photograph with Congress leader Nadeem Jawed with whom I had lunch recently in Delhi. Nadeem is a former president of Congress’s student wing NSUI and a former general secretary of Indian Youth Congress. He posted our photographs on social media. As far as Prashant Kishor is concerned, we have been interacting often after my defeat in Lok Sabha elections in 2019,” said Kanhaiya, who lost to BJP heavyweight and union minister Giriraj Singh from Begusarai in the last parliamentary polls. Speculation about Kanhaiya switching sides became intense after a censure motion was passed against him for indiscipline in the CPI meeting held at Hyderabad in January this year. The censure motion was taken up after Kanhaiya’s supporters allegedly roughed up Indu Bhushan, the office secretary, in the party office at Patna on December 1. Congress leaders with the knowledge of development said Nadeem, a former Congress MLA from Jaunpur, has been given the responsibility of convincing the former JNU Students’ Union president and they have had several rounds of talk. However, asked if he was not getting close to Congress, Kanhaiya said, “When I met Nitish Kumar last year and a JD(U) minister earlier this year, there was a speculation that I was joining JD(U). Why should I when they are in alliance with the BJP,” he said. Earlier this year, two Congress MLAs from Bihar, Shakeel Ahmad Khan and Awadhesh Singh, had shared dais with Kanhaiya at his Jana Gana Mana rally in Patna’s Gandhi Maidan on February 27. Khan, also a former JNU Students’ Union president, had then said their presence there was only to support the cause as the rally was part of a campaign against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the proposed National Register of Citizens (NRC) in the country.Congress’s fortunes have been on a steady decline in Bihar, where it won just 19 assembly seats in the 2020 polls in the state’s 243-member House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/kanhaiya-trashes-talks-of-joining-congress-101631201820032.html
09-09-2021||Patna||NIRF ranking: Bihar institutions fail again, only IIT-P in top 100||There is just one institution from Bihar, IIT-Patna, in the top 100 institutions in overall ranking across the country, the list of which released on Thursday by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) under the ministry of human resource development (MHRD). No state institution figures in the list.Indian Institute of Technology, Patna, has been ranked 51st in the overall ranking. Among engineering institutes, IIT-Patna has been ranked 21st, while NIT-Patna has been ranked 72nd. Among the 50 research institutions of the country, IIT-P is ranked 47th this year.IIT-Patna was ranked 54th in the overall category last year, while it was ranked 26th among the top 100 engineering colleges. In 2016, it was ranked 10th, its best so far. In the top 100 universities, there is none from Bihar, which has 17 state universities and two central universities. The state has drawn a blank in the rankings for colleges and institutions of medical, law, management, architecture, dental and pharmacy.The rankings are a reality check for the Bihar institutions of higher learning and a pointer to the reasons behind continued migration of a large number of students to different parts of the country in search of better education every year.Bihar State Higher Education Council chairman Kameshwar Jha said the state has a lot to catch up to get into the top 100. “Earlier, universities did not even apply for NIRF. This year, two universities and six colleges had applied, but they could not make it. We hope the state institutions understand the importance and gear up for it from next time. The council as well as the state government will provide them all the assistance,” he said.This year two state universities — Patna University and Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU), and a state management institution, Chandragupya Institute of Management (CIMP), had applied for NIRF. Besides, there central institutions — IIT-P, NIT-P and Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) — had applied.Of nearly 250 constituent colleges and 650 aided and private colleges, just six, including Patna Women’s College, AN College, CM College (Darbhanga) and St. Xavier’s College, had applied. However, none could find place in the top 100.Jha said that St Xavier’s College was declared not eligible on some technical grounds. “Variables like outreach and inclusion, research and placement hurt Bihar institutions, which mostly cater to the masses despite scant resources. One cannot compare the resources available at the IIT with a college situated in the remote area of the state. The intake is also different. One is totally merit-based through competition, while Bihar is still grappling with poor gross enrolment ratio (GER) and efforts are being made to improve it,” he said.Magadh University vice chancellor Rajendra Prasad said that apart from the apparent deficiencies, lack of awareness and innovativeness was also a hindrance. “In a country where there are 1,095 universities and over 50,000 colleges, competition ensures that quality is important and hence the ranking. Leadership of institutions has a huge role. Those students who can afford can move to better places, but that number is not very high. A large number of those who stay in the state need quality education which is suited to modern needs. The institutions need support to deliver. This means new areas to study, industry and government support. The council is working on that direction and hopefully things will change,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nirf-ranking-bihar-institutions-fail-again-only-iit-p-in-top-100-101631201818969.html
09-09-2021||Patna||Bihar: Capital city reports its first JE case this year||State capital Patna has reported its first of the total seven cases of Japanese Encephalitis (JE), a mosquito-borne flaviviral encephalitis, in the state so far this year, said officials aware of the development. One child has already died of the infection this year. A one-and-a-half-year girl from Mamrakhabad Imli village of Pandarak block in Patna on Wednesday was found JE positive following her cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) test report from ICMR-Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences. The girl’s blood serum sample had tested positive in August. She has since been discharged from Patna’s Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), said health officials, requesting anonymity. The new case comes close on the heels of an 11-year-old JE positive boy getting admitted to Sri Krishna Medical College Hospital in Muzaffarpur recently on September 5. The condition of the boy, who hails from Bettiah in West Champaran district, was said to be critical. Prior to these two recent cases, Bihar, where the disease mostly affects children up to 15 years of age, reported one JE case in January, three in July, and two in August this year. In the last five years, the state has reported a total of 419 JE cases and 78 deaths. It reported 135 JE cases and 27 deaths in 2019, the highest since 2016, when 100 children were infected , of which 25 died, as per government data. Officials monitoring the case said they were taking steps to prevent further spread of infection.“We have issued instructions to respective districts for malathion (an insecticide) fogging in areas where JE cases have been detected. Fogging will be done in around 500 dwellings near the infected house,” said an official. The official added,“We have also asked the districts for house-to-house case detection survey, and to also check for immunisation of children.” The prevention of JE is based largely on two interventions — mosquito control and immunisation. Immunisation of children has been completed in 35 of the 38 districts. In the remaining three districts of Khagaria, Begusarai and Kaimur, immunisation was initiated in August-end. The JE vaccination has been included in the routine immunisation programme of the government, said officials, requesting anonymity. The Bihar government has been struggling to declare JE a notifiable disease despite it being a disease of public health importance because of its epidemic potential and high fatality rate. Government sources said the file concerned to make JE and dengue a notifiable disease has been shuttling from one desk to another for the last three years. When contacted, Bihar’s director-in-chief, disease control, Dr Naveen Chandra Prasad, was not certain about it. “I will find out from my office and let you know. Right now, I am out on an inspection,” he said on Thursday. JE patients present vivid signs of acute encephalitic syndrome. The first signs of infection appear after an incubation period between six and 14 days. It usually begins with onset of fever above 38°C, chills, muscle pain, and meningitis-type headaches accompanied by vomiting. Around 20% to 30% fatality has been reported in cases with signs of acute cerebral edema or severe respiratory distress from pulmonary edema. Recovery usually leaves serious behavioural and neurological disorders, epileptic seizures, and severe mental retardation in children. Most government medical colleges are already facing capacity constraint in the wake of an early spike in viral fever cases among children. Any outbreak would put the state health system under further stress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-capital-city-reports-its-first-je-case-this-year-101631201817707.html
09-09-2021||Patna||22 IPS officers shifted in big Bihar Police shake-up||In a major reshuffle in Bihar Police, 22 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, including 16 probationers, and 172 officers of the rank of deputy superintendent of police (deputy SP) were transferred on Thursday, according to a release by the state’s home department. Binay Kumar, additional director general (ADG) with the CID, has been made ADG (law and order) and given additional charge of provisioning. ADG Jitendra Kumar will replace Binay Kumar in CID and will also hold additional charge of as managing director and chairman of Bihar Police Building Constriction Department. Jitendra Singh Gangwar has been made the new ADG at Bihar Police headquarter in place of Jitendra Kumar. Gangwar was earlier posted as ADG (special branch). ADG Sunil Kumar of special vigilance unit (SVU) has replaced Gangwar in special branch while ADG (EoU) N H Khan has been given additional charge of SVU. DG (Training) Alok Raj, who earlier held additional charge of Bihar Police Building Constriction Department, has now given additional charge of BMP. The state government also transferred and posted 16 IPS officers of 2018 and 2019 batch as subdivisional police officers (SDPOs) and assistant superintendents of police (ASPs). In Patna, six newly IPS officers have been posted at Town, Barh, Danapur, Paliganj, Sachivalaya and Masaurhi as ASPs and SDPO. The state government also transferred and posted 172 deputy SPs, including 104 new recruits. Forty subdivisions of the state have now got new SDPOs.Minor reshuffle in IASIn a minor reshuffle of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers in the state, 1998-batch IAS officer Narmdeshwar Lal, who was posted as secretary (industry department) has been transferred and posted as secretary, animal husbandry and dairy department, according to a notification issued by the general administration department (GAD) on Thursday.In another notification, the state government has given additional charge to four senior IAS officers. Pratyaya Amrit, a 1991-batch IAS officer, who currently serves as the additional chief secretary (health), has been given additional charge of road construction but relieved of disaster management.The 1995-batch IAS officer, Arvind Kumar Choudhary, currently principal secretary (rural works department), has been given additional charge of principal secretary, Panchayati Raj department. Additional secretary of rural works department, Rajiv Roushan, has been given an additional charge as director, agriculture department. Besides, 2002-batch IAS officer, Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, currently posted as transport secretary with additional charges of Patna divisional commissioner, OSD (disaster management) and inquiry commissioner in GAD, has been given additional charge of secretary, disaster management. 3 IAS officers Delhi boundThree IAS officers — ACS (road construction) Amrit Lal Meena, principal secretary (animal husbandry and dairy) N Vijaylakshmi and director (agriculture) Adesh Titarmare — are going on central deputation as additional secretary (logistics) in ministry of commerce and industry, joint secretary (agriculture and farmer welfare) and deputy chairman of Mumbai Port Trust under the ministry of ports, shipping and waterways, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/22-ips-officers-shifted-in-big-bihar-police-shakeup-101631201816421.html
09-09-2021||Patna||Bypoll for one Council seat on Oct 4||The by-election to one Bihar Legislative Council seat from the Assembly quota, which fell vacant with the death of Tanveer Akhtar in May this year, will be held on October 4 and the result announced the same day, according to the schedule announced by the Election Commission of India ( ECI) on Thursday.Akhtar, from the ruling JD(U), had died due to Covid-19 on May 8 this year. In the 75-member Legislative Council, 24 seats represented by elected nominees from local bodies fell vacant in July due to the delay in holding the panchayat polls in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bypoll-for-one-council-seat-on-oct-4-101631201815183.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||SAD panel to hold talks with farm union leaders today||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday constituted a four-member committee for Friday’s talks with farmer union leaders. Party’s top decision-making body — core committee — constituted the committee comprising Balwinder Singh Bhunder, Prem Singh Chandumajra, Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal and Daljit Singh Cheema. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal chaired the meeting. It was decided in the meeting to ask the farmer leaders to hold discussions and not disrupt rallies. “We want them to talk to us and tell us in case we didn’t stand for the peasantry. We will also offer them whatever support they want and eliminate misunderstandings between the organisations and the party,” said Chandumajra, who earlier had written to farm leaders, inviting them for talks. Representatives of 32 farm bodies are expected to come for talks. Last week, farmers tried to disrupt Sukhbir Badal’s ‘Gal Punjab Di’ rally in Moga. There were sporadic protests against the Akalis’ outreach programme that started on August 18, but protest in Moga forced SAD leadership to suspend the programme and initiate talks with the farmer leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-panel-to-hold-talks-with-farm-union-leaders-today-101631200016407.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: BJP battling worst-ever crisis amid stand-off over farm laws||Heading a potent government at the Centre, the BJP in Punjab appears to be on a sticky wicket just months ahead of the assembly polls — thanks to the widespread anger among the agriculturists against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws. With farmer unions picking on party leaders across the state, the party’s activities have been confined to only certain urban pockets that too in the shadow of heavy security. Political thinkers say the BJP is fighting its worst-ever crisis in Punjab. Party insiders say the vehement opposition on the ground has demoralised the cadres to such an extent that many key Sikh faces of the party have quit. The biggest jolt to the state unit came when its firebrand leader from Amritsar, former minister Anil Joshi, along with other Hindu faces of the party, joined the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). Joshi had criticised the BJP Central leadership for mishandling the farm agitation and was expelled. Insiders say murmurs of discontent within the party over the farm laws are still there and local leaders are hoping that the Centre resolves the issue before the polls. As an alliance partner of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for 33 years, the BJP used to contest on 23-Hindu dominated seats in the state. The SAD snapped the association with the BJP over the farm laws. In the 2017 assembly polls, the BJP could win only three seats but it wrested two of the three seats it fought in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Dalit CM strategy Senior state BJP leaders admit that the party has almost given up on support from the Jat-Sikh dominated peasantry and shifted focus on the Dalits who have around 32% vote share. The party picked its Ravidasia face from Dalit-dominated Doaba region, Vijay Sampla, and appointed him as the chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes with the rank of a Union minister. Another Dalit face of the party and Hoshiarpur MP, Som Parkash, is the Union minister of state for commerce and industry in the Modi cabinet. BJP leaders are of the opinion that since the support for the farmer agitation is mainly coming from Sikh pockets, by consolidating on the Dalit-Hindu (urban business community votes, Brahmins and Rajputs) votes, the party can emerge as the game-changer in the results keeping in view the multi-cornered contest on all seats. Also, the party leaders are convinced that the prolonged farm agitation marked by stray incidents of violence has upset a large number of voters from urban pockets, especially Hindus. “There is anguish over the way farmer unions have been given free hand to ‘ghero and maaro’. These pockets are also upset over the way Hindu thoughts have been abused and targeted by certain organisations leading the agitation,” a party general secretary claimed while requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-bjp-battling-worst-ever-crisis-amid-stand-off-over-farm-laws-101631198634683.html
09-09-2021||Other||Aspiring teachers to gherao Punjab CM’s house in Patiala on September 12||Sangrur With a protester, Manish Fazilka, completing nearly three weeks atop a water tank inside the Sangrur Civil Hospital on Thursday, and talks between the state government and the Unemployed BEd Teachers’ Union going nowhere, aspiring teachers announced a gherao of Moti Mahal in Patiala on September 12 (Sunday). Manish had climbed atop the tower on August 21; in addition to jobs, the union has also sought more posts of Social Studies, Punjabi and Hindi teachers in government schools.  Unemployed BEd Teachers’ Union president Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan said, “We held a meeting with Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, as also with school education minister Vijay Inder Singla to no avail.”He added, “We have sought more posts of SST, Punjabi and Hindi teachers in government schools but the ministers failed to address our concerns. Now, we have decided to gherao Moti Mahal to press for our demands.”“The government which assured Ghar Ghar Rozgar is not paying heed towards the pain of young protesters. The Congress government is still making false promises in meetings, but we will intensify our agitation,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aspiring-teachers-to-gherao-punjab-cm-s-house-in-patiala-on-september-12-101631197914608.html
09-09-2021||Other||Emblems of Empowerment| She inspires women to be independent, find purpose||Till the birth of her two children, Masrat Jan was leading an “uneventful” life that revolved around her family in Srinagar. Gradually, she began experiencing the desire to achieve something in life. By the time her son turned two, she was charting her own course. “I wanted to be financially independent and not rely on anybody,” says the 43-year-old. After her son’s birth, the science graduate decided to enroll for a diploma in medical lab technology and start a diagnostic lab. Her husband, Mohammad Aslam, who owns a medicine shop in the Old City’s Rainawari area, and her in-laws were supportive. “Their being from the health sector helped and I started out in 2011. Unlike the past, women are now not confined to their homes. Families are empowering daughters,” says Masrat Jan. Today, she runs the lab independently and conducts all routine tests. “Initially, it appeared impossible, particularly getting back to studies after having two children. But my passion, determination and the family’s support got me here,” she says, donning her apron to collect blood samples from patients. Education a priority to succeed The youngest of four siblings, comprising two brothers and two sisters, Masrat says that her father, a businessman, was particular about educating all of them. Education was a priority at her in-laws’ place, too. “My father-in-law is a retired health officer, and my sister-in-law is a doctor,” she says. Masrat is happy to see that her success is motivating women around her to pursue their passion, too. “When a woman succeeds, she inspires others. There are many who approach me for advice. They think if I could do it after marriage and kids why can’t they,” she says. “I guide young women on how to make their lives meaningful and even counsel them on the career they should choose,” she says. Daughter’s role model Not only friends and relatives, Masrat’s daughter admires her for her independence. “My daughter, Falak, wants to become financially independent, too. She has just turned 20 and is in college, but she started a home-baking venture when she was in Class 12. She took this step without any training. Seeing her follow her heart is heartening,” she says. On path to progress Masrat feels that the Kashmiri society is evolving with education. “I won’t say that our society is 100% perfect and there is unhindered freedom, but a lot has improved. What is important is that we are progressing,” she says. She acknowledges that women still face harassment but says that they now raise their voice against it. “There is still violence against women and harassment at workplaces, but change is happening. Things have changed to the extent that women are now raising their voice against such crimes,” she adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/emblems-of-empowerment-she-inspires-women-to-be-independent-find-purpose-101631197674407.html
09-09-2021||Other||NIRF rankings 2021: SPPU slips to 11th; COEP ranked 52nd||PUNE The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings for 2021 were released on Thursday by Union education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan. The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has slipped to 11th from last year’s 9th position in the university category. In the overall category, SPPU has dropped from 19th last year, to 20th this year. The College of Engineering Pune (COEP) has slipped to 52nd this year, from last year’s 50th rank in the engineering colleges’ category. In the college category, Fergusson College has gone from 42nd last year, to 96th this year. These rankings are issued by the education ministry based on scores out of 100 on various parameters – research and professional practice, outreach and inclusivity, teaching-learning resources and graduation outcomes. The rankings are announced across several categories, from overall and university, to engineering, pharmacy, and management, among others. From this year, a new category of “research” has been introduced. DY Patil Vidyapeeth’s Dental College in Pune as ranked second this year among dental colleges in the country. Last year it was ranked third.Similarly, the Defence Institute of Advanced Technology Pune scaled up to 58th this year, from last year’s rank of 63. SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said, “There are two reasons behind the drop of position compared to last year of the SPPU. As the university campus is closed, the number of foreign students has reduced. Then, several programmes like ‘Gyan’ which has the participation of international faculties, could not happen this year and this has the rankings. We are happy with the success and ranking we have got and will work harder to gain top position next year.”Students in the city are not impressed. “It is the time for the SPPU and all the other colleges in Pune who have slipped in their rankings to work to better the education for students. It is going to have a major impact on students taking admission to these universities and colleges from now,” said one post-graduate student in the city, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nirf-rankings-2021-sppu-slips-to-11th-coep-ranked-52nd-101631197373877.html
09-09-2021||Lucknow||NIRF overall rankings: 8 UP institutes among top 100 in India||LUCKNOW Eight higher educational institutes from Uttar Pradesh made it to the list of top 100 Indian institutes in the overall category of the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings-2021 released by the ministry of education on Thursday. While five of these are central institutes, two are private and one is a state-run medical university (KGMU).As per the rankings, central institutes including the Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur ranked 5th, Banaras Hindu University 10th, Aligarh Muslim University 18th, IT (BHU) 28th while Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology Prayagraj ranked 88th. Private institutes, including Amity Univesity in Gautam Buddha Nagar, ranked 43rd and Shiv Nadar University in Dadri ranked 84th. The King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow ranked 60th.Uttar Pradesh has nearly 164 government colleges, 331 aided colleges, 6,531 self-finance colleges and 16 state universities. But only one – that too a medical university (KGMU) – could make it to the list. As per NIRF 2020 rankings, not a single state institution figured on the top 100 list.Besides the overall rankings, NIRF also released rankings in other categories. In the category of top 100 universities, Banaras Hindu University ranked third, Aligarh Muslim University 10th followed by Amity University 25th. Lucknow-based Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU) ranked 65th.Not a single college from Uttar Pradesh figured on the top 100 list in the college category. IIT-Kanpur, BHU and Academy of Scientific, Innovative Research, Ghaziabad and AMU ranked 6th, 14th, 22nd and 24th, respectively on the top 100 list in the research category.Deputy chief minster Dinesh Sharma said, “We will make efforts to ensure that government-run universities and colleges improve their ranking in the coming years. With the implementation of the new National Educational Policy (NEP)-2020, we will be able to catch up with other central institutions to make the cut in the top 100 list.”The rankings for all colleges and universities across the country given by the ministry were based on teaching, learning, and resources; research and professional practice, graduation outcome; outreach and inclusivity; and peer perception.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nirf-overall-rankings-8-up-institutes-among-top-100-in-india-101631196834412.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cong, AAP slam ‘meagre’ hike in MSP for rabi crops||The Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday criticised the hike in minimum support prices (MSPs) announced by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA government for a range of rabi crops. Hitting out at the central government, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu that it promised to double the farmer income by 2022, but increased the MSP on wheat by just two per cent and fair and remunerative price (FRP) on sugarcane by 1.75% despite a sharp increase in expenses. “In last one year, diesel rates have increased by 48%, DAP by 140% mustard oil by 174%, sunflower oil by 170% and LPG cylinder by ₹190,” he claimed in a series of tweets. Sidhu said that NDA means “No Data Available” about farmers, labour and small traders. “Govt only knows about its rich corporate friends, whose debt it waives off, whose planes it travels in and who make their policies such as the three farm laws,” he alleged. Congress youth leader Amardeep Singh Cheema also condemned the miniscule raise of ₹40 per quintal in MSP of wheat and accordingly in other 23 rabi crops, calling it “utter failure” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The way cost has been calculated is actually cost of selective inputs while blatantly ignoring the costs of land, tilling, labour, capital cost, supervision and inflation in diesel prices and fertilizers,” he claimed, blaming the “negative attitude” of the central government. Criticising the measly hike in MSP for wheat, AAP MLA and Kisan Wing state chief Kultar Singh Sandhwan said the Modi government was punishing the farmers for agitating against its three farm laws. The MSP for rabi crops was just an announcement with there being guarantee of procurement at the fixed price, he added, asking the central government to clarify the procurement plan for gram, mustard, maize and sunflower. He said the MSP was negligible due to rising inflation and cost of farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-aap-slam-meagre-hike-in-msp-for-rabi-crops-101631196597341.html
09-09-2021||Dehradun||NTCA seeks status report on opening part of Rajaji Tiger Reserve for tourists||National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has written to the Uttarakhand forest department seeking a factual status report on opening a part of the Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) for tourists. NTCA sought the report after Gaurav Kumar Bansal, a wildlife activist and advocate in Supreme Court, sent a legal notice to the NTCA member secretary on September 6, alleging that “allowing tourism in such a critical tiger habitat for a whole year in Rajaji Tiger Reserve and that too without following the scientific and objective criteria as well as without consulting the expert committee is nothing but illegal” . Bansal said that the chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand, in his letter dated September 3, asked the director of Rajaji Tiger Reserve to open up the area from Satyanarayan to Kansro, a critical tiger habitat in Rajaji Tiger Reserve for the whole year. Rajaji Tiger Reserve is usually open till June 15 after which it is closed for the monsoon season. It reopens on November 15 every year. Bansal, in his legal notice, also pointed out that the chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand, also asked the director of Rajaji Tiger Reserve to open the area from Motichur to Rajaji Rani via the Micro Tower tourism zone from October 1, 2021 instead of November 15, 2021. Bansal said opening these areas is a violation of various provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972. “The said unsustainable use of Rajaji Tiger Reserve landscape is not only capable of damaging the whole ecology of the tiger reserve but it can also cause harm to the pristine biological diversity of the Park. So I sent a legal notice to NTCA so that they take cognisance of this matter and initiate action in accordance with law and more specifically as per the provisions of Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972,” he said. When contacted, JS Suhag, the chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand, said he will look into the matter and then send a detailed factual report to NTCA. Rajaji National Park, spread over 820 sqkm in three districts of Uttarakhand, namely Haridwar, Dehradun and Pauri Garhwal, came into existence in 1983, when three wildlife sanctuaries in the area--Chilla, Motichur and Rajaji sanctuaries--were merged into one. The park is named after C Rajagopalachari (Rajaji), a prominent leader of the freedom struggle and the second and last governor general of independent India. In April 2015, Rajaji was declared a tiger reserve, becoming the second tiger reserve in the state after Corbett Tiger Reserve The park is famous as an elephant habitat and also harbours the mountain goat, goral and other wild animals. The reserve is home to more than 50 species of mammals including tiger, leopard, Himalayan black bear, sloth bear, jackal , hyena, spotted deer, sambhar, barking deer, nilgai, monkeys and over 300 species of birds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ntca-seeks-status-report-on-opening-part-of-rajaji-tiger-reserve-for-tourists-101631190353667.html
09-09-2021||Lucknow||Ensure effective dengue, viral infection vigil in districts: UP CM||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday asked officials for making the statewide surveillance programme – to track dengue and other viral infections – effective and keep a close watch on the affected districts like Firozabad, Agra, Kanpur and Mathura.“Trace and identify people with fever, infections, and other symptoms. Distribute medicines for fever and diarrhoea. Consult experts’ teams and act according to their instructions. Keep hospital beds and medicines available adequately and treat all such patients free at government hospitals,” he told officers concerned at the Covid-19 review meeting.The CM said there was effective control over the second wave of the pandemic in the state. UP was better off than many other states and as many as 33 districts didn’t have active Covid cases while 66 districts did not report any fresh cases in the last 24 hours. “At present, the state has 199 active Covid cases. In the testing done in the last 24 hours, only 11 fresh cases of Covid were reported,” he said.About Covid vaccination, the chief minister said more than 45% of the population in the state in the targeted age groups received at least one dose of Covid vaccine. Till Wednesday, 8.34 crore doses of Covid vaccine were administered in the state.Don’t install Ganesh idols at public places: YogiChief minister Yogi Adityanath urged people not to install Lord Ganesh idols at public places and instead install them in their homes, considering the Covid pandemic.He said Ganesh Chaturthi (on Friday) should be celebrated in a peaceful and harmonious manner and there should not be any unnecessary crowding anywhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ensure-effective-dengue-viral-infection-vigil-in-districts-up-cm-101631189813892.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||257,000 people evicted during pandemic, shows report by housing rights body||Close to 257,000 people were evicted from their homes in India during the coronavirus pandemic (March 2020-July 2021) by government authorities for various projects and removal of encroachments, according to a report released by the Housing and Land Rights Network on Thursday.The report (Forced Evictions in India in 2020: A Grave Human Rights Crisis During the Pandemic) stated close to 173,000 people were evicted as 36,812 homes were demolished across India between January and December last year. Between March and December 2020, about 88,517 people were evicted.In 2021, 169,000 people were evicted and 24,400 homes demolished across India till July 31.Shivani Chaudhry, executive director, HLRN, said, “It is a cause of great concern that during this public health emergency, when the government should be ensuring a secure home for everyone to stay safe, it has been ruthlessly demolishing homes of low-income communities across India and increasing their risk of exposure to the deadly coronavirus.”She added, “The majority of these evictions take place on grounds that the urban and rural poor are ‘illegal encroachers’ even when they have lived in an area for decades and contributed to its sustainable development.” HLRN members said that the numbers could be much higher, as the report only has data of cases they know of.HLRN, a charitable organisation working on housing and land rights, set up the National Eviction and Displacement Observatory in 2015. According to HLRN, “On average, between 2017 and 2020, state authorities evicted 185,300 people annually in India.”Eviction drives have been carried out for infrastructure and environment projects, encroachment removal and beautification projects, and disaster management. As per the report, 49% of evictions last year were due to environmental reasons (projects and forest and wildlife conservation).Chaudhry said, “In 2020, we documented that 49% of people lost their homes for ostensible ‘environmental’ reasons, including from forestland. But forcibly evicting traditional forest dwellers from their lands not only violates the Forest Rights Act 2006, it is also a recipe for a human rights and ecological disaster. People living in forests know how best to protect them. The government needs to respect their knowledge and uphold their rights.” HLRN reported that 17,888 homes have been demolished for environmental reasons.In 73 eviction drives for encroachment removal and beautification, and 33 infrastructure projects across India, 7,689 and 8,658 families were evicted respectively in 2020.What’s alarming is the fact that a vast majority of evicted people were rendered homeless because the government didn’t plan for their rehabilitation.“An overwhelming majority of evicted people (87%) did not receive any rehabilitation from the government.They have had to find alternative housing or have been rendered homeless. For those who received some form of resettlement from the state, the sites they have been relocated to are remote and devoid of adequate housing and essential civic and social infrastructure facilities,” a statement by HLRN said.HLRN has listed 235 areas in India where there are around 16 million people “currently living under the threat of eviction from their homes and habitats”.Forced eviction results “in an increase in poverty, destitution, homelessness, landlessness, and unemployment; loss of education, health, security and sometimes, lives too; hunger and malnutrition; and, mental, physical, and psychological distress”.The report stated that of the total evictions in 2020, nearly 51% people were evicted during the pandemic due to court orders (Supreme Court, state high courts and the National Green Tribunal).Highlighting the plight of millions of people who lost their homes during the pandemic, HLRN has recommended that there should be an immediate moratorium on eviction, adequate compensation should be provided to those who have been evicted, an eviction impact assessment should be carried out by government agencies etc.HLRN members said that there is a need for the government to adopt the ‘housing first’ approach that prioritises the provision of permanent housing to homeless persons and families.The organisation also recommends that the Centre bring in a law to provide secure land for housing and subsistence livelihoods to urban and rural landless households. “Develop and promulgate laws on the human rights to adequate housing and land, on the lines of the Odisha Land Rights to Slum Dwellers Act 2017, and the Punjab Slum Dwellers (Proprietary Rights) Act 2020,” said the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/257000-people-evicted-during-pandemic-shows-report-by-housing-rights-body-101631189394277.html
09-09-2021||Pune||Taste of life: Poona’s tryst with handling waste all about manure for growth||The disposal of night-soil to the best advantage had been a very important issue since the middle of the 19th century India. When Poona started its journey towards becoming a city, excreta and offal began to be a nuisance and the question of disposal of these substances became important.Since pre-municipal days, sweepers belonging to particular castes collected night-soil from houses every day. They then sold the manure to cultivators.These sweepers and manual scavengers were considered “untouchables”. They were required to collect the excreta, carry it in cane or metal containers on their heads, and empty the contents at a designated site a few miles away from the city. Because the residents did not want the “sweepers” to “pollute” their houses with their touches, or mere presence, toilets were constructed at the entrances of the residential buildings, so that the sweepers would collect the excreta and left without entering their dwellings.The local population of Poona had gotten used to the stench which would greet them upon entering their houses and while walking down the lanes. The Poona City Municipality deliberated over the issue of toilets and foul smells and decided to put the night-soil to better use.Mixing night-soil with earth, ashes, or town sweepings and the application of the mass to the land was one of the simplest methods to utilise the waste. Called “sonkhat” in Marathi, the use of night-soil as manure was not altogether unknown in the Bombay Presidency. Its use in many places was obstructed due to prejudice, and the caste dynamics it brought into play.To overcome these issues, the Agriculture Department at the then College of Science, Poona, (now College of Engineering, Pune), at the request of the Municipality, undertook a series of experiments with the help of the Sanitation Department after 1890. HK Kelkar, an Associate Professor of Agriculture, was put in charge.The Municipality had then already adopted the “Poona method” of making poudrette of manure. In this system, fresh excreta was carted to a depot and covered with ashes and town sweepings in shallow beds. This mixture was exposed to the sun to dry; when properly dried it was heaped away and sold to farmers as manure.Ashes were used primarily to remove the foul odour. They also made the poudrette richer in potash. In the rainy season, the drying had to be done under cover and consequently, the process took about a fortnight, whereas in the winters it took about a week. During summer, the process needed five days to complete.In the Poona Cantonment, a slightly different system was used. Pits were dug about five feet deep and of convenient length and breadth. Into these pits, night-soil and earth were put in alternate layers and in equal proportions. This system was more sanitary than the one adopted by Poona City Municipality, but the poudrette manufactured by this method could not be handled for several months.Several systems of purifying sewage were tried by the Agricultural Department in co-operation with the Poona Municipality and Sanitation Department from 1894 to 1905 on the Poona and Manjari farms in connection with the Poona drainage system.In the first set of experiments carried out in 1894, fresh night-soil was directly applied to the land by the shallow bed system. One month from the date of application, the land was ploughed, harrowed, and sown with Sundhia (a cultivar of Sorghum from Gujarat) for fodder. The yield obtained was 1,133 bundles of fodder per acre, which was “significantly more” than the yield of crop obtained without the use of night-soil as manure.Next year, experiments were conducted on the Manjari Farm owned by the Agriculture Department with poudrette manufactured by the Poona method. The yield of sugarcane per acre was measured and compared with different manures such as cattle dung from “ordinary fed animals”, Safflower cake, Castor cake, Karanji cake, cottonseed cake, and Bassia cake. It was found that the yield obtained with poudrette was “slightly better” than with the other manures.In 1898, a small septic tank was constructed in Mangalwar peth and the effluent from this tank was carted to the Kirkee farm daily and applied to the crops, viz. sugarcane, Guinea-grass, Lucerne, Sundhia, and maize. The effluent was compared with farmyard manure and poudrette at the rate of 20 and 25 tonnes per acre respectively. The outturn of produce per acre was “almost double” for effluent.The next year, the effect of effluent on various garden crops was tested. They were mostly vegetables like onions, potatoes, “knoll-khols”, sweet potatoes, turmeric, and yams.Encouraged by the results obtained at the Kirkee farm, JC Pottinger, sanitary engineer, planned in consultation with the Agricultural Department, a trial of three distinct systems of sewage purification at Manjari. A septic tank, Dib-Dins filter, and a macerating tank were constructed and sewage purification under these three systems was carried out for six years, from 1899.The effluent of these different systems was compared with poudrette, farmyard manure, castor-cake, niger-cake, and safflower-cake respectively. The results were encouraging as before. The success of these experiments was so marked that the government, on the advice of the Sanitary Department, undertook to demonstrate conclusively the agricultural value of the sewage and to furnish a basis for calculation in carrying out the drainage scheme of Poona.A purification plant was set up at the Manjari farm which consisted of a mixing tank, a septic tank, bacteria beds, and sand filters. In the septic tank, the organisms, which thrived well in the absence of air, dissolved the whole of the solid matters of the sewage and simplified the organic compounds. The nitrogenous substances were largely converted into nitrates. Fish lived well in the effluent liquid and it could be passed into the river without causing any kind of nuisance. Various kinds of crops like sugarcane, onions, groundnut, turmeric, yams, and ginger were grown by its aid at Manjari.In 1906, the Poona Municipality discontinued the regular manufacture of poudrette as it did not cover the expenses. The carting of night-soil, urine, and sweepings, etc. from the city was put to auction every year. The contractor manufactured poudrette and sold the same to farmers.The municipality later started encouraging homeowners to construct toilets with septic tanks behind their houses to facilitate proper disposal of the waste. The efforts continued for many decades.The social stigma reinforced by caste-designated occupation of manual scavenging and widespread discrimination perpetuated by untouchability have sadly not yet been eliminated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-poona-s-tryst-with-handling-waste-all-about-manure-for-growth-101631187767112.html
09-09-2021||Ranchi||Namaz room row: J’khand speaker forms all-party assembly panel to review the issue||Jharkhand assembly speaker Rabindranath Mahto on Thursday, the last day of the monsoon session, formed a seven-member all-party committee to review the decision of notifying a dedicated namaz room for Muslims in the assembly building. The notification issued September 2 led to a political storm in the state with the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) consistently disrupting proceedings in the House during the ongoing monsoon session, doing Kirtan and chanting Hanuman Chalisa. On Wednesday, police lathicharged BJP workers and leaders protesting outside the assembly when they tried to move ahead by breaking barricades, injuring several of them. The Speaker took the decision on Thursday after senior Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) legislator Sarfaraz Ahmed proposed forming a committee in the House to look into the issue in order to break the deadlock. Other legislators, including Bandhu Tirkey and Pradeep Yadav, supported the proposal. Also Read | Jharkhand: Police use water cannons on BJP protesters amid namaz hall row“Over the past few days, we have seen this issue (namaz room) is pushing the state towards communal tension. You took a decision based on a precedence in the assembly. Such a room was allotted by first speaker Inder Singh Namdhari when Babulal Marandi was the chief minister. However, now this issue has gone into a new direction. So it’s my personal view that you form an assembly committee that looks into it and give it’s report in 7 to 10 days. Based on their report, you can review your decision,” Sarfaraz said. However, Babulal Marandi, currently legislature party leader of the BJP, objected to Sarfaraz’s claims and said no such room was allocated during his tenure as CM. As other legislators supported the proposal, the Speaker announced the formation of an all-party committee. While senior JMM legislator Stephen Marandi will chair the committee, other members include Sarfaraz Ahmed, Pradeep Yadav, Neelkanth Munda, Vinod Singh, Lambodar Mahto and Dipika Pandey Singh. “Though I am fixing a timeframe of 45 days for the committee to submit its report, I would request the panel to ready it at the earliest so that we can end this deadlock. I will abide by its recommendation,” said the Speaker.Bhanu Pratap Shahi, BJP legislator and former minister, who has been one of the most vocal lawmakers on the issue, said it was BJP’s pressure that forced Sarfaraz Ahmed to come up with the proposal. “He could have made this proposal even on the first day. But he is doing it now because of the pressure from the BJP,” said Shahi in an apparent reference to their consistent stand and protest on the issue. BJP delegation meets governorMeanwhile, a BJP delegation led by party general secretary Pradeep Verma met Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais and requested the cancellation of the notification and action against those responsible for lathicharge on the protesting BJP workers and leaders. A PIL has also been filed against the notification in the Jharkhand high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/namaz-room-row-j-khand-speaker-forms-all-party-assembly-panel-to-review-the-issue-101631187046647.html
09-09-2021||Kolkata||Chaos as Kolkata Police hand over body of BJP worker killed on May 2||There was chaos at Kolkata’s NRS Medical College and Hospital on Thursday afternoon when the police handed over the body of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Abhijit Sarkar to his family and leaders of the party over four months after he was killed, allegedly by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers, in the Narkeldanga area on May 2. Devdutta Maji, a BJP leader, allegedly slapped a home guard when Kolkata Police personnel were managing the entry point to the morgue where the body was kept. “There was some jostling when the police tried to stop us. I did not hit anyone intentionally. If charges are pressed, I will fight it out in court,” said Maji. Ordered by the Calcutta high court to probe allegations of post-poll killings and rapes in Bengal, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing Sarkar’s death along with the other cases. Also Read | BJP using agencies against TMC leaders before bypolls: Bengal CM Mamata BanerjeeThe court had earlier ordered a DNA test on the body since Sarkar’s family could not identify it.Though the Kolkata Police did not comment on the alleged assault by Maji, Trinamool Congress (TMC) general secretary Kunal Ghosh said, “He should be booked immediately. The government made all arrangements to hand over the body but the BJP created trouble.” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh defended Maji and said, “If he slapped a home guard, he did not do anything wrong.” Lawyer Priyanka Tibrewal, who is representing several petitioners, including Sarkar’s family, said, “The government did not preserve the body properly. It was decomposed.” The body was taken to the BJP state headquarters at Muralidhar Sen Lane in central Kolkata. It was later taken to Sarkar’s home. The cremation is scheduled take place in the afternoon. Sarkar was allegedly killed shortly after the poll results were announced. The Kolkata Police has so far arrested seven people. Biswajit Sarkar, the older brother of the victim, has filed petitions to probe his death before the Supreme Court and the Calcutta high court. Abhijit Sarkar was allegedly strangled to death with a television cable. He was the only BJP worker who died in the state capital. The rest of the alleged killings took place in other districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/chaos-as-kolkata-police-hand-over-body-of-bjp-worker-killed-on-may-2-101631186266443.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||Top film financier Yusuf Lakdawala, who was lodged in Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail, dies||Top film financier Yusuf Lakdawala, who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate and was lodged in Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail, died on Thursday. Yogesh Desai, DIG prisons, west region, said that Lakdawala was suffering from cancer and was admitted to the prison hospital on September 6. The Mumbai-based builder, who was arrested by the ED in a land grabbing case, was referred to JJ hospital on Wednesday morning after his situation deteriorated. Police said they were informed about Lakdawala's death on Thursday afternoon, adding that no foul play has been reported behind his demise."Lakdawala was 76-year-old and was suffering from Cancer. He was lodged in the prison hospital (inside jail premises) on September 6. On Wednesday morning he was referred to the JJ Hospital by the jail doctors as his condition deteriorated. On Thursday afternoon J J Hospital doctors informed us about his death. No foul play reported," Desai said.An accidental death report (ADR) has been registered and the cause of death is yet to be ascertained, reported ANI.HT had earlier reported on ED questioning Lakdawala in connection with alleged money laundering linked to usurping a Khandala-based land belonging to an erstwhile Hyderabad Nawab. The builder was accused of bribing government officials, estate agents and others to grab the land said to be worth ₹50 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/top-film-financier-yusuf-lakdawala-who-was-lodged-in-mumbai-s-arthur-road-jail-dies-101631183772757.html
09-09-2021||Other||Odisha man, who tried to kill himself alleging medical negligence, dies||A 34-year-old man, who attempted to kill himself by consuming poison after slitting his wrist in front of the Odisha assembly building to highlight allegedly negligent treatment at a government medical college, died on Wednesday night.On Wednesday, the man consumed poison and slit his wrist before the assembly building to highlight the alleged negligence in treatment by doctors at Odisha’s biggest state-run hospital, SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack. The 34-year-old was first taken to Bhubaneswar’s Capital Hospital before being shifted to SCB Medical College and Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries, said Bhubaneswar deputy commissioner of police Umashankar Dash.The man met with a road accident in March last year. He alleged that though he had a Biju Krushak Kalyan Yojana (BKKY) card which allowed him treatment in private hospitals up to ₹5 lakh, he could not get any help as the hospital authorities wanted written consent from government officials.He also went to private hospitals with his Biju Swasthya Kalyan Scheme (BSKY) card which entitled him to treatment upto a maximum limit of ₹5 lakh, but was asked to get permission from government officials.The man said his mother too had written to the state government over his treatment, but did not get any help. “Finding no other option, I decided to kill myself,” he said. “I was harassed at SCB Medical College and Hospital while undergoing treatment and the doctors did not provide me with medicines. I was deliberately discharged,” he alleged, soon after he consumed poison before the assembly building on Wednesday. The man had sustained serious injuries on his left leg on March 22 last year after his two-wheeler collided with a truck. He was admitted to SCB Medical College and Hospital where he underwent a surgery the next day. Later, he underwent another operation on June 19, 2020. However, the doctors allegedly discharged him from the hospital on July 15 due to the rise in Covid-19 cases.When he could not walk after his discharge from the hospital, his family members admitted him to a private hospital in Bhubaneswar. “The doctors at the private hospital told me that the surgery at the government medical college was faulty,” the man said. He then wrote to chief minister requesting him for assistance towards his treatment. The emergency officer of SCB Medical College and Hospital Dr Bhubananda Maharana, however, said the treatment at the hospital was done as per set procedure. “There was no negligence in his treatment,” he said.After the incident, Kujang BDO Amiya Kumar Panda rushed to his house and met his family members. He gave ₹1 lakh compensation to his family members. “When he was alive, no one helped him. Now after his death the government woke up from sleep. The government killed my son,” alleged the dead man’s father.Last month, Odisha launched the BSKY smart card scheme, a new version of the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Scheme that was first launched in August 2018 to lessen out of pocket (OOP) expenses. The scheme is convergence of erstwhile Rastriya Swasthya Bima Yojana, Biju Krushak Kalyan Yojana and Odisha State Treatment Fund. Under the scheme the beneficiaries don’t have to pay any premium. They are given identity cards through which they can get treatment in empanelled private hospitals.On Thursday, the issue rocked the state with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers led by ex-minister Bibhu Tarai staging a road blockade on Cuttack-Paradip road demanding ₹20 lakh compensation for the kin of deceased and a government job for his wife. State Congress chief Niranjan Patnaik said the government should have listened to the grievances of the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-man-who-tried-to-kill-himself-alleging-medical-negligence-dies-101631183806440.html
09-09-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM to review Nipah virus impact on state today, says ‘necessary actions’ to follow||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that he would receive a detailed report on the behaviour of the Nipah virus and its outbreak in Kerala, later in the evening. The report is also expected to contain the impact on Karnataka and following its review, the CM said that “necessary actions” would be taken regarding the virus in his state.“Regarding Nipah virus, I have given directions to the Health Secretary and experts. I will get a report on its behaviour in Kerala and its impact on us by this evening, following which necessary action will be taken,” news agency ANI quoted Bommai as saying earlier in the day.The report is expected by Thursday evening following which, the CM said that measures would be taken in Karnataka on the possible impact of the virus on the state, following an outbreak in Kerala.Also read | Karnataka border district issues alert as 12-yr-old boy dies of Nipah in KeralaEarlier on Wednesday, Bommai had instructed the state health officials, especially in districts located along the Kerala border, to strengthen their measures against the Nipah virus after the infection was reported in neighbouring Kerala on Sunday last week. He also asked for more awareness to be spread among the public and create a surveillance system for identifying clusters of encephalitis disease to detect Nipah outbreaks at the earliest. The CM was on a trip to Delhi on September 7 and 8 to meet with some Union ministers to discuss issues concerning the state.Already, Karnataka has put up several measures to bolster their surveillance on Kerala border and people travelling between the states. Bommai had asked his health officials to check for symptoms such as fever, altered mental status, severe weakness, headache, respiratory distress, cough, vomiting, muscle pain, convulsions and diarrhoea among passengers arriving at Karnataka from Kerala. Already, vigilance at the border between the two states was bolstered, particularly on the Karnataka side, owing to the high number of daily Covid-19 infections in Kerala. Passengers are expected to possess a negative RT-PCR certificate and vaccination certificates before entering the state.The district administration in Dakshina Kannada, one of the districts in Karnataka bordering Kerala, has advised its people to avoid travelling to Kerala in the wake of the Nipah outbreak and also the high Covid-19 caseload there. It asked the people to consider their travel to Kerala only in emergency cases and avoid it until the end of October this year.Meanwhile, Kerala health minister Veena George said that 61 people in her state had tested negative for the Nipah virus after being in close contact with the 12-year-old boy who lost his life to the disease on September 5. While 64 people are under observation in the Kozhikode Medical College for the disease, several other people were also being tested, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-to-review-nipah-virus-impact-on-state-today-says-necessary-actions-to-follow-101631182898415.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||‘Sentiments’ shouldn't be hurt, says Mumbai mayor as city gears up to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi under strict norms||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, who visited Girgaon Chowpatty beach on Thursday, told reporters that the city’s civic body has installed tables at the beach for immersion of Ganesha idols. "We have placed tables for 'visarjan' at Girgaon Chowpatty. The sentiments of devotees should not be hurt," said the city’s first citizen. Mumbai has restricted immersion processions to 10 people.Pednekar’s comment comes as the city is gearing up for its biggest festival of the year, Ganesh Chaturthi, which will be celebrated for 11-days starting September 10. Mumbai reported a sudden spike in the daily tally of cases on Wednesday, reporting 532 cases, highest since July 15, marking a jump from the 353 cases it had reported on Tuesday. The number of sealed buildings also increased from 44 to 49 on September 5.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) issued fresh orders on Wednesday, banning physical darshans for devotees at public pandals and insisted that arrangements for digital darshans should be made instead. For bringing idols to homes or pandals and also for immersing them on ‘visarjan’ day not more than 10 people will be allowed together. For pujas at home only five people will be allowed in one household. Pednekar once again appealed to citizens to celebrate this year’s Ganesh Chaturthi from the comfort of their homes."Considering the potential danger of a third Covid-19 wave, devotees are strictly forbidden from taking darshan. It has been decided that Ganeshotsav mandals should provide darshan facility to devotees through cable network, website, Facebook or (other) social media," BMC said in an official statement."All devotees should wear masks and observe social distancing. Also, the 10 participants should have taken both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine and completed 15 days after taking the second dose," it added.For pujas that take place in a containment zone the concerned committee will have to make arrangements for immersion within their premises or postpone it altogether, the civic body said, adding that the height of Ganpati idols for household celebrations has been restricted to two feet and for public mandals to four feet, for the second year in a row to help curb rising number of coronavirus cases.BMC has warned that any violation of the guidelines will invite strict action under the Indian Penal Code, the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sentiments-of-devotees-shouldn-t-be-hurt-says-mumbai-mayor-as-city-gears-up-to-celebrate-ganesh-chaturthi-under-strict-covid-norms-101631181935888.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||Shift alleged Maoist leader into hospice for palliative care: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court on Thursday directed the Maharashtra government to shift alleged Maoist leader Nirmala Uppuganti to a hospice by September 15, 2021 for palliative care for terminal cancer.The division bench of justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar, while pronouncing the order on the petition filed by Uppuganti, said that the state would have to continue the treatment being provided to her at Tata Memorial Hospital while she is at the hospice. Advocate Payoshi Roy, who represented Uppuganti, submitted that she was arrested in 2019 for her alleged involvement in a bomb attack in Gadchiroli which had resulted in the death of 15 police personnel and one civilian. Uppuganti and her husband were accused of being senior members of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist). Roy informed the court that Uppuganti had been diagnosed with breast cancer in 2018 and had been undergoing chemotherapy when she and her husband were arrested in 2019. Roy had submitted that due to her arrest, Uppuganti had missed her chemotherapy sessions as a result of which her condition deteriorated. Her cancer is now at stage 4 and she has multiple skeletal and lung metastases. The court was also informed that while Uppuganti was being taken to Tata Memorial Hospital for treatment, the cell in Byculla Women’s Prison where she was being held was crowded and she had to sleep on the floor, and did not have access to basic facilities like toilet, hot water, among other things. In light of these submissions, Uppuganti sought urgent relief in the form of palliative care by being shifted to a hospice and also requested that she be allowed to meet her husband, who is lodged in Arthur Road jail as she had no other family member.However, the state opposed the petition stating that Uggupanti was being taken to the Tata memorial Hospital thrice a week to ensure she gets her treatment as directed by her doctors. Additional public prosecutor Sangeeta Shinde had informed the bench that Uppuganti was being tended to by other prison mates and she was able to move around.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shift-alleged-maoist-leader-into-hospice-for-palliative-care-bombay-hc-101631182306220.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC dismisses Kangana’s plea for quashing defamation case by Akhtar||The Bombay high court on Thursday dismissed a petition filed by actor Kangana Ranaut challenging the process issued by a metropolitan magistrate court in Andheri based on a criminal defamation case complaint filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar against her.The single-judge bench of justice Revati Mohite Dere who heard Ranaut’s petition had been informed by advocate Rizwan Siddiquee that the magistrate had not followed due procedure on receipt of the complaint and had assigned the investigation into the complaint to the Juhu police, which he should have done himself.Siddiquee had also submitted that the magistrate had not applied his judicial mind while issuing the process or issuing a bailable warrant after Ranaut failed to appear in court.He had argued that the complainant had not placed any evidence before the magistrate and the same was brought on record by a third party. Siddiquee had stated that as the procedure laid down under Section 202 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was not followed, the entire proceedings, orders and summons issued by the magistrate should be quashed. In light of Section 202 of the CrPC, advocate Jay Bharadwaj for Akhtar had submitted that the magistrate had three options--to either conduct the investigation himself; or direct an investigation to be made by a police officer; or direct a third party to conduct investigation. The magistrate had chosen one of the legally available options and hence the petition was liable to be dismissed.Bharadwaj had also stated that apart from considering the allegations and taking the statement of the complainant the magistrate had also summoned the accused but she had not appeared. He added that the magistrate also went through the report of the police and the footage in which Ranaut had made the defamatory comments against Akhtar.After hearing the submissions the bench had reserved its order on September 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-dismisses-kangana-s-plea-for-quashing-defamation-case-by-akhtar-101631181046350.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Sadan case: Court discharges Chhagan Bhujbal, his son, nephew||A special court on Thursday discharged Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Chhagan Bhujbal, his son Pankaj and nephew Sameer from the Maharashtra Sadan corruption case.Bhujbal had argued that there was no evidence of any irregularities or corruption against him as the then public works minister and deputy chief minister.Special judge HS Satbhai also discharged Tanveer Shaikh, Iram Shaikh, Sanjay Joshi, Geeta Joshi, directors in various companies, and Deodatta Marathe, the then public works department secretary.In 2015, the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) had registered a case against 11 persons alleging that a developer was favoured in awarding the contract for development of the RTO land in Andheri along with construction of Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi and an RTO building in Tardeo in south Mumbai.In a recent order, the special court had discharged five persons, including the developers booked in the case, stating that there was no ground to proceed against them regarding the charges of corruption, cheating and criminal breach of trust etc.Those discharged earlier included Arun Deodhar, a public works engineer, and directors of developers K S Chamankar Enteperises, who were booked for criminal conspiracy with the public servants for loss to the government.The ACB had alleged that at the instance of Bhujbal a meeting of ministers was arranged and secured the contract for a specific developer. Bhujbal had, however, claimed that there were no irregularities in awarding the contract.The court said there was no material prima facie to indicate that there was a meeting of minds of all the public servants and that they hatched a plan to prepare a status report favourable to the developer. In the meeting, several senior bureaucrats were present and it was difficult to accept that they were all misled into causing losses to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sadan-case-court-discharges-chhagan-bhujbal-his-son-nephew-101631179246307.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||2 days after inauguration by CM Thackeray, Dombivli bridge develops pothole||Two days after it was inaugurated by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the railway over bridge at Dombivli in Thane district developed a pothole, making commuters question if it was due to shoddy work. Several images of the pothole went viral on social media.A vital link between Dombivli east and west, the bridge was opened on Tuesday to traffic, two years after it was declared unsafe and shut down on September 15, 2019 by the Central Railway.“The bridge developed a small pothole within two days after it was reopened. Now we are concerned if the civic body has done shoddy work. Since it is still raining, more potholes might develop on the bridge,” said Anand Surve, 38, a commuter.The municipal corporation said the bridge was built in a record time of 16 months during the Covid-19 pandemic and reopened before Ganesh Chathurthi to help reduce traffic snarls in the city.“We have taken up the work of filling up the pothole. There is nothing to worry, since the bridge was constructed during the monsoon period, it has not received proper heat to settle, and that is the reason for the pothole to surface. We have not laid the final layer yet which will be done after the monsoon is over,” said Sapna Koli, city engineer, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation.“We allowed the reopening of the bridge before the festival season because it was the need of the hour. Some minor work on the bridge is still under progress. The final layer of mastic asphalting is still remaining,” added Koli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-days-after-inauguration-by-cm-thackeray-dombivli-bridge-develops-pothole-101631179186284.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan: Traffic jam near APMC market due to flower shopping for Ganesh Chaturthi||A traffic jam was reported on the busy Patripool Bail bazaar stretch in Kalyan (West) in Thane district of Maharashtra Thursday morning as several devotees and traders headed to the Agricultural Produce and Market Committee (APMC) market in the city to buy flowers for the beginning of Ganesh Chaturuthi festival on Friday. Every year, residents from Kalyan Dombivli, Shahad, Titwala, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath and Badalpur arrive at the APMC market to purchase flowers at cheaper rates for the festival, often resulting in a jam at the entrance of the market, affecting the traffic movement on the entire stretch. “I took half an hour to enter the market as there was a jam outside. Every year we purchase flowers in huge quantity from the market for the festival. There should be proper traffic management outside the market with more cops deployed during festival times,” said Anuj Patil, 40, a resident of Dombivli. A traffic police personnel on duty, not wishing to be named, said, “The market falls on the busy Agra road. Vehicles arrive at the market from different parts of the cities and hence there is a lot of traffic movement during festival. Our team was working on managing the flow since early morning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-traffic-jam-near-apmc-market-due-to-flower-shopping-for-ganesh-chaturthi-101631172465632.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||East Delhi civic body launches portal for registration of pet dogs||If you are a resident of east Delhi and if you have a dog as a pet, then you will have to mandatorily register your pet with the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), which has launched an online facility for the purpose.East Corporation officials said that residents can register their pet dogs by clicking on the link https://mcdonline.nic.in/vtlpetedmc/web/citizen/info and deposit the fee prescribed through the application.The south corporation had also started a process for compulsory registration of pet dogs online in 2016. However, the response to the facility has been lukewarm. The EDMC has warned citizens of action if they fail to register their dogs. “We appeal to citizens to get their pet dogs registered within two months, or EDMC will take appropriate action as per DMC Act. The rule applies even to those who have adopted stray dogs as pets,” said a senior EDMC official who did not wish to be named. Also, officials said, that soon the civic body plans to make it mandatory for dogs to wear collars issued by the registration authority so that missing/abandoned pets can be returned to owners.Under the Delhi Municipal Act 1957, it is mandatory to register all pet dogs with the municipal corporation. There is also a provision of fining the owner if a pet dog is not registered with the civic body.The purpose of the exercise is to prepare a database of pet dog owners, control illegal practices like unregistered dog breeding, and monitor pet vaccination schedules, so that they don’t get diseases.The online registration process requires the pet owner to fill a form and attach requisite documents, after which a token registration number will be generated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/east-delhi-civic-body-launches-portal-for-registration-of-pet-dogs-101631170966130.html
09-09-2021||Bangalore||Case against gram panchayat after over 100 dogs killed in Shivamogga||Shivamogga district police have filed a case against officials of a gram panchayat in the district after several street dogs were allegedly poisoned and buried in a village. The carcasses were found on Tuesday by people involved in animal rescue in Hunasekatte village in Bhadravati taluk in Shivamogga located around 300km from Bengaluru. The police didn’t provide an exact number, but said a preliminary inspection suggested there could be over 100 carcasses.Superintendent of police Shivamogga Laxmi Prasad said that a case has been registered against Kambadal Hosur gram panchayat officials based on a complaint by local animal rights activists. “The complaint says that the killing of the dogs was orderedby the gram panchayat. We have sought a report on the matter from a team of veterinarians on the cause of the deaths and other details. Further action will be taken based on the report,” said Prasad. Officials of Bhadravati Rural police station, where the complaint has been registered, said that local residents who observed some suspicious activity in the area informed a group involved in animal rescue who found the carcasses of dogs. The activists alleged that the gram panchayat officials contracted a private firm to kill dogs and that some dogs were buried alive as well. Police said the allegations are being investigated. The case has been registered under Section 428 of the Indian Penal Code (killing, poisoning, maiming or rendering useless any animal). Police said that the cause of the death could be identified only after the experts’ report, however, preliminary police investigation suggests that the dogs were poisoned. The gram panchayat officials have maintained that they had not ordered the killing of dogs. Talking to local media, the secretary of Kambadal Hosur gram panchayat B Manjunath said that panchayat had not ordered the capture or culling of dogs. He claimed the panchayat would support the police in its investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/case-against-gram-panchayat-after-over-100-dogs-killed-in-shivamogga-101631167485412.html
09-09-2021||Patna||Politician demands fuel check in Bihar 2 days after his car was filled with water||Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) leader Birendra Gupta on Wednesday demanded a quality check of automobile fuel across Bihar two days after his vehicle’s tank was allegedly filled with water instead of fossil fuel at a petrol pump in East Champaran. Stating his demand was in the larger interest of the common people, the one-time MLA, who represented West Champaran’s Sikta assembly, said, “It has left none in doubt that adulteration in automobile fuel has become rampant in Bihar. The plight of common people can be anybody’s guess in a state where a [former] MLA is not spared by the fuel dispensers.” Gupta alleged that the revelation came to fore on Monday when his vehicle, on way to Patna from Sikta, came to a grinding halt. “After very little fuel left in the tank, I got it filled at a fuel near Mehsi (in East Champaran). But it stopped running after moving for hardly 500 metres. A mechanic found water filled in the tank,” MLA told this newspaper. Meanwhile, the Mehsi police in East Champaran district registered a case (220/21) against the petrol pump owner under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code among other relevant sections. Sunil Kumar Singh, station house officer (SHO), Mehsi police station, on Wednesday said a sample of the fuel has been handed over to the authorities for verification. “The report is awaited,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/politician-demands-fuel-check-in-bihar-2-days-after-his-car-was-filled-with-water-101631167305299.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s telemedicine to rescue of mother, newborn in Lahaul-Spiti||The telemedicine programme of the Himachal Pradesh government helped save the lives of a mother and her newborn in the remote Kaza town of tribal Lahaul-Spiti district, the health department said on Thursday. The state government runs the telemedicine programme in Lahaul-Spiti in collaboration with Apollo Telehealth. Also read: Covid-19: Apart from Delta, which other coronavirus variants are on the radar?The mother, a 27-year-old woman, was admitted to the community health centre (CHC) at Kaza and was diagnosed with abruptio placentae, a complication in which the placenta detaches from the uterus. While a Caesarean section was performed to deliver the baby girl, the mother developed complications of post-surgical bleeding. Dr A Khakhar, the gynaecologist at Apollo Hospitals who was consulted to manage the complication, said: “We obtained the detailed patient history, performed a thorough examination over telemedicine and diagnosed the condition as post-partum haemorrhage.” Timely clinical management She advised doctors at the CHC on the line of treatment for clinical management of the patient. Complications were also starting to show effects on the baby as the delivery was preterm and the infant was born with low body weight. The baby had bluish discolouration at birth. To stabilise the newborn’s condition, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was advised for two minutes followed by other emergency clinical management procedures. However, the child continued to have intermittent low blood sugar levels. As the condition of the infant continued to deteriorate, paediatrician Dr Latha Vishwanathan advised the staff to administer IV fluid and NG (nasogastric) feeding; monitor oxygen saturation and random blood sugar (RBS) levels regularly. The government emergency duty doctor monitored the baby, under the guidance of a senior paediatrician from Apollo. Condition stable in Manali The difficulty in arranging logistics for the movement of the patients given the terrain constraints, both the mother and child had to be managed for six days with round-the-clock monitoring. Meanwhile, the mother developed pedal oedema or accumulation of fluid in the feet and lower legs. Finally, after arranging for logistics support, both the mother and the baby were shifted to Mission Hospital in Manali where they were admitted. Their condition stabilised a day after the initial treatment procedures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachals-telemedicine-to-rescue-of-mother-newborn-in-lahaulspiti-101631167185220.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ indefinite protest in Karnal enters 3rd day||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) farmers’ indefinite protest outside Karnal’s mini secretariat entered the third day on Thursday.Social activists have made more arrangements for the protesting farmers at the site. They have provided mattresses and fans for the protesters besides food and shelter. Nirmal Kutia Gurdwara, Jat Dharamshala and NGO Khalsa Aid are also proving support to the farmers.While paramilitary forces and police personnel continue to be deployed around the mini secretariat, farmer leaders have appealed to the farmers of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh to reach Karnal in good numbers to ensure a huge gathering over the next two days.Since talks with the administration have failed, senior SKM leaders will hold a meeting in Karnal on September 11 to decide the next course of action. “There is a need to increase strength at the protest site for the next two days until the next decision is taken during the September 11 meeting of the leaders of Haryana farmer unions and SKM,” said Suresh Kauth, a farmer leader from Hisar.Also Read | Karnal stir to mirror Delhi agitation: Rakesh TikaitThe number of protesters came down on Wednesday night. But it swelled again in the morning as farmers, especially those from the nearby villages, came to join the protest. The farmers have vacated the parking areas of private business establishments located opposite the mini secretariat.“We do not want to cause any inconvenience to anybody as our protest is for justice to the victims of lathicharge”, said activist Yogendra Yadav.Farmer leaders have slammed the government’s decision to extend suspension of mobile internet for the next 24 hours in Karnal district. “The government is depriving people of their basic rights by banning internet services. The government should restore the internet services immediately,” said BKU (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains.The farm leaders blockading the mini secretariat have made it clear that they will build a protest site mirroring the agitation sites outside Delhi if the government doesn’t meet their demands regarding controversial police action against the farmers last month.The farmers have vowed to not lift the blockade till the government lodged a case of murder against SDM Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to “break heads” if protesters crossed the line during a rally on August 28. They also want him suspended. Sinha has since been transferred and posted as additional secretary of Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID), as per a government order.The statement came after talks between Karnal district officials and farmers, who held a massive mahapanchayat on Tuesday afternoon and later marched into town to surround the mini secretariat, broke down for a second consecutive day. “We will start a morcha at Karnal which will be parallel to the ongoing protests at Delhi borders and our leaders will stay here for further discussion,” said farm leader Rakesh Tikait after the meeting, announcing that the talks had failed on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-indefinite-protest-in-karnal-enters-3rd-day-101631165925297.html
09-09-2021||Patna||After 17 years,NIT-Patna campus development set to begin||Almost 17 years after the erstwhile Bihar College of Engineering in Patna was upgraded as the 18th National Institute of Technology (NIT) in the country, construction of its 125-acre campus will begin in Bihta. Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Patna has its own campus in Bihta though it came into being after NIT.According to a senior official, the foundation stone of NIT-Patna campus-- first delayed due to a controversy over the quantum and quality of land required and then due to the hold-up in allotment-- could be laid in October. “The date may be announced once the tender for construction is awarded. It may happen this month only, as the board of directors of NIT-P gave its go ahead on Thursday. All other preparations have been completed,” he added.A fully residential university, NIT-Patna has struggled for space since its inception in 2004, and despite constructing new buildings at the erstwhile Bihar College of Engineering campus, it was not able to provide accommodation to all its students. Former NIT-P director UC Rai had once said that the ministry of Human Resource development had stopped the institute’s capacity expansion plans till the time it got sufficient infrastructure.NIT-P director PK Jain admitted that the institution has over 4,500 students and not enough hostels, and it would pose more difficulty due to social distancing requirements in the midst of Covid-19 pandemic.“But once the campus is ready, all these problems will be over. The Centre has also provided ₹500 crore despite Covid-19 pandemic for the building. It shows the Centre is also keen on getting the campus ready. We hope to complete the campus within two years from the date of foundation laying. At present we have to keep two students in single-seater rooms and this is the reason we are unable to call students right now despite the Covid situation easing,” Jain added.The National Building Construction Corporation (NBCC) is the project management consultant for the NIT’s proposed campus. NBCC signed MoU (memorandum of understanding) with NIT-P earlier this year for supervision of construction and development of Institute integrated campus. The detailed project report (DPR) has already been approved.The journey of what is NIT Patna today started in 1886 with the establishment of pleaders survey training school, which was subsequently converted into the Bihar College of Engineering, Patna in 1924. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar is also an alumni of the institution.The proposed campus will comply with the Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment (GRIHA) requirements, including sewage treatment plant, solar power plant, battery-operated eco-friendly vehicles, waste-to-energy and water bodies. It will have five academic blocks, an academic block, lecture hall complex, hostels, faculty quarters, director’s residence, staff quarter etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/after-17-years-nit-patna-campus-development-set-to-begin-101631165025341.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Light rain likely today, says IMD||Light rain or drizzle is likely to hit Delhi on Thursday. While the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had earlier forecast an intense spell for Delhi and surrounding region from September 6-10, officials said that the low-pressure area has shifted further away, and a moderate to heavy spell of rain may occur from September 10-12. According to IMD officials, the low pressure system that has formed over the Bay of Bengal is moving gradually and will reach northwest and central India by September 10 now. “Light rain activity will, however, continue over the next few days. A moderate to heavy spell is likely from September 10 and may last over two days,” said a senior IMD official. Weather experts said that this month, unlike July and August, so far has not seen a completely dry phase. Also, with the rain forecast over the next few days, September is likely to have more rainy days this monsoon in comparison to the past two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-light-rain-likely-today-says-imd-101631159924639.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Complaint against DMRC for incorrect signage regarding transgender persons||Transgender activist Dr Aqsa Sheikh has filed a complaint with the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) against Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) over misrepresentation of the transgender community at DMRC’s new toilets for transgender persons.“We submit that DMRC has violated Section 8(3) of the Act [Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act 2019 ] under which the appropriate government shall formulate welfare schemes and programmes which are transgender sensitive, non-stigmatising and non-discriminatory,” the complaint read.Last month, DMRC had said in a statement that it has made the provision of allowing transgender persons access to separate toilets at its stations, which were hitherto meant for the disabled only.Dr Sheikh welcomed the DMRC’s initiative but also points out four mistakes made by the DMRC in her complaint. First is that the bilingual signages have used the word ‘ubhaylingi’ in Hindi, which means intersex persons, and not transgender persons. “Since the press release mentions that these signages have been installed in 347 toilets across Delhi Metro stations, there is a huge amplification and spread of incorrect terms. While it is known that the Hindi Translation [of the term] in the Transgender Persons Act is ubhaylingi, the community prefers that the word should be used for intersex persons and not transgender persons,” the complaint read. Dr Sheikh requested immediate removal of all such bilingual signages.Second, the symbol used for transgender persons is an image of half male and half female. The complaint said that this will further the wrong assumption that transgender persons are half male and half female. This violates the order released by chief secretary, NCT of Delhi, in February which mandated the usage of the symbol ‘T’ for transgender persons.The complaint further pointed out that the DMRC press releases uses the term ‘transgenders’, instead of transgender persons. “Transgender is not a noun in the English language but an adjective, a term used to describe a person, it is not the person itself. Hence, the right usage of the term is ‘transgender person’ instead of ‘transgender’,” Dr Sheikh said in her complaint.The complaint said that these signages fail to provide a “safe space and prevent the gender discrimination” that DMRC intended. “These actions reinforce stereotypes and assumptions about transgender persons,” it added.Dr Sheikh also highlighted that the DMRC has not appointed a complaint officer to deal with the complaints relating to the violations of the provisions of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act 2019.“They (DMRC) have not consulted anyone from the community. They should involve the community when they are doing something for the community. Now that we have pointed out the mistakes, the good thing to do is bring the change into all the 347 metro stations,” Dr Aqsa Sheikh told HT. She is the first transwoman in India to be appointed as the nodal officer of a Covid-19 vaccination centre.Anuj Dayal, executive director of corporate communication at DMRC, said in a statement that they are open to replacing the problematic signages and issued clarifications for all the complaints raised by Dr Sheikh. “DMRC is always alive and open to such feedback and will continue to improvise upon its services without hurting the sensibilities of anyone-- advertently or inadvertently,” he added.Transgender and human rights activist Vyjayanti Vasanta Mogli said this goes well beyond DMRC. “Languages have been heavily patriarchal, classist, trans-misogynist at so many levels and there is no equivalent word for ‘transgender persons’ in any of the Indian languages,” she said. Vyjayanti asked why the government has not coined a term for the community when they could come up with a Hindi translation for mobile phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/complaint-against-dmrc-for-incorrect-signage-regarding-transgender-persons-101631157404733.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Stubble burning, air pollution on agenda as Delhi environment minister chairs key meet today||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai has called a high-level meeting on September 9 to discuss a strategy to deal with stubble burning and pollution in the city in winter, officials had said on Wednesday. Notably, every winter, Delhi witnesses a surge in air pollution levels due to many reasons, including stubble burning in neighbouring states."The (environment) minister has called a high-level meeting tomorrow (Thursday) with senior officers from Delhi Pollution Control Committee, environment department and forest department," an official said.At the meeting, the city government's strategy to deal with stubble burning and pollution in winter will be discussed, he said.Delhi will start preparing a "winter action plan" next week, according to Rai.On Tuesday, Rai had sought the creation of a joint action plan by Delhi and its neighbouring states to combat high levels of air pollution in the winter season.He had also called upon Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan to implement the measures the national capital had taken last year to prevent the worsening of air quality.Rai said a group of representatives will meet Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav and the Centre's commission for air quality management and discuss the need for a joint action plan which can be enforced in Delhi and neighbouring states to fight air pollution during winter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/stubble-burning-air-pollution-on-agenda-as-delhi-environment-minister-chairs-key-meet-today-101631145093303.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The Ghantaghar encyclopedia||This place is like a sheet of paper that has been folded many times over. So that the original page gets balkanised into many little sheets, with each fold becoming an autonomous territory.The Hari Nagar Ghantaghar crossing is exactly as creasy. The west Delhi landmark looks simple. Just a traffic roundabout with a clock tower in the centre. But then the very many establishments that ring the circle start making their presence felt one by one. Each of them, big and small, appears to singularly contain the unique essence of the Ghantaghar. Together they make the Ghantaghar look vastly huger than it truly is. Indeed. reading aloud these place-names is intensely evocative of that section in Iliad in which Homer famously catalogues the ships and warriors of the Achaean army. Try rapping this Ghantaghar ditty yourself in a single breath—Simpy’s, Ram Cold Drink House, Bedi Travel, Karan’s Kitchenette, Munna Mehendi Art, Aryan Pizza House, Singh Sons Fast Food, Mahesh Burger Center, Krishna Juice & Shakes, Lambu Halwaji, Kamni Tailor, Rachna Digital Imaging Studio, Sardarji Kathi Roll, Gupta Properties, Ravi Tea Stall, Renu Tea Stall, Mewar Prem Ice cream, Bohra Pharmacy, Maa Santoshi Burger Center, Aunty Ji’s Thapa Momos, Bhasin Glass House…”Ironically, one of the more popular places here is without a name. Opened in 1984 by late Bhudev Singh, a migrant from Unnao in Uttar Pradesh, the pavement stall serves chai (and chai things like rusk and fen). The business has passed down to his son, Ramsevak, known as pandit ji. The stall regulars, mostly auto-rickshaw drivers and rickshaw pullers, refer to the tea as pandit ji ki chai. This evening some exhausted rickshaw pullers have parked their rickshaws in front of the stall, and are lying on the passenger’s seat with eyes closed. It’s cloudy today but the shade of the stall’s luscious peepal tree must be consoling in the sweltering heat. Gesturing towards the clock tower, a tea drinker informs that the pink tower was renovated some years ago, and the old clock was replaced by digital display screens. The screens are blank this moment.Time however is making its presence felt with the deepening of the evening. More and more street food sellers are walking into the area, dragging their carts, making the Ghantaghar even more dense than it was minutes ago. These eateries serve until 10, when the life around the clock tower starts to wind down for the night. Pandit ji’s stall closes earlier at 9, but do try his chai. Strong and flavoured with freshly ground cardamom, it fills you with instant freshness.Now a horse cart is passing by, the carriage is loaded with smooth rock-sized lumps of salt. The sight is unbelievable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-ghantaghar-encyclopedia-101631139571956.html
09-09-2021||Noida||Noida seeks help in demolishing Supertech twin towers||The Noida authority on Wednesday wrote to the Central Building Research Institute (CBRI) in Roorkee, seeking its help to demolish the 40-storey Supertech twin towers in Noida’s Sector 20A Emerald Court, in pursuance of an apex court order.On September 2, the Supreme Court ordered the demolition within three months, and told the builder to pay for it. It also directed the Noida authority to supervise the demolition in a manner that it did not affect the buildings located nearby, even as it recommended CBRI assist the agency.Noida authority’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari confirmed the development.“CBRI is an expert agency in demolition and construction matters,” said Maheshwari.The letter, officials said, sought to understand the fallout of a demolition exercise and the methods to be used.Supertech said that while it is exploring legal options to review the two-judge bench judgment, it will also take steps to honour the court’s verdict.“We are complying with it [the court order]. We are also exploring legal options to seek relief within available legal options. We have written to the CBRI, as per the court’s directive, to consult with them on the matter and will be explaining the structure of the building to them. We want to understand from CBRI as to how to go forward with the demolition if it comes to that,” said RK Arora, chairman of Supertech Group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-seeks-help-in-demolishing-supertech-twin-towers-101631139894465.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Exam, interview schedules hit as Punjab Public Service Commission functions without chairman for 2 months||More than 1 lakh applicants for various jobs besides the successful candidates in the Punjab Civil Services (PCS) are in a fix as the working of the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) has come to a standstill in the absence of appointment of the chairman. All examination and interview schedules have been badly affected as the powers to take all the decisions are vested with the chairman. The post is lying vacant since July 16 when Lt General Surinder Singh (retd) completed his tenure as the commission head. It has been nearly three months since the successful PCS candidates are awaiting their induction into job. The PCS examination results were declared on June 18. Thousands of candidates are waiting for their examinations of junior engineer, veterinary officer, school principal, assistant professor and other posts which the PPSC had advertised for. On Wednesday, some applicants staged a protest in front of the PPSC office in Patiala.“The written examination for sub-divisional officers (SDOs) has already been conducted but interviews are pending. Due to some queries of the state government, the final merit list of the PCS-passed candidates is still being prepared and it will be completed once the new chairman joins,” said a commission official. Also, there are nearly 80,000 applicants for the posts of naib tehsildar. Karamjit SIngh, secretary examination (PPSC), said, “We have planned the dates for examination and are awaiting approval. They will be notified once approved by the commission.”According to information, of the 30 applicants for the post of PPSC chairman, three names have been shortlisted. Now, the CM has to convene a meeting with the leader of opposition and the Vidhan Sabha speaker to finalise the name of the chairman.Admitting that the process of appointment got delayed, Suresh Kumar, chief principal secretary to the CM, said, “The post is likely to be filled by next week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exam-interview-schedules-hit-as-punjab-public-service-commission-functions-without-chairman-for-2-months-101631135743102.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Technology steps in as cops on duty follow Covid norms||The Covid-19 pandemic changed many things in the capital. Policing was one of them. Over the last year, the traffic police have relied more on technology to enforce the rules due to social distancing norms, but fewer physical interventions have led to a fall in prosecutions for offences such as drink driving or cellphone use while driving.Senior traffic officials said last year, the total number of challans issued for traffic violations increased compared to 2019, but this increase was primarily due to a rise in camera-based prosecutions in offences such as speeding, signal jumping and stop-line violations.“Last year, the department worked under several restrictions because of Covid-19. We had to ensure that all safety precautions were taken and enforcement also did not suffer. Under these restrictions, we worked to increase technology-based policing, which ensures that there is a balance between manual policing and technology interventions,” said a senior traffic official on condition of anonymity.Prosecutions up, but drink driving cases downTraffic police data shows that last year, the department issued 13,802,973 challans as opposed to 10,580,249 in 2019. However, while the total number of fines issued increased, the number of compounding challans, or on-the-spot challans that are usually slapped for offences such as drink driving and driving while using mobile phones or lane violations saw a decline.From 5,274,957 compounding challans issued in 2019, the number fell to 1,322,623 in 2020.Data also shows that prosecution for drink driving saw the sharpest decline due to the pandemic. On March 19, 2020, days before a nationwide lockdown was imposed, the traffic police issued a notification that “temporarily” stopped breathalyser tests for drink driving because of safety concerns.“No drunken (drink) driving checking will be done unless someone is visibly drunk and is driving so recklessly as to endanger his/her or others’ life, and that too with all possible precautions,” the notification read.Officers said this was done because a driver had to blow into an alcometer or breathalyser, increasing the risk of transmission of the virus to the police personnel. Given the high rate of infection in the city, this was a risky option for the enforcement agencies.Data shows that last year, the traffic department issued 3,986 challans for drink driving — a drastic drop from 36,065 issued in 2019.Return to the old waysDelhi traffic police from September 5, resumed breathalyser tests after a break of over a year. On day one, over 90 commuters were prosecuted. Special commissioner of police (traffic), Muktesh Chander said that now that the city is slowly getting back on track, and bars, pubs and restaurants had opened, it was time that drink driving checking resumed.“The breathalysers are sanitised after each use and the pipes are changed every time. All out teams have also been directed to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour at all time, such as using masks, sanitising their hands and maintaining social distancing while conducting these checks,” Chander said.Driving under the influence of alcohol is punishable by a court challan. In case of first offence, a person is liable to pay a fine of ₹10,000 or face imprisonment up to six months or both. For second and subsequent offences, a fine of ₹15,000 or imprisonment up to two years or both are applicable.Before drink driving prosecutions resumed, drivers who were visibly drunk were being sent to nearby government hospitals for blood alcohol tests.“To ensure that prosecutions for drink driving are not completely ignored, we decided that drunk drivers will be prosecuted based on medical tests. They were sent to nearby government hospitals, where the levels of their blood alcohol are tested and based on those results we challaned them,” another senior traffic police officer said.On New Years’ Eve and on Holi this year, when maximum drink driving prosecutions are made every year, the enforcement teams issued only 100 and 26 challans, respectively. Comparatively in 2019, during New Year’s over 1300 people were challaned and during Holi 647 people were fined for drink driving. All of these were based on medical tests.Law’s long arm falls shortOfficials manning checkpoints across the city said the pandemic has also made it easier for violators to escape checks, with several instances of police officials being run over while trying to stop drivers at pickets.“We still set up checkpoints near pubs and bars, but the difference is that now a lot of people blatantly refuse getting checked citing safety concerns because of Covid. Even though we know that they are just trying to escape action, we cannot do much about it. In many cases, we ask the violators to pull over, but they speed away without caring about who comes in the way,” said a traffic constable in central Delhi.Last August, a 51-year-old traffic officer was run over by a car driver in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar. Then in September last year, a traffic sub-inspector was run over by a truck in north Delhi’s Burari.Way forwardTraffic experts said that new policing tactics will have to be adopted in the post-pandemic world to keep people from harm’s way while ensuring that no offender escapes.“We are still figuring out ways to work our way through the pandemic and that is what the traffic department will also have to figure out. If the governments have opened up bars, pubs and restaurants, there will be some revellers and party-goers who will disregard the law and endanger their own lives and that of others on the road. It is all about adapting to the situation,” said Sheetal Sinha from Citizens for Safer Roads, a road safety group active in Delhi and NCR.Cities across the country are also experimenting with measures to strike a balance between traffic policing and keeping their staff and commuters safe from infection.For instance, the Chennai traffic police, which was among the worst hit by Covid-19 and had over nine officials killed by the infection, has started conducting medical checkups for traffic cops on the spot of their duties. The department, for the purpose, tied up with voluntary organisations.During the first wave, April and May, the Mumbai police also started issuing colour-coded stickers for emergency vehicles, to prioritise them on the roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-technology-steps-in-as-cops-on-duty-follow-covid-norms-101631133026744.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC starts langar at Karnal protest site, BKU leader Charuni refutes Sukhbir Badal’s claim||With the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) starting langar and other facilities for the farmers protesting at Karnal, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni on Wednesday dismissed Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal’s claim that the farmer leader called him over phone seeking food services from the gurdwaras.“Last night, I received a call from Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni who sought arrangement of langar, citing gathering of farmers in large numbers. I have given the task of making arrangements of water and langar to SGPC president Jagir Kaur and chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami,” said Sukhbir while interacting with mediapersons outside a Hoshiarpur court.Later, he made a similar claim in a video shared on social media. He said, “The SAD and SGPC are extending complete support to the ongoing dharna at Karnal. We have responded to Gurnam Singh Charuni’s call for arranging langar and other services for protester.”Addressing the gathering at the protest site at Karnal, Charuni ruled out any such call from his side. “The gurdwara managements are serving us langar for which we are grateful to them. But a statement of Sukhbir Badal has surfaced. I don’t know what his intention behind this statement is,” he claimed.“Gurdwara employees are coming out to serve us on their own. Why would we need to call him (Sukhbir)? He is not a thekedar (contractor) of all the gurdwaras that langar will be provided on his instructions. The head of Gurdwara Nada Sahib met me and informed that they had brought the langar from the shrine. I found the utterances of Badal absurd,” he said.He added, “Neither I called him over phone, nor I have any relation with him. I feel he wants to mislead the farmers. Actually, they have earned a very bad reputation in Punjab and the people are not allowing them to enter their areas.” Addressing a press conference in Amritsar, SGPC head Jagir Kaur said, “While the SGPC was approached by the people through Twitter for langar, the SAD chief also called me asking me to serve the protesters. I assured him that we have already made up our mind to do sewa for the farmers and he did not need to worry.”She said the SGPC will also provide other facilities to the protesters. “Our sub-office in Kurukshetra and managers of gurdwaras in Haryana have been instructed to start working in this regard with immediate effect. Also, teams have been deputed from the gurdwaras along the Haryana border. Arrangements of langar, tea, water, bedding and accommodation will be made for the farmers”, she said. The farmers are struggling for their rights and the SGPC, as the foremost body of the Sikh community, is with them, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-starts-langar-at-karnal-protest-site-bku-leader-charuni-refutes-sukhbir-badal-s-claim-101631135325757.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Defamation case: AAP MP Sanjay Singh appears in Amritsar court||Aam Aadmi Party’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh appeared in a court in Amritsar on Wednesday in a defamation case filed against him by former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia.Majithia had filed criminal defamation charges against Singh, Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal and another party leader, Ashish Khetan, for claiming he was involved in drug business. The statements were made at rallies in the run-up up to the Punjab assembly elections in 2017.The court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) fixed the next date of hearing on September 27. Singh’s lawyer cross-examined a witness in favour of Majithia, it is learnt. On Tuesday, Singh had appeared in a Ludhiana court that had issued an arrest warrant over his non-appearance in the defamation suit filed by Majithia. The court granted him bail the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/defamation-case-aap-mp-sanjay-singh-appears-in-amritsar-court-101631135324073.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Former Youth Akali Dal leader, cousin get life term in 2016 abduction, ₹1 crore ransom case||Former Youth Akali Dal (YAD) Malwa region general secretary Kalyan Singh and his cousin Gurpreet Singh were sentenced to life imprisonment in a case of abduction and ransom of ₹1 crore. Mansa additional sessions judge Dinesh Kumar, who pronounced the judgment, also imposed a penalty of ₹50,000 on the convicts. The two were arrested in October 2016. The judge took a lenient view on the conviction of Kalyan’s son and ordered to release him on probation. He was found guilty under the Arms Act as his licensed weapon was in the possession of Kalyan. Kalyan’s father late Sukhchain Singh Dharampura was Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) member from Mansa district and considered close to the Badal family. The case relates to the abduction of Chiman Lal Bansal, a factory owner from Mansa’s Budladha town, on August 5, 2016. Bansal, who was held captive for 15 days in a dungeon near a college run by Dharampura’s family at their native village, was released at Rozawala village in Haryana’s adjoining Sirsa district after ransom was paid. Mansa district attorney Harvinder Singh said the police had recovered about ₹79 lakh from the abductors. Court questions investigating officer’s role The additional sessions judge took a strong exception to the investigation and conduct of one of the investigating officers (IO), Balwant Singh, the then Budladha Sadar station house officer. The court asked the Mansa senior superintendent of police (SSP) to conduct a thorough probe into Balwant’s role in the abduction. “He (Balwant) was using his official number on a newly purchased mobile, which was bought in the name of (convict) Kalyan. He was exonerated in the inquiry without giving any concrete reason. The police official failed to give any reason or explanation for using his official number on a mobile phone purchased by third party,” read the 118-page judgment. The court observed that a professional conduct on part of the police may have led to the early release of Bansal. “There is no doubt that IO has made serious lapses by not collecting the call detail records of the SIMs used by Chiman Lal and his family members from August 8 to 20. The call location could have helped the police to locate the victim who could be rescued immediately. The next flaw in the investigation is that (victim’s brother) Surinder Kumar Bansal produced a DVD having recording of the conversation between the abductors and family members of Chiman Lal. But the DVD was not sent for forensic test for ascertaining its authenticity,” it added. Also, the judge expressed surprise over the fact that the police did not initiate proceedings against the abductors under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) even as at a huge amount of foreign currency was seized from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-youth-akali-dal-leader-cousin-get-life-term-in-2016-abduction-rs-1-crore-ransom-case-101631135323004.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||BJP appoints Gajendra Sekhawat Punjab affairs in-charge for 2022 assembly polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday appointed Union cabinet minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat as its Punjab affairs in-charge in the run-up to the assembly elections early next year. Besides Shekhawat, the Jal Shakti minister in the Narendra Modi cabinet, Union ministers Hardip Singh Puri and Meenakshi Lekhi and Lok Sabha MP Vinod Chawra have been appointed co-incharges for the Punjab elections, according to the directions issued by party national president JP Nadda. Shekhawat is second-time MP from the Jodhpur constituency of Rajasthan. He is known as an astute political manager having strong eyes on the ground. He had also convened a meeting of both Haryana and Punjab on the contentious issue of the Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) on the directions of the Supreme Court.Puri, Union minister for petroleum and urban development who is the only Sikh face in the Modi cabinet, had unsuccessfully contested from the Amritsar Lok Sabha seat in the 2019 general elections. Lekhi, Union minister of state for external affairs, belongs to the Punjabi community in the national capital and is an MP from New Delhi.In the BJP rank and file, these appointments are being seen as a reflection of the seriousness of the party in contesting the Punjab assembly elections in 2022. Punjab is being counted as the toughest for the BJP from the states going to the polls early next year.The stakes are high for the saffron party this time in Punjab as it has announced to contest all 117 assembly seats amid an unprecedented backlash against its state and central leadership in the state due to the farmers’ protests against the three agriculture laws. Earlier, the BJP used to contest the Punjab elections in 23 constituencies in alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) that snapped ties with it over the three laws. With these appointments, the BJP has sounded a poll bugle in Punjab as the entire command of the state unit will be in the hands of new election incharges. Party leaders claim that this is for the first time that the party has appointed election incharges for Punjab when there are more than five months left for the polls. “The party is fully gearing up for the polls and these appointments show that we will fight in Punjab with full might,” said state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma. The party on Wednesday also started preparations for the constituency-level workers’ meetings starting from September 20 in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-appoints-gajendra-sekhawat-punjab-affairs-in-charge-for-2022-assembly-polls-101631135263098.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||In unusual occurrence, woman gives birth to triplets through normal delivery||In an unusual case, a 32-year-old woman from Bhiwandi had triplets through normal delivery early on Tuesday. Doctors said that the case was rare also since the woman was in her 35th week of pregnancy and that the babies were conceived naturally and not with the help of assisted reproductive technology. The woman, a housewife, was in her hometown in Uttar Pradesh due to the pandemic. Despite being pregnant, she did not seek any gynaecological scan till June, when she and her husband, a daily wage labourer, returned to Bhiwandi.“We put her on regular follow-ups after she came to us for a check-up and had planned her Cesarean section,” said gynaecologist Dr Humaira Shaikh, who conducted the delivery at Bhiwandi’s Royal Hospital. “We also gave her blood transfusions during the follow-up as she was anaemic,” she said. On Tuesday at around 12.15 am, the woman experienced pain in her abdomen. By the time she was rushed to the hospital, she was already in labour. “We carried out preliminary investigations and realised that we can go ahead with a normal vaginal delivery as the first baby was in a vertex position,” said Shaikh. Commonly during birth, the baby’s head comes out first and this is known as the vertex position. Shaikh and her team had kept the backup of the C-section ready. An anaesthetist was on standby in case an emergency procedure had to be undertaken. Before the second baby was delivered, the woman was shifted to the operation theatre. However, the second baby was also in the vertex position and could be delivered normally. “The third baby was in a horizontal position, but we got enough space to move the baby and go ahead with the delivery,” said Shaikh adding that the babies- two boys and a girl- weighed 1.7kg, 1.8kg and 1.9 kg. “They are low weight babies but stable with no respiratory issues,” she said. A natural conception of triplets is seen in one in 8,000 cases. “Delivering triplets through a normal delivery at 35 weeks is also rare,” said Mumbai based gynaecologist Dr Jatinder Kaur who practices at Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital. Kaur has delivered triplets at 35 weeks only once in her 15-year long practice through a C-section. “In higher-order pregnancies, maternal complications like postpartum haemorrhage are known. Expert neonatal care is also essential. Therefore, it is advisable to plan a C-section in advance,” said Kaur. Dr Ashok Anand, head of the gynaecology department at the state-run JJ Hospital agreed that it was an unusual case. “It is common to see triplets in an In-vitro Fertilisation (IVF) case, but rare in a natural conception. Also, such multiple pregnancies are always delivered via C-section procedures to lower the risk of complications,” he said. Anand said he recalls delivering triplets normally only once at JJ Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-unusual-occurrence-woman-gives-birth-to-triplets-through-normal-delivery-101631135204186.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||66% of cases filed during Covid-19 pandemic disposed of, says Punjab and Haryana high court||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that 66% of cases filed during Covid-19 outbreak have been disposed of. An official said there is a total pendency of 4.5 lakh cases in the high court and between March 24, 2020 and August 31, 2021, as many as 1,37,101 cases were filed. Of these, 90,543 cases –nearly 66% --- were disposed of. Courts had to be shut due to Covid-19 outbreak on March 24, 2020. The HC administration has reacted to some reports claiming that pendency in the court has gone up to 7 lakh cases during Covid. The mismatch in data being shown on the national judicial data grid was due to some glitch in two internal case management systems of high court. The synchronisation has now been done. Sharing details about the trial courts, the officer said that between April 1, 2020 and July 31, 2021, as many as 7,23,041 cases were filed in Punjab courts and 4,42,693 were disposed of. In Haryana, 7,37,718 cases were filed and 3,93,831 were disposed of during this period. In Chandigarh, 39,595 cases were instituted and 27,767 were disposed of in the same period. The official further said that due to second wave in April-May this year, the functioning of courts was badly affected and the limited physical hearings started in February had to be withdrawn but now these have been resumed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/66-of-cases-filed-during-covid-19-pandemic-disposed-of-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-101631135203076.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Talks with govt fail, Roadways staff to shut all bus stands in Punjab today||The meeting of contractual employees of state transport undertakings (STUs), including Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), Punjab Roadways and the Punbus, with the state government remained inconclusive on Wednesday. Nearly 8,200 contractual and outsourced employees are seeking regularisation of their jobs for more than 10 years. Following the meeting, the protesters decided to intensify their stir by shutting all the bus stands across the state for four hours on Thursday. They have also decided that not even the private buses will be allowed to operate.Resham Singh Gill, state president of Punjab Roadways, Punbus and PRTC contract workers’ union, said chief principal secretary to CM, Suresh Kumar and other officials of transport department attended the meeting and held discussion over their main demand of regularisation of their jobs.“The officials told that the government is bringing a policy for regularising jobs of those contractual employees who are working for 10 years without any disciplinary action. We want government to remove all conditions,” he said.He added that the authorities rejected their demand of regularising outsourced employees.Harkesh Kumar, state general of the union, said the government offered just 10% increases in their present salaries to which the union representatives objected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/talks-with-govt-fail-roadways-staff-to-shut-all-bus-stands-in-punjab-today-101631134485203.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC orders CBI probe into Ankit Gujjar’s ‘custodial killing’||The Delhi high court on Wednesday transferred the probe in the alleged custodial killing of 29-year-old Ankit Gujjar on August 4 at Tihar jail to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), saying that he lost his life to “custodial violence in violation of his constitutional rights”.“Consequently, this court deems it fit to transfer the investigation of case FIR No.451/2021 under sections 302/323/341/34 IPC registered at PS Hari Nagar, Delhi to CBI. The case file be transferred to CBI immediately by the concerned police station. A status report will be filed by the concerned SP, CBI after carrying out investigation before this court well before the next date of hearing,” justice Mukta Gupta said.The judge said that if the allegations of extortion by Gujjar’s family are correct, “it is a very serious offence which requires in-depth investigation”. She said the injuries on Gujjar’s body indicated that he was “brutally beaten” and “left unattended”.“Walls of prison, howsoever high they may be, the foundation of a prison is laid on the rule of law ensuring the rights to its inmates enshrined in the Constitution of India,” the court said.The judgment comes on a plea by Gujjar’s mother, Geeta, who sought a CBI probe into the alleged murder of her son.In her plea, Gujjar’s family contended that he was being harassed by the jail officials as he was “unable to meet their regularly increasing demands for money”, and was murdered “as a part of pre-planned conspiracy”.In her plea, Geeta said her son was murdered “as part of a pre-planned conspiracy”.The gangster’s family have named Tihar deputy superintendent Narendra Meena, three constables, and an assistant superintendent in the FIR. However, the other accused have not been named in the report. HT has seen the copy of the FIR, in which police have also noted allegations of bribery and extortion by jail officers.According to officials, Meena and three others have been suspended a pending magisterial inquiry and police investigation.Deputy superintendent Meena told the investigating officer that they conducted an inspection inside Gujjar’s cell on April 3 afternoon and found a cell phone, a data cable, and a knife.Meena said Gujjar and two other inmates of the cell number 3 assaulted him and other officials, after which Gujjar was transferred to another cell, and the other two prisoners were sent to a different cell. Jail officers told the investigating officer that between 6am and 6.30am on August 4, when they went to check on Gujjar during the roll-call, he was found unconscious and taken to the jail hospital, where Gujjar was declared “brought dead” by doctors.Justice Mukta Gupta on Wednesday said that even when Ankit got injured and was alive, he was not given proper medical treatment so that his life could have been saved. It said that an investigation needs to be carried out not only to the extent as to who committed the offence of brutally assaulting him, but also the role of jail doctors in not providing proper treatment at the right time is required to be ascertained by a proper inquiry.“Not only did Narender Meena and others assault the deceased mercilessly, the jail doctor on duty also failed to perform his duty when he examined Ankit at 1am in the intervening night of August 3-4 and administered an injection, and he neither informed the senior officers about Ankit’s condition nor referred Ankit to the hospital,” the judge said.CCTV switched offCiting a prison report, HT reported on September 4 that between 9.30am on August 3 and 4.50pm on August 4, when Gujjar allegedly got into a scuffle with jail officers and was found unconscious in another part of the prison, CCTV cameras inside ward 1 and 5A of Tihar jail 3 were switched off for “maintenance work”.The judge said the case calls for immediate remedial actions by the state and director general (prisons) so that unscrupulous officers at the jail do not take advantage of knowledge of the non-working of the CCTVs so that they can get away by doing any illegal act/offences.The court told the director general (prisons) to file a status report indicating the measures taken to streamline the system as regards the CCTV cameras in the jail and what alternative measures can be taken when they are not working. It also asked for accountability to be fixed of the jail officers and doctors, and the mechanism by which immediate entry is provided to the police to the jail on receipt of an information of a cognisable offence.Gujjar’s family, through advocate Mehmood Pracha, argued that the police were not conducting investigation in proper format as the digital video recorder of the CCTV in the jail was yet to be recovered, and the aspect of extortion of money by jail officials through online transactions was not being looked into.The plea also submitted that the jail authorities in Tihar were operating an “organised extortion syndicate” and the police were trying to manipulate the investigation in order to save and shield the culprits.The judge said the DG (Prisons) “failed to notice the connivance/laxity” of the jail deputy superintendent who did not permit the local police to go inside the jail to inquire into the call made to the local police in connection with the incident on the night of August 3.A departmental inquiry, conducted by the DG (Prisons) Sandeep Goel, into Gujjar’s death has found “negligence” on the part of certain prison staffers, officials said on Monday.“Appropriate departmental action will be taken against them (staff),” Goel said.The court will next hear the case on October 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-orders-cbi-probe-into-ankit-gujjar-s-custodial-killing-101631132905892.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Badal rejects ₹40 per quintal wheat MSP hike, terms it meagre||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president on Wednesday rejected the “meagre” ₹40 per quintal hike in the minimum support price (MSP) for wheat. “The Union government should hike the wheat MSP by at least ₹150 per quintal to give a remunerative price to farmers for their produce,” said Sukhbir in a statement. He also sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s immediate intervention to ensure that farmers were not short-changed. At a time when farmers across the country were aggrieved with the BJP-led NDA government over the three new agriculture laws, the Centre has announced the lowest MSP hike in recent years, said the SAD chief. Sukhbir said it was shocking that the government was not taking into account the unprecedented increase in the prices of diesel and fertilisers in the last one year. “It has also failed to calculate the MSP by taking into account all comprehensive costs of farmers, including land rental and interest forgone on owned land and fixed capital assets. A minimum of 50% profit should be ensured to farmers after calculating all comprehensive costs incurred by them,” he added. Sukhbir said the low MSP announced by the Centre would result in a slowdown in agriculture growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-badal-rejects-rs-40-per-quintal-wheat-msp-hike-terms-it-meagre-101631133702986.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Centre’s wheat MSP hike pathetic, says Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday dubbed the wheat MSP hike of ₹40 per quintal by the Centre as “pathetic”. Amarinder Singh slammed the Union government for “rubbing salt into the wounds” of farmers, who have been out on roads agitating against the Centre’s farm laws for the past around 10 months. The Centre on Wednesday hiked the minimum support price (MSP) for wheat by ₹40 to ₹2,015 per quintal and asserted that the system of procuring crops at support prices will continue. At a time when the country’s agriculture sector is passing through a “distress” phase and the farmers are agitating for a remunerative MSP, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government played a “cruel joke” on the “annadaatas”, said the CM in an official statement. He demanded wheat MSP of ₹2,830 per quintal. Singh said farmers should not be forced to subsidise the consumers, which they have been doing since long. “Why is the Centre treating our farmers so obnoxiously,” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centres-wheat-msp-hike-pathetic-says-punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-101631133222924.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Over 800,000 incidents of Covid norms violations recorded in Delhi in 4 months, ₹135 crore collected in fines||Delhiites coughed up more than ₹135 crore in fines with over eight lakh violations of Covid-appropriate behaviour norms in the last four months, officials said on Wednesday.The fines were imposed by Delhi government teams and police personnel, they said.Official data showed that enforcement teams of the city government's revenue department and the Delhi Police booked over six lakh and two lakh people, respectively, in May-August for violating various Covid-related guidelines like not wearing masks, crowding and spitting in public places.While government teams imposed fines of more than ₹103 crore, the Delhi Police imposed over ₹32 crore of penalties. The police also arrested over 15,600 people in the past four months for violating guidelines, it showed.Officials said that nearly 1.8 lakh people were booked and ₹32.41 crore in fine was imposed in August by the revenue department and the Delhi Police.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority(DDMA) has authorised district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police, deputy commissioners of civic bodies and other officers to enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour, guidelines and other instructions in areas like markets, malls, restaurants, bus and railway stations.Over 150 teams of the revenue department as well as Delhi Police teams nabbed nearly 1.8 lakh violators in August. These included 1.5 lakh by the revenue department teams and over 29,000 by police, the officials said.The revenue department collected ₹26.74 crore in fines and got 4,818 FIRs registered in August for violations of Covid-related guidelines, the data showed.The Delhi Police, imposed fines of ₹5.6 crore and arrested 3,838 people for violations of national directives of COVID-19 management.The revenue department had imposed fines worth ₹15.16 crore by issuing more than 85,000 challans for Covid-related violations in May. In June ₹25.19 crore fine was imposed on 1.58 lakh violators, according to the data.In July, over 2.11 lakh challans were issued and the fine amount soared to ₹36.21 crore.Violations registered by the Delhi Police were over 83,000 in May, 50,000 in June and 39,000 in July. The amount of fine imposed was ₹15.94 crore in May, ₹10.16 crore in June and ₹67.5 lakh in July, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-800-000-incidents-of-covid-norms-violations-recorded-in-delhi-in-4-months-rs-135-crore-collected-in-fines-101631131567089.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||₹1,126-crore boost for Punjab under Samagra Shiksha plan||The Union ministry of education has approved a budget of ₹1,126 crore for school education and teacher training in Punjab for financial year 2021-22 under the Samagra Shiksha programme. The budget, which includes funds recurring and non-recurring expenditure, is 25% higher than the tentative fund allocation of ₹906 crore indicated to the state government by the central ministry in April this year under the flagship centrally sponsored integrated scheme for school education. Of this, ₹735.73 crore, or say 65% funds, have been approved for elementary education (classes 1 to 8) and ₹368 crore, which constitute 32%, for secondary education (classes 9 to 12). The remaining ₹22 crore have been earmarked for teacher education, including State Council for Educational Research and Training and Districts Institutes of Education and Training, in the state, according to the sanction letter sent by the Union ministry of education (MoE) to the Punjab government last week. The state’s annual work plan and budget for 2021-22 was approved after a meeting of the project approval board headed by Union secretary, school education and languages, Anita Karwal was held on July 1 through video conference to discuss its proposals. School education secretary, Punjab, Krishan Kumar, joint secretary, MoE, Maneesh Garg and additional state project director, Punjab, Manoj Pushkarna were participated in the meeting. 
09-09-2021||Other||Chandigarh: DGP visits IRB Complex in Sarangpur||On his first visit to India Reserve Battalion Complex in Sarangpur on Wednesday, director general of police, Chandigarh, Praveer Ranjan, planted saplings and inspected the ongoing projects. “Tree plantation is very important for the coming generation and this initiative will go a long way in inculcating awareness among police officials and general public about environment conservation,” said the DGP. He also inspected the ongoing projects and directed the officials to complete them at the earliest. Thereafter, he also inspected the newly constructed housing complex in Dhanas and directed the officials that house allotment be completed without delay. SSC officers demand one rank, one pensionFormer short service commission (SSC) officers on Wednesday reiterated their demand for grant of pro-rata pension as well as facilities of medical treatment on similar lines as are being given to regular officers. SSC officers said they had met the Union defence minister as well as the chief of army staff several times to press for their demands, but in vain. Though the Chandigarh bench of the Armed Forces Tribunal had directed the ministry of defence in 2010 to restore facilities, the order was challenged before the Supreme Court where it is still pendingCCPCR celebrates International Literacy DayChandigarh Commission of Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR), in collaboration with the education department, celebrated International Literacy Day on Wednesday. Palika Arora, director school education, UT, was the chief guest at the online event attended by 95 heads of government schools. CCPCR chairperson Harjinder Kaur said Chandigarh’s literacy graph was much better, but female literacy was still not at par.25 blood donation camps to be held The Competent Foundation will be organising 25 blood donation camps simultaneously on September 10. The venues are spread over many places in North India and all centres will be connected virtually. Foundation president Sanjay Tandon said, “Union minister Hardeep Puri will be the chief guest and minister of state Prahlad Patel will be the guest of honour.”Social welfare dept organises Poshan MelaThe department of social welfare, women and child development of the UT Administration organised “Poshan Mela” in sector 56, Chandigarh, on Wednesday to celebrate the 4th Rashtriya Poshan Maah and to raise awareness about the cause. Nikita Pawar, Secretary; Navjot Kaur, Director; and Parminder Kaur, Deputy Director; of the department, were present at the event. The celebrations were initiated on September 1, and shall continue till September 30. So far, the department, in collaboration with the various line departments, have organised approximately 15,000 activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandigarhdgp-visits-irb-complex-in-sarangpur-101631132503343.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana state board to conduct Class 8 exams after 12-year gap||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) has decided to hold board exam for Class 8 students in 2022, which will happen after 12 years. The board has started making preparations for the exam. Board chairman Jagbir Singh said as per the government directions, amendments were made to the Haryana RTE Rules 2011 and board exam will be held for Class 8 students across the state for the 2021-22 session.MDU for physical classes from October 1Maharshi Dayanand university (MDU) has decided to resume physical classes at its Rohtak and CPAS, Gurugram, campsuses for graduate and post-graduate students except first semester students from October 1, if government allows them to do so. In an official letter issued by the MDU deputy registrar, the students have been asked to deposit fee by September 30. “The physical classes for students of semester 3,5,7 and 9 will be resumed from October 1, if the government grants permission,” the letter said.Protest against BJP leader in DadriBharatiya Janata Party legislator from Hisar, Kamal Gupta, on Wednesday faced farmers’ wrath during his visit to Charkhi Dadri. Gupta was in Dadri to chair a meeting of party workers at a rest house when a group of farmers reached there and raised anti-government slogans The farmers tried to break the barricades, but police foiled their attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-state-board-to-conduct-class-8-exams-after-12-year-gap-101631132443007.html
09-09-2021||Other||Lalpura is new minority commission chairperson||Chandigarh The Central Government on Wednesday appointed retired IPS, Punjab cadre, and national spokesperson of the BJP Iqbal Singh Lalpura as the chairperson, National Commission for Minorities. A Sikh intellectual, who has written books on Sikh and Punjabi culture, Lalpura, was appointed BJP spokesperson in September last year. Lalpura had retired as DIG Punjab Police before joining the saffron party in 2012. “I have received official verbal communication on my appointment, a few minutes ago,” said Lalpura. The appointment is being seen as BJP led-Central government’s has made yet another effort to woo the Sikhs. Lalpura, who belongs to Rupnagar district, had served as SSPs of Amritsar Rural, Kapurthala and Tarn Taran districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lalpura-is-new-minority-commission-chairperson-101631132263493.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||World Literacy Day celebrated at schools in Ludhiana||Green Grove At Green Grove Public School, students presented speeches and PPTs showcasing the importance of education. Principal Suzy George lauded them for their efforts.BVM USN 
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ Karnal siege drives Haryana govt to unease||The row At the centre of the latest round of confrontation between the farmers and the government is the 2018-batch IAS officer Ayush Sinha. The farmers’ grouse against Sinha is that he, as per a viral video clip, directed police to ‘crack their heads’ if farmers breached the security cordon during the August 28 meeting of the BJP in Karnal. Another contentious issue is the death of one peasant, Sushil Kajal (45) of Raipur Jattan village of Gharaunda sub-division of Karnal district, allegedly as a result of the lathi charge. “Because we do not have a postmortem report or MLR that is why we are seeking compensation, otherwise we would have demanded FIR under section 302 against cops and other officers,” farmer leader Yogendra Yadav said. However, the BKU (Haryana) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni refused to speak on this issue. Hence, linked to any positive outcome of Karnal standoff are three sticky points: Action against the IAS officer; ₹25 lakh compensation to the kin of farmer who died, and ₹2 lakh each to injured farmers. Farmers’ demand against IAS officer The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers’ outfits spearheading the stir against the farm laws, has been demanding to register a murder case against IAS officer Sinha. Now, apparently realising that the government is unlikely to buckle under such pressures, the SKM leaders are pressing for suspension of the IAS officer while also seeking an inquiry into the the role of Sinha as SDM Karnal in the run up to police baton charge on August 28. Government’s stand Right from the beginning, the government has been stoutly defending the officer and police action. Though chief minister had admitted that Sinha’s choice of words was wrong, he defended the police action. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, however, had condemned Sinha’s instructions to the police. After transferring Sinha out of Karnal, the state government doesn’t appear in a mood to accept farmers demand about punitive action against him and others. Government sources say, to break the logjam, the government may agree to hold an inquiry into the lathi charge incident. The government is also open for talks on farmers’ demand for compensation.Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia says there is no evidence to prove that Sushil Kajal had died as result of injuries received during the lathi charge. The government has been questioning the veracity of this (death) claim, saying why the farmer who died was not taken to hospital for first aid if he was injured so severely in police action and why the postmortem was not conducted to ascertain cause of the death? (Text by Pawan Sharma and Neeraj Mohan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-karnal-siege-drives-haryana-govt-to-unease-101631131851739.html
09-09-2021||Other||Textile scheme fails to cut ice with Ludhiana industry||Ludhiana The Union ministry’s announcement of a budgetary outlay of ₹10,683 crore under the Production linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for the textile sector has cut no ice with Ludhiana industry. The lament is that Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) which form a major chunk of the 14,000-odd textile units in the city have been ignored. The announcement has also disappointed Ludhiana’s bicycle industry, which was hoping to be part of the scheme. The PLI scheme is for textiles, for man-made fibres and apparel and 10 segments/products of technical textiles. Sudershan Jain, president, Knitwear Apparel Manufacturers Association of Ludhiana (KAMAL, said, “The scheme is for new investment of ₹100 crore and ₹300 crore, and that too for building, plant and machinery only, while land is excluded.” He added, “Anyone wishing to make such an investment will need to purchase land. Other condition to be fulfilled is to achieve minimum turnover of between ₹200 crore and ₹600 crore that too, only in man-made fibre segment, for getting the incentives under the scheme. How many of us in Ludhiana will go for the scheme?”.Jain added that even as the Centre wanted to compete with China, this was not possible at all by ignoring the MSMEs, which play an important role in textile clusters in various states. “The MSME sector can also bring turnover, provided they are given adequate incentives on similar lines,” he added. Vinod Thapar, president, Knitwear Club, said, “Over 90% of textile units in Ludhiana are small and medium scale, and the scheme has nothing for them. Only corporates and large-scale industries will stand to benefit.” Amit Thapar, vice-chairman, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), said scheme was definitely beneficial for bigger players. “The scheme will help contribute to economies of scale. However, the threshold limit for investment could have been lower like ₹50 crore, instead of ₹100 crore. Aspiring MSMEs, wanting to grow can also benefit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/textile-scheme-fails-to-cut-ice-with-ludhiana-industry-101631131846125.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Captain Cook: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh rustles up delicacies for Olympians||Keeping his promise, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh hosted a lavish dinner for Punjab’s Olympic medal winners and gold medallist Neeraj Chopra at his Siswan farmhouse near Chandigarh on Wednesday. The chief minister, who prepared the mouth-watering delicacies himself, personally served food to his special guests. “The food always tastes better if served directly from the cooking vessel,” said the chief minister. On the platter were: Mutton khara pishori, laung elachi chicken, aaloo korma, dal masri, murg korma, dugani biryani and zarda rice (sweet dish). “I started at 11 in the morning, and most of it was done by around 5 pm. Then it was time for some final touches. I loved every minute of it,” said the chief minister. “They (sportspersons) have worked so hard to win us glory, what I have done for them is nothing in comparison to it,” Amarinder remarked. Hockey Captain Manpreet Singh said he had heard about the Maharaja’s cooking but what he savoured exceeded his expectations. “It was rich and excellent food,” said Tokyo sensation Neeraj Chopra. The other special guests for the evening included Harmanpreet Singh (Hockey vice-captain) and his teammates Mandeep Singh, Hardik Singh, Rupinder Pal Singh, Shamsher Singh, Dilpreet Singh, Gurjant Singh, Varun Kumar and Simranjit Singh. Women hockey semi-finalist Gurjit Kaur and Reena Khokhar, reserve hockey player Krishan Bahadur Pathak and Olympics finalist discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur, were also among the guests. Olympics race-walker Gurpreet Singh and shooter Angadveer Singh Bajwa also attended the dinner. Amarinder had promised such a meal to the Punjab players who had participated and also won medals at the Tokyo Olympics during a felicitation function last month. It was Kamalpreet Kaur who initiated this request to him during the felicitation function. “The Punjab CM has a big heart. I requested him for such a get-together, and he was kind enough to agree to it. It feels wonderful when a person of his stature values athletes. I will never forget this gesture,” said Kamalpreet, who hails from Kabar Wala, Malout, a village in Muktsar district. She had finished sixth in the discus throw event at Tokyo. Amarinder had said during the function that he was not a foodie but loved cooking for his guests. Pargat doesn’t show up Punjab Congress general secretary and Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh, a former India hockey captain, was also invited for the dinner, but he did not show up. “He was to coordinate with the medal winners along with Sodhi for the event,” said sources. However, Pargat, who has been critical of the chief minister, said he did not receive any invite.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/captain-cook-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-rustles-up-delicacies-for-olympians-101631131844162.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Waste segregation: Chandigarh MC to study status across localities||To ensure 100% garbage segregation at source, the Chandigarh municipal corporation will conduct a comprehensive study to assess its present status across sectors and colonies in the city.MC commissioner Anindita Mitra on Wednesday directed the officials concerned to find out that how much segregated waste is being collected currently, and how various area are performing.“We need to identify sectors and colonies from where we are not getting segregated waste. After the assessment, we will be able to direct our efforts on such locations and sensitise the locals,” said Mitra, who has also called a meeting of all sanitary inspectors and other officials concerned on September 11 to discuss the issue.The MC had taken over door-to-door garbage collection in December last year, and has deployed around 525 two-bin vehicles to collect segregated waste. The vehicles were brought for around ₹40 crore cost through the Chandigarh Smart City Limited.Nearly 80% localities have been covered with these vehicles, but the civic body is still receiving mixed waste from most areas. Though no exact figure is available, MC officials have earlier estimated that only 60% households are giving segregated wet and dry waste.The collection of mixed waste is also affecting the working of the two material recovery facilities at the Industrial Area. Another facility is planned by December 2021.These facilities have a dedicated space for sorting recoverable dry waste into different categories, including paper, card, recyclable plastic, glass bottles and metal. The leftover dry waste is moved to the compost plant at Dadumajra. “There is no uniformity at material recovery facilities. While garbage collection vehicles from some areas bring segregated waste, others bring mixed waste. For the facility to function properly, we need to have segregated waste at source,” said Mitra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/waste-segregation-chandigarh-mc-to-study-status-across-localities-101631131782789.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations prohibited over Covid concerns||Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in public places and processions or gatherings related to it have been prohibited in the Capital due to the Covid-19 pandemic for the second consecutive year. An order to notify the ban on festivities was issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday night. Ganesh Chaturthi will be celebrated on Friday, September 10 this year and the 11-day celebration will conclude on September 21.The order, signed by Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev, urged devotees to celebrate the festival at home. “Ganesh Chaturthi festival will be celebrated during this month, i.e. in the month of September, 2021 and considering the prevailing restrictions on gatherings and congregations and present situation of Covid-19 pandemic, it has been decided that Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations may not be allowed in public places and people may be advised to celebrate the festival at their home only,” said the order seen by HT.All district magistrates and the Delhi Police have been directed to ensure that no idol of Lord Ganesha is set up in tents, pandals or public places. They also have been asked to disallow any form of procession, and not grant permissions to any committees. Around 100 committees seek permission for community celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi in Delhi every year, but thousands of people celebrate in their homes, and then immerse idols in the Yamuna.Delhi has added an average of 40 fresh Covid-19 cases each day over the past seven days, shows state government data. The city has added just 17 deaths from the viral infection over the past month, as caseloads have dropped to their lowest since the early days of the pandemic in March last year.“All district magistrates and their counterpart district deputy commissioners of police and all authorities concerned shall ensure strict compliance of this order and shall adequately inform and sensitise the field functionaries about these instructions for strict compliance in letter and spirit,” the order said.“It is also directed that the district magistrates and district DCPs shall convene meetings with religious/community leaders/Ganesh Chaturthi festival committees before the festival to get their cooperation to maintain law and order and harmony and also to sensitise public for compliance of guidelines.instructions issued for combating Covid-19 by the government from time to time,” the order added.Ashok Bansal, general secretary of Ganesh Mahotsav Samitee in south Delhi’s Mehrauli said this time almost all the committees voluntarily decided not to organise any public event during the festival because of the pandemic.“Those who want to celebrate can do so at home only. Idol immersion along the river or other such places is not allowed as it leads to congregations or processions. So, people are requested to only get ecofriendly idols for their homes as they get dissolved in a tub of water. We all did that last year and then water our plants with it,” he said.A revenue official said the government is planning to create about a dozen artificial ponds for immersion. “This is because not everyone has adequate space to immerse or dispose of the idol in their homes or localities. So, there will be a few who will turn up for immersions, despite the prohibition. The idea is to get that done under strict surveillance with proper social distancing and ensuring no more than two or three people,” the official said.Naresh Goel, member of the Ganesh Puja Samiti in Nehru Place said some temples will stream the pujas online. “No committee planned anything this time in terms of public ceremony because DDMA orders even before Tuesday’s order were clear that no form of gathering or congregation will be allowed in the city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations-prohibited-over-covid-concerns-101631127726700.html
09-09-2021||Other||Punjab vigilance starts probe into ₹65 lakh fraud at Moga cooperative society||Moga Punjab vigilance bureau has started a probe into embezzlement and misuse of over ₹65 lakh at The Daudhar Multi-purpose Cooperative Agriculture Service Society from 2021-2018. Pardeep Singh, former assistant secretary-cum-cashier of the society, has accused government employees of perpetuating the crime of embezzlement and misuse of loan amount in the name of the dead members and NRIs. “The society has 1,500 members; of these, 25 members had died without repayment of loan; another 15 fled abroad without repaying the loan of ₹43 lakh. Later, their family members had repaid their loans. A few employees, however, did not deposit the amount into the account of the society, thereby embezzling the money,” Pardeep’s complaint reads. Pardeep has also handed over documents proving this embezzlement to the vigilance. He adds, “Under the rules governing a cooperative society, membership terminates on death or going abroad. A few employees took undue advantage of this clause, as loanees were not there to object it. All the wrongdoing took place between 2002 and 2018. These employees also embezzled fertilizers worth over ₹23 lakh. As soon as I lodged a complaint, some of these employees have started returning the money to the society.” Pardeep alleged that the management of the society re-employed two such employees, accused of corruption, in 2018 and 2019 on contract, without the approval of the department. Sources added that the society did not act against an employee accused of involvement in embezzlement of fertilisers, even after a direction from the assistant registrar. HT has a copy of these directions. DSP Kewal Karishan of vigilance bureau said, “The probe has been registered at the head office of the bureau. We are investigating the matter on the head office’s direction and have already recorded the statement of complainant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-vigilance-starts-probe-into-rs-65-lakh-fraud-at-moga-cooperative-society-101631131424393.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Man shot dead, five injured in clash over Kaithal gurdwara control||A man died of bullet injuries and five others were injured in a clash between two groups over succession to jathedar’s post at Gurdwara Neem Sahib in Kaithal on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Joga Singh of Dudhana village. The jathedar’s post had fallen vacant after the death of gurdwara’s head priest Gopal Singh three months ago. Locals said a group of people, including Sahab Singh, Kamal Singh, Kulbir Singh, Multan Singh, illegally took control of the gurdwara on Tuesday and intended to appoint Kulbir Singh as the head priest. The devotees, on the other hand, wanted Mahender Singh as the head priest of the shrine. On Wednesday, some devotees reached the gurdwara to clear the illegal occupation. But the accused allegedly opened fire and also attacked them with sharp-edged weapons. Gurdeep Singh, a local resident, said efforts were being made to resolve the issue when the firing took place. One of the injured Ajmer Singh filed a police complaint and named 16 people for the attack. Kaithal police station in-charge Surender Singh said the FIR has been registered against 16 people under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 323-324 (voluntarily causing hurt), 148, 149 (rioting) of the IPC and sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. He said the body has been sent for the postmortem. The condition of some of the injured is stated to be critical. Police said some people have been detained and investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-shot-dead-five-injured-in-clash-over-kaithal-gurdwara-control-101631131423104.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Tents, langar, hookah…farmers prepared for a long haul at Karnal protest site||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has made all arrangements for an indefinite protest outside the Karnal’s mini-secretariat, the new epicenter of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, as their talks with the district administration failed for the second consecutive day. Farmers seem to be ready for a long haul as they have pitched tents, arranged langar, hookahs, medicines, fruits, tea and snacks at the protest site. For entertainment, troupes of Ragini singers are there. Even, CCTV cameras have been installed around the protest site and young volunteers are monitoring the movement of people. Leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), including Rakesh Tikait, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Baldev Singh Sirsa and Yogendra Yadav, are also camping in Karnal to boost the morale of farmers. Hundreds of farmers, including women from different parts of the state, have joined the protest. Tikait accused the government of forcing farmers to open a new front. “Karnal will be another centre of farmer protest and we will stay here until they accept our demands. More farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Punjab will reach Karnal soon,” said Tikait. “We will end this agitation within five minutes if the government accepts our demands. Now, the ball is in government’s court for how long it wants to see this agitation continue,” said Yogendra Yadav. However, the protest didn’t have any major impact on the movement of visitors and employees as the rear gates are open. Only employees whose offices are located opposite to the mini-secretariat faced some hardships as the farmers have pitched tents in the parking area. Scores of farmers, along with Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders, spent the night at the main entrance of the mini-secretariat. Controversial farmer activist from Punjab, Lakha Sidhana, with his supporters also reached Karnal late Tuesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tents-langar-hookah-farmers-prepared-for-a-long-haul-at-karnal-protest-site-101631131183806.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||JP Atray cricket tourney: Delhi beat Madhya Pradesh||Led by superb performances from Pradeep Sangwan (4 for 21) and Jonty Sidhu (95), Delhi recorded a huge 145-run win over Madhya Pradesh in a match played during the ongoing 26th JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament for Trident Cup at Sector 16 stadium in Chandigarh on Wednesday.Batting first, Delhi posted a massive total of 332 for seven in 50 overs. Jonty Sidhu (95) and Ayush Badoni (60) propelled Delhi’s innings. Arshad Khan took three wickets for Madhya Pradesh. In reply, MP innings folded for 187 runs in 35.3 overs. Pradeep Sangwan grabbed four wickets for the winning team. He was ably supported by Tejas, who picked up three wickets.HP log 5-wicket winHimachal Pradesh recorded a fine five-wicket win over Players XI Delhi in a match played at the Mahajan Cricket Ground, IT Park, on Wednesday.Batting first, Players XI were bowled out for 181 runs in 49.2 overs. Prashant Chopra bagged three wickets for HP. In reply, HP achieved the target in 27.2 overs with Ankit Kalsi (50 no) and Prashant Chopra (40) scoring the bulk of runs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cricket-delhi-record-huge-win-over-madhya-pradesh-at-jp-atray-memorial-tourney-101631131124520.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two mobile phones recovered from 2 inmates of Ludhiana Central Jail||Two mobiles phones were recovered from two inmates of Ludhiana Central Jail during a surprise raid conducted on Tuesday morning.The accused have been identified Satwinder Singh and Suraj Kumar. Investigating officer Paramjit Singh said that assistant superintendent of central jail, Sukhdev Singh, told police that during a search of the barracks, one mobile phone was recovered from each of the accused. He added that an FIR has been registered against them under Section 52- A (1) of the Prison Act and a probe has been initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-mobile-phones-recovered-from-2-inmates-of-ludhiana-central-jail-101631131004543.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Thief decamps with cash, mobile phones worth ₹2.75 lakh from Ludhiana shop||A thief broke into a shop in Nandpur village in broad daylight and stole mobiles phones and cash worth ₹2.75 lakh on Tuesday.The shop owner, Rajiv Bhatia, a local resident, told the police that he locked the shop on Tuesday as had to leave for some urgent work. When he returned after two hours, he was shocked to find the lock of the wooden door broken. On stepping inside, he realised mobile phones worth about ₹2.5 lakh and ₹25,000 in cash were stolen. Bhatia immediately informed the Sahnewal police, who reached the spot and launched a probe. During investigation, police established that a youth in a red T-shirt broke open the lock and entered the shop, before stealing the cash and mobile phones.Investigating officer Wazir Singh said they had lodged an FIR and were trying to trace the accused with the help of CCTV footage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thief-decamps-with-cash-mobile-phones-worth-2-75-lakh-from-ludhiana-shop-101631131003086.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: WhatsApp chatbot to answer Covid queries||People in Delhi can now send a WhatsApp message to +91 1122307145 and get answers to Covid-related queries , such as the location of nearby vaccination centres, booking slots to get the shot, details about government-approved refilling stations for oxygen cylinders, and teleconsultancy services from doctors.The chatbot, launched on Wednesday, will work similarly to those engaged by food delivery aggregators, cab service apps, and customer care services for chatting with clients and resolving their grievances in real time.Queries which the chatbots fail to answer will be redirected to a Covid-19 control room set up by the government, said a senior government official. Information on the WhatsApp chatbot will be available in both Hindi and English, the official said, while asking not to be named.Health minister Satyendar Jain later released a statement in which he said: “The people of Delhi can now get accurate, authentic, and up-to-date information about Covid-related resources in Delhi through this WhatsApp helpline number. For this, a user has to send ‘Hi’ to +911122307145 on WhatsApp. This will help the people of Delhi get all the information from a single window. To mark the launch of this facility, the officials of WhatsApp were also present.” htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-whatsapp-chatbot-to-answer-covid-queries-101631128042170.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||3 govt teachers who beat up 40 Class 11 students in Tohana booked||Three teachers of a government senior secondary school at Fatehabad’s Tohana were booked for allegedly beating up as many as 40 students of Class 11 on September 6, police said on Wednesday. Of the 40 students, as many as 10 with severe injuries had to be hospitalised. According to the information, the corporal punishment was given as the students were making noise. The teachers who have been booked were identified as Rajni, Mange Ram and Charanjit Singh. Three students and their parents, who made a joint complaint before Tohana City police station, said a student blew whistle in the classroom when no teacher was present. “Three teachers visited the class and asked us to reveal the name of the student who whistled. The students said they did not know whose act it was. Then teachers started thrashing us brutally and we received injuries on back, legs and other parts of the body. Charanjit Singh made casteist remarks at us and threatened to rusticate us if we revealed this incident to our parents,” the students added. Physical education teacher Rajni also lodged a coounter FIR against three Class 11 students, accusing them of misbehaving with her and hurling abuses. Police have booked three students in this regard. Ram Chander, a parent, said the teachers had given punishment to the entire class instead of identifying the student who misbehaved in the classroom. “My son was brutally thrashed and he is hospitalised. There were injury marks on his body. We have asked the police to arrest these teachers,” he added. Tohana DSP Biram Singh said they have booked three teachers under sections 294 (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 34 (acts done by several persons with furtherance intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the SC/ST Act, while three students were also booked on a complaint filed by a woman teacher. Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson, Jyoti Bainda, asked Fatehabad superintendent of police to submit a report within five days. “It came to the fore that three teachers had beaten up as many as 40 students with sticks. We have asked the police to conduct a medical examination of the students and take proper action in this matter,” she added. Fatehabad district education officer Dayanand Sihag said he has ordered an inquiry by block education officer and asked him to submit a report at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-govt-teachers-who-beat-up-40-class-11-students-in-tohana-booked-101631130891013.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Need ‘independent’ probe into Tanha’s statement leaks, lawyer tells Delhi HC||Jamia Milia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, an accused in the case registered for conspiracy behind the February 2020 north-east Delhi riots, on Wednesday demanded an independent probe into the alleged leak of his disclosure statement to the media, even before the court took its cognisance.Tanha, who was booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), told justice Mukta Gupta that sensitive information was leaked during the course of the investigation.Senior advocate Siddharth Aggarwal, appearing for Tanha, said it was necessary to “insulate the investigation” from the persons subjected to scrutiny.“If an enquiry is not yielding the result, it is only important to go to the next step, which is investigation,” Aggarwal said.Tanha moved court last year after his alleged disclosure statement in the charge sheet filed in a Delhi riots case pertaining to the larger conspiracy, recorded by the police, was allegedly leaked to the media even before cognisance was taken by the court.“When an enquiry yields no result, where people to be investigated are the same as those conducting it, where enquiry was within closed doors with no oversight, there is a mandate of entrusting that investigation to an independent department,” Aggarwal argued as the court fixed October 1 as the next date of hearing.The senior counsel submitted that in its response filed in the matter, the police itself conceded to being aggrieved by the leak and it should take action against those responsible.“Facts are clear that sensitive information during the course of the investigation was leaked to people who were not supposed to have it. (It was) leaked to my prejudice. Despite enquiry, they are not in the position to assist this court,” said the counsel.“I’m not saying Delhi Police leaked it. I’m saying Delhi Police is the custodian and must answer for it. If an official file or register had been missing, there would have been 15 FIRs by now. If I had shared it..I want them to feel the same outrage that I’m feeling right now,” he added.In its status report filed on August 5, the police said that while the enquiry could not establish how the details of investigation were shared with media, no prejudice was caused to Tanha in his exercise of right to free and fair trial. It further claimed that various media personnel, who were examined during the process, “refused to share the details of their source”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/need-independent-probe-into-tanha-s-statement-leaks-lawyer-tells-delhi-hc-101631127926013.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two Mohali men convicted, fined for lockdown violations||For violating Covid-19 lockdown restrictions, local courts in Mohali have convicted and fined two men who were booked in April last year. While one of cases was registered against a resident of Sector 78, who was caught loitering during the lockdown on April 3, 2020, the other was against a trader who was booked on April 25, 2020, for opening his footwears shop.The nationwide lockdown to contain the virus spread was imposed for the first time in March last year. Mohali has been one of the worst-hit districts in Punjab and has also registered maximum number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the tricity area. In the first case, Mehta, a resident of Sector 78, Mohali, was booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after lockdown violations in area falling under the Sohana police station. Tarun did not contest the charge and pleaded guilty before the court of judicial magistrate first class, Mohali, Mukesh Kumar Singla. In its order on September 7, the court observed: “There is no dearth of instances when people throw caution to the wind, thereby imperiling the life and property of others... It is an appropriate time to send a clear signal to the persons behaving in such a negligent manner, that their conduct will not be condoned.” Convicting Mehta, the court imposed a fine of ₹1,000 on him.In the other case, Rajan Sharma, 41, who has a footwears shop on Ropar Road in Kurali, was booked under Sections 188 and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) of the IPC despite a ban on non-essential commercial operations.The prosecution had sought a severe punishment, stating that opening the shop was likely to spread Covid-19, which is a fatal disease. The court of judicial magistrate, first class, Kharar, Sudipa Kaur, held Sharma guilty and imposed a fine of ₹2,000 on him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-mohali-men-convicted-fined-for-lockdown-violations-101631130822769.html
09-09-2021||Other||Not in consumer interest, regulator on PSPCL plea to buy power at above ₹4 per unit||Patiala The Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) has pulled up the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for purchasing power at high cost from some power generators, by citing it against the interest of the consumers. With this decision, a reiteration of the previous verdict delivered in February 2021, 850MW power purchase has been disallowed. The PSERC ruling came on a review petition that the PSPCL had filed against the regulator denying approval to Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) with the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), Kolkata; Pragati Power Corporation Limited and Meja Urja Nigam Power Private Limited, aggregating to 885.10 MW. In a strange turn of events, the review petition asked for approval to the PPA with the DVC, but just last month in August, the PPA had taken approval of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to scrap the PPA, citing the high cost. “PSPCL’s proposal of procurement of 885.10 MW on long-term basis from projects Meja, Pragati-III and DVC’s Raghunathpur, Durgapur & Bokaro Stations at the given per unit price of ₹5.53; ₹4.82; ₹4.61; ₹4.44 and ₹4.39 respectively, would not be an economically viable proposition, particularly so, when much cheaper power is available in the market. As such, it would not be in the interest of consumers of Punjab, if procurement from these stations at the indicated rates is approved. The commission does not think it prudent to permit the same at the indicated prices,” read orders of the chairman Vishawjeet Khanna, adding that the PSPCL shall be at liberty to approach it in case, it is able to renegotiate prices to commercially viable levels.The commission noted that a substantial amount of energy is being surrendered by PSPCL from DVC power stations, which belies the claim that power from this source is consistently required throughout the year, and not only in the paddy season. The PSERC said that the PSPCL should buy at up to ₹3 per unit, including fixed and variable cost.To demolish the PSPCL claim that a gas-based power station can be used as a peaking station, the commission observed, “The PSPCL has its own hydro power stations which may be used as and when peaking power station for flexible operation as required. There appears to be no cause to review the order,” the PSERC adds in its latest order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/not-in-consumer-interest-regulator-on-pspcl-plea-to-buy-power-at-above-rs-4-per-unit-101631130764071.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||PGTI Players Championship: Yashas takes lead at Panchkula Golf Club||Mysuru’s Yashas Chandra set the bar with a top-notch seven-under 65 in round one of the ₹50 lakh TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship presented by the government of Haryana and Panchkula Golf Club on Wednesday.The 26-year-old Yashas, who secured tied 11th on the PGTI last week, continued his good form with an error-free effort at one of his favoured venues where he has struck some low scores in the past.Meanwhile, Chandigarh’s Ranjit Singh was the highest-placed tricity golfer as he shot a 68 to occupy fifth position.The eight players bunched in tied sixth at a score of 69 included the Chandigarh trio of PGTI Order of Merit leader Karandeep Kochhar, Abhijit Singh Chadha and the seasoned Amritinder Singh as well as the Bengaluru duo of Chikkarangappa and M Dharma, Kolkata’s Shankar Das, Mhow-based Om Prakash Chouhan and Delhi’s Kartik Sharma.Reigning PGTI Order of Merit champion Rashid Khan of Delhi, who ended tied seventh last week, also continued to impress with a five-under 67 that saw him end the opening day tied second place along with Kolkata’s Sunit Chowrasia and Gurugram’s Veer Ahlawat.Defending champion Akshay Sharma of Chandigarh and Gurugram-based Manu Gandas, winner of the PGTI last week, were both placed tied 26th with scores of 72.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/golf-yashas-chandra-takes-tourney-lead-at-panchkula-club-101631130582773.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Retired cop who killed wife sent to police custody||A day after retired Punjab cop Kartar Singh, 72, was arrested for killing his estranged wife in Mohali, he was produced in court on Wednesday and sent to two-day police custody.A former head constable, Singh had attacked his wife Kuldeep Kaur, 69, after a spat at his house in Phase 11. Kaur, who had been living with her son in Sector 66, was visiting him after repeated requests. According to police, Singh wanted Kaur not to depose against him in an ongoing attempt to murder trial. After she refused, he got enraged and killed her by hitting her head repeatedly against the floor.Singh had opened fire at his brother-in-law and his nephew, leaving them injured, in 2017. After staying in jail for four years, he was released on bail about eight months back. Kaur is the main witness in the case and had deposed against him earlier too, said DSP (probationary) Mohit Kumar Singla, in-charge, police station, Phase 11. Kaur is survived by two sons: a head constable posted at the SSP office in Mohali and another who stays in Australia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-retired-cop-who-killed-wife-sent-to-police-custody-101631130522748.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Main suspect identified in Sector-27 robbery case||A day after a woman was molested and robbed by three masked men at her rented house in Sector 27, police on Wednesday said they have identified the main suspect on the basis of the CCTV footage. “The main suspect is the person who had delivered furniture to the house recently. He has been identified and his possible hideouts are being raided. We will arrest him soon,” said Ketan Bansal, senior superintendent of police (SP, City). After the crime on Tuesday, even the victim had raised suspicion on the same person. A model-turned-actor, the 27-year-old had recently shifted to Chandigarh for some work and had taken a second-floor accommodation in Sector 27.She was alone when three men sneaked in, held her captive at knifepoint and even tried to molest her. She managed to save herself by locking herself in the bathroom. The men fled with ₹6 lakh cash and also withdrew ₹50,000 using her ATM card. A case has been registered under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 26 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-main-suspect-identified-in-sector-27-robbery-case-101631130402684.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Woman, minor girl kidnapped in Ludhiana, three booked||Police are on the lookout for three men who kidnapped a 29-year-old woman and her minor relative from Shanker village in Dehlon area on Monday evening.A female resident of the village complained to the police that she, along with her 14-year-old daughter and brother’s wife, had left the house to take their cattle for grazing.There, Maskeen and Rishum, both natives of Gurdaspur, arrived with an unidentified man in a Toyota Innova (PB-07-AS-2668), and forced her daughter and sister-in-law into the car, before speeding away. The complainant raised the alarm, but the accused managed to flee.Investigating officer Jatinder Kaur said they had booked the accused for kidnapping, and launched a manhunt to arrest them and rescue the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-minor-girl-kidnapped-in-ludhiana-three-booked-101631130342614.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Government of India pumping huge investment into diary, animal husbandry sectors: GADVASU V-C||One of the departments at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) has been bifurcated into the department of fisheries and the department of animal husbandry and dairying.Vice-chancellor (V-C) Dr Inderjeet Singh said on Wednesday that the Government of India was pumping huge investment into the sectors of dairy, animal husbandry and fisheries.Last year, ₹15,000 crore was approved by the Union cabinet as Animal Husbandry Infra Development Fund. This would create 35 lakh more employment opportunities, the V-C said.He informed that being the number one veterinary university of India according to ICAR ranking, GADVASU catered to a large number of students, who could then serve in different pockets of government or private organisations or even opt for profitable private practice/entrepreneurship.There was tremendous scope for a veterinarian to serve abroad as well, he said, adding that the North American Veterinary Licensing Examination (NAVLE) was a requirement for licensure to practise veterinary medicine in all licensing jurisdictions in the US and Canada.The V-C added that GADVASU imparts one-month training for students wishing to take NAVLE and the varsity was also in talks for a tie-up with a US-based multi-location veterinary hospital firm who will train/help graduates clear NAVLE and provide visa and employment support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/government-of-india-pumping-huge-investment-into-diary-animal-husbandry-sectors-gadvasu-vc-101631130286683.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 30 years on, 8 fugitives among 44 drug peddlers booked again||Crimes committed over three decades ago came back to haunt drug peddlers as the city police dug out eight proclaimed offenders (PO) who were booked under the Opium Act, which was in effect till 1985, before being replaced by the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.The accused, most of them migrants from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, were booked in 1979 and 1981 and were declared POs nearly 30 years ago.Sharing details, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, spokesperson of the police department, said that the accused have been evading arrest for decades. “After registering the cases, we will check their antecedents. Raids will be conducted to arrest them. If any of them has died, the due course of court procedure will follow,” said Bhatti.A total of 44 cases, including 13 under Section 174A (non-appearance in response to a proclamation) and 31 cases under Section 229A (failure by person released on bail or bond to appear in court) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), were registered at different police stations of the city.The 44 booked include three women, Seema Bai of Papra village of Bharatpur district, Rajasthan, Harjit Kaur of Sangrur, and Kamlesh Rani of Sangeet Cinema side, Ludhiana. They were earlier booked for drug peddling and later declared PO.Apart from the drug peddlers, the police have also booked POs who were booked under the Gambling Act and Sections 376 (rape), 420B (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-30-years-on-8-fugitives-among-44-drug-peddlers-booked-again-101631130162606.html
09-09-2021||Other||151 Covid cases reported in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 151 fresh coronavirus infections and one fatality due to the disease in Kashmir on Wednesday.There were 130 cases in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 21 cases. Srinagar saw the highest of 75 cases.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 163 with active positive cases reaching 1,251. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,20,648 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.26%.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,26,310 and the death toll stands at 4,411. The officials said 47,443 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/151-covid-cases-reported-in-jk-101631129985014.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Doctors throw light on importance of physiotherapy||The role of physiotherapy and rehabilitation came in focus during the World Physiotherapy Day celebrations at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Wednesday. Dr Avkash Teotia, in-charge, physiotherapy department, DMCH, and Dr Alka Kaul, chief physiotherapist, said physiotherapy’s importance had increased manifold in the present times due to long sedentary hours and bad postures.“Besides middle-aged and elderly patients, there are several adolescent and young people too, who come for physiotherapy treatment for pain-related issues. Gym injuries are common among gym-goers,” said Dr Kaul. Dr William Bhatti, director, CMCH, discussed the importance of physiotherapy for Covid patients. Dr Sandeep Singh, principal, College of Physiotherapy, said psychotherapists had also played an important role during the pandemic.He suggested that an active lifestyle, nutritional balance and good rest were some components of good health. “Giving importance to physical health will reap benefits at all ages of life. Physical activity will also reduce risks of long-term diseases like diabetes, and heart and respiratory diseases,” the doctor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-doctors-throw-light-on-importance-of-physiotherapy-101631129924121.html
09-09-2021||Other||NC will contest whenever elections are held in J&K: Farooq||Former chief minister and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Wednesday said his party will contest whenever elections are held in Jammu and Kashmir.He vouched for the statehood and said party’s demand of restoration of statehood is intact and the fight for this will continue.“Our party will contest polls whenever they are held,” Abdullah said.He was speaking to reporters after paying his respects at his father Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah’s mausolem at Naseem Bagh in Srinagar on his 39th death anniversary.“We will win the elections whenever they are held,” he said.Earlier also Farooq had said NC will win the elections if held in a transparent manner. He had even regretted not taking part in the panchayat and block development council polls that the NC had boycotted along with PDP.He said the party is hopeful of getting Article 370 and 35A back one day.Didn’t back Taliban: NCMeanwhile, National Conference on Wednesday slammed attempts to twist party leader Farooq Abdullah’s comment on Taliban and said that the party leader never ‘backed’ or ‘supported’ the Taliban as claimed by some media channels and on social media. “I hope they (Taliban) will deliver good governance and follow Islamic principles in that country (Afghanistan) and respect human rights. They should try to develop friendly relations with every country,” the National Conference leader said, which has been interpreted by many as “indirectly extending support.”“Backs? How? Falsely attributing things to Dr Farooq Abdullah that he NEVER said is DEPLORABLE. Twisting words and misrepresenting the intended meaning only exposes the so called “channels” that manufacture stories with mala fide intention,” the party tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nc-will-contest-whenever-elections-are-held-in-j-k-farooq-101631129866895.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU plans to reopen campus in phased manner from next week||Hours after student bodies announced to intensify their protest, Panjab University on Wednesday said that the campus is likely to reopen in a phased manner from next week.“The varsity is planning to open most likely from the next week in a phased manner, starting with the final-year postgraduate students in some of the sciences departments,” stated the official communiqué.However, the announcement did not pacify the student bodies. “Our indefinite protest will continue till PU authorities release the exact schedule for reopening of campus for students. There should be no bar between sciences and social sciences,” said the students in a statement, while also demanding the schedule for hostel accommodation.The student bodies had initiated an indefinite protest last month with two major demands: reopening of the campus and conduct of the senate’s graduate constituency elections. Even after the polling date was announced on Tuesday, they decided to continue the protest to push the first demand. As the protest entered 26th day on Wednesday, they even warned of intensifying the agitation. “We will give an action-oriented programme to force the slumbering PU authorities who have been denying us offline education,” they had said in a statement earlier in the day.Meanwhile, the office of the dean student welfare has issued a circular to all hostel wardens, advising them not to proceed on leave as hostels will be reopened soon. The wardens have also been asked to ensure 100% vaccination of students, research scholars and the canteen staff at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-plans-to-reopen-campus-in-phased-manner-from-next-week-101631129862642.html
09-09-2021||Kolkata||Four dead as Diarrhoeal outbreak hits Bengal; nearly 160 affected||Four people died and nearly 160 others fell ill after an outbreak of diarrhoea in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas since Tuesday. More than a hundred people have been hospitalized, health officials said. “Till Wednesday afternoon around 160 people have been affected in a diarrhoeal outbreak in Kamarhati. At least 116 people had to be admitted in two hospitals. Even though four people have died, two of them, including a child, died due to diarrhoea. The other two, both women, died of other causes,” said a senior official of the state health department. The district administration and the local civic body have started distributing ORS and halogen tablets and a door-to-door visit has been initiated to find out if any more people have been affected. The water reservoirs have been chlorinated and a medical camp with medical officers and paramedical staff has been set up. “The situation is under control. We have sent nine samples of rectal swab and four water samples to the Indian Council of Medical Research – National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases for investigation,” said Ajoy Chakraborty, director of health services. Panic gripped local residents who have started purchasing water for drinking and cooking purposes. “My husband and mother-in-law fell ill. They complained of severe loose motion and vomiting. Neighbours rushed both of them to the hospital. While my husband has been discharged after preliminary treatment, my mother-in-law is still admitted at the Sagar Dutta Medical College and Hospital,” said Rina Sarkar, a resident of Kamarhati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/four-dead-as-diarrhoeal-outbreak-hits-bengal-nearly-160-affected-101631129802695.html
09-09-2021||Other||HC stays Ludhiana court order on ED inspecting I-T case files of Punjab CM||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday stayed a Ludhiana court order of last week, allowing the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to inspect files pertaining to income tax cases, going on against chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and his son, Raninder Singh.Acting on the pleas from the CM and his son, the bench of justice GS Sandhawalia passed the order, observing that the I-T complaint is based on information which has been received under the convention (with French government) and there are restrictions on the sharing of the same, so prima facie, the ED would not be entitled to the information, in view of the apparent legal bar.On September 2, the court of additional district sessions judge, Ludhiana, had dismissed the plea from Amarinder and his son, challenging a lower court order of September 2020 that allowed the ED to inspect the files.The I-T department had filed criminal complaints against them in 2016 before a Ludhiana court. According to the department, both were beneficiaries of foreign assets maintained and controlled through business entities and also of foreign bank accounts maintained with a bank in Geneva.The department had also alleged that they made false statements and wilfully omitted, giving the required information(does it read ok) to it. The department has accused them of tax evasion and allegedly amassing wealth in other countries. It was in this case, that the ED had moved an application seeking inspection of files.Earlier, the CM’s counsel had argued that there is an agreement with France as per which information on income tax could only be shared with persons or authorities involved in the assessment or collection of taxes. It was also argued that as per the 2011 communication from income tax to the French authorities, it was assured that information would be kept secret and not used for other than taxation purposes, and will be handled strictly as per the rules of confidentiality. “Hence, the trial court order requires a re-look,” the counsel added.The I-T department told the court that these issues were never raised before, also pointed out that they have not put in appearance in the complaint case by IT. Hence, stay order be not passed. The department also brought to notice of the court that probes against legislators are being monitored by Supreme Court and same had to be expedited.The court, however, was of the view that if there was no such bar on sharing information, the ED could have easily obtained the same from I-T department as both are under the control of the Union finance ministry. It also observed that the information was available in court records and there was no such tearing hurry, which would require the ED to get its hands on it immediately.The court has sought response from the ED and the I-T by October 4, clarifying that the petitioners need not appear before the trial court. It has also summoned original record of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-stays-ludhiana-court-order-on-ed-inspecting-i-t-case-files-of-punjab-cm-101631129744456.html
09-09-2021||Other||Parliamentary panel of external affairs visits Chinar Corps||An 11-member parliamentary committee of external affairs led by PP Chaudhary on Wednesday visited Chinar Corps where they were briefed by the officials about the security situation in Kashmir and the Line of Control.The panel was received by GOC, Chinar Corps, Lt Gen BP Pandey.“The GOC briefed them on the situation on the Line of Control and in the hinterland. They were also briefed on the steps being taken to break the cycle of violence and bring peace and stability in Kashmir. Chinar Corps efforts towards citizen-Army connect were also highlighted,” defence spokesperson Col Emron Musavi said.He said the members were also briefed on counter-terrorism efforts of the ministry of external affairs. “The committee members were later shown modern equipment being effectively used by the Indian Army. The committee members appreciated the efforts of the security forces and expressed satisfaction with the improved security situation in Kashmir,” he said.Chaudhary and other members also paid tributes to the martyrs at the Chinar War Memorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/parliamentary-panel-of-external-affairs-visits-chinar-corps-101631129743250.html
09-09-2021||Other||Durga idol found last month is local art with Gandhara touch: Officials||A black stone idol of Goddess Durga that found in Jhelum river during sand extraction last month was most probably carved locally around 7th or 8th century and is influenced by Gandhara School of Art, officials said. The idol is said to be around 1,200-year old.The idol was retrieved on August 13 from Jhelum at Pandrethan area of Srinagar and it travelled unnoticed to Budgam in a truck where it was found by a resident who informed the police. It was then analysed by the department of archives, archaeology and museums. The police handed over the idol to the archeology department on August 31.“It is 100 percent local workmanship with influence of Gandhara School of Art,” said Mushtaq Ahmad Beigh, in-charge deputy director of the department of archives, archaeology and museums.According to Encyclopedia Britannica, Gandhara Art is the style of Buddhist visual art that developed in what is now northwestern Pakistan and eastern Afghanistan between the 1st century BCE and the 7th century CE.“We have different schools of art like Kashmir School of Art, Jammu School of Art, Basohli School of Art, etc. There were Gandhara and Mathura schools of art too,” he said.He said apart from the influence of Gandhara art, Kashmir sculpturing was different from other parts of the world. “Our workmanship is different from others. Our sculptures are ‘finer’ than others. That is why our sculptures are more beautiful and delicate,” he said. Beigh said another proof of its local connect was it being made of black stone.The idol (8”x6” approx) is of Goddess Durga seated on a lion’s throne along with four attendants. We are yet to conduct its exact sizing,” he said.The official said that the idol was a miniature version of mother goddess and a process is underway to shift it to the SPS museum that already has a bigger Durga idol.“We have an idol of 16-armed Durga. Mattan and Anantnag too have similar statues,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/durga-idol-found-last-month-is-local-art-with-gandhara-touch-officials-101631129562762.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CHB panel to study options for need-based changes||A committee headed by the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) secretary will examine the long-standing demand of allottees for more relaxations in the regularisation policy for need-based changes in its residential units.The decision was taken during a meeting of the CHB board of directors on Wednesday. Among the demands is the adoption of the Delhi model for a one-time settlement policy, which will also be looked into afresh. The issue affects around 4.5 lakh people residing in 65,000-odd CHB houses in the city.“All options, including the one-time policy, are on the table. The committee will examine all these options to decide what further need-based changes can be considered in residential units,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB. Earlier this year, the CHB refused to provide any more relaxations after the CHB Residents’ Welfare Federation took up the matter with the UT administrator’s office. However, with municipal elections round the corner, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been pushing for more relaxations and had even held a protest outside the CHB office. Prem Kaushik, a CHB board member and vice-president of the Chandigarh BJP, said: “During the meeting, officials were not in favour of allowing more relaxations under need-based changes. After a detailed discussion, wherein I suggested six solutions, the board decided to constitute a committee.” The committee also comprises members of other UT departments concerned. It will be consulting nominated members of the board, resident welfare associations and other stakeholders to find some “innovative solutions”. Its report will be placed before the board for final decision.Meanwhile, giving some relief to the allottees, the board on Wednesday decided that in case any allotment has been cancelled due to building violations and an appeal is pending before the board, it will be restored on two conditions: removal of all building violations by December 31, 2021, and payment of applicable revival/restoration charges. What is the regularisation policy The CHB came out with a regularisation policy for the first time in 2017. However, it received only 40 applications. The policy was further relaxed in 2019, allowing regularisation of various additions and alterations in dwelling units, though encroachments were not covered.Despite the relaxations, a survey conducted in 2020 found that 90% of the CHB’s 65,000-odd dwelling units still had massive structural violations. Under the 2019 policy, in case a violation is not removed, at own cost, the allotment may be cancelled and possession resumed. A certificate of structural stability of the building is also to be submitted. In an order issued in April 2021, the CHB deferred the action till December, stating that the allottees who do not deposit penal charges on the basis of self-certified area will be issued notices of demolition or cancellation thereafter.CHB allottees complain that the policy didn’t resolve their problems, and as per the Delhi Model, the covered area should be relaxed.Explaining the model, Nirmal Datt, chairman, CHB residents’ welfare federation, said: “At present, the board tolerates all types of so-called violations by charging an annual penalty. For a complete relief, it can easily take one-time charges for any excess coverage inside or outside the plot area without regularising this excess coverage and denying people any legal right over it. Supporting documents, such as the structural stability certificate, can be made mandatory.” Board to slash reserve price of leasehold properties After getting poor response to the auction of leasehold properties, the Chandigarh Housing Board has decided to cut the reserve prices. The reserve price of commercial units on leasehold property will be cut by 20% and residential units by 10% in the next e-auction of these propertiesThis was decided in the CHB board of directors meeting held on Wednesday. The CHB, in the past four months, has conducted four e-auctions for its 121 freehold residential properties and has been able to sell 87, earning ₹70.59 crore. In the same period, it has been able to sell only two residential and nine commercial leasehold properties, earning ₹1.74 crore and ₹4.73 crore, respectively. “In leasehold properties, the allottee is required to pay a yearly ground rent at the rate of 2.5% of the consideration amount for 33 years, followed by 3.75% for next 33 years and 5% for the subsequent 33 years. Since this is a substantial amount and ownership rights are inferior than in the case of freehold, people prefer to go for the latter properties,” said a CHB official. Also, conversion of leasehold property to freehold is a costly affair. “The conversion charges for residential properties may range from 12% to 15% of the consideration amount. However, the conversion is not permitted in the case of commercial properties,” said the official. IT Park scheme: In-principle nod to ₹643-crore costThe general housing scheme at IT Park will cost the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) ₹643.64 crore.In a meeting of the CHB board of directors, chaired by UT adviser Dharam Pal, the engineering cost estimate of ₹643.64 crore for the project was approved in principle.“Tentative cost of the flats will be worked out after approval of the plan approval committees (upper) for detailed drawings and a separate detailed agenda to be brought before the board, prior to launch of the scheme. Thereafter, a brochure of the scheme will be drafted as per the existing rules/regulations,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB.The general housing scheme, planned at IT park, is spread over 16.6 acre and has 728 dwelling units under different categories: a four-bedroom flat is likely to cost nearly ₹2.75 crore, a three-bedroom flat ₹1.9 crore and a two-bedroom flat ₹1.3 crore. Only after the board approves the cost estimates for the project, the CHB will finalise the rates.Revisit plan for Sector-61 market: UT adviserThe UT adviser, in the meeting, stated that the market in Sector 61 (Kajheri), where all the commercial units are lying vacant, needed to be assessed by some experts for exploring different options.“Since the whole market has been lying unsold for more than 20 years, we need to revisit the whole plan and there may be many options like converting it into a single plot or redeveloping it as an office complex, etc,” said Pal.In other decisions, the CHB will fill 40 vacant posts of clerks through direct recruitment in a fair and transparent manner. The existing ceiling of medical reimbursement to the retired employees of the board will be enhanced from ₹50,000 to ₹1,00,000 per annum. The employee quarters will be renovated on the lines of improvement specifications of the houses of the Chandigarh administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-chb-panel-to-study-options-for-need-based-changes-101631129502830.html
09-09-2021||Other||Himachal logs four deaths, 163 new Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh recorded 163 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking the state’s tally to 2,15,074 while the death toll rose to 3,606 after four people succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 38 were reported in Kangra, 28 in Shimla, 25 in Mandi, 20 in Hamirpur, 15 in Bilaspur, 12 in Una, 11 in Kullu, eight in Chamba, four in Kinnaur, three in Solan and two in Lahaul-Spiti.The active cases have climbed to 1,703 while recoveries reached 2,09,737 after 138 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst hit district with 47,969 cases followed by Mandi where 30,182 infections have been reported to date and 26,824 cases in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-logs-four-deaths-163-new-covid-cases-101631129448684.html
09-09-2021||Other||IHBT inks pact with Kalimpong trust for cultivation of aromatic crop||The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s (CISR) Institute of Himalayan Bio-resource Technology (IHBT), Palampur has inked a pact with Mani Trust, Kalimpong for promotion of aromatic crops.The IHBT has recognised Kalimpong, the north-eastern hill town in West Bengal, ideal for cultivation of aromatic and floriculture crops.Situated at a height of 1,250m above mean sea level, Kalimpong has a diverse climatology and temperature varies between 15-25 °C in summer and 7-15°C in winter and average rainfall of 2,030 mm.IHBT director Sanjay Kumar said CSIR started Aroma Mission during 2017 and Floriculture Mission 2020 programmes to promote aromatic and floriculture crops aimed at socio-economic upliftment and employment generation for the farming community and rural masses throughout the country.The processing unit is indispensable for value addition of aromatic plants and establishment of this facility in Kalimpong will benefit the local farmers.In phase one of the Mission, up to March 2020 the CSIR covered an area of 550 hectare in the Himalayan region. In phase two, the institute will bring 3,000 hectare land under the aromatic crop pan-India, especially in the north-east.Aromatic crops are widely cultivated around the world due to their high-revenue earning essential oil, which is utilised in agrochemical, food, flavouring, perfumery and pharmaceutical industry.Global essential oils market size is valued at USD 10.3 billion in 2021 and is expected to reach a value of USD 16 billion by 2026, growing at a compound annual growth rate of 9.3% during the forecast period.Rakesh Kumar, senior principal scientist-cum-co-nodal officer of Aroma Mission said there is a growing inclination of consumers towards natural and organic products which led to an increased usage of essential oils in cosmetics, food, and beverages.“Kalimpong is suitable for cultivation of high value aromatic crops such as damask rose, mushkbala, mint, wild marigold, scented geranium, lemongrass and chamomile,” he said.The institute will help farmers by providing quality planting material, capacity building, and value addition through processing of aromatic plants and establish market linkages.Subash Mani, chairman of Mani Trust, said the pact will allow them to work with IHBT in cultivating aromatic and floriculture crops in Kalimpong region and maximise benefits to regional farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ihbt-inks-pact-with-kalimpong-trust-for-cultivation-of-aromatic-crop-101631129382798.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting contractual staff to shut down Ludhiana bus stand on Sept 9||Intensifying their strike for regularisation, the contractual employees of Punjab Roadways and PRTC have announced to close the Ludhiana bus stand on Thursday.“A meeting was held between the state government and the union members in Chandigarh on Wednesday, but the government didn’t agree to our demands. The union has now decided to raise the agitation to the next level and close bus stands across the state on Thursday,” said said Shamsher Singh, district president of the Punjab Roadways and PRTC Contractual Employees Union.Earlier in the day, the staff took out a protest rally on two-wheelers, moving through different parts of the city, including Model Town, Gill Road, Jagraon Bridge and Bharat Nagar Chowk while raising slogans against the state government for not fulfilling its promise made before the 2017 Assembly Elections. Movement of traffic was disturbed at several points as the protesters took to the streets. “The Contractual Employees Union of Haryana Roadways has also extended its support to our union that is protesting at the state level. The protest march was organised to apprise the public of the wrong policies of the government. We will continue the agitation till our genuine demand is fulfilled,” said Singh.Passengers continue to suffer With the strike entering the third day on Wednesday, passengers continued to have a hard time finding a bus to their destination. According to the bus stand authorities, movement of around 200 government-run buses has been hit due to the strike and passengers have to depend on private operators. The strike is also forcing women passengers to pay, while their travel in government buses is free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-contractual-staff-to-shut-down-ludhiana-bus-stand-on-sept-9-101631129262833.html
09-09-2021||Other||Legislators cannot act as administrators: Himachal HC junks transfer orders||The high court of Himachal Pradesh has ordered that posting of an employee on a particular station should be decided by administrative heads and not by the legislators.The orders were passed on a civil writ petition filed by one Babu Ram, head of a primary school in Sundernagar in Mandi, who was transferred on recommendation of a politician.Quashing the transfer, the division bench comprising justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and justice Satyen Vaidya, held that in the instant case, there was no independent decision taken by the administrative head and the decision has been rendered vulnerable as being influenced by the proposal and recommendations made by the local MLA.The court said the chief minister, ministers and elected representatives may recommend the transfer of an employee, however, the transfer orders are ultimately to be issued by the administrative head by independent application of mind and after subjective satisfaction without being influenced by the recommendations.The MLAs or ministers concerned have right to make a recommendation but these cannot be taken to be the final word.The underline principle for transfer is public interest or administrative exigency, which is conspicuously absent in the present case, the court observed.The court said elected representatives, under the Constitution, are to work in the legislature and not as administrators. They cannot start interfering in the administration or the working of the executive.“It is the administrative heads who are the best judges to decide how the department has to be administered and which employee should be transferred to which place. The politicians cannot don the role of administration.”“The elected representatives cannot have a right to claim that a particular employee should be posted at a particular station. The choice has to be made by executive and not by the legislators,” the court said.The court said whenever transfer order is on recommendation of minister or MLA, views of the administrative department are essentially to be sought in matters of transfer.“What follows is that views of the administrative department should reflect subjective satisfaction and conscious application of mind that the transfer is essential on account of administrative exigency and/or public interest or effective utilisation of his/her services,” said the court.Adverting to the present case, the order of transfer cannot withstand judicial scrutiny as the same does not show that the petitioner has been transferred on account of administrative exigency, public interest or efficient utilisation of the services of the petitioner, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/legislators-cannot-act-as-administrators-himachal-hc-junks-transfer-orders-101631129142519.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Water bills: Ludhiana MC turns to awareness camps to encourage clearance of dues||The fund-starved municipal corporation (MC) has decided to organise camps at ward level to spread awareness about the One-Time Settlement (OTS) policy that allows consumers to clear water-sewerage charges without penalty and interest.Under the policy, notified by the state government on August 25, no penalty or interest will be charged on the principal amount if the dues are cleared within three months, following which only the penalty will be waived for the subsequent three months. After six months, the user will have to pay both penalty and interest on the pending amount, and the connection will also be disconnected.The property owners with houses with area up to 125 square yards are exempted from water-sewerage charges, but they still have to get the connection regularised. Yet, the city has around 1 lakh illegal connections. According to MC officials, as part of the ward-level camps, pamphlets will be distributed among residents to utilise the opportunity to get their connections regularised and clear the dues without penalty and interest.Under the policy, the illegal connections can be regularised at less than 10% of the regular fee/penalty charged for the process.In Ludhiana, dues owed by legal water connection holders have piled up to ₹200 crore over the past few decades. In many cases, the interest imposed is much higher than the principal amount.Senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra said the decision to distribute pamphlets and organise ward-level camps was taken during a meeting held under the chairmanship of mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu on Tuesday evening. “It is a golden opportunity for the public to get the illegal connections regularised at nominal rates and pay the dues without any penalty,” said Malhotra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/water-bills-ludhiana-mc-turns-to-awareness-camps-to-encourage-clearance-of-dues-101631128842453.html
09-09-2021||Other||Alumni to motivate students of Prayagraj’s govt primary, upper primary schools||Now, professionally and socially successful and creative alumni of 2,852 government-run primary and upper primary schools of Prayagraj will inspire around 4.25 lakh students of these schools to strive for success and excellence in life.In a first-of-its-kind initiative, the Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA), Prayagraj, Praveen Kumar Tiwari, has started listing names of each school’s alumni on its walls along with their current post/achievement and mobile number.In a missive dated September 6, sent to all block education officers and headmasters of government-run primary and upper primary schools of the district, Tiwari has instructed that alumni councils be formed on a priority.“We are confident that interaction with illustrious alumni, having their names on the walls of the schools as a roll of honour, would prove to be inspirational for the students of these schools and also enable them to take pride in their alma mater,” said Tiwari.“We also plan to invite former students of the schools who are occupying high positions or have made significant contributions to society and the country and felicitate them in front of the present batch of students. This initiative, hopefully, will not only strengthen the bond between schools and society but also help connect society with government-run primary and upper-primary schools’ education system,” he added.In the missive marked ‘Top Priority’ and instructing officials to ensure “time-bound” compliance, the headmasters and BEOs have been asked to ensure that alumni councils in each school are formed by September 10 and the names of those passed out students who have bagged top positions or made significant contributions to society along with their posts/achievements too are displayed on the school walls. They have also been asked to make available photographs of the alumni council meets and felicitation functions where these former students would be honoured with garlands and awarded a citation, to the BSA office, through their respective mid-day meal coordinators, at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alumni-to-motivate-students-of-prayagraj-s-govt-primary-upper-primary-schools-101631128602839.html
09-09-2021||Other||Andhra Pradesh high court allows petitioner to install Ganesh idol at home||The impasse over observing public celebrations of the Ganesh Chaturthi festival finally ended in Andhra Pradesh with the High Court on Wednesday allowing a petitioner to install an idol in his house with a gathering of only five people. The HC clearly stated that the government’s guidelines against public celebrations should not be contravened. The directions were issued by Justice Cheekati Manavendranath Roy after a write petition was filed by a resident of Autonagar in Andhra Pradesh’s Tirupati city. He had sought permission to install an idol in his house with five people from the district Superintendent of Police. Since it was not given, he approached the HC. The petitioner told the court that restrictions on celebrating Ganesh or Vinayaka Chaturhti were only for public places. After seeking a response from the state government as well, Justice Roy allowed him to install an idol at his residence, and said that Covid guidelines must be adhered to. The issue of celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi in AP this year has taken a communal turn, with both the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Telugu Desam PArty (TDP) demanding the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) to allow it.TDP national spokesperson Pattabi Ram on Tuesday said that party MLAs and in-charges of all 175 assembly constituencies have been instructed to organise or celebrate the Ganesh Chaturthi festival in a “huge way” while following Covid-19 protocols. “We feel that it is a part of a larger conspiracy by Jagan Reddy to attack one religion,” he alleged.The AP government decided that Ganesh idols cannot be installed in public places and that immersions this year, along with processions, should be avoided. Prior to this, union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on August 28 issued guidelines to chief secretaries of all states and union territories, informing them that Covid-19 guidelines have been extended till September 30.AP chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy held a review meeting on September 2, wherein it was decided to continue the night curfew in AP from 11pm to 6am, keeping in mind the festival season. Based on suggestions from health department officials, it was decided to limit Ganesh (or Vinayaka) Chaturthi celebrations within homes, instead of holding them in public places.However, a day earlier on September 7, the TDP announced that it would celebrate the festival in all 175 assembly seats and would defy government orders. Prior to that, the BJP also held a protest on September 6 demanding the same thing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/andhra-pradesh-high-court-allows-petitioner-to-install-ganesh-idol-at-home-101631128362852.html
09-09-2021||Other||After a week-long gap, Kerala logs 30k plus Covid cases again||After a week-long gap, Covid-19 cases crossed 30,000 in Kerala on Wednesday, said the state health ministry. Among 1,71, 295 samples that were tested, 30,196 turned positive taking the test positivity rate (TPR) to 17.63%. The spike happened a couple of days after chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said cases were on decline and the situation will stabilise by the second week of September. The state government had lifted night curfew and Sunday lockdown on Tuesday after cases dipped. The weekend lockdown was in force for more than three months. A look at the statistics show a sharp increase in tests as the main reason behind the present tally. Total fatalities also crossed 22,000 with 181 deaths on Wednesday and active cases stood at 238,480. Last week average cases were around 22,000 and TPR was below 15%. “It is natural that cases will go up once tests are increased. The state should have increased the tests a couple of months back,” said public health expert Dr SS Lal. The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the state is still conducting more antigen tests. “More than half of the total tests are still antigen,” said party leader S Suresh. When asked about this, a senior health ministry official refused to comment. Three districts reported more than 3,000 cases - Thrissur 3,832, Ernakulam 3,611 and Kozhikode 3,058. Two districts reported less than 1000 - Wayanad 894 and Kasaragod 510 cases. In one of the worst affected districts, Malappuram, cases came down to 2,580 but in Thiruvananthapuram district cases went up to 2,900, according to data. In last 24 hours, the country reported 35,875 new cases with TPR below 2%. It also reported 369 deaths. Going by the present statistics, the state’s share of Covid cases is more than 70%.A day after Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced the phased reopening of higher educational institutions from October 4, health minister Veena George on Wednesday said that vaccination facilities would be available for final year students to get inoculated before they enter their respective colleges.The health minister, in a press release, said that all final year students should take at least one dose of the COVID vaccine before entering college.Meanwhile, Kerala Minister for Higher Education and Social Justice R Bindu, while speaking to reporters here, said that similar to last year, classes would be held either in two shifts or on alternate days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-a-week-long-gap-kerala-logs-30k-plus-covid-cases-again-101631128186588.html
09-09-2021||Other||Amid floods, Kala Namak bumper harvest makes East UP farmers smile||Hundreds of farmers of the world famous GI-tagged Kala Namak rice, in Eastern Uttar Pradesh, finally have a reason to smile.The lush Kala Namak crop is nothing less than a sight to behold for them. Incessant rain and the resulting floods have not only created favourable conditions for a huge produce of the aroma-rich Kala Namak rice, but also saved the farmers money, which would have otherwise been spent on regular irrigation, experts said.They shared data of a record 50,000 hectare land being cultivated this year with Kala Namak in 11 districts of East UP, an unprecedented increase of 1,000 acres in Kala Namak cultivation, after decades.Anil Tiwari, Heritage Foundation Trustee, said, “The major increase in cultivated area of Kala Namak can be attributed to the government’s initiative to encourage farmers to produce this variety, under several state and central schemes including, ODOP (one district one product), FPO (Farmer Producer Organization) and CFC (Common Facility Centres).“This year, the farmers are expecting a bumper harvest, despite floods. The incessant rain and flood have provided favourable conditions and crop production is likely to see a never-before boost. The best thing is that the paddy crop, if not completely inundated (part containing grain remains out of water), can survive and grow in water-logged fields. The crop sown in June-July will be ready for harvest by October-end or first week of November.”He said that 10,000 hectares of land has been cultivated with Kala Namak crop in Siddharthnagar, followed by Gorakhpur (9,000), Maharajganj (8,000) Basti (3,000), Bahraich (3,000), Deoria (3,000) and Shravasti (1,000), among other districts.Elated by the good yield in his five acre farm, progressive farmer Chandrika Prasad of Siddharthnagar, said, “Since the last few years, I have not seen such a good crop. And this comes to us at zero cost of irrigation.”Dr Ram Chet Chaudhary, agriculture scientist who is connected with the Participatory Rural Development Foundation, said, “In 1960, the total cultivation of Kala Namak stood at 50,000 hectares, which reduced to just 2,000 hectares in 2000. After getting a GI tag in 2010-11 and introduction of its variety KN-3, its cultivation went up to 10,000 hectares, and shot up further to 20,000 in 2016. After the formation of the Yogi Government, its cultivation reached a record high again at 50,000 hectares.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-floods-kala-namak-bumper-harvest-makes-east-up-farmers-smile-101631128183842.html
09-09-2021||Other||Telangana to start vaccine supply by drone on a trial basis||The Telangana government will start delivering medicines and Covid-19 vaccines with the help of drones on a trail basis in Vikarabad district from September 9 till October 17. Called, ‘Medicine From The Sky’, the latest initiative is a joint project through a consortium that has been formed by Telangana government with Indian drone delivery start-up firm Skye Air Mobility. The latter has joined hands with courier service BlueDart Express to provide drone-based delivery and drone flights to conduct these trials. With this new project, Telangana will become the first state to start trials of ‘Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS)’ drone flights for the delivery of Covid-19 vaccines, said a government statement on Wednesday. Skye Air Mobility focuses on an end-to-end ecosystem for drone-based logistic transportation.“While the nation is focusing on achieving 100% vaccination, the current situation calls for a deeper supply of vaccines, especially in the remote areas. Delivery of vaccination through drones would be a stepping stone to achieve this goal,” said Balfour Manuel, managing director, BlueDart, according to the release. The project will have two certified remote pilots who have been specifically trained for the BVLOS trials during the project. The project’s first two days of the trials will involve drones flying between 500 to 700 metres from the base, wherein they can be seen with the naked eye.From September 11 onwards, the BVLOS drone flights will take place for about 9 to 10 kilometres of distances. These flights will be with consignments of vaccine, medical samples and other healthcare items, the release stated.Swapnik Jakkampundi, co-founder, Skye Air Mobility, said, “The key elements that were deterrents in the sector for a long period are now in favour of this development. This move is in sync with our endeavours at transformational change in rural and remote areas by helping make instant access to vital medical supplies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/telangana-to-start-vaccine-supply-by-drone-on-a-trial-basis-101631128182613.html
09-09-2021||Other||Madras high court rejects plea seeking lifting of curbs on Ganesh Chaturthi||The Madras high court on Wednesday reiterated that the right to life supersedes the right to practice religion while disposing of a petition that challenged Tamil Nadu’s order to ban public celebrations of Vinayagar Chaturthi and refused to interfere in the same.“It has been repeated by constitutional courts over the last year or so that the right to life is paramount and it is only if the person survives that his right to practice his religion is effective,” the court said in its orders on Wednesday. “Since the restrictions have been imposed in public interest and there is no certainty that the pandemic has altogether abated, the impugned notification cannot be interfered with.”The first bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesavalau passed the orders on a public interest litigation filed by Ela Ganapathi praying that the state government permit installation and procession by prescribing social distancing norms for the public gathering without a complete ban.On August 30, the DMK-led state government banned public installation of large idols, procession and immersion. This is the second consecutive year that Tamil Nadu has banned celebrations of Ganesh Chaturthi in public due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Previously the AIADMK regime had banned it last year which its ally the BJP had disapproved of. The row over cancellation of public installation of idols and procession for Ganesh Chaturthi spilled over to the assembly on Tuesday with chief minister MK Stalin not entertaining BJP’s demand to reverse the decision but he announced a cash aid to idol makers of Ganesha. Acknowledging that potters who make Ganesha idols would lose their business this year too, Stalin announced ₹5,000 as a relief to 3,000 potters who specialise in making the idols during the festival season. On Tuesday BJP’s floor leader Nainar Nagendran insisted that celebrations be allowed like it has been in Maharashtra and Puducherry but Stalin cited the pandemic for restricting it. “The Union Government sent a circular asking all state governments to take steps to ensure that people don’t crowd at public places till September 30, 2021,” Stalin said. “The courts have also stressed the same point. Kerala relaxed rules for Onam and Bakrid and that led to a spike in fresh cases. Cases are being reported at isolated places every day. Considering the public safety and welfare in mind, a ban on all religious festivals was imposed till September 15. It will also apply to Vinayaka Chathurthi.” Stalin added that people can continue to celebrate it at home. On Monday, BJP state president K Annamalai criticised the DMK government as interfering in an individual’s rights and announced that BJP cadres will keep one-lakh Ganesha idols in front of their homes and urged the public to do that too. Reacting to this, minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Sekar Babu told Annamalai not to play politics in the name of God. The bench on Wednesday also pointed out from a previous matter it dealt with on September 6, the union government in view of the pandemic and the emergency provisions invoked, instructed state governments and union territories to ensure that appropriate measures are in place. Several states have banned public celebrations of the festival due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/madras-high-court-rejects-plea-seeking-lifting-of-curbs-on-ganesh-chaturthi-101631128124313.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Agricultural University wins ‘green and clean campus’ award||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has won the “Green and Clean Campus” Award, announced under the National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi.The prize carries a cash reward of ₹10 lakh and a certificate. It will be presented by the Union minister for agriculture and farmers’ welfare during the forthcoming vice-chancellor’s conference. The award was instituted under the NAHEP, ICAR, in 2020 to promote sustainable and eco-friendly practices on campuses. The green campus concept offers an institution an opportunity to take a lead in redefining its environmental culture and developing new paradigms by creating sustainable solutions to environmental, social and economic needs of the inhabitants.The NAHEP was formulated by ICAR at a total cost of US$ 165 million for five years in 2017. An NAHEP-funded project, “School of Natural Resources Management for Sustainable Agriculture”, with a budget of ₹1,999.96 lakh, is in progress at PAU since 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-agricultural-university-wins-green-and-clean-campus-award-101631127706056.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: Residents protest against garbage collection site in Jandali||Several residents of Jandali and nearby areas have been protesting against a garbage collection and segregation point on a major road adjoining Sector 9 of Ambala City for the last five days, demanding a solution.There are complaints of foul smell emanating throughout the day from the area that also has a cremation ground and a religious place.A shopkeeper here, Amrit Shergil, said that it was almost impossible to cross the road, which is a shortcut for many to travel between HUDA sectors and Jandali.“Garbage from all 20 wards is collected here before it is taken to a plant on Naraingarh road. The residents had protested in March this year too, but we stopped after an assurance of a solution. Nothing happened, however, and we were forced to protest again,” he said. The protesters are demanding collection of waste only from their area instead of all wards or shifting of the centre to some other location. They had also locked the gate of the land, due to which the process was affected. Advocate Puneet, a Congress leader who is among those leading the protest, said, “Several vehicles and a JCB machine dominate the road leading to traffic congestion and more waste on the road during shifting of garbage.”In the meantime, the matter also reached the municipal officials, who held talks with the residents twice. Sources said that MC commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata also chaired a meeting to review the process and a decision will be taken soon.“The agitation might be lifted in a day or two, as they might be booked for locking MC land and hampering the collection process. The matter has become political with the involvement of many parties and change in demands,” officials said.Meanwhile, sanitary inspector (city zone) Mandeep said it was difficult to meet with the residents’ demands that included overall closure of the land, but Khadgata said, “We are planning to initiate ward-wise or cluster-wise collection and segregation, and later shifting to the plant in Patvi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/residents-protest-against-garbage-collection-site-in-ambala-s-jandali-101631127703209.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC reopens Ghatkopar to Mankhurd flyover for traffic in Mumbai, bikers banned||One week after partially shutting the 2.9-km-long Ghatkopar-Mankhurd flyover for repair works owing to frequent accidents, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday reopened the flyover for four-wheelers and light commercial vehicles. However, the flyover will remain shut for two-wheelers and heavy vehicles. BMC had, on September 1, partially shut the lane towards Mankhurd for maintenance work after an uproar among motorists over several accidents. Yusuf Khan, 34, was injured severely on Monday after his bike slipped, and he died before being admitted to hospital. After this accident, BMC shut one lane of the flyover saying that it would make the surface rough and install at least 10 speed breakers to ensure vehicles follow the speed limit and that there are no accidents. The civic body also announced that they would install CCTV cameras and rumbler strips. Satish Thosar, chief engineer of BMC’s bridges department, said, “We opened the lane towards Mankhurd and the lane towards Ghatkopar also was reopened on Wednesday.”He added, “We have installed around five speed breakers each on one side to ensure vehicles follow speed limit. Along with this, we have also made the surface rough on both sides.”Kishore Shinde, senior inspector of Mankhurd traffic police, said, “We have kept the flyover shut for two-wheelers as a precautionary measure for a period of one month. The flyover will remain shut for heavy vehicles too as a high-tension wire above the flyover is yet to be removed. Currently, movement of light vehicles and light commercial vehicles is allowed.”The flyover was inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on August 1, three years after its deadline. Thackeray had, on the day of the inauguration, asked BMC officials to work on the surface of the flyover. The 2.9-km flyover was constructed at a cost of ₹713 crore. Following this, on August 4, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wrote a letter to mayor Kishori Pednekar and municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal pointing at the poor quality of construction work by the contractor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-reopens-ghatkopar-to-mankhurd-flyover-for-traffic-in-mumbai-bikers-banned-101631127463339.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC signs deal with Cambridge Board, aims to start school in Mumbai by June next year||After affiliating with ICSE and CBSE boards, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday inked a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Cambridge Board to start schools with the board’s curriculum in the city. Mumbai guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray said the civic body will hold meetings with the board and look at starting at least one school by June next year.BMC aims to have one school affiliated with the Cambridge Board in each of the 24 administrative wards in the city, Thackeray said. Mumbai currently has 12 schools with CBSE and ICSE board curriculum. The civic body is expected to hold discussions with the board on how to set up a school in the next two months, outlining the course and other details, BMC officials said.Thackeray, while speaking at the event at Sahyadri guesthouse, said as Cambridge Board is a renowned and quality medium of education, it would provide a great educational opportunity for students of Mumbai. He added that the state government would also look into providing such curriculum for students elsewhere in Maharashtra. “Every Mumbaiite can come to Mumbai public school without worrying about how much fees they can pay. We have ICSE and CBSE board, and today we have joined hands with Cambridge Board. In the next two months, we will hold meetings with them and work out how many schools we will be able to start [in Mumbai], even if it is one to begin with. Efforts will be on starting one such school in each ward of Mumbai so that students can take advantage of international standard of education,” he said.Thackeray held a meeting with BMC officials and board representatives including Mahesh Srivastava, regional director, South Asia for Cambridge Assessment International Education, and Ajay Pratap Singh, head of Cambridge University Press India Ltd on starting a school by the next academic year. Following the meeting, he said, “We hope to initiate the academic year 2022 with the Cambridge chapter of Mumbai public school that will pave the way to make international education accessible to students, free of cost, regardless of their economic background, thus promoting a strong culture of teaching and learning.”He further added that due to the quality education in these schools, more than 10,000 applications were received for 4,000 seats in the current academic year. He also said that in addition to the curriculum in its schools, BMC is focusing on upgrading school buildings and other infrastructure.Principals, parents welcome moveThe decision to introduce Cambridge Board for Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) school students has been accepted as a positive move by principals as they feel that bright students who are not financially stable can afford quality education through this move. Parents said while it is a good initiative, BMC needs to focus on the current infrastructure and quality of education.A principal of a popular SSC board school in the city on condition of anonymity said, “SSC board syllabus and Cambridge Board syllabus have vast differences. The teaching method itself is such that the student becomes independent and creative. Making such a syllabus available to students from all sections of the society is a boon. However, it is also important to have teachers who are capable of handling such a syllabus. Many aided SSC board schools that have converted to other boards have the same teachers with the old teaching pattern which does not serve the purpose.” Avnita Bir, director principal of Podar Education Network, said, “With the new education policy in place, people have become eager to try new things. This is the right time to take a step further. While every board is trying various means to adopt new practices, such a decision by BMC will be a boon for students. Bright students will get an opportunity to open their minds and focus on learning creatively, independently will be adopted. The focus for the administration will be on how to include the various boards along with the existing schools.”“The condition of SSC schools is pathetic. BMC should focus on maintaining quality education and improving the infrastructure. They should focus on existing schools or invest money in providing means to gain digital education for existing students in the current scenario. Introducing Cambridge Board is a good initiative, but it will take years to come on track and will include a lot of planning as well. Without a detailed plan, the students will suffer,” said Anubha Sahai, president of India wide Parents Association.(Inputs from Ankita G Menon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-signs-deal-with-cambridge-board-aims-to-start-school-in-mumbai-by-june-next-year-101631127342499.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s natural carbon sinks inadequate to offset greenhouse emissions||The city’s mangroves, wetlands and urban greenery outside of protected areas forest are estimated to have a combined carbon sequestration potential of about 64,000 metric tonnes (MT) per year, according to data revealed during the fifth round of public consultations for the civic body’s upcoming climate action plan (CAP) for Mumbai. The public consultation, which dealt with the topic of urban greening & biodiversity, was hosted by the World Resources Institute (India).This is, however, only a fraction of the city’s annual carbon footprint. The annual carbon footprint for 2019 was estimated to be 34.3 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2Eq) emissions, as per a greenhouse gas inventory prepared by WRI (India) last month. HT had, on August 27, reported that a staggering 71% of the city’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions can be attributed to the energy sector, followed by the transport sector which contributes 24% of Mumbai’s total GHG emissions.“Even if you take into account the added carbon sequestration potential of the Arabian Sea, Thane Creek and protected areas such as Sanjay Gandhi National Park and Aarey, the city is still ill-equipped to offset the majority of its emissions. One hopes that the upcoming climate action plan will be able to address this to a degree; but so far there has been no indication as to what the reduction targets will be and how they will achieve this insurmountable task,” said Stalin D, director of NGO Vanashakti, and one of the invitees who spoke at Wednesday’s public consultation.A presentation shared by WRI (India) during Wednesday’s webinar revealed that the Mumbai’s mangroves and wetlands sequester about 42,139MT carbon annually, followed by urban greenery across the city’s 24 wards, which is estimated to sequester about 22,490MT carbon annually. “These are just estimates. The actual sequestration potential is likely to differ. To calculate the offset potential for urban greenery, we have used remote sensing data as we did not have the civic body’s tree census numbers available to us,” said Lubaina Rangwala, associate director, WRI (India) Ross Center for Sustainable Cities.Of the 24 broad localities in the city that were analysed as part of WRI (India)’s assessment, Borivli was found to have the highest carbon sequestration potential by virtue of being the most densely green area with over 2,000 acres of land covered by trees — each acre is estimated to capture about 1.35MT carbon per year. This is followed by Goregaon and Chembur, which have 1,500 to 2,000 acres of land covered in trees. Southern localities including Byculla, Grant Road, Marine Lines, Colaba and Sandhurst Road fared most poorly on this index and were found to have the least tree cover in the city. Debi Goenka, executive trustee of the Conservation Action Trust and another invitee who spoke at the public consultation, however, criticised these numbers, saying, “The entire approach to the way these projections are being made is questionable because they are entirely theoretical and not rooted in any real ground truthing exercise. They have not been correlated with any verifiable information. For example, why has the civic body’s tree census not been shared with WRI for conducting the urban greenery assessment? A remote sensing exercise can be done with just a laptop, internet and working knowledge of GIS software. Where is the real world application in all this?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-natural-carbon-sinks-inadequate-to-offset-greenhouse-emissions-101631127222430.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Row over sale of prime land: BJP cries scam, seeks FIR against LIT chairman||Alleging a multi-crore scam into the sale of a prime chunk of land in Model Town Extension, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) held a protest against Ludhiana Improvement Trust chairman Raman Balasubramaniam and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu at the auctioned site near Dugri Canal Bridge on Wednesday.Seeking an FIR against the chairman for causing loss to the public exchequer and benefitting the bidder, BJP leader Bikram Sidhu alleged that the cabinet minister was also involved in the entire nexus and the fraud had been committed at his behest.BJP state executive committee member, Sidhu said the 3.79-acre land with a market value of around ₹350-400 crore was sold for around ₹98 crore in an auction on August 16. “Earlier the LIT chairman stated that the reserve price for the land was finalised by a committee led by DC, but the official denied fixing it, which points at a multi-crore scam, as the land has a much higher price. We have also written to home minister Amit Shah to mark a CBI inquiry in this matter,” he said.“If the authorities fail to lodge an FIR against the chairman, we will move the Punjab and Haryana high court,” said Sidhu. Party’s district president Pushpinder Singal also announced to lock down the office of LIT in Feroze Gandhi market on Thursday.Will file defamation case: Congress Former district president of the Congress, Ashwani Sharma said the BJP had lost its ground due to the farmer agitation and was levelling baseless allegations against Congress leaders. “LIT chairman has already clarified that everything was done as per norms and the reserve price was fixed by the committee led by DC. There might have been some misunderstanding when DC denied fixing the rate. E-auction was held and four bidders participated in it. The minister is not at all involved in the matter. There is no chance of any fraud. BJP leaders should submit a draft if they have a buyer to purchase the said land for ₹350 crore and the government will allot the land to their name,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/row-over-sale-of-prime-land-bjp-cries-scam-seeks-fir-against-lit-chairman-101631127164018.html
09-09-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow hospital conducts successful living donor liver transplant||“Only 10% of the patients in need of transplant are able to get an organ on time,” said Dr Mayank Somani, CEO at Apollomedics Super Specialty Hospital in Lucknow on Wednesday.Addressing a press conference on Wednesday to share a case of living donor transplant surgery where a 45-year-old patient underwent a successful liver transplant, Dr Somani said, “The patient was brought to the hospital in a very serious condition and was unconscious. The patient’s liver was in such bad shape that it was affecting his brain, lungs and kidney. The transplant took about 16 to 17 hours. After the transplant, both the patient and the donor, who was his son, are kept under observation.”Dr Ashish Mishra, consultant, liver transplant and HPB surgery at Apollomedics said that the patient’s brain was getting affected due to his liver failure, his kidney was deteriorating, and the lungs were also affected. He had jaundice and his condition was very serious. About 60 to 65% of the donor’s liver lobe was taken. The patient’s transplant lasted 16 to 17 hours while the donor’s surgery lasted 6 to 7 hours.Dr Mishra also said that due to increased alcohol consumption, bad eating habits, diabetes, and obesity, liver disorders are on a rise. Every year around 40 to 50 thousand people require liver transplant, but due to the unavailability of a healthy liver only 10% of them get an organ for transplant.Liver transplant is done by two techniques. The first technique is cadaver donor transplantation, in which organs are donated by a dying person. Second is living donor transplant where 60 to 65 percent of the liver of a relative of the patient is taken and transplanted by removing the old liver of the patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-hospital-conducts-successful-living-donor-liver-transplant-101631127102303.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC passes Rs69-crore proposal to beautify footpaths in Mumbai; BJP opposes||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will beautify and strengthen the footpaths in Wadala, Chembur, Bandra and Goregaon at a cost of ₹69 crore, according to the proposal passed in its standing committee on Wednesday.The project to beautify the footpaths in five locations in the city will be taken up on the line of the improved footpaths around Fort area in south Mumbai. According to the proposal, the work will be carried out at Lady Jehangir Marg from St Joseph Circle near Wadala station to Ruia College; Maharshi Dayanand Saraswati Marg from Diamond Garden to Chembur railway station; Sant Gyaneshwar Mandir Road and RKP Road in Bandra (East); and MG Road at Goregaon.However, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has questioned the proposal. Prabhakar Shinde, BJP corporator and group leader in BMC, said, “Why do we need to spend crores of rupees on beautification of footpaths? This does not make sense at all, especially when BMC has halted several road works citing fund crunch. We have opposed this proposal in the standing committee but it was still passed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-passes-rs69-crore-proposal-to-beautify-footpaths-in-mumbai-bjp-opposes-101631126983814.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||Byculla zoo saw 584 per cent rise in income after arrival of penguins in Mumbai||After the introduction of the penguins in 2017, the income of Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan or Byculla zoo increased by ₹12.26 crore which is a 584% increase, according to information from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Between April 2014 and March 2017 before the arrival of penguins, the zoo earned ₹2.10 crore over three years. However, for the same duration between April 2017 and March 2020, the zoo earned a total of ₹14.23 crore. Meanwhile, BMC has spent a total of ₹11.46 crore for the upkeep of penguins till September this year.The zoo generates income from charging entry fees to visitors which is set at ₹25 for children, ₹50 for adults and ₹100 for a family of four. The earlier entry fee, before the arrival of the penguins, was ₹5. In addition, the zoo also facilitated a monthly pass of ₹150 per person for regular morning walkers. However, since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out in March 2020, the zoo has been closed for visitors. The income generated from monthly passes has not been added to the gross income of the zoo mentioned above.For three years between April 2014 and March 2017, the zoo saw a total footfall of 3,880,948 people while that between April 2017 and March 2020 stood at 4,094,366.Earlier this week, the Congress had criticised BMC for floating tenders worth ₹15 crore for the upkeep of penguins over the next three years.A senior civic official said, “We floated tenders for ₹15 crore considering an escalation in cost. It is around the same amount of money required for upkeep of penguins since 2017. We only estimated an increase and floated bids for ₹15 crore.”In a statement on Wednesday, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “The total value of the tender for upkeep of penguins was ₹11.46 crore. It is amply clear that increase in the income of the zoo after arrival of penguins is more than the expenditure on maintenance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/byculla-zoo-saw-584-per-cent-rise-in-income-after-arrival-of-penguins-in-mumbai-101631126502398.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi food minister Imran Hussain chairs review meet on issuing new ration cards in city||Delhi food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain on Wednesday chaired a review meeting on issuing new ration cards in the national capital and issued directions to officials to ensure that cases of biometric mismatch don’t lead to hardships for beneficiaries.“Minister Imran Hussain chaired a meeting to review the pendency of applications for new Ration Cards and the addition of beneficiaries in existing Ration Cards in Delhi. Identification of eligible households is in progress and new ration cards will be issued to all eligible households in due process. New Ration Card will be issued on a First In First Out basis,” said the government in a press statement. Under the National Foods Security Act, states are alloted periodic quotas for issuing new ration cards which is ascertained by the centres depending on Census reports -- that are issued in every 10 days, often leading to long list of applications in districts which witnessed mass migration from other states. “Ration cardholders who are unable to authenticate their biometrics to receive their monthly quota of free ration in Delhi can now nominate any other person to collect it on their behalf. Direction has been issued to ensure that no public distribution system beneficiary is deprived of ration due to biometric failures, especially since ration shops in Delhi have implemented the electronic point of sale system,” said the statement.In July, Delhi resumed the biometric-based electronic point of sales (e-PoS) system for distribution of ration. The Capital currently has 1.78 million ration card holder households which translates to around 7.2 million beneficiaries, who are delivered ration through a network of around 2,000 fair price shops under the public distribution system.The total population of the city is an estimated 20 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-food-minister-imran-hussain-chairs-review-meet-on-issuing-new-ration-cards-in-city-101631126382643.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 11 new cases surface in Chandigarh tricity area||The tricity on Wednesday reported 11 fresh infections of Covid-19, a dip from13 cases on Tuesday. Four cases each were reported from Mohali and Panchkula, whereas three cases surfaced in Chandigarh.Chandigarh also added a backlog of 11 cases to its total tally of infected patients. However, no Covid-related death was reported in any of the three cities on Wednesday.In Mohali district, three cases were reported from Mohali and one was reported from Kharar. In Chandigarh, two cases surfaced in Sector 38 and one in Sector 27. In Panchkula, one case was reported from Dhan and three cases surfaced in Sector 19.The active case count in the tricity further dipped to 88 (46 cases in Mohali, 31 in Chandigarh and 11 in Panchkula) on Wednesday, against 91 cases on September 7.So far, 65,138 people in Chandigarh have tested positive for the virus: 64,292 have successfully recovered while 815 have succumbed to the disease. Of the 68,651 positive patients in Mohali, 67,545 have been cured while 1,060 have died.Panchkula’s total case tally stands at 30,697, of which 30,309 have been cured and 377 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/11-test-covid-positive-in-chandigarh-and-around-no-deaths-101631126205804.html
09-09-2021||Other||Prog launched in Lko to make lives better through literacy||LUCKNOW Global Dream launched the ‘Disruptive global movement for eradicating literacy poverty’ in Lucknow on the occasion of International Literacy Day. Global Dream is the flagship initiative of DEVI Sansthan (Dignity Education Vision International), an organization established by Sunita Gandhi, educationist and former World Bank economist. Global Dream offers a swift and effective 30 hour programme to achieve foundational literacy and numeracy as per he goals of the National Education Policy and NIPUN Bharat Mission. “We celebrated the work and experience of learners, community members, teachers and volunteers associated with the disruptive movement. We shared glimpses of community support and community role in sensitization towards literacy and the highlights of the first 100 talks of the D-Talks series on Disruptive Education,” said Sunita Gandhi, founder, Global Dream Movement for Literacy and DEVI Sansthan. Global Dream is a project of DEVI Sansthan. “Today, the event shared the ongoing literacy work in Chandan and Sugamau slums of Lucknow which is supported by SBI Life and aims to make the children of these two slums fully literate,” she said. “Many of them had never attended school and most of them did not know even a single letter when they started with us,” says Milita Halder, one of the four field staff members. “Literacy is a lifelong gift. Using Global Dream methodology and toolkits, it takes just 30 hours of a volunteer’s time to make a person both literate and numerate. We look forward to more volunteers joining the mission and by next International Literacy Day make this a city-wide and nation-wide reality.” said Sunita Gandhi. Global Dream had launched the D-Talks Series on disruptive education in June this year, with focus on the theme of universal foundational literacy and numeracy as per the goals of National Education Policy 2020 and UN Sustainable Development Goal 4. It aims to accomplish the 4 A-C-T-S of Awareness, Commitments, Targets and Sharing in the area of foundational literacy and numeracy. Since then, D-Talks has completed more than 100 talks with speakers from 14 countries from various sectors including government, corporate and CSR, NGOs, international foundations and other eminent educationists, as per a volunteer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prog-launched-to-make-lives-better-through-literacy-101631126202396.html
09-09-2021||Other||Ex-MP Atiq, wife’s entry in AIMIM creates new political equations in Prayagraj||Entry of ex-MP Atiq Ahmad and his wife Shaista Parveen in All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has created new political equations in Prayagraj. The AIMIM leaders believe that Shaista Parveen would prove to be a strong candidate from Allahabad (west) seat, which has been a stronghold of Atiq who is presently lodged at Ahmedabad Jail. AIMIM leaders feel Atiq Ahmad has considerable influence on Muslim voters not only in Prayagraj but even in Kanpur and many other seats in adjoining districts of Prayagraj. AIMIM district spokesperson Afsar Mehmood said, “Former MP Atiq Ahmad may contest from Kanpur cantonment seat while his wife Shaista Parveen may contest from Allahabad West constituency.” However, other party leaders said that some of Atiq’s family members may also contest from Fatehpur Sadar seat and Allahabad South constituency. Atiq has been looking for a political platform after his separation from Samajwadi Party some years back. Atiq is believed to have asked for tickets on five seats in the upcoming elections. However, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi has taken him and his wife in the party with a promise of three seats, they claim. In a letter addressed to media persons written from jail, Atiq Ahmad said that he was influenced by AIMIM national president Asaduddin Owaisi’s dedication towards the country, his belief in the constitution and his continuous struggle for the rights of Muslims and dalits. “To support him in his mission, I am joining the party,” Atiq said in the letter. On Monday, AIMIM chief declared that Atiq Ahmad, his wife Shaista Parveen and some other kin have joined the party at a press meet in Lucknow. Atiq, his kin and close aides have been facing a massive crackdown since the BJP government came to power in the state. Besides other properties, Atiq’s ancestral home was razed by administration and many of his aides were arrested and sent to jail on different charges. Moreover, a reward of ₹2 lakh was declared on his son Umar who is still at large while dozens of houses of his aides were brought down in the series of crackdown. Atiq’s younger brother Khalid Azeem was also arrested around a year ago and is presently lodged at Bareilly Jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exmp-atiq-wife-s-entry-in-aimim-creates-new-political-equations-in-prayagraj-101631126142326.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Supreme Court seeks status report from ED, Delhi Police in probe against Unitech||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Enforcement Directorate and Delhi Police to submit a status report by the end of this month on their probe into the alleged irregularities by realty firm Unitech Limited, and the recoveries made so far that could help the construction of the pending projects affecting 15,000 homebuyers.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah said: “Prior to the hearing fixed on September 30, the Directorate of Enforcement (ED) shall file a status report indicating the progress of investigation. A report shall also be filed by the investigating officer of the Delhi Police.”Last month, ED filed a status report in a sealed cover indicating that property worth ₹600 crore belonging to the former Unitech management and its directors Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra, who are currently in jail, was provisionally attached. It also found that an amount of ₹1,400 crore was laundered through various shell companies in undisclosed tax havens.A forensic audit ordered by the Supreme Court in 2018 revealed that the Chandra brothers siphoned off ₹1,749 crore to foreign countries including Cyprus, where an amount of ₹290 crore was traced. The auditor Samir Paranjpe working with Forensic and Investigation Service of M/s Grant Thornton India concluded that Chandra brothers collected more than ₹14,200 crore from nearly 30,000 homebuyers as investment in their 74 projects.Last year, the court approved a seven-member board of management to take over Unitech Limited and spearhead the construction of projects by assessing receivables and settling liabilities incurred by the former management.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) N Venkatraman, appearing for the new board, informed the court that two sub-committees will pursue dues payable to asset reconstruction companies (ARC) and banks on one hand, and the land-owning authorities of Haryana, Noida and Greater Noida on the other.Of the 15,000 flats to be constructed, Venkatraman said 8,008 units have been assigned to two ARCs – JM Financial and Suraksha. The bulk of these units, around 6,687, are with JM Financial, and Suraksha handles 1,321 units.The bench remarked, “We are concerned about the suraksha (protection) of the homebuyers.”The estimated cost worked out by the new Unitech management for constructing the 15,000 units is said to bein the range of ₹5,500-6,000 crore and the company proposes to hand over 2,500 dwelling units within a year and another 2,500 within the second year. For work to progress, the new management intends to monetise unsold inventory (in the form of land parcels) lying in the name of Unitech group that is said to fetchroughly ₹5,641 crore. In addition, the sale of unsold flats across various Unitech housing projects is also expected to contribute a little over ₹3,500 crore, according to a note prepared on behalf of the company by advocate Anubha Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/supreme-court-seeks-status-report-from-ed-delhi-police-in-probe-against-unitech-101631125968971.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Fake doctor’ who fled custody held four years later||A 58-year-old man, who was arrested in 2014 over suspicion of practising as a doctor without an MBBS degree, was arrested once again from southwest Delhi’s Mohan Garden near Uttam Nagar for his alleged involvement in seven cases of cheating and forgery.Police said the suspect, Mohammad Shabir Khan, who was living in a rented house and ran a small clinic, was evading arrest since 2017 for allegedly trying to usurp shops belonging to an old woman in Khanpur and was also wanted in two prior cases as well.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said Khan claimed to be holding a degree in Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) from Delhi University. “We are verifying his claims,” she said.DCP Rangnani said that the district’s special staff team had received information that a proclaimed offender (PO) had been living in Mohan Garden area, following which he was caught from his rented home.During interrogation, he revealed that on November 30, 2014, Delhi Medical Council officials raided his clinic at Devli Khanpur, following which he was arrested for the first time and remained in jail for nearly a fortnight.After securing bail, the DCP said, he stopped attending court proceedings and was declared a PO.Later in 2015, he allegedly cheated a foreign national then living in south Delhi of USD 8,000 on the pretext of converting the foreign currency into Indian currency. As surety, he leased a house he had rented to the woman allegedly using forged documents and posing as its owner.“Khan was arrested in that case as well but jumped the bail and never joined the court proceedings,” said DCP Rangnani.In 2017, Khan was again booked for cheating and forgery after he allegedly tried to usurp the property of an elderly woman in Khanpur who had rented out her shop to him for running his clinic. Khan allegedly prepared forged documents of the shop and stopped paying the rent.“When the elderly woman filed a police complaint, Khan allegedly broke locks of two more shops of the woman and began claiming to be their owners. When the police started looking for him, Khan fled and was never arrested. There were four more cases that were filed against him on the directions of different courts,” added the DCP.Police said that Khan’s wife and two children live in a rented house in Lajpat Nagar while he changed his mobile number and began living in Mohan Garden to avoid his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhifake-doctor-who-fled-custody-held-four-years-later-101631125903634.html
09-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai unlikely to get heavy rain next week, says IMD||The city received heavy showers early on Wednesday, recording 78.7mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending at 8.30am. Most of the rainfall was recorded after 9pm on Tuesday, owing to the passage of a low-pressure zone originating from the Bay of Bengal over the Konkan coast. Heavy rains are unlikely to return to Mumbai for at least another week, with India Meteorological Department (IMD) having placed the city under a green category weather alert till September 12, indicating only moderate rain.Despite predictions of heavy rains during the day, Mumbai saw only light to moderate rains, recording only 1.8mm of rain at the IMD’s Santacruz observatory.“Rains which began late Tuesday were the result of easterly winds, the low-pressure area passing almost directly over northern Mumbai. As a result, the suburbs got more rain than south Mumbai. The low-pressure area travelled quite fast, and since it moved beyond the city toward Gujarat by morning, there was no waterlogging or very heavy downpour in the city,” said a meteorologist with the IMD’s regional centre in Mumbai.A popular independent weather forecaster, who goes by the name Weatherman of Mumbai on social media, said Mumbai had “a narrow miss” on Wednesday morning after initially speculating that the city may receive over 300mm of rain between September 7 and 8. Doppler radar images from Wednesday morning showed rain-bearing clouds dumping moisture a few kilometres off the coast, after being pushed seaward by easterly winds. Mumbai received few isolated showers again in the evening as westerly winds resumed.Meanwhile, Palghar and Thane have been placed under a yellow alert for Thursday, indicating chances of heavy rain at isolated locations. Ratnagiri and Raigad districts, however, are expected to see continuous rains till September 15, and have been placed under an orange alert on September 11 and 12, indicating widespread heavy rain with very heavy rain at isolated locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-unlikely-to-get-heavy-rain-next-week-says-imd-101631125902396.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Elevated taxiway at Delhi airport to be completed by December 2022||New Delhi: An elevated cross taxiway that will help cut taxiing time and save fuel at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport will be ready by December 2022, the airport operator said on Wednesday.Desribing it as India’s first ever elevated taxiway, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said 60% work on the facility has been completed. Once the new corridor is commissioned, the taxiing distance for aircrafts at Delhi airport will go down from the current 9km to 2km as the facility will allow planes to go straight towards Terminal 1 from the runway or vice-versa instead of going around runway 11/29.Currently, after landing at runway 29/11 or to take-off from there, an aircraft has to cover a distance of about 9km.DIAL officials said cutting taxiing time for aircraft will also help smoothen the movement of flights and reduce inconvenience to the passengers who had to remain seated inside the plans and wait at least 15 minutes to reach the terminal.Earlier, the project was to be completed by March 2022, however, due to the several interruptions, including the Covid-19 lockdowns last year, the deadline was pushed to December 2022. The new taxiway is part of the ₹9,000-crore phase 3 expansion of the Delhi airport, DIAL officials said.There are three runways at IGI airport. Runway 09/27, 10/28 and 11/29. Runway 09/27 and 10/28 are on northern side of Terminal 3, close to Terminal 1. Runway 11/29 is near Terminal 3 on southern side. The elevated taxiway will provide quick access to planes landing on Runway 11/29, especially those that land from Dwarka side, and have to go to Terminal 1.They said by reducing the travel time, the taxiway will also help airlines save 350kg of fuel for each journey and cut 55,000 tonnes of carbon-di-oxide emissions annually, officials said.The elevated taxiway will allow aircrafts to move between two runways on either side of the main access road to terminal 3, so as to enhance the airside capacity. DIAL officials said that at present, after landing at runway 29/11 or to take off from this runway of IGI airport, an aircraft has to cover a distance of approximately nine Kilometres.DIAL officials said often flights are delayed as they prefer using the terminal closer to where they are parked. But with the new taxiway, an aircraft at T3 will have to travel only two kilometres to take-off from the other runway. Not just this, using this taxiway, planes will now be able to vacate the runway sooner for the other flights to land, which would make the process smother and faster, they said.The officials said the new facility will be broad enough to accommodate a wide-body aircraft such as the A-380.As part of the IGI airport expansion plan, DIAL is carrying out integration of the departure and arrival terminals at T-1, construction of new apron (area where aircraft are parked, refueled and boarded) at T- 1, 2.1-kilometre-long elevated taxiway and modifications at T3. A fourth runway parallel to runway 11/29 on the south side, with a length of 4400 metres, will also be constructed to increase air traffic capacity, DIAL officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-taxiway-at-delhi-airport-to-help-cut-waiting-time-before-deboarding-save-airlines-fuel-101631125842420.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Week after reopening, attendance picks up in Delhi schools||A week after schools across the national capital restarted in-person sessions for students from classes 9-12, school authorities said attendance has started picking up in private and government institutions even as many parents and teachers also said that lack of bus services deterred many from sending their children to schools.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said while her school had been conducting practical classes till last week, theory classes started this week saw a good turnout. “The attendance has definitely gone up since last week when we were only holding practical classes. There has been a steady increase in attendance and we expect the trend to continue,” said Joshi.She said that both teachers and students were enjoying physical classroom sessions, adding that it is, in turn, nudging more parents to send their children to schools.“We have been getting late-night calls from parents enquiring if they can send their children to school the next morning. They are gaining confidence seeing other children turn up for school,” said Joshi, adding that the number of children attending sessions rose from 30 on Monday to 45 on Wednesday.“Physical classes also allow us to assess how students are receiving the lessons... In an online class, students who are a little shy might not raise queries but in a physical class, I can see the body language and expressions of students and reach out to them if I feel that they are unable to understand something,” said Joshi. The institute does not have a school bus service currently, and parents are required to pick up and drop students. In some cases, senior students are also opting for public transport facilities. At Government Co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Sector 21, Rohini, principal Sukhbir Singh Yadav said that around 70% of students from classes 9-12 attended school until last week, adding that it rose to 81% this week. “We have stopped online sessions for classes 10 and 12 since around 80% of students have started coming to school,” said Yadav, adding that 333 students out of 421 students in class 11 attended school on Wednesday.Malini Narayanan, principal of Army Public School in Shankar Vihar and chairperson of National Progressive Schools’ Conference, which has 122 schools under it, too said the attendance had steadily picked up over the week. “We started sessions for students in classes 10 and 12, and later added Class 11. Children are quite excited about coming to school due to which the attendance is increasing. Hopefully, we will also start regular classes for students in Class 9 soon,” said Narayanan.She said that the school had been receiving requests from parents to restart bus services, adding that it will be resumed from Thursday.“We wanted to help the parents out since they shared that it was difficult to pick up and drop children on a work day. The bus service will start tomorrow (Thursday) on select routes since the school is only partially open,” said Narayanan.At DPS Mathura Road, principal Deeksha Khera said classes are continuing in the online mode as well. “In Class 12, we are seeing full attendance for the physical practical sessions. As far as other classes are concerned, we are hoping that the attendance will gradually increase in the coming days,” said Khera. A few schools said that they were expecting the attendance to increase after ongoing exams.Divya Bhatia, principal of Amity International School, Saket, said, “We also have our first term exams right now. We expect that more children will start coming to school for offline classes after that.”Meanwhile, parents’ associations said that the lack of school bus service prevented many students from attending physical classes. Aprajita Gautam, president of the Delhi Parents’ Association, said that picking and dropping children was not convenient for parents, especially for those who lived far off from the school. “Even though 20-30% students are going for physical classes in private schools, those who want to send their children are unable to do so in the absence of bus service,” said Gautam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/week-after-reopening-attendance-picks-up-in-delhi-schools-101631125244286.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Case against chief of Afghan solidarity body for protest outside UNHRC||The Delhi Police on Wednesday said they registered a case against Afghan Solidarity Committee chief Ahmad Zia Ghani for allegedly violating Covid-19 guidelines during their protest outside the United Nations High Commissioner of Refugees (UNHCR) in south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar.The first information report (FIR) under the Indian Penal Code’s section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) was registered at the Vasant Vihar police station on the complaint of sub-inspector Deepak Kumar Tanwar on August 31. No arrest has been made in the case, so far, the police said.In his complaint, the sub-inspector mentioned that neither Ghani, who was organiser of the agitation, nor other Afghan protesters were wearing masks or maintaining social distancing. Also, no permission had been taken from the concerned authorities for holding the protest. The UNHCR office and local resident welfare (RWA) had also lodged complaints regarding Covid-19 violations during the protest. Accordingly, the FIR was registered, said a police officer. Ghani could not be contacted for his comment on the FIR as calls and a text message sent to him remained unanswered.The Delhi Police on Tuesday filed a status report in the high court stating that the protest by Afghan refugees was withdrawn from outside the UNHCR office. The court was hearing a petition filed by the Vasant Vihar Welfare Association seeking the removal of protestors in the proximity of residential areas.The agitation, led by the Afghan Solidarity Committee, started on August 23 and saw protesters arriving from Lajpat Nagar, Bhogal, Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad, among other places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/case-filed-against-afghan-solidarity-committee-chief-for-allegedly-flouting-covid-norms-during-stir-outside-unhcr-office-in-delhi-101631124943730.html
09-09-2021||Pune||PMC accused of inaction on conservation of Bavdhan spring||PUNE Even as various agencies have directed the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to conserve the natural springs in Bavdhan, the civic body has not acted, allege local residents and environmentalists.The Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MWRRA) had in December 2020 directed the PMC to not allow any construction in the vicinity of the spring. Ramnath Sonawane, secretary, MWRRA said, “Following the Section 20 of Groundwater Act (2009), and after a visit to the site, we requested the district SDO to declare the Bavdhan natural spring as a protective stream. This visit was done upon the complaint from Shailendra Patel, and we called the PMC officials for a meeting in December 2020. The authority has taken cognizance and issued directives six months ago to PMC. The authority will look into the matter if PMC does not take adequate steps and will intervene if required.”Anirudha Pawaskar, head, Water department PMC. “The tehsildar has already put out the notification and declared the area as protected area. We have informed the building department to not give any permissions for any kind of development and following the notification, we are deliberating on retaining the spring as it, or putting the water to use depending on its potability as a tanker point, or using it for gardens.”Hindustan Times had highlighted the issue of the natural springs in 2018. In its notification dated December 17, 2020, MWRRA asked for a committee of five members to prepare an action plan within 15 days on ways to conserve the spring. According to Bavdhan resident and member of Jal-Devata Seva Abhiyan, Shailendra Patel, citizens were trying to persuade the municipal officials to preserve this “heritage site”. “If the PMC does not reserve the area around spring in the development plan and conserve it, we will go to NGT,” said Patel, who was joined by Sunil Joshi (Samagra Nadi Parivar), Virendra Chitrav (Ramnadi restoration mission), Sachin Punekar (BioSpehere), Pushar Kulkarni (Vasundhara Abhiyan) and others during a press conference on Wednesday. The activists said that despite repeated follow up with PMC, there has been no response. “In absence of any action, we plan to move to NGT,” said the members. For the past five years, Patel corresponded with several authorities, officials, ecologists, geologists, historians to help protect the natural spring from destruction. Patel claimed that from its origin in Bhukum till Someshwarwadi, there are 147 ‘live’ streams feeding water to the Ramnadi throughout the year. Earlier, in a letter written to PMC Commissioner Vikram Kumar on July 6, 2021, GSDA deputy director Milind Deshpande said, “The Bavdhan spring needs to be conserved as per sections 21-24 of Maharashtra Groundwater (development and Management) Act.” Deshpande’s letter was in response to submissions made by Patel. The PMC development plan showed this area under a Yellow Zone or residential zone and as privately owned. According to a paper released by the Deccan College Post graduate and Research Institute, “This is a spring formed between two hard rock flows of upper vesicular (porous) and lower compact Basalt (non-porous). Occurrence of water-yielding contact spring in Deccan traps is a rare phenomenon. This is an endangered natural feature in Pune city. The spring currently yields water enough to run a 5hp motor continuously. This can be an important drinking water source for the community and reduce the burden on the corporation. Bavdhan spring must be protected and conserved. Water can be stored in a storage tank and supplied for drinking.” In a report from the Central Groundwater Board, official Dr Upendra Dhonde said, “The yield of Bavdhan spring monitored during May 2017 was 90 lpm i.e. more than 0.1 million litres per day, but shows a declining trend due to land use change and excessive pumping. The region needs urgent protection.” The Ecological Society, a Pune-based ecological restoration NGO created a detailed inventory of the flora and fauna of the spring region as well as a restoration plan Under the Groundwater Act (2009), MWRRA is the Groundwater Authority of Maharashtra, and visited the site in December 2018, and immediately directed the sub-divisional officer (Revenue) as the district authority under the Groundwater Act 2009, to notify the spring as a public drinking water source.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-accused-of-inaction-on-conservation-of-bavdhan-spring-101631124944225.html
09-09-2021||Pune||Pune Metro work at Sambhaji bridge on hold as mandals demand increase in viaduct height||PUNE After Ganesh mandals raised an objection to the height of a viaduct which is part of the Pune Metro work on Sambhaji bridge, originally known as Lakdi Pul, the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro) has decided to hold work temporarily. This can further delay the Metro work. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol has also instructed Maha- Metro to hold discussions with Ganesh mandals to find a solution. Maha-Metro, which is executing the Pune Metro project, started work to install a 50m long steel girder across Sambhaji bridge on Monday night. However, Ganesh mandal workers gathered at the spot to oppose work, stating that the height of the girder citing will obstruct the Ganesh immersion procession.The girder is 20m in height and is the longest on the Vanaz-Civil court metro Stretch. Mandal workers want to increase the height of the girder from 20 feet to 28 feet. The Ganesh procession uses this route for immersions, a tradition in the city for decades. “I have given instruction to Maha-Metro to stop work. We will call a meeting of mandal workers to resolve the issue,” said Mohol. Maha-Metro has already invoked traffic diversions due to closure of Lakdi Pul for the past two weeks - from August 24 to September 12. Atul Gadgil, director of Maha-Metro said, “We have got letters from mandals based in the peth areas to keep the height of the girder at 28 feet. They have given a letter to us on September 3, 2021. As per guidelines, we have kept the height at 20 feet. We are examining what could be the alternative. At present, we have stopped the work.” “We have decided to measure the height of idols along with the chariot. We have examined and measured the height of idols of two mandals -Tulshibaug and Ganpati chowk Mitra Manadal so far. The Ganesh idol height is 16 feet, but along with other decorations and chariot it goes to 24 feet. We will take a decision after completing the process to redesign or find some other alternative.” Maha-Metro has announced that it will start passenger service by December on both corridors - Vanaz to Ramwadi and PCMC to Swargate. Hemant Sonawane, general manager of Maha-Metro said, “We have started preliminary work on Sambhaji bridge. We have already conducted two meetings with office bearers of Ganesh mandals.” The Vanaz to Garware college metro stretch is six-km long and it is a priority stretch on the Vanaz-Ramwadi metro corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/metro-work-at-sambhaji-bridge-on-hold-as-mandals-demand-increase-in-viaduct-height-101631124886729.html
09-09-2021||Pune||Restore Shaniwarwada to its past glory: Patil’s request to Amit Shah||PUNE: City-based Thorle Bajirao Pratishthan has requested the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and union home minister Amit Shah through BJP MLA Chandrakant Patil to restore the crumbling Shaniwarwada back to its past glory and revive interest in the rich history and legacy of the Peshwas.Pratishthan president Air Marshal (retired) Bhushan Gokhale; secretary Kundan Sathe; trustee Srikant Nagarkar; and BJP spokesperson Sandeep Khardekar met Patil to draw his attention to the need for restoration of this historic monument, citing the Peshwas’ timeless historic and cultural contributions to the nation.Patil in a separate letter to Shah sought immediate refurbishment of the monument. “Shrimant Bajirao Peshwa laid the foundation and constructed this monument in 1731 from where he ruled the entire country and region for the next 85 years. The British, in 1818, with the sinister intention of tarnishing the image of the monument, converted the historic site into a vegetable market and mental asylum. In 1828, the monument caught fire and sustained the onslaught for the next seven days because of which it was damaged to a great extent. At one point of time, there were 1,000 fountains inside with water tanks, the remnants of which are visible till today. With the passage of time, the historic remnants of Shaniwarwada such as its 300-year-old doors, walls and wall paintings depicting Maratha art, are getting worn out. If proper attention is not given, the rich history of the Maratha kingdom will disappear into oblivion. The house of Bajirao Peshwa was the centre of governance and rule at that time and this precious heritage has to be conserved and protected at all costs,” Patil wrote in his letter to the union home minister.On the occasion of the 288th anniversary of Shaniwarwada on January 22, 2020, the descendants of the Peshwas visited the monument like every year and issues regarding maintenance cropped up during the celebrations, much to the embarrassment of the civic authorities. Today, a rickety edifice complete with worn-out iron-and-wood décor and water seepages greets tourists who land at the Shaniwarwada . It comes as no surprise that historians and conservationists have been demanding its immediate restoration for the longest time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/restore-shaniwarwada-to-its-past-glory-patil-s-request-to-amit-shah-101631124886177.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Centre sets up panel to assess environmental impacts of projects in Delhi||The Union environment ministry has constituted a State Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority to evaluate projects in the city, a move that Delhi ministers said will make it easier to handle applications in the city.The authority was defunct for almost three years, till the September 6 gazette order.The authority will be headed by former Delhi Public Works Department engineer-in-chief Sarvagya Srivastava, who also served as the agency’s principal secretary for a brief duration. Reena Gupta, advisor to the Delhi government, will be a member of the panel, and the state’s special secretary (environment)has been named member secretary.Srivastava was with the Delhi PWD for 11 years and has been involved in the planning of crucial road infrastructure projects in the city.Each of the authority’s members will have three-year tenures.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said that the authority will be tasked with protecting the environment and added that the new committee will make it easier to handle applications.The ministry has also constituted a 13-member State Level Expert Appraisal Committee with experts from various fields. The committee will have a three-year tenure.In absence of the SEIAA and SECA, all Delhi related projects were referred to the Union ministry’s Expert Appraisal Committee for clearance.In 2020, the Delhi government had sent a proposal for reconstitution of SEIAA and SEAC along with names of experts to the central government, said Rai.Rai said, “Category ‘B’ projects requiring environmental clearance will not have to wait for the central government’s approval and approval will now be given in a fast-tracked manner by the Delhi government itself. As much as fast tracking will be a sought after solution, we will also make the system more robust and transparent. Environment protection is one of the prime responsibilities of the Delhi Government and we will not compromise upon it.”According to the Environment Protection Rules, all category ‘A’ projects (mega projects) are approved by an Expert Appraisal Committee of the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change. All category ‘B’ projects (large projects) are approved by the SEIAA.The authority, which will hold monthly meetings, can order regular inspection of project sites that have been given environment clearance to ensure that all norms are being followed. Citizens can also approach the authority to report violations or raise issues.Reena Gupta, Member, SEIAA said, “We are very happy that Delhi SEIAA has been reconstituted by the Central Government. Now approval and monitoring decisions can be taken at the State Level. We look forward to making the EIA process more robust and transparent as envisaged under the law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-sets-up-panel-to-assess-environmental-impacts-of-projects-in-delhi-101631124762896.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Court takes cognisance of ED chargesheet against journalist Rajeev Sharma||A city court on Tuesday took cognizance of the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) charge sheet alleging money laundering by journalist Rajeev Sharma, who was arrested for allegedly leaking classified information to Chinese intelligence agencies, a Chinese national Qing Shi and a Nepal national Sher Singh.The court said it prima facie found a case under sections of 3 and 4 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) after hearing the submission of the public prosecutor and noting the available material on record. The two sections are related to money laundering and involvement in laundering proceeds of crime directly or indirectly.On September 14, 2020, Sharma, a freelance journalist, was arrested by the Delhi Police’s special cell for allegedly passing on classified information to Chinese intelligence agencies. Police also arrested Shi and Nepal national, Sher Singh alias Sher Bahadur, for allegedly running shell companies through which they received money from Chinese agencies. In July 2021, ED filed a case against the three on the basis of the Delhi Police’s charge sheet filed in December 2020.The court has fixed October 4 as the next date of hearing.The three accused are currently in judicial custody in the alleged money laundering case.In the police’s charge sheet, seen by HT, investigators claimed that Sharma received money from his handler, identified as George, through two shell companies based in Mahipalpur. The charge sheet names the two companies, MZ Mall and MZ Pharmacy, which were allegedly run by Shi and two other Chinese nationals, Zhang Zeng and Zhang Lixia. According to the charge sheet, Zeng and Lixia could not be arrested as they had left for China and could not return to India because of the Covid-19 lockdown.The charge sheet says that though Singh was also shown as a co-director in MZ Pharmacy along with Shi, adding that in reality, he was only a driver. A bank statement submitted to the ED, which was also mentioned in the charge sheet, shows that there were cash transfers of around ₹2 crore in the account of MZ Pharmacy.The charge sheet also has the statement of the landlord of the Mahipalpur property and his bank statements, to show that the two office spaces were rented for ₹70,000 per month since September 2019.Meanwhile, Sharma’s counsel, Amish Aggarwala, denied the charges.“We will approach high court to quash the charge sheet. Merely saying that my client routed money through shell companies is not enough. The ED filed the charge sheet on the basis of the one filed by the police which claimed laundering through shell companies. However, police and ED have not been able to produce any evidence that the so called companies were shell companies. They have no evidence against my client. They have also alleged that my client was in contact with a woman who was an agent of Chinese intelligence agencies. But the ED and police has brought no evidence to support the claim that she is an agent of China. There is no evidence from officers of the Defence Ministry or the Indian Army that the alleged seized document was a secret file,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/espionage-case-court-takes-cognisance-of-ed-chargesheet-against-journalist-two-others-for-money-laundering-101631124402423.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||149 cement mixer trucks fined by traffic police for dirt-covered number plates||The Delhi traffic police has fined 149 cement mixer trucks for plying with dirty or obscured number plates to avoid prosecution for traffic violations, senior officers said on Wednesday. The fines came during a special drive that is being carried out across the city since the past 10 days, especially in areas where construction work in on-going, the officers said.They said the owners and drivers of the concrete mixer trucks “deliberately” kept the number plates dirty so that the registration number is not captured on cameras installed across the city to detect violations such as red light jumping or speeding. Dirty plates also helped them evade identification in case of any hit-and-run accident, the officers said.Special commissioner of police (traffic) Muktesh Chander said there have been several accidents involving concrete mixer trucks. Data on the exact number of accidents caused by such trucks is not immediately available, Chander said. On December 27, 2020, a 55-year-old man was killed and six others injured when a mini truck in which they were travelling, rammed a parked cement mixer truck at Nehru Place flyover in south-east Delhi.The special drive to prosecute cement mixer trucks having obscure or dirty number plates began on August 28 after Chander spotted one such vehicle violating traffic rules while he was on field duty near Ashram Chowk.“When the truck was stopped, its rear registration plate was not visible. It took us at least 10 minutes to remove the concrete residue from the plate. As more such violations were found, we decided to launch a special drive to prosecute such trucks,” said the special commissioner.According to traffic rules, a vehicle is fined ₹5,000 for faulty or dirty registration plates in the first instance. A second violation will entail a fine of ₹10,000, he said.A traffic police officer said for the first two-three days of the drive, 20 to 30 such vehicles were fined but the number started decreasing as the drive progressed. “The prosecutions have had a marked effect as we now come across cement mixer trucks with the entire body crusted over concrete residue, but shiny number plates,” the officer said, asking not to be named.Chander used his Twitter handle to post photographs of the impact the drive has had. He said soon, the drive will cover other vehicles too that carry building construction material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/149-cement-mixer-trucks-fined-by-traffic-police-for-dirt-covered-number-plates-101631123022740.html
09-09-2021||Delhi||Three held for attacking, robbing sub-inspector in southwest Delhi||Four days after a sub-inspector was waylaid and robbed of ₹40,000 cash and other valuables in southwest Delhi, the city police on Wednesday arrested three men for the crime and allegedly recovered the stolen items from their possession.According to police, sub-inspector Kunal Kumar posted at southwest Delhi’s Bindapur, was heading home to Munirka on a bike around 10.30pm on Saturday when the three men, Mohommad Nikail, Parvez Alam and Rhythm Parcha, also on a bike, allegedly attacked and robbed him near Malai Mandir in southwest Delhi’s Palam Marg.Police said they registered a case under sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC at the Vasant Vihar police station immediately after the incidentPolice said that the alleged attackers were arrested using leads generated from CCTV cameras near the crime spot.Two days ago, a woman cop’s chased and caught two men who allegedly snatched her phone in Rohini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-held-for-attacking-robbing-si-in-southwest-delhi-101631122783485.html
09-09-2021||Pune||More than 6 mn await second vaccine dose, 2 mn first dose in Pune district||Pune: As per the Co-WIN dashboard, Pune has seen over 8.85 million vaccinations in the district of which 6.36 million have got their first dose and 2.48 million have got both doses. As per the district’s estimated population, more than 8.53 million people are eligible to get the vaccine in Pune. So, 6.05 million still await their second dose and are yet to be fully vaccinated and 2.17 million are yet to get their first dose. As of Wednesday evening, Pune has reported more than 95,000 vaccinations on the day which took the total count to 8,851,036 of which 6,365,663 have got their first shot and 2,485,373 have been fully vaccinated. Of these, 8,070,838 were Covishield shots, 732,883 have got Covaxin and 47,315 have got Sputnik shots. The highest vaccination was conducted in the age group of 18-45 years where 4,727,597 vaccines were administered, 2,408,598 vaccines were administered in the age group of 45-60 years and above 60 years 1,714,841 beneficiaries got the shot. In the past few days due to a large supply of vaccines to the district, Pune has been able to vaccinate a large number of people in a day which made Pune as the first and only district in the state to vaccinate more than 0.2 million doses in a day on August 31 when a private company donated a large number of vaccines. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director (health) for Pune region, said, “As of now, it would be difficult to give an exact timeline as to when the district could be fully vaccinated since it depends on the supply of vaccine. For the past 15 days the supply has been much better than the past 2-3 months. If the current supply continues then we would be able to vaccinate the entire population in the next three to three and a half months.” Dr HK Sale, executive director of Noble Hospitals, said, “We have now very few patients who are on the ventilator or ICU due to Covid-19. In the past few months, we have observed that these patients who get critical due to Covid are those who live in the periphery of the city and are not vaccinated. So, in the past four months, as more people are being fully vaccinated the number of ICU patients has gone down.” In an ideal situation when about 0.1 million doses are administered daily it would still take more than two months for the entire district’s eligible population, aged more than 18 years to be fully vaccinated considering the absolute numbers, according to medical experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/more-than-6-mn-await-second-vaccine-dose-2-mn-first-dose-in-pune-district-101631115761204.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: LIP seeks FIR against 2 PSPCL staffers over ‘corrupt’ practices||Seeking an FIR against a sub-divisional officer (SDO) and junior engineer (JE) of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) deputed at the power sub-station in Sarinh village (Gill constituency) over alleged corruption, members of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) protested outside the office of PSPCL Ludhiana chief engineer Bhupinder Khosla at Ferozepur road on Wednesday. LIP president Simarjeet Singh Bains also met Kholsa and sought action against the officials. Accompanied by a number of residents and industrialists, the LIP members accused the officials of demanding bribe and harassing residents who refused to pay. LIP in-charge of Gill constituency, Sunny Kainth, said, “The SDO and JE have employed a private person, who accepts bribe on their behalf. Recently, the SDO also facilitated laying down of power supply lines at an illegal colony in Khanpur village. Despite repeated complaints, no action has been taken against them. A complaint against the officials has also been sent to the chief minister’s office.”“We had to sit on the floor of the chief engineer’s office, as no action was taken against the corrupt officials and no official came to meet us while we were protesting,” said Kainth. Meanwhile, Khosla stated that an inquiry has been marked in this case to two superintending engineers and required action will be taken if any anomalies are found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lip-seeks-fir-against-2-pspcl-staffers-over-corrupt-practices-101631113960979.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Agricultural University imparts training to farmer producer organisations||A three-day training course on “agriculture-related activities for farmer producer organisations (FPOs)” concluded at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Wednesday. A total of 25 FPOs participated in the course, which was organised by the directorate of extension education, PAU, in association with NABARD.Kuldeep Singh, head, department of extension education, said that farmers should form FPOs to enhance their income. Dr TS Riar, additional director of communication, spoke about the role being played by FPOs in modern agriculture.MS Alam, Satish Kumar Sharma, Sanjeev Rattan Sharma and Tarsem Chand explained honey production and suitable machinery for it, machinery for seed treatment and quality, post-harvest management of fruits and vegetable and machinery for processing of oilseeds, pulses and turmeric.Sandhya Singh, Khushdeep Dharni and Ramandeep Singh demonstrated the preparation of various food products from cereals, agri-business model and marketing and branding of products. Sukhpreet Kaur and Manpreet Kaur imparted practical training in the preparation of various food items from fruits and vegetables. Lavleesh Garg, extension scientist, informed the participants about skill development trainings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-imparts-training-to-fpos-101631108964425.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Athletes in Ludhiana await reopening of messes for proper diet||With messes at sports stadiums and academies in Ludhiana closed since the Covid lockdown was imposed in March last year, budding athletes from the district are struggling to even meet their basic dietary requirements .The closing of these messes, which were funded through government grants, is largely affecting players from economically weaker backgrounds, including those who brought laurels to the state at national level.One such mess is located at Guru Nanak Stadium, which has also been closed since the lockdown was imposed. The players earlier used to get nutritious food from here, which according to them was among the key factors for their performance at the state and national levels.Rohit Kumar, 16, the son of a labourer from Kotkapura in Faridkot, is a national NBA player in junior category and trains at District Basketball Academy here. “My father works really hard to feed the family and is the sole bread earner. Protein is essential for any athlete and we used to get eggs, milk, pulses and fruits at our mess pre-lockdown. Now, my father also bears the baggage of my food expenses, along with the sports equipment and school fees. I can’t even think of eating a non-vegetarian diet anymore,” he said.Rohit’s father Ramesh Kumar said that he doesn’t expect anything from the government. “I am sure that despite the odds, my son who bagged medals at state and national level, will make India proud. But, the government has turned a blind eye. I feel helpless at times,” he said. Indian NBA sensation Princepal Singh, who also trains at DBA, said that a player cannot excel without a proper diet. “It is disturbing to see how our young players are being neglected by the government here. They should open all the messes and support the players, so that they can bring laurels to the country at international level”, averred Prince.The situation is no different for football and badminton players. Mohinder Singh Grewal, president of the District Badminton Association Ludhiana (DBAL), said that there has been minimal help from the government in helping the athletes. “It is great to see governments honouring our Olympic heroes after they bagged medals for the country. But, it is very important for officials to understand that players need proper care from the beginning. Only then, will we be able to surpass China or USA in the medal tally”, said Grewal.Meanwhile, Ravinder Singh, district sports officer, said that the government is waiting for things to get back normal as the third covid wave is suspected. “Not many players are turning back to the grounds for now and third wave is expected too, so the government is yet to take decision on reopening messes”, said Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/players-struggling-for-proper-diet-amid-closed-messed-101631107224112.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Adopt maize cultivation, organic farming: Punjab Agricultural University V-C to farmers||A series of virtual kisan melas being held by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) kicked at Ballowal Saunkhri in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district on Wednesday. It was attended by farmers, farm women and rural youths. The theme of the mela was: “efficient paddy straw management keeps mother earth exultant.”Inaugurating the mela, Anirudh Tewari, additional chief secretary (development), Punjab, and vice-chancellor of PAU, said, the prosperity of the farmers is one of the thrust areas of the state government. Expressing concern over soil health and groundwater situation in Kandi area, he urged the farmers to adopt PAU recommended crop system for the region. He stressed upon promoting maize cultivation and organic farming in the area. PAU’s College of Agriculture has been established at Ballowal Saunkhri to conduct research and provide solutions to agriculture-related problems of the Kandi region and motivate youngsters to adopt agriculture as a profession. Tewari called upon the farmers to say no to paddy straw burning and adopt technologies such as happy seeder and super seeder for its management. Highlighting the latest research recommendations made by PAU, Dr Navtej Singh Bains, director of research, said the university has developed new varieties such as PBW 803, PBW 824 and PBW 869 of wheat; BL 44 of berseem and OL 15 of oats for general cultivation in Punjab.He said that PAU has developed a new machine, “PAU smart seeder”, for the management of paddy straw. It manages paddy residues by incorporation and surface mulching and retains benefits of happy seeder and super seeder in a single machine, he added.Dr Jaskarn Singh Mahal, director of extension education, said the virtual melas will provide in-depth knowledge about agriculture and allied occupations to the farmers and farm women and help boost their earnings. During the mela, panel discussions were held on judicious water use for crop production and agricultural diversification opportunities in Kandi region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/adopt-maize-cultivation-organic-farming-in-kandi-pau-vc-101631106684031.html
09-09-2021||Kolkata||Bombs hurled at BJP MP Arjun Singh’s house in West Bengal, probe on||At least three crude bombs were hurled by miscreants outside the residence of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Arjun Singh in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district on Wednesday, police said, adding that two persons were detained in connection with the matter. The legislator from Barrackpore was not at home and no one was injured in the incident. According to the police, around six to seven people came out of Mazdoor Bhavan, Singh’s residence-cum-office in Bhatpara, early on Wednesday and allegedly assaulted a man sitting at a tea stall nearby. The man left the spot but returned a few minutes later with his associates who hurled bombs at the MP’s residence, they added.“We received information that around 6:30 am, three crude bombs were hurled outside Mazdoor Bhavan. We have received a complaint. An investigation is underway. Two persons have been detained,” a senior police officer in Barrackpore said on condition of anonymity. Eyewitnesses said that two crude bombs hit the main gate of Singh’s residence and the third landed within the premises. Reacting to the explosions, Singh told reporters: “My house was attacked soon after the party made me the observer for the Bhabanipur by-polls from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting. It was to scare me so that I would remain inside the house. Around a month ago, I had already informed the governor in a confidential report that attempts were being made to murder me.” The BJP leader was referring to the bypolls slated for September 30 which Banerjee has to win to become a member of the assembly in order to continue in the chair. Banerjee had lost her seat to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari with a narrow margin from Nandigram seat in the April elections. While she took oath on May 5, she has to get elected within six months to continue as chief minister. “I want an NIA probe into the incident as I do not have faith in the state police,” the BJP legislator was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Extending support to his party colleague, Adhikari tweeted: “Hurling bombs at MP @ArjunsinghWB’s residence validates our allegation that the perpetrators have been assured of impunity by their handlers within WB Administration. Otherwise they won’t dare to execute such act. “However, @ArjunsinghWB is made of steel, won’t be intimidated.” The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) denied any involvement in the act and hinted that it could be the result of infighting among BJP leaders. “Gandhivadi, peaceful and non-violent Arjun Singh has a long relation with bombs and bullets. The police will see which faction hurled the bombs and who is trying to seek popularity to stay afloat in the BJP. There are several equations,” TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said.Urging the police to take prompt action in the matter, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar tweeted: “Wanton violence in WB shows no sign of abating. Bomb explosions as this morning outside residence of Member Parliament @ArjunsinghWB is worrisome on law and order. Expect prompt action @WBPolice. As regards his security the issue has been earlier been flagged @MamataOfficial.” Several allegations of post-poll violence had surfaced across the state after the election results were declared on May 2 and the TMC returned to power with a sweeping victory. On August 19, the Calcutta high court had ordered a court-monitored CBI probe into the allegations of murder, attempt to murder and rape while it directed a Special Investigation Team to probe allegations of loot and arson during the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bombs-hurled-outside-bjp-mp-s-residence-in-bengal-101631082980885.html
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh horror: Woman molested, robbed at knifepoint||Three men with covered faces held a woman captive for around an hour, molested her and robbed her of ₹6.5 lakh at knifepoint at her rented accommodation in Sector 27, Chandigarh, on Tuesday afternoon.The 27-year-old victim is a model and actor and had shifted to Chandigarh around a month back for some professional assignment. She suspects that one of the delivery men who helped move furniture to her second-floor accommodation is behind the robbery, said police. The incident has been captured by CCTV cameras, and police are checking the footage to nail the culprits.The woman was alone in the house when the incident took place around 12:30 pm. Police said the domestic help had left the door open after completing the work, and the three men managed to sneak in after climbing the stairs. Holding the woman captive at knifepoint, they took ₹6 lakh cash kept in the house. They even took her ATM card and forced her to give the PIN number, following which one of the men went to a nearby market and withdrew ₹50,000, said police. They allegedly even tried to molest her.Somehow, the woman managed to lock herself up in a bathroom, and the trio left after remaining in the house for about an hour. As the house is near the sector’s boundary wall, they jumped on to the cycle track and escaped.Police received a call about some disturbance in the area around 2:40 pm. “The knife was recovered from the house, and we have been able to confirm that the accused had gone to an ATM booth to withdraw money. We have obtained CCTV footage and have got some leads. The accused will be arrested soon,” said superintendent of police (SP, City) Ketan Bansal, who was present at the spot. A case has been registered under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 26 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-horror-woman-molested-robbed-at-knifepoint-101631044435941.html
