10-09-2021||Noida||Computer sets, fans stolen from govt school in G Noida||Greater Noida: Police have booked some unidentified persons for allegedly stealing computers, fans, music system, science toolkit and other equipment from a government junior high school in Badalpur’s Shadipur Chidoli on Wednesday night.The school principal, Zakir Hussain, filed a complaint against the suspects at the Badalpur police station on Thursday, police said, adding that total 172 students in classes 1-8 and five teachers usually remain in the school from 8 am-2 pm.“The school staff and students had left the school premises in the afternoon. It appears that some burglars entered the school at night and damaged locks of four rooms. They stole 80 steel glasses, nine ceiling fans, three computers, one each science kit and music system (used during Independence Day and Republic Day) among others, and escaped. On Thursday morning, when the students and staff came to the school, they noticed the burglary and reported it to the police,” Hussain added.The same campus houses another government senior high school and a similar incident happened there on September 2, 2021. The suspects had stolen an inverter and a printer among other things. There is no security guard or CCTV camera inside the school campus, said Hussain.Dinesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Badalpur police station, said a case has been registered against the suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 380 (burglary) and 457 (house trespass) at the Badalpur police station. “We have launched an investigation and are trying to arrest the suspects soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/computer-sets-fans-stolen-from-govt-school-in-g-noida-101631298180712.html
10-09-2021||Noida||Noida starts special Swachhta drive to make city cleaner||The Noida authority is on a month-long special cleanliness drive in all residential, industrial and commercial areas. It is also appealing to the general public to segregate the waste and then hand it over to the health department deployed staff who will go door-to-door to collect them.People have been asked to segregate waste -- plastic, dry waste and wet waste -- in three dustbins.Our teams are visiting different areas and appealing to people to help in waste segregation as it makes handling waste easier. We are covering markets and other areas one by one to asking them not to use plastic bags and stop throwing waste at undesignated spaces,” said S C Mishra, Noida Authority senior project engineer.The drive has covered sectors 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 18, 23, 24, 27, 28, 29, 44, 45, 49, 50, 71, 99, 100 and122, among others. They have also covered villages such as Chhalera, Sadarpur, Nagli Wazidpur and Barola among others, said officials.“We have also appealed to shopkeepers to not use single-use plastic, which is banned in the state. We imposed around R18,000 fine against at least 30 vendors for using plastic,” said Mishra, adding that their is not to impose fines, but to encourage people not to use polluting plastic.“Stray animals are most affected as they eat plastic discarded on roads. Plastic was has choked most of the city’s drains too,” said N P Singh, president of GB Nagar district development residents’ welfare association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-starts-special-swachhta-drive-to-make-city-cleaner-101631298060832.html
10-09-2021||Other||Aligarh gears up for PM visit on Sept 14||Agra Massive preparations are underway for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Aligarh on September 14. A German hanger will be placed in an area of three lakh square feet to have water proof seating arrangement for a crowd of one lakh. The ground for the PM’s rally will also have 500 coolers and 30 LED TVs so that no one misses out the visuals when the PM addresses the gathering. The PM will be in Aligarh to lay the foundation stone of the upcoming Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh University, which will have about 400 degree colleges from four districts (Aligarh, Etah, Kasganj and Hathras) affiliated to it. Modi will also allocate land to 19 investors investing ₹1500 crores in Aligarh node of defence corridor. Chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath will welcome the PM. CM Yogi is himself reviewing the arrangements being made at Lodha (Aligarh), the venue of the PM’s rally next week. On Friday, district magistrate of Aligarh J Selva Kumari and SSP Aligarh Kalanidhi Naithani checked arrangements at the Dhanipur airstrip where the Prime Minister’s plane would land. Cleanliness, traffic streamlining and toilet availability are also being ensured. The area will have enclosures for RTPCR and rapid antigen testing centres in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aligarh-gears-up-for-pm-visit-on-sept-14-101631297821653.html
10-09-2021||Noida||Eco-friendly Ganesha idols popular among Noida residents||Noida: Amid chants of ‘Ganpati Bappa Morya’, residents of Gautam Buddh Nagar brought home idols of Lord Ganesha, especially the ones made with clay, to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi. The 11-day festival that began on Friday will conclude on September 21. Ruchika Kavishwar, a resident of Noida’s Sector 34, has been ordering clay idols of Lord Ganesh from Maharashtra for the past 17 years. “The festival of Ganesh Chaturthi has gained prominence in Noida in the past three to four years. Now, even our neighbours celebrate the festival. We always bring home eco-friendly idols, which we immerse in a pot filled with water placed in our balcony on the day of Ganesh Visarjan,” said Kavishwar.‘Make your own Ganesha’ pottery workshop is also a concept that has become popular here. “We trained around 30 people from Noida to create their own Ganesh idols out of clay at our workshops, that were held in batches of five to 10 people in the last week of August. This way, residents not only got eco-friendly idols but also learned how to make idols on their own,” said Tanvi Saraiya, a resident of Sector 93, who holds pottery workshops.Madhurima (goes by her first name), a resident of Sector 41 who attended the workshop, said, “Though I am not into crafts and pottery, I wanted to try this as it felt more personal. It’s eco-friendly and instead of spending money on buying an idol from the market, it is better to spend it on learning to create something that you can call your own.”Pooja Verma, a resident of Sector 21, who organises the pottery workshops, said many residents use clay Ganesha idols to grow plants after they are immersed in water. “I held online pottery workshops this year, which were attended by over 50 people from across the city. Once the clay idol is immersed in water, many people mix the concoction with soil and manure to grow plants so that they can preserve their beloved Ganesha idols,” said Verma, who crafted a ‘Doctor Ganesha’ this year to pay tribute to the frontline health workers.Five-year-old Shreyansh Goel, one of Verma’s students, is celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi for the first time this year. “Shreyansh always plays with clay at home, so this year, I decided to enrol him in the pottery workshop to create a Ganesha idol. Though we do not celebrate the festival every year, we did it this year as my son was very excited to celebrate Ganpati Bappa’s birthday with an idol created by him,” said his mother Jaya Goel. Meanwhile, another form of idol that has become a hit among residents this year are the ones made of chocolate. “A number of people in Noida ordered chocolate Ganesha and modaks this year to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi. The idols are made using moulds and the carving on them is handmade. I sold around 50 such pieces this year,” said Smriti Bhatia, a resident of Sector 128, who is a home-chef and chocolatier.Heena Bajaj, a resident of Sector 78, who brought home a chocolate Ganesha, said, “I will immerse the Ganesha idol in milk after the 10-day long festival and will serve the milkshake produced as prasad in the family. As my kids love sweets, we have been celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi with chocolate modaks. This year, I decided to bring chocolate Ganesha to do something different and celebrate the festival in an eco-friendly manner,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ecofriendly-ganesha-idols-popular-among-noida-residents-101631297760782.html
10-09-2021||Noida||Kaushambi pollution: Ghaziabad civic body to plant 400 trees to reduce noise||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation on Friday agreed to key demands raised by Kaushambi Apartments RWA (Karwa), including planting 400 tall trees and installing a sluice gate near the Sahibabad drain, to reduce the effect of pollution on the township.Officers from various departments, district magistrate RK Singh and municipal commissioner MS Tanwar met with Karwa and officials of the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) to discuss the issue at the district headquarters.Karwa president V K Mittal said that the corporation offered to plant tall Ashoka trees at the periphery of the township to act as a barrier to noise pollution and the sluice gate will prevent waste water from the Sahibabad drain to flow into the Kaushambi drain and overflow into the nearby areas.Mittal said that this was in keeping with a national green tribunal (NGT) order of 2016 that asked the civic bodies to address pollution in the township.When there was a delay in implementation, Karwa moved a contempt petition in September 2019 that is still being heard. The association is also contesting another petition at the apex court over several pollution related issues, including a traffic management plan in the area.Municipal commissioner Tanwar said that the work on the two projects will be complete within the month. “We have planned 400 tall Ashoka trees on the periphery of the township so that it acts as barrier against noise generated by traffic. This will start within a week. The installation of sluice gate will also be started and likely to be completed within a fortnight,” he said. The Kaushambi Township comprises 22 high-rises and located next to congested Anand Vihar border. The Kaushambi ISBT is also located next to the township while there is also an adjacent Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area besides the Ghazipur landfill site which is also in vicinity. “We also raised the issue of conversion of UP Roadways (UP State Road Transport Corporation - UPSRTC) buses from diesel to compressed natural gas (CNG). There are about 700 buses operating out of the ISBT and they are a major source of pollution for our residents. Some of other issues like removal of encroachment and movement of traffic through Kaushambi are pending and needs action to be taken up,” Mittal said. The DM could not be reached for comment. “The UPSRTC officials at the meeting said that about 100 buses were now CNG-powered. Since it is a policy decision and requires state funding, a decision to convert buses to CNG cannot be taken at local level,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer from UPPCB. During a hearing on August 23 over Karwa’s petition, the NGT directed the divisional commissioner (Meerut) to hold meetings with the officers of the agencies of Ghaziabad district to take cognisance of the pending pollution-related issues of the Kaushambi and also take remedial action. In its order, the tribunal also directed for personal appearance (nowadays over videoconferencing) of divisional commissioner (Meerut), district magistrate of Ghaziabad, SSP of Ghaziabad and regional officer of UP pollution control board.Akash vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist, said, “While Ashoka trees can reduce noise pollution to an extent, the civic body may also go for species like banyan that have broad leaves that can also help. These trees can also control dust pollution in the area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/kaushambi-pollution-ghaziabad-civic-body-to-plant-400-trees-to-reduce-noise-101631297700733.html
10-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Cracker unit’s licence cancelled||The district administration cancelled the license of a firecracker manufacturing unit on Machhiwara-Rupnagar Road at Hambowal village in Machhiwara on Friday, following repeated complaints from the villagers.The residents of at least 12 villages had been opposing the establishment of the firecracker factory citing air pollution. The villagers also alleged that the factory was also contaminating underground water, causing health problems among the locals. Following the protest, the district administration swung into action and cancelled the license of the factory.Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM, Samrala) Vikramjit Singh had initiated a probe following the complaints. He examined the factory and found illegalities. He filed a report to deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, who ordered the termination of the license of the factory.Congress MLA from Samrala constituency Amrik Singh Dhillon reached Hambowal village and appreciated the step taken by the district administration. He stated that a prolonged problem of the locals has been resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianacracker-unit-s-licence-cancelled-101631297521466.html
10-09-2021||Other||14 Chhattisgarh districts sign MoU with IIMR to boost millet production in state||The collectors of 14 Chhattisgarh districts on Friday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Indian Institute of Millet Research (IIMR), Hyderabad, aimed at boosting production, providing employment to farmers and women’s groups and youths, among others.The MoU was signed with Kanker, Kondagaon, Bastar, Dantewada, Bijapur, Sukma, Narayanpur, Rajnandgaon, Kawardha, Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi,Balrampur, Koriya, Surajpur and Jashpur.Under the MoU, the IIMR will offer support and guidance for boosting the productivity of Kodo, Kutki and Ragi, technical know-how, availability of high-quality seeds and also in setting-up of a seed bank in Chhattisgarh, an official release by the state government read.Additionally, the initiative will also make arrangements to train the farmers of the state via Krishi Vigyan Kendra for “spreading the scientific technology developed at the national level related to millet production by IIMR Hyderabad at the field level,” the release added.During the signing of the event, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said Chhattisgarh will become the millet hub of the India. He added that minor cereal crops like Kodo, Kutki and Ragi are “rich in nutrition” and have a “good demand” in India. “Till now, neither the support price of these crops was fixed, nor was there any arrangement for its purchase. Even after producing such an important and valuable crop, the farmers who grew it remained poor,” he noted.The chief minister stated that the state government has now begun a ‘Mission-Millet’ to increase the yield of these crops, make sure they have good procurement arrangements, and are taken to the city markets following processing. According to the release, these crops have also been included under the ambit of Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. “With this, the farmers growing these small cereal crops will also be able to get input assistance like other farmers,” the release further noted.What will be the process?Baghel said that the purchase of these minor cereal crops would be done via the Van Dhan societies of Chhattisgarh Minor Forest Produce Co-operative Federation. Later, it will be used in schemes such as the midday meals, nutrition programmes, and public distribution system. “It has also been decided to manage ₹170 crore 30 lakh for the next five years of Millet Mission through DMF and other means,” the release read.The chief minister also said that under ‘Mission Millet’, farmers growing Kodo-Kutki and Ragi crops would be provided with an input aid of ₹9,000 per acres and ₹10,000 per acre, respectively, for growing Kodo-Kutki and Ragi instead of paddy.Baghel also said that two processing units have been established at Kanker and Durgukondal. “In the next phase, MoUs will be signed with more such districts, where production of Kodo, Kutki and Ragi is abundant,” he was quoted as saying by the release.What did other officials say?IIMR Director Dr Vilas A Tonapi said that in the present times, there is a requirement to food diversity in our diet to address the problem of lifestyle-related diseases and malnutrition. He added that it is a “good initiative” by Chhattisgarh government to offer input assistance to the farmers producing millets, and that 2023 will be celebrated as the International Year of Millet.Meanwhile, the MD of Chhattisgarh State Minor Forest Produce Co-operative Federation, Sanjay Shukla said that IIMR specialists will be posted in the 14 districts by the state government and that they will guide the farmers to boost the millet production. “Senior consultants will also be appointed at the state level. He will act as a master trainer,” he added.Shukla also said that seed banks for small grain crops would be established in Bastar, Surguja, Kawardha and Rajnandgaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/14-chhattisgarh-districts-sign-mou-with-iimr-to-boost-millet-production-in-state-101631296522290.html
10-09-2021||Other||Alert in Kheri village after 150 people report fever symptoms||High alert has been sounded at Kaima Bujurg village of Kheri district after 150 people reported fever like symptoms during a recent door-to-door survey, said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Shailendra Bhatnagar.The CMO said testing has confirmed 22 malaria cases and ruled out Covid and dengue.“During the door-to-door survey in Kheri villages of various blocks by 1357 survey teams since September 7 as many as 700 fever patients were detected and among these 150 were found in Kaima Bujurg village,” said the CMO.Following this, Kheri district magistrate Dr Arvind Kumar Chaurasiya, CMO, district panchayat raj officer (DPRO) Saumya Sheel Singh and other officials visited the village and inspected the households.The DM instructed health officials to set up a round-the-clock health camp in the village to ensure proper sampling and treatment of patients.Chaurasiya also instructed SDM, BDO and DPRO to camp at the village to monitor the sanitization works.DM also asked officials to remove water-logging and garbage as well as use anti-larva spray at water-logged places.“The villagers have also been advised to put on full-sleeve clothes and apply camphor and mustard oil to keep mosquitoes at bay,” the DM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alert-in-kheri-village-after-150-people-report-fever-symptoms-101631296741453.html
10-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Gun house owner held for selling bullets to miscreant||The police arrested a gun house owner for selling bullets to an accused and breaching the norms set for arms dealers.The accused was identified as Gurcharan Singh alias Bubli, owner of Verma Gun House, Bharat Nagar Chowk. The police have also initiated proceedings for cancelling his licence.According to the police, they will recommend an audit of the ammunition of the gun house to know if he had sold arms illegally to other miscreants as well.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja, said that the accused was arrested following information provided by accused Kashish Adiya of Kohinoor Park of Ayali Kalan, who was held by Sahnewal police for possession of an illegal weapon on September 2.Adiya was arrested near Aarti Palace, Dehlon Road in Sahnewal, during a rally of SAD chief Sukhbir Badal.During questioning, the accused told police that his accomplice Manpreet Singh alias Mani of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar had helped him procure a .32 bore illegal pistol from Madhya Pradesh. The accused also revealed that he had procured six bullets from Verma Gun House. Following this, the police arrested Manpreet and Gurcharan.The ADCP added that a case under Sections 25, 54, and 59 of the Arms Act was lodged against the accused at Sahnewal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianagun-house-owner-held-for-selling-bullets-to-miscreant-101631296501230.html
10-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Cops end snatching spree with arrest of two||With the arrest of two accused, the police on Thursday ended a snatching spree and recovered as many as 137 mobile phones and a motorcycle.The arrested accused were identified as Pawan Kumar of Satguru Nagar and Mintoo Kumar of Kila Raipur. The accused used to sell the parts of the mobile phones separately to avoid getting traced.The police had got information regarding the duo from three other accused who were arrested for vehicle lifting.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said that on September 8, the police arrested Sunny of Giaspura, Vishal Kumar of Mohalla Basant Nagar, and Mandeep Singh alias Mani of Mohalla Dhilaon Nagar for vehicle lifting. The police had recovered two stolen motorcycles and four mobile phones from their possession.“During questioning, they gave a tip about Pawan and Mintoo. Following the information, the accused were arrested on Thursday,” said the ADCP.“The police have recovered 137 mobile phones and stolen motorcycles from their possession, which they had dumped in the house of Mintoo Kumar in Kila Raipur. The accused had installed fake number plates on the motorcycle,” he added.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Industrial Area B) Randhir Singh said Pankaj is a drug addict and is facing trial in at least four cases of snatching and burglaries. The accused had executed burglaries and snatchings in Daba, Shimlapuri, and Dugri area.More important information has been expected from the accused during questioning. A case under Sections 379-B (Snatching after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint in order to the committing of snatching), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc., with intent to commit forgery punishable otherwise), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused.Trade stolen phones for motorcyclesThe accused told the police that they had many mobile phones that they used as money for trade. They had bought a motorcycle from a man in exchange for ten mobile phones. The accused also bought drugs in exchange for mobile phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-cops-end-snatching-spree-with-arrest-of-two-101631296081403.html
10-09-2021||Other||Documentary on Saragarhi heroes released on battle’s 124th anniversary in Ludhiana||Saragarhi Foundation, in collaboration with Master Tara Singh Memorial College for Women, commemorated the 124th anniversary of the battle of Saragarhi. Brigadier (Retd) Jatinder Singh Arora, president of the Saragarhi Foundation, and Ranjeet Singh Khalsa, media advisor, stated that the fourth generation of Saragarhi martyr Sahib Singh’s family including, Harmanpeet Kaur, Swarnjeet Kaur, Jaswinder Kaur, Jagdeepak Singh, and Harjinder Singh, were honoured by the foundation and the college administration.A documentary on 21 martyrs of 36 Sikh Regiment was also released.Jatinder Singh Arora, in his address, spoke about the importance of team work and valour shown by these Sikh warriors on the battlefield.Ranjeet Singh Khalsa talked about the plans of the Saragarhi Foundation to make these martyrs known in every nook and corner. Col KS Kundal, Col DS Grewal, and Sukhdev Singh Laaj also expressed their views about their martyrdom. The smooth functioning of this programme was credited to college administration, NCC cadets, and NCC officers by members of the Saragarhi Foundation. Poems and lectures applauding the role of these valiant martyrs were also delivered.Principal Kirandeep Kaur also shared her thoughts about the bravery of the martyrs. Retired superintendent of police Gurjeet Singh Rumana, Sarabjeet Singh Narangwal, Gian Singh Kalra, Bhupinder Singh, Pritpal Singh, principal Ranjit Singh, Taranjeet Kaur, and Punitpal Kaur were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/documentary-on-saragarhi-heroes-released-on-battle-s-124th-anniversary-in-ludhiana-101631295841246.html
10-09-2021||Other||DMCH, Ludhiana observes World Suicide Prevention Day||The department of psychiatry of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) observed World Suicide Prevention Day. The college conducted various activities such as poster making, slogan writing, extempore debate, role play, and essay writing competition for MBBS batch 2018 and the BSc nursing students of DMCH College of Nursing. Around 150 students participated in them.Prem Kumar Gupta, secretary of DMCH managing society, was the chief guest. Principal Dr Sandeep Puri, medical superintendent Dr Ashwini Chaudhary, Dr Sandeep Sharma, dean academics Dr Sandeep Kaushal, and principal college of nursing Dr Triza Jiwan were also present.Gupta said that mental health issues are common these days, and due to the pandemic, people get anxious and face serious mental issues.Principal Dr Sandeep Puri said that suicidal tendency is a mental health issue and it is preventable.Dr Ranjive Mahajan, professor and head of the department of psychiatry, highlighted the theme ‘Creating hope through action’.Dr Mahajan said that somebody dies by taking their own life every 40 seconds, and almost 8,00,000 people die by suicide every year across the world.According to Dr Navkiran S Mahajan, professor department of psychiatry, it is also important to understand the suicide warning signs, which include negative views about the self, drastic change in mood and behaviour, frequently talking about death, substance abuse, making suicide threats, a sense of hopelessness.Dr Jiwan said as responsible members of society, each one of us can do something for persons dealing with suicidal thoughts.In the poster-making competition, Sarushi Sharma stood first, Navneet and Parneet Kaur second, and Kashish and Shivani Mattu third. In slogan writing, Ruchi Virpal stood first, Pavleen Kaur second, and Kawaljeet Kaur and Harsimran Kaur third.In essay writing, Puja Sharma stood first, Amisha and Ishpreet Kaur second, and Rohin Kansal third.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dmch-ludhiana-observes-world-suicide-prevention-day-101631295481064.html
10-09-2021||Other||MGM, Ludhiana students pledge to read daily||The kindergarten section of MGM Public School, Dugri, celebrated World Literacy Day. Principal Sunita Vij delivered a short speech on the importance of literacy. Tiny tots pledged to read every day. Young learners were not only given interesting books to read but also motivated to give their old books to the needy persons.National Chocolate Milkshake Day celebrated BCM Kindergarten, Basant Avenue, Dugri, organised a virtual activity to celebrate National Chocolate Milkshake Day. Mothers prepared shakes for their kids. Teachers told students about the benefits of drinking milk and encouraged them to drink milk twice a day. Inter-house golf championship kicks off at DPS, KhannaBudding golfers of Delhi Public School, Khanna, kicked off the monthly inter-house golf championship on Monday. This golf tournament will be played on the first Monday of every month. Sanampreet and Manav exhibited phenomenal performance. Ekamjot Kaur of Class 4-B showcased a rare talent at such a young age. The highlight of the day was a hole-in-one made by Yuvraj Singh Hara, the DPSK golf prodigy who has recently won the Zonal PGTI championship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mgm-ludhiana-students-pledge-to-read-daily-101631295242316.html
10-09-2021||Noida||Paralympian Praveen Kumar gets hero’s welcome in GB Nagar||Tokyo Paralympic silver medallist Praveen Kumar was accorded a hero’s welcome on Friday as he returned home in Jewar’s Govindgarh village. The 18-year-old clinched the medal in the men’s high jump (T-64 category) on September 3.While Kumar had landed in Delhi on Tuesday, he was busy attending various felicitation events. He also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday. On Friday, a host of his well-wishers, including city residents and childhood friends, gathered at the DND toll plaza to welcome him to Gautam Budh Nagar. “I am overwhelmed by the love and support shown to me by the people of Gautam Budh Nagar, especially from Jewar. I hope I can continue to make people proud with my achievements in future too,” said Kumar, who plays with a weaker left leg, an impairment that he was born with.“I met my parents and siblings after five months as I was training at Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru Staidum. I have dedicated the medal to my parents as it is because of them that I achieved this feat.”Kumar’s family was eagerly waiting for his arrival. “As soon as my son entered the village, hundreds of people came to congratulate him or take selfies with him. It took him at least 15 minutes just to reach home after entering the village that usually takes two minutes by car. I am very proud of my son and seeing the love being showered on him has made me very emotional,” said father Amarpal Singh who is a farmer.The Jewar boy was accompanied by his coach Dr Satyapal.A residents’ group in Greater Noida called Active Citizen Team also felicitated the Paralympian. “Kumar’s victory has inspired the youth of the region to create history and has also taught everyone the importance of sports,” said Harinder Bhati, a member of the group.At a ceremony organised in Govindgarh, GB Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma, Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh and police commissioner Alok Singh congratulated the athlete.“Kumar is an inspiration to children of Jewar as well as the country who want to pursue their dreams. He has shown us how we can overcome our shortcomings with hardwork and dedication. The felicitation event for him was attended by hundreds of people from his village as well as nearby areas,” said MLA Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/paralympian-praveen-kumar-gets-hero-s-welcome-in-gb-nagar-101631295000451.html
10-09-2021||Noida||Noida: Teen falls from balcony, dies||A 16-year-old boy died after allegedly falling from the balcony of his sixth floor house in a high-rise at Sector 75 on Thursday evening. The boy, identified as Mridul Agarwal, a Class 11 student of a private school, lived with his parents in Golf Avenue society that falls under the jurisdiction of Sector 49 police station.  Vinod Kumar Singh, station house officer of Sector 49 police station, said, “Prima facie, it seems that the boy lost balance and fell from the balcony. His parents immediately came down and, with the help of security guards and neighbours, rushed the boy to a hospital in Sector 71.” Police said the boy was declared brought dead, after which the hospital passed on the information to them. The boy’s body was sent for an autopsy, after which it was handed over to the family.“It was an accident. A forensics team has been sent to the incident spot as part of the probe. There is no evidence of foul play,” said a police officer. A security guard of the society said that the incident occurred around 4pm on Thursday. “I was on duty at the next tower when we saw the boy falling. Some of us immediately gathered and called for an ambulance but it was too late. His parents took him to a hospital,” said the guard.On August 23, a one-year-old toddler also allegedly fell from the 12th floor staircase of a high rise in Greater Noida West while the family was gearing up to celebrate his birthday.In another incident, an 18-month old girl fell from the balcony of her seven-storey house in a highrise in Sector 45 after she accidentally slipped from her mother’s arms on July 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-teen-falls-from-balcony-dies-101631294580383.html
10-09-2021||Other||Chandigarh Road driving centre shut: Winding queues seen outside lone testing track in Ludhiana city||With the state-of-the-art automated driving test centre on Chandigarh Road shuttered since a fortnight, harried applicants are lining up outside the Civil Lines testing track in winding queues. The Chandigarh Road Centre had to be closed after the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed at the testing track developed a technical snag. Fuming residents are questioning the rationale of spending a pretty penny on the testing centre, which has failed to function seemlessly. Vijay Kumar, who had applied at the Chandigarh Road, says, “The state-of-the-art testing centre was opened so that people do not have to wait in long queues, but sadly it is lying defunct and the queues are long as ever.” Vinay Jain and is Divya Jain, a Sunder Nagar-based couple, had to reapply at the Civil Lines Centre. “Taking the test at the Chandigarh Road Centre was logistically convenient to us. Besides, there is a huge rush at the Civil Lines Centre. The situation is being exploited by agents,” says Divya. The two automated centres were inaugurated in 2016. Cameras are installed at the centre to record applicants’ driving skills and computers analyse whether the applicant has passed or not.Subdivisional magistrate (SDM, east) Vineet Kumar, who is supervising the testing and registration centre, said he had written it to the authorities and sought urgent redressal of the issue.Narinder Singh Dhaliwal, regional transport authority (RTA), said, “The company concerned has been told to fix the snag at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandigarh-road-driving-centre-shut-winding-queues-seen-outside-lone-testing-track-in-ludhiana-city-101631294521048.html
10-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Traffic police put up barricades on Delhi-Meerut Expressway to check wrong side driving||The Ghaziabad traffic police have placed barricades at Dasna on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) to check wrong side driving and discourage movement of vehicles like two-wheelers, auto-rickshaws and tractors which are not allowed on the expressway. Officials said that wrong side driving will attract a penalty of ₹2,000, while prohibited vehicles will be fined ₹1,000 if they enter the expressway. The move comes after five persons, including two minors, were killed on September 6 when the car they were travelling in collided head-on with a speeding mini truck coming from wrong side near Masuri on the expressway. According to the officials, the barricades have been put up at the point where one portion of the DME goes towards Meerut while the other goes towards Hapur. “The instances of speeding and wrong side driving have been reported on the expressway, and this has led us to put up the barricades at Dasna. Barricades will also come up at other points on the expressway. We have also disallowed entry of two-wheelers, auto-rickshaws and tractors to the expressway. A drive has been launched to penalise such vehicles,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic). The DME was opened to commuters in April this year and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is yet to start levying toll on the 60-km expressway which connects Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan to Meerut, with 42km falling under the jurisdiction of Ghaziabad district. NHAI officials said that the toll system will start soon. “The police barricades have been deployed on our request to check traffic violations. We also demand that traffic police put up such barricades at more places between Dasna and Bhojpur and Dasna to UP Gate so that no erring vehicles like autos, tractors and two-wheelers enter the expressway lanes,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI. The DME has three inner expressway lanes on each side while the four outer lanes each side will be highway lanes and will be toll free, said the officials. The authority has mandated that two-wheelers, three-wheelers and other slow-moving vehicles will not be allowed on the expressway lanes. The NHAI officials said that 10 traffic marshals were deployed at three key points on the Dasna-Meerut stretch (phase 4) of the expressway after the accident. “Now, the number of marshals on the stretch has been increased to 15. We have also deployed five marshals each under phases 1 (Akshardham to UP Gate) and 2 (UP Gate to Dasna), while three have been deployed on the stretch from Dasna to Hapur (phase 3). These marshals will remain deployed 24x7 and will work in shifts,” Garg said.The traffic officials said that the automatic number plate readers installed on the expressway, which are yet to be made operational, will provide registration numbers of erring vehicles to the police for the purpose of issue of fines. “There had been some technical issues with the system. But we have sorted out the issues and the system is in trial run. It will commence operations within a week. The other major problem we face is non-operational tolls of NHAI that lead to unauthorised vehicles entering the expressway,” Kushwaha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/checking-violators-traffic-police-put-up-barricades-on-delhi-meerut-expressway-101631294280279.html
10-09-2021||Lucknow||AIMIM offers party ticket to Mukhtar Ansari||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday offered jailed gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari the party ticket from Mau in eastern Uttar Pradesh for the 2022 state assembly election, hours after Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati announced that the BSP will not renominate Ansari, the sitting MLA from Mau. AIMIM’s Uttar Pradesh unit president Shaukat Ali also said the party was ready to welcome jailed Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan as well his family members into the party fold. Khan represents Rampur in the Lok Sabha. Khan’s supporters were in contact with the AIMIM leadership, he said. He alleged the BSP and the Samajwadi Party (SP) used Muslim leaders and voters for political gains and later dumped them. AIMIM national spokesperson Syed Asim Waqar said the party’s doors were open for Mukhtar Ansari. “If Ansari wants to contest the election, the doors of AIMIM are open for him. We will give him a ticket and ensure his victory also,” he said to the news agency PTI.  Mukhtar Ansari, facing trial in criminal cases, is in jail but has not been convicted by court yet. According to the Election Commission of India rules, he can contest elections, AIMIM state president Shaukat Ali added. The BSP used Mukhtar Ansari’s clout to make inroads among Muslim voters and gave the party ticket to him as well as his family members in the 2017 assembly election and the 2019 Lok Sabha polls even though he was facing charges in criminal cases, the AIMIM state president said. Now when the BSP’s agenda has been served Mayawati is saying that Mukhtar is a mafia, he said. The same was true of former Lok Sabha MP Atiq Ahmed, who joined the AIMIM on Tuesday, Ali said. Ahmed won the 2004 Lok Sabha election as an SP candidate from Phulpur in Uttar Pradesh. The SP used his influence over the Muslim community to widen its support base in the Prayagraj region and later showed him the door, Shaukat Ali said. Muslims should realise the duplicity in the words and actions of the SP and BSP leaders, he stated, adding that Ahmed and his wife had joined the AIMIM. Ali also said BSP MP from Ghosi Atul Rai was charged under section 376 IPC (rape) and the allegedly victim committed self-immolation but Rai continues to be a BSP member. The AIMIM will expose both the parties (the SP and the BSP) by organising statewide meetings, he said. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi will address public meetings in Sambhal on September 22, Prayagraj on September 25, Kanpur on September 26 and Bahraich on September 30, he said. Ali also said Azam Khan was lodged in jail for over one year but the Samajwadi Party remained a mute spectator to the victimization of the senior leader. The SP had not launched an agitation against the BJP government over the harassment of Khan’s family members, he said, adding that the people were agitated over the issue. The AIMIM would launch a statewide movement, demanding Khan’s release once he joined the party, he said. “We will also launch a movement against the BJP government’s plan to grab the Mohammad Ali Jauhar University established at Rampur in 2005,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aimim-offers-party-ticket-to-mukhtar-ansari-101631292600786.html
10-09-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: CAG report finds loopholes in rural bridges’ construction, recommends safety audit||Finding major loopholes in planning and construction of bridges in rural areas in the state, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) has recommended safety audit of all rural bridges in Jharkhand and necessary repair and maintenance work. In the report for the year ending March 2019, tabled in the assembly on Thursday, the central auditor has found several lapses in implementation of rural bridge projects under Mukhya Mantri Gram Setu Yojna (MMGSY) between 2014 and 2019. According to the report, the consultants concerned did not conduct the required geotechnical investigations, hydrological and traffic data analysis. As a result, eight bridges constructed at a cost of ₹52.12.crore, out of the 42 test checked bridge works, got fully or partly damaged, it said. In the absence of periodic maintenance of completed bridges, scouring in bridge foundations, wear and tear in expression joints and wearing coats and cracks in RCC (reinforced cement concrete) works and damages were noticed during joint physical verification, the report stated. “The department should fix responsibility and take appropriate action against contractors, consultants and engineers responsible for sub-standard execution of work, deficiencies in design, wasteful expenditure and damage and collapse of bridges. The department should conduct a safety audit of the bridges in the state and carry out necessary repair and maintenance work,” the report said.In May this year, a bridge constructed across the seasonal Kanchi river at the cost of over ₹13 crore in Ranchi district collapsed three years after its inauguration. Besides poor quality work, the central auditor also highlighted that in absence of operational guidelines, there was almost no monitoring of locations selected for the bridges, lack of approach roads, and fault in designs. “Though the department issued instructions through circulars/letters to manage the scheme and had a district rural road plan (DRRP) under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna (PMGSY) with information on gaps in rural road network, these were not adhered to,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-cag-report-finds-loopholes-in-rural-bridges-construction-recommends-safety-audit-101631290140471.html
10-09-2021||Other||Bihar panchayat polls: Move over Mukhiyas, big rush this time is for ward member post||PATNA Unlike last several panchayat polls, it’s the post of ward member in the gram panchayats which is drawing a huge number of nominations, and not the other coveted posts like Mukhiya (gram panchayat head) and Sarpanch (gram kutchery head having quasi judicial powers) in the ongoing nomination process for elections to the three-tier rural local bodies, which begin on September 24. According to data of State Election Commission (SEC), a total of 8,611 nominations have been filed by candidates for 2,233 posts of ward member posts in gram panchayats of 12 blocks spread over 10 districts, which are going to polls in the first phase. In total, 15,238 nominations have been filed for 4,955 posts in the panchayat polls in the first phase. The 151 posts of Mukhiya in the first phase have drawn only 1,294 nominations while only 772 nominations have been filed for for Sarpanch. For 2,233 posts of gram kutchery panchayat (equivalent to ward members at gram kutchery level), only 3,225 nominations have been filed. In the second phase, for which the nomination process is currently on, the same trend is visible. Till September 8, 24,094 nominations have been filed, of which 14,158 are for the post of ward member. There are a total of 1,13,307 posts of ward members out of the total 2,55,022 posts in the panchayat polls in the state.There are reasons for the shift in the preference for those taking a plunge into politicals at the grassroots level. In 2018, new administrative and financial powers were given by the state government to ward members with regard to rural schemes, especially after the introduction of new schemes like tap water for every rural household and paving of every street, alley and sewers with concrete.“In the last few years, we have delegated huge powers for implementation and monitoring of rural schemes at the village level to the ward members, which was not there previously. The ward members are now also getting certain honorarium and allowances, which is another incentive. There are few more proposals in the pipeline to expand the powers and duties of ward members after panchayat polls,” said panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary. A ward member gets ₹2,500 per month as honorarium, besides incentives in tax collection, the total of which comes around ₹5,000 per month.Sources said that in 2018, the government’s decision to constitute ward implementation management committee (WIMC), in which every ward member is an ex-officio chairman, has broadened their powers from supervisory to administrative with certain financial powers attached with it. The ward members now can issue cheques and also take important calls in implementation of key state government schemes as well as centrally sponsored job guarantee and housing schemes, besides those for irrigation and education. Before the constitution of WIMC, ward members had limited powers and had to work directly under the Mukhiya, who held the overall financial powers and administrative powers.“Every gram panchayat gets ₹5-6 crore for five years, which means annually, they have at their disposal ₹1 to ₹1.25 crore for implementation of welfare schemes at the ground level. This is a big public money, which has to be spent and monitored at the level of ward members and mukhiyas . This is one reason why ward menber’s post has now become quite coveted,” said a senior official who was engaged with implementing rural schemes at the panchayati raj department till recently. Till last panchayat polls held five years ago, it was the post of Mukhiya that drew the highest number of nominations, apparently because the post comes with lot of financial and administrative powers.“After 2011 and 2016 panchayat polls, there were large number of resignations of ward members for which by-elections had to be held. The apparent reason why people resigned from the post was the lack of any financial or administrative powers with the posts. But now, things seem to be changing,” said a SEC official.Headline: First phaseIntro: Polling is to be held in gram panchayats of 12 blocks spread over 10 districts on Sept 24Ward members2,233: Number of posts8,611: Number of nominations Mukhiyas151: Number of posts1,294: Number of nominationsSarpanch151: Number of posts772: Number of nominationsNew incentives for ward members ₹2,500 per month as honorarium, besides incentives in tax collectionPowers to monitor state and central job guarantee and housing schemes, irrigation and educationPowers broadened from supervisory to administrative with certain financial powers added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-panchayat-polls-move-over-mukhiyas-big-rush-this-time-is-for-ward-member-post-101631290020655.html
10-09-2021||Other||JD(U) writes to SEC, says Tejashwi caught on camera distributing money||PATNAThe ruling Janata Dal (United) in Bihar has written to State Election Commission (SEC) demanding action against the leader of opposition Tejashwi Yadav after a purported video of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader distributing ₹500 each in cash to three women in Gopalganj district surfaced on social media. The video posted on Twitter by RJD’s youth wing, Yuva RJD, purportedly shows Yadav distributing three ₹500 notes to each of the three women while sitting in his car, an SUV, while an off-camera voice reminds the women he is “Laluji ka beta (son of Lalu Prasad).” On Thursday, Tejashwi Yadav had visited a village in Baikunthpur assembly constituency in Gopalganj district where he addressed a gathering.JD(U) MLC Neeraj Kumar, who is also the party’s spokesperson, on Friday wrote a letter to the SEC, demanding immediate action against the leader of the Opposition. In his letter, the JD (U) leader alleged Tejashwi tried to influence the panchayat election process by distributing money among the public despite model code of conduct being in place. “The model code of conduct is effective since August 24, 2021. But on September 9, in the Baikunthpur assembly constituency of Gopalganj district, village women in the native village of RJD MLA Prem Shankar met Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav. The video of this episode has also surfaced. In the video, the Leader of Opposition is seen distributing money publicly to rural women while sitting in his car,” he said in his letter. Garauli, the village of RJD MLA Prem Shankar, falls under Bansghat Masuria Panchayat of Baikunthpur block of Gopalganj district, where panchayat polls are to be held. Former deputy chief minister and Rajya Sabha emmber Sushil Kumar Modi of the BJP also called it a clear violation of model code of conduct. “He did not help poor by distributing money but insulted them like a beggar,” said Modi. RJD defended their leader’s action. “What is wrong in it? A vast stretch of the district was affected by floods. He gave money to the needy. Government should look as to how people in flood-affected areas are starving for food. He gave money to those flood-affected victims,” said RJD spokesperson Mrituanjay Tiwary. The 11-phase panchayat polls in Bihar will begin from September 24 and end on December 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jdu-writes-to-sec-says-tejashwi-caught-on-camera-distributing-money-101631289841451.html
10-09-2021||Other||Man held for running Railway job racket||PUNE Pune’s Railway Protection Force on Friday arrested a Mumbai-based man accused of accepting money in lieu of getting applicants a job with the railways. The accused, Mayur Kambli, is a resident of Bhandup, Mumbai, and was arrested at the Pune railway station. Based on a complaint made by a woman resident of Kalyan, a trap was laid by the Crime Investigation Bureau (CIB) and Railway Protection Force, led by LK Sagar and BS Raghuvanshi. The lady complainant visited the CIB Office in Pune and confirmed the identity of the accused, Mayur Kambli. Kambli has since been handed over to the Bhandup Police. A case under sections 420, 465, 471, 476 and 507 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. The central railway has appealed to the public to not believe unauthorised sources as regards employment opportunities with the railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-for-running-railway-job-racket-101631289839789.html
10-09-2021||Other||3rd wave prep: PMC targets 150 tonnes of oxygen supply daily||In preparation for a possible third Covid-19 wave, the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has been instructed to ensure at least 150 tonnes of oxygen is available per day.Additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Bidwade held a meeting with the health department and building permission department on Friday. Bidwade said, “ PMC should get ready to supply 150 tonnes of oxygen per day, as in every wave, positive cases are more than previous wave.Dr Ashish Bharati, chief of the health department and the building permission department’s Yuvraj Deshmukh were at the meeting.PMC is also aiming to ensure the entire oxygen supply system is operable online as per directions from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3rd-wave-prep-pmc-targets-150-tonnes-of-oxygen-supply-daily-101631289780494.html
10-09-2021||Other||ZP will rotate staff to overcome shortage of health workers at Ambegaon Jumbo facility||PUNE The Pune rural administration has reported a shortage of health workers, including doctors, specifically at the Jumbo Covid facility at Avasari Khurd in Ambegaon tehsil.According to officials, this situation has because contracts of Covid health workers have ended. Also, doctors appearing for the National Eligibility Entrance Test Postgraduate (NEET PG 2021) on September 11 are on leave. Officials from the Zilla Parishad (ZP) said that the arrangements are being made to ensure Covid patients suffer no inconvenience. On Thursday, home minister Dilip Walse-Patil held a meeting with the ZP administration to review the situation, especially at the Avasari Khurd Jumbo Covid facility. “I have been instructed that the required staff can be arranged through a rotation system. We will issue the orders,” said Ayush Prasad, CEO, ZP Pune. “The new doctors are being appointed by the state government and will be joining this week. We are deputing them to the Avasari Khurd facility and the Wipro hospital, because these are two centres which require extensive staff. Also, we are drawing out staff from regular duties on a rotation basis. For example, if somebody is posted at a primary health care centre then s/he will work at the Covid facility for a week,” said Ayush Prasad. Pune ZP had hired 2,000 contractual staff members in March and April. According to sources, the state government directed the ZP to let contractual staff employed for Covid-19 go, as the central government had not approved required funds for the same.Between June and August, Pune ZP ended the contracts of 1,551 health workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/zp-will-rotate-staff-to-overcome-shortage-of-health-workers-at-ambegaon-jumbo-facility-101631289779754.html
10-09-2021||Patna||3 cases of swine flu in Bihar||Three cases of swine flu have been notified by a private hospital in Patna, health officials on Friday. “A 60-year-old male from Samastipur is undergoing treatment at our hospital while two others have been discharged. We have shared details with the integrated disease surveillance (IDSP) unit of the state government,” said Dr Syed Asif Rahman, medical superintendent of Paras HMRI hospital in Patna. The hospital informed about cases of swine flu, Influenza A and Influenza B to the state health department on Thursday. Health officials collected the requisite information and medical records from the private facility on Friday. Health officials said they would go for a repeat confirmatory test to check for swine flu. Meanwhile, a resident of Phulwarisharif locality in Patna, infected with Influenza A, died at the Paras hospital on July 28. “The patient had underlying disease condition and was also infected by Influenza A. However, his death had nothing to do with swine flu, as the two diseases are different,” Rahman said. Health officials said the two patients discharged were from Sitamarhi and Bhojpur. The patient from Sitamarhi was discharged on September 6 and one from Bhojpur on September 7. The one from Bhojpur was suffering from Influenza B, said officials, adding that further details were awaited. Patna had reported its first case this year of Japanese encephalitis (JE), a mosquito borne viral encephalitis, last Wednesday. Many children have also been infected with viral fever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/3-cases-of-swine-flu-in-bihar-101631289600532.html
10-09-2021||Lucknow||Grand Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya from November 1 to 6||lkoreportersdesk@htlive.comLUCKNOW The Ayodhya administration is gearing up for the fifth edition of Deepotsav, which will be organised by the UP government on a grand scale from November 1.The previous two Deepotsavs didn’t see public participation due to the Covid pandemic.The celebrations will begin from November 1 with Deepotsav fair, which will continue till November 6. On November 3 (eve of Diwali), the administration will attempt a new Guinness World record by lighting 7.5 lakh diyas (earthen lamps) at Ram Ki Paidi ghat on the banks of river Saryu. Thereafter, the Ayodhya administration will be organising Kartik Purnima event on a large scale. All the modalities of the six-day mega event will be finalised in a meeting called by Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Jha on September 15. “Deepotsav celebrations will be organised on a grand scale this year. Preparations are underway for the mega event,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, BJP MLA from Ayodhya Sadar assembly segment. All temples and maths in Ayodhya will be decorated with Ramayan era theme. For this, the state government will hire an agency through tender process. This year, public participation will depend on the Covid scenario in Uttar Pradesh, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/grand-deepotsav-celebrations-in-ayodhya-from-november-1-to-6-101631289420461.html
10-09-2021||Other||Irregular vaccine supply keeps PMC centres shut||PUNE For the past three days, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has had an irregular supply of Covid-19 vaccines. On Friday, the civic body had to shut down all its vaccination centres due to a shortage of vaccines. On Saturday too, the civic body only had Covishield vaccines as no Covaxin doses were supplied. The city saw maximum vaccinations on August 31 when more than 234,000 doses were given. In the wake of a much anticipated third Covid-19 wave, vaccinating as many people as possible is crucial. Dr Suryakant Deokar said, “On Thursday we had to administer only Covishield at PMC centres as we did not have Covaxin. On Friday we could not get Covaxin or Covishield. On Saturday we only had Covishield. The delay in vaccination does not just hamper our vaccination drive, but it also further delays the second shot for many beneficiaries. Despite the Ganesh festival, we have kept our centres open and functioning.” In wake of the upcoming festive season, the central team has on multiple occasions said that the third wave could hit in September and so the administration must prepare accordingly to ensure that there are enough beds and also enough oxygen supply. Vaccination has proven that it does bring down the severity of symptoms and also the percentage of reinfections or deaths among those vaccinated is nominal - 0.17% reinfections among those with one shot of the vaccine and 0.21% among those who have been fully vaccinated. Of the 15,137 reinfections 90 deaths have been reported in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/irregular-vaccine-supply-keeps-pmc-centres-shut-101631289119741.html
10-09-2021||Lucknow||BJP leader found murdered in Baghpat house||MEERUT BJP leader and former vice-president of Uttar Pradesh Kisan Sansthan, Atmaram Tomar, 75, was found dead at his residence in Baraut town of UP’s Baghpat district, said police on Friday morning.A case of murder was lodged against the deceased’s relative Praveen Nain and his friend Balram on the complaint of his son Dr Pratap Tomar. Raids were being conducted to arrest the accused who were caught on CCTV camera while entering the deceased’s house. Tomar was staying alone at his Baraut house, said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, SP (Baghpat).Praveen Nain is the uncle of Tomar’s younger daughter-in-law.Initial investigation revealed that Tomar had expelled Nain from his LPG agency a few months ago on charges of embezzlement of funds. But the latter wanted to avenge his insult, said police.Tomar was a former principal of Janata Vedic Inter College in Baraut and had contested election from the Chaprauli constituency as BJP candidate, but lost. He also served as vice-president of UP Kisan Sansthan. The deceased’s elder son lives in the US while his wife was staying with him. His younger son Dr Pratap Tomar lives in Meerut with his family.Jadaun said the examination of the CCTV footage confirmed Praveen and Balram’s visit to Tomar’s house. “The post-mortem report confirmed smothering as the cause of death,” he said, adding that the incident occurred early on Friday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-leader-found-murdered-in-baghpat-house-101631288820310.html
10-09-2021||Other||Why Pune district needs to be on Covid alert during Ganesh fest 2021||PUNE A spike in fresh Covid cases during the Ganesh festival in 2020 serves as grim warning ahead of festivities in the city this year.Pune district saw its first Covid wave peak in September 2020, post the 10-day Ganesh festival.Last year, as per figures released by the state health department, Pune district reported 37,968 fresh Covid cases cases between August 22 and September 2, the period during which the Ganesh festival was celebrated. The district reported 31,110 cases between August 10 and August 21. This means a spike of 6,800 fresh Covid-19 cases was reported during the week of the Ganesh festival.Currently, Pune still accounts for 25% of active Covid-19 cases in the state, as per data with the state health department.As of Thursday, September 9, Pune accounted for 12,758 active Covid-19 cases of the 50,000 cases in the state. This number is the highest for any district in Maharashtra. After Pune is Thane, with 5,000 fewer active cases.Pune has also reported the highest number of Covid-related deaths in the state, with 19,674 fatalities due to the infection.For this year’s Ganesh fest, physical darshan at mandaps has been prohibited to avoid crowding. Even on the last day of the festival, Anant Chaturdashi, immersion has been allowed only in artificial ponds which will be provided by the Pune municipal corporation (PMC). Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Covid-19 advisor to the state said, “With the number of new cases down this time and a higher vaccination rate, people may ignore Covid-19 protocol at public gatherings. At least 60% of the eligible population has received at least one shot of the vaccine and so they may tend to be a bit more careless than last year. However, let us remember that though vaccines can reduce the severity of the symptoms, it does not prevent the infection totally. There are still a large number of people vulnerable like children who are yet to be fully vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/why-pune-district-needs-to-be-on-covid-alert-during-ganesh-fest-2021-101631288219643.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP chief calls farm stir a conspiracy, blames Congress||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday alleged that the farmers’ agitation has been orchestrated by the Congress and other “nefarious forces” to mislead the people of Punjab. Calling the ongoing stir a conspiracy, Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma requested farmer organisations to form a five-member committee and initiate talks with the Centre. “When the central government has given an assurance that minimum support price will not be discontinued, then why are certain forces continuing the agitation?” he asked in a written statement. The strongly-worded statement came on the day the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) held a meeting with leaders of all political parties, except the BJP, on campaigning for the state assembly elections. The Punjab BJP chief said the central government had announced a hike ranging from ₹40 to ₹400 per quintal in the MSP of different Rabi crops, but some nefarious forces were still doing false propaganda. He also hit out at the Congress government in Punjab for doing “nothing” when the neighbouring Haryana (ruled by the BJP) was giving MSP for 11 crops. Sharma accused the state government of misusing and bungling ₹159-crore subsidy provided by the central government in 2019-20 for buying equipment and machinery for straw management. “The farmers were not given the funds meant for them and the Amarinder Singh government misused the money,” he alleged. The BJP leader said the Haryana government was giving ₹7,000 per acre to farmers as subsidy for not cultivating rice and ₹5,000 per acre to farmers who sow direct-seeded paddy to save water, but no such subsidy was being given to farmers in Punjab to wean them away from the rice-wheat rotation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-bjp-chief-calls-farm-stir-a-conspiracy-blames-congress-101631287680206.html
10-09-2021||Other||Emblems of empowerment: In the face of terror, she fought back bravely||Eleven years ago, a young girl showed the world how to be fearless in the face of fear. Rukhsana Kausar was 27 when three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) men barged into her house in a remote village in Rajouri district and started mercilessly beating up her family members.Unable to take it anymore, Kausar came out of her hiding place under a cot, charged at the militants and attacked their commander, Abu Osama, with an axe and then shot him with his own gun. She then snatched Osama‘s aide’s gun and tossed it over to her brother. Soon, the other family members joined her and overpowered the militants. Under fire from Kausar and her brother, the militants were forced to flee.Now 39, Kausar’s story serves as an inspiration for young women and girls to rise in their own defence. Posted as police constable in her home town in Rajouri, the Kirti Chakra recipient continues to be a role model for many. Among them is her 10-year-old daughter Misbah Kabir, who wants to follow in her footsteps. But Kausar hopes her three daughters —Misbah, Sabah Kabir, 9, and Sumeira Kabir, grow up in a terror-free environment. “I have braved many challenges in my life, but I hope my daughters can see a safer world. I want them to get educated and become responsible citizens,” she says. Kausar had married Kabir Hussain, who is now posted as an assistant sub-inspector in Rajouri. Her brother and uncle had also landed in police jobs after the incident.Though her bravery had earned her many accolades, including the prestigious Kirti Chakra award, National Bravery Award, Sarvottam Jeevan Raksha Padak, Sardar Patel Award, Rani Jhansi Bravery Award and Astha Award among others, Kausar’s family continues face threats due to the September 2009 incident. The family was provided protection in the initial years but had to eventually give it up. “Despite being given police protection, terrorists tried to eliminate us thrice through road accidents,” says the 39-year-old. But she stands by her ‘never give in’ attitude. “Even today, I don’t give up and fight for what I feel is right. Women are not weak. If women resolve to do something, they can surpass men in any field,” she says as she poses with her AK-47 gun in her Rajouri residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/emblems-of-empowerment-in-the-face-of-terror-she-fought-back-bravely-101631286540401.html
10-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 962 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 962 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths in 24 hours on Friday. This took the progressive count to 1.12 million of which 1.09 million have recovered, 19,676 deaths and 13,213 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 8,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 531 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 350,603 and with two more death reported the death toll went up to 6,706. Pune city reported 262 new cases which took the progressive count to 513,874 and with no more deaths reported the death toll remained at 9,130. PCMC reported 199 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 264,045 and with no more deaths reported the toll stood at 3,491. Pune also saw 8,377 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Friday and totally 8,925,739 vaccines have been administered including 6,406,280 first dose and 2,519,459 are second dose. A total of 164 sites conducted vaccination on the day of which six are government and 158 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-962-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-101631286180232.html
10-09-2021||Pune||Corporator, 11 supporters arrested for ruckus at PCMC headquarters||Pune: The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have arrested Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator Asha Shedge and eleven of her supporters for allegedly creating a ruckus inside the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) headquarters premises on Thursday afternoon. Shedge’s supporters threw ink on the nameplate of PCMC commissioner Rajesh Patil and wrote “Dhikkar” (condemn) on the table of officer Ashok Bhalekar. An official complaint against them was lodged by Pramod Ramkrishna Nikam (54) with the Chinchwad police. According to the Pimpri police station, the corporator and her supporters violated the Covid norms and did not protest in a democratic manner. They have been charged for offences under Sections 353 (obstructing public servant from discharging official duty) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Maharashtra Covid Regulations. Assistant police inspector S Palande, the investigating officer in the case, said the accused did not allow the municipal commissioner to step outside his cabin for attending a video conferencing meeting. Also, they tried to rough up the security persons and policemen present on duty and obstructed them from discharging their official duties. The police have invoked IPC 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 341 (wrongful restraint), 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy), 141 (by means of criminal force, or show of criminal force, to compel any person to do what he is not legally bound to do, or to omit to do what he is legally entitled to do), 143 (member of an unlawful assembly), 147 (punishment for rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object ) 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/corporator-11-supporters-arrested-for-ruckus-at-pcmc-headquarters-101631283959121.html
10-09-2021||Lucknow||UP government declares 10 sq km area of Mathura-Vrindavan as ‘teerth sthal’||AGRA/LUCKNOW The Yogi Adityanath government in UP on Friday declared an area of 10 sq km around the birthplace of Lord Krishna in Mathura-Vrindavan as a ‘teerth sthal’ (pilgrimage site). Sale of liquor and meat will be banned in this area comprising 22 wards of the Mathura Nagar Nigam. Seven other spots in Mathura, linked to the life of Lord Krishna and his beloved Radha, were already declared pilgrimage sites by the Yogi regime in the past. These include Vrindavan, Gokul, Barsana, Nandgaon, Goverdhan, Baldev and Radhakund. “The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday declared 10 sq km area under Mathura Nagar Nigam a teerth sthal (pilgrimage spot). The area comprises 22 municipal wards of the municipality. This automatically means that meat and liquor cannot be sold in the area,” informed Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (ACS), information department, UP. Additional chief secretary Avnish Kumar Awasthi issued a detailed order in this regard, specifying the names of the 22 wards to be included in the ‘teerth sthal’. The copy of the order was marked to commissioner, Agra division, district magistrate (Mathura), SSP (Mathura), Mathura Nagar Nigam and vice-chairman of the Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad in Mathura. The decision was welcomed in Mathura and Vrindavan. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has kept his word and declared Mathura as teerth sthal. It was a long pending demand and will ensure revival of the glorious past of this religious city with Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi as its centre. Devotees coming to Mathura were not happy over sale of meat and liquor in the land of Krishna,” stated Kapil Sharma, secretary of Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi Trust in Mathura. Mahesh Pathak, national president of Akhil Bharatiya Teerth Purohit Mahasabha, also welcomed the decision to declare 22 wards of Mathura as pilgrimage site. “There are 70 wards in Mathura-Vrindavan Nagar Nigam, including nine wards of Vrindavan, which already has pilgrimage site status. Of the remaining 61 wards of Mathura, 22 are being declared as pilgrimage spots. We would have loved having all 61 wards of Mathura Nagar Nigam as pilgrimage spots but declaring 22 wards with Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi as epicentre is no less a welcome decision,” stated Pathak. The issue of pilgrimage site status to Mathura was raised on ‘Janmashtami’ last month when chief minister Yogi Adityanath was in Mathura to offer prayers to Lord Krishna at Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi. In his address, he favoured the ban on sale of meat and liquor in the temple town. He even suggested that those engaged in sale of meat and liquor be rehabilitated by opening milk vends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-government-declares-10-sq-km-area-of-mathura-vrindavan-as-teerth-sthal-101631283539939.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Out on parole, 40-year-old stabs sister-in-law over ‘suspicious calls’||New Delhi: A 40-year-old man allegedly stabbed his sister-in-law in north Delhi’s Burari after an argument over talking to someone on the phone, following which he fled and was arrested from Old Delhi railway station.Police said the suspect, Narendra Sabharwal, was earlier arrested in a murder case in Burari and was released on emergency parole just recently as part of efforts to decongest jails. He was supposed to surrender on September 24.Police said they were informed about the incident, which happened on Tuesday, by the hospital where the woman, identified by her first name Soniya, was first admitted with multiple stab wounds. The woman was later shifted to Lok Nayak hospital for further treatment. The woman’s brother, Lokesh, informed police that Soniya was attacked by her brother-in-law, following which a first information report under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC was filed at Burari police station. Police said Soniya was not fit enough to give her statement at the time.The suspect was arrested from the Old Delhi railway station the same day, police said, adding that he was planning to board a train and flee.During interrogation, Sabharwal allegedly told investigators that he stabbed the victim in a fit of rage as she didn’t give a satisfactory response to questions regarding certain “suspicious calls” she made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-out-on-parole-40-year-old-stabs-sister-in-law-over-suspicious-calls-101631283299825.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Moga MC owes ₹25 crore to improvement trust||The Moga municipal corporation owes over ₹25 crore to the Moga Improvement Trust as part of contribution funds, which have piled up due to non-payment over 22 years, reveals official records. Officials said Section 68 of the Punjab Town Improvement Act 1922 made it mandatory for the municipal corporation (MC) to pay 2% of its annual income to its sister local body — Moga Improvement Trust — for development schemes. However, since 1999, neither the MC paid the contribution funds nor any previous trust chairman raised the issue, it is learnt. Finally, Vinod Bansal, chairman, Moga Improvement Trust, has written multiple letters to the corporation, seeking its income details and payment of pending funds, but has not received any response yet. According to a recent reminder sent to the MC, even in 1999, it had paid only ₹51.75 lakh of the ₹1.38 crore dues.“We have sought the pending contribution funds from the MC. I have raised this issue because we all are here for the city’s development,” said Bansal. However, MC commissioner Surinder Singh said that he was not aware of the issue. “I have to look into the records,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-mc-owes-25-crore-to-improvement-trust-101631283239874.html
10-09-2021||Mumbai||32-yr-old woman found unconsious in Mumbai’s Andheri east was raped, brutalised: Cop||Mumbai: A 45-year-old man has been arrested by the Sakinaka police early on Friday for allegedly assaulting and raping a 32-year-old woman.According to Maheshwar Reddy, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 10, police received a call at 3am about an injured couple on Khiarani Road in Sakinaka, Andheri east.On reaching the spot, police found a woman lying injured inside a parked tempo. Outside the vehicle on the road was a man, also injured.The woman was taken to the Rajawadi hospital in Ghatkopar where doctors confirmed sexual assault. Police said the medical examination confirmed that she was also brutalised.Police said a case of assault and rape was registered on the basis of the opinion given by doctors since the woman was still unconscious.“After registering the case, we scanned the CCTV recordings of the spot and have arrested a man who was seen at the crime scene,” said Reddy.Officials said that they have to ascertain the sequence of events and investigate what transpired between the injured couple and the accused. One official said they also need to probe if someone else was involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/32yrold-woman-found-unconsious-in-mumbai-s-andheri-east-was-raped-brutalisedcop-101631281379536.html
10-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan cop held after compromising video with woman cop goes viral||The Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police arrested a Rajasthan Police Service (RPS) officer, who was suspended after an obscene video purportedly showing a woman constable and her minor child in a compromising position with him went viral. The officer, HL Saini, was posted as a circle officer, Beawar, while the constable was posted to Jaipur. Saini was arrested on Thursday night from a resort in Udaipur. He has been brought to Jaipur and SOG has begun an investigation. Director general of police ML Lather said the police took suo motu cognizance of the video being circulated on social media and arrested Saini . A case was registered at the cybercrime station of SOG. The police have lodged a case under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and Information Technology Act. The woman constable was not arrested as she was with her child. She will be arrested later, said an official familiar with the developments. The video clip purportedly showed Saini in a compromising position with the constable in a swimming pool. The policewoman’s six-year-old son was also in the pool with them.Hindustan Times has not independently verified the authenticity of the video. Saini has reportedly claimed that the video is doctored. Meanwhile, the Superintendent of Police, Nagaur, has also sent the station house officer of Chitawa police station to the police lines as he allegedly didn’t take action on the complaint filed by the constable’s husband. A Nagaur police officer said the husband of the woman constable had sent a complaint to the SP’s office through post against his wife and Saini on August 10, almost two months after the incident reportedly happened. The SP forwarded the complaint to the Chitawa police station SHO with direction to take action. The officer said the SHO did not take any action.According to the constable’s husband, on July 13, he saw that his wife posted a video (Whatsapp status) in which she and Saini could be seen in a swimming pool in a compromising position. In his complaint, he said Saini touched his son inappropriately in front of his wife and that constituted a crime against the minor. An official at police headquarters said a departmental inquiry has been initiated against all three --- Saini, the constable, and the SHO. The Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has taken cognizance of the matter and sought a report in three days from the state police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cop-held-after-compromising-video-with-woman-cop-goes-viral-101631281019464.html
10-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh sets up 400 oxygen plants, Covid test positivity rate below 0.01%||With 400 functional oxygen plants, Uttar Pradesh is moving towards becoming “self-reliant” in oxygen generation, the state government said on Friday. A total of 555 oxygen plants were sanctioned by the UP government during the disastrous second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic when oxygen shortages were reported from several states. While 400 oxygen plants have already been set up, work to get the other 155 plants functional is “going on a war-footing”, according to the UP government.“12 more oxygen plants have become functional in the last 4 days. The process of establishing the remaining under-construction plants should be completed in a time-bound manner,” Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said at a high-level review meeting on the Covid-19 situation across the state.In order to ensure the availability of medical oxygen at Community Health Centres (CHCs) and Primary Health Centres (PHCs), oxygen plants will be made mandatory in hospitals with a capacity of more than 50 beds. Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government is monitoring the implementation of PSA medical oxygen plants announced by the Centre with funding from PM Cares, the chief minister’s office said.“As many as twenty five oxygen plants were already functional in the state before the government took the step of constructing more to ensure the availability of sufficient amounts of medical oxygen,” the state government said in a release.About 372 ITI trainees will be engaged in the operation of these oxygen plants to strengthen Covid Control Management and provide employment opportunities. Special training sessions for paramedical staff and pharmacists will be conducted to prepare them to fight the pandemic’s possible third wave.The test positivity rate in Uttar Pradesh has slumped to lower than 0.01% as only 10 samples out of 2,30,740 tested in the last 24 hours tested positive for Covid-19, according to the state government data. The active caseload, which once stood at 3,10,783 in April, has been reduced to 191, putting the recovery rate at 98.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-sets-up-400-oxygen-plants-covid-test-positivity-rate-below-001-101631280604253.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Special task force to check stubble burning in 10 districts||The Punjab government will deploy a special task force in 10 red-category districts, each of which witnessed over 4,000 stubble burning incidents during the previous paddy harvesting season, for strict enforcement and regulatory measures in the upcoming season. Nodal officers will also be appointed at village, cluster, tehsil and district levels to keep air pollution in check for containing the spread of respiratory diseases in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The red-category districts are Sangrur, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Moga, Muktsar, Patiala, Mansa, Tarn Taran, Barnala and Ludhiana.Chairing a high-level meeting to review the preparedness and steps taken to curb farm fires in the state, chief secretary Vini Mahajan asked the animal husbandry department to explore the modalities for using paddy straw as fodder for animals kept at gaushalas. Deputy commissioners were also directed to make elaborate arrangements for the storage of paddy straw. The chief secretary was apprised that 8,000 village-level nodal officers were being appointed for the current paddy season. Mobile app, WhatsApp call centre for reportingA mobile app has been developed to provide role-based login (village, cluster, subdivision and district levels) to various officials for end-to-end reporting and action taken for each fire incident this season. It will be made operational by September 15. Similarly, a WhatsApp call centre will also be made operational by the Punjab Pollution Control Board by September 15 for receiving complaints and information on stubble burning incidents. Advanced machinery under the promotion of agricultural mechanisation for in-situ management of crop residue and submission on agricultural mechanisation has also been sanctioned, and so far 76,626 machines were available in the state. The additional chief secretary, development, said online registrations and empanelment of manufacturers for 2021-22 was being provided, and so far 307 have been listed with the state and 156 empanelled on the portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabspecial-task-force-to-check-stubble-burning-in-10-districts-101631279820648.html
10-09-2021||Other||Uncertainty regarding Naga peace process prevails as guv RN Ravi shifts to TN||The sudden relocation of Nagaland governor RN Ravi, who has been the Centre’s interlocutor for the Naga peace talks since 2014, to Tamil Nadu has evoked mixed reactions from people in Nagaland. Residents are uncertain on where the ongoing Naga peace process is headed- whether the latest development will fast-track the process or stall it.The Centre on Thursday, in a series of administrative changes, ordered the transfer of Nagaland governor RN Ravi as the next governor of Tamil Nadu. Assam governor Jagdish Mukhi will hold the additional charge of Nagaland.Ravi’s appointment as governor of Nagaland in 2019 had evoked similar reactions. While many saw it as a positive indication to resolving the decades-long Naga political issue, various people doubted how he would juggle two constitutional posts while others speculated that the Centre was bringing down the ongoing peace talks from the Prime Minister level to the governor level.As interlocutor, Ravi had a fallout with the Isak Muivah-led National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM) last year with whom he manoeuvred the signing of the 2015 Framework Agreement after he allegedly misinterpreted the agreement and tried to manipulate it. Subsequently, the NSCN (IM) sought his ouster as interlocutor. Talks with seven other Naga nationalist political groups (NNPGs) who signed an “agreed position” in 2017 with the Centre concluded in October 2019 but no final agreement was reached as the NSCN (IM) remained firm on its demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution.As governor, while Ravi was considered astute in his constitutional duties, he also initiated certain measures and made statements which had people question whether the elected government or the constitutional head was in-charge of governance in the state.In the political landscape, his abrupt removal as governor of the state is largely being seen as a positive step towards finalising the peace deal, especially at a time when all the members of the Nagaland Legislative Assembly have agreed to come together to push for settlement and pave the way.“I am as surprised as anyone else on this sudden development. Maybe Delhi’s wisdom is best for all of us,” state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Temjen Imna Along told HT.The ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) also stated if the government of India is of the opinion that this decision is good for Nagaland and the Naga people, then the party welcomes it.“In so far as the Naga political talks are concerned, we are confident that the Prime Minister and the union home minister will take the negotiations towards the right direction and bring an early and honourable solution,” party spokesperson Merentoshi R Jamir said.Naga People’s Front (NPF) MLA and former chief minister TR Zeliang said he thought Ravi was “someone who brimmed with enthusiasm on resolving the Naga issue till he was appointed as governor of the state”, after which there was a “blame game” between him and one of the major negotiating groups (NSCN-IM) which created a “huge gap between the negotiating parties and brought the talks to a deadlock”. Towards this, Zeliang expressed his reservations that Ravi’s exit at such a crucial time could either be perceived as a step ahead for the dialogue to resume, or create more confusion and delay the peace process further which would be “too costly” for the Naga people.During his two-year stint as governor, Ravi also appears to have gathered moss on his social relationship with the public of Nagaland. The Naga Mothers’ Association (NMA), an influential Naga women organisation, termed it unfortunate that unlike earlier governors who were in touch with the people, the Raj Bhavan, during Ravi’s tenure, became exclusive. “As the governor of our state, we wish he (Ravi) had been more in touch with the common people rather than with select groups. But we wish him well and hope he cultivates good relationship with the people of Tamil Nadu as it is also a state with turbulent history,” says NMA advisor Dr Rosemary Dzuvichu.“As governor and interlocutor of the Naga peace talks, RN Ravi is well informed about Naga issues and pragmatic in dealing with the Naga political negotiation. Under his able leadership, we have achieved a great level of understanding and hope to have a solution that will usher in enduring peace in the entire northeast region,” Nagaland Tribes Council media convener Theja Therieh said. While congratulating Ravi as he takes over the responsibility of a “bigger state”, the organisation expressed hope that the government of India has the political will to deliver the long-awaited solution to the Naga issue as per the “agreed points” on the negotiation table.Naga Hoho president HK Zhimomi said that Ravi as a governor was not in tune with the people of the state. He said Ravi, after becoming governor of Nagaland, started misinterpreting the Naga peace talks and began to take sides even in his public speeches, while his connection with the people of the state became “purely political”. The Naga Hoho had written to the Centre in 2020 for the removal of Ravi as governor of Nagaland citing various reasons. Zhimomi said his replacement as governor was long due as “reasons” were compounding. He added that the Naga people can expect positivity on the peace process following this development.“Unlike his predecessors, governor Ravi’s closeness with the Naga civil society was based solely on Naga peace process. In the process he distanced himself from the people of Nagaland and mainstream Naga organisations,” said H Chishi, senior journalist and president of Nagaland Press Association. He said Ravi as governor had developed a strained relationship not only with Naga organisations, but with the state government wherein the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is also a partner.The comparison between Ravi and previous governors of Nagaland is even more glaring as his immediate predecessor PB Acharya was widely known as the “people’s governor”, who during his five-year tenure, opened the doors of the hallowed Raj Bhavan to the people of the state, particularly the less privileged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uncertainty-regarding-naga-peace-process-prevails-as-guv-rn-ravi-shifts-to-tn-101631279220828.html
10-09-2021||Pune||Global village idiot: The human spirit... surviving, thriving, and always learning||Recently I reconnected with five inspiring individuals, people from ordinary backgrounds, of different ages, with different aspirations, but with one thing in common.It all started weeks ago when we were passing through Bremen chowk in Aundh and the children asked me why it was called “Bremen”. I explained the Pune-Bremen connection and talk turned to Germany and that was that.Last week our 10-year-old asked me, “How is your friend in Germany? The boy who plays guitar and makes darts?”It took me a while to realise he was asking about Timm from Berlin. We are a hopelessly talkative family and I talk to the kids about my trips, work, what I am reading… The thing about memory is that it captures everything, but predicting what the mind remembers and why or how it connects things is a different matter. In this case, the younger two had been discussing robots and somehow they got talking about Germany and they remembered Bremen and my Berlin trip and the story I had told them about Timm, his siblings and his work.Timm Bange was one of several German youngsters I met at an aviation training conference in Berlin in 2017. They were all juggling (quite adeptly) university education, work, and their own creative ideas. I was particularly fascinated by Timm. All of 23 then, he had a qualification in International Management (Business and IT), was enrolled for a Bachelor of Arts and had co-founded myDartpfeil with his best friend Lukas Haas (it was a startup that designed and sold personalised darts). It was his second startup. Those days Timm used to work part-time at trade shows to support himself.We had kept in touch through LinkedIn so I wrote to Timm to check how he was doing and if they had managed to raise any funds and, how the pandemic had affected his plans and, how he had stayed focused. “We are 14 people now - going to be around five more people by December. We didn’t need funding :) We are investing through our cashflow,” he wrote back with greetings from Berlin.He had persisted with his education through the pandemic and finished his entrepreneurship studies at DHBW Karlsruhe in October 2020. As an eCommerce business selling darts (indoor sport and home sport), myDartpfeil’s main problems during the pandemic was trying to satisfy peoples’ demands in terms of dart demands. In Timm’s opinion, the key to progress in the current scenario was motivation, determination and patience.Thinking of the Berlin trip reminded me of Mayank Mudgil, a young instructional designer who used to work in Pune (colleague from the mid- 2010s) and had then gone to Germany for studies. He had co-founded a company in Berlin and had been going through the paces of a business starting up, when we met again in 2017. So earlier this week, I reached out to him as well to see how he was doing. He’s apparently back in India and working with an airline. “During the pandemic my workload increased 5x times. As a learning content creator whose value in the company was on the sidelines; I suddenly came in to the spotlight. More and more learnings and trainings were needed to be driven virtually and so many projects flooded my timelines,” Mayank replied. And while his professional career seems to have fared reasonably well during the pandemic, he has also kept up his learning. “For me YouTube and domain specific websites are the best source of knowledge,” Mayank wrote in.Closer to home in Pune, I discovered that Girish Dharap had launched his own learning YouTube channel, Learnamytes. I had met Girish in 2006-7 when he was a presales researcher at an eLearning company and we have stayed connected. A versatile and diligent learner, Girish moved from eLearning to classroom training sales, then became a trainer and finally launched his training services business, Nallanda. When the pandemic hit classroom training outfits, he explored his theatre and presentation skills and combined all of it to create weekly learning videos through storytelling.I also wrote in to a writer and creator I admire, Aditya Kuber. When I first met Aditya he was a young freelance photographer in Pune. Having an entrepreneurial streak, Aditya went on to found different content startups through the past decade. His latest venture (he’s CEO and co-founder) Ideabrew Studios was launched just before the pandemic and it happens to be in the podcast space. I was curious to see how they were doing since it’s been a rough 15 months. “We are now a small team of 12. The pandemic slowed down our go-to-market by about six months. Had Lockdown 2 not happened around March (this year), we may have been further along. Other than that, it’s impacted digital consumption positively and since we operate in that space, it’s a positive outcome for us.”Aditya feels that apart from positive market sentiment, it’s important for new businesses to have confidence in the marketplace that lockdowns won’t affect business further. Like many other young entrepreneurs, Aditya too is a continuous learner and he believes in self-study and the occasional tactical courses from places like Udemy.The most inspiring news came from Mumbai last weekend: the release of the single, “Every”. A refreshingly original song, it’s the debut release of 13-year-old musician, Anya Shine. The song is particularly significant because it could herald a new beginning for child-parent-teacher collaboration in India. Written, composed and sung by Anya, the track is produced by her parents Kanchan and Shine, and it features her music teacher, Shreyas Shandiliya, who has worked with Anya since 2017. The song is available on all the major music platforms and shows that ordinary people can do extraordinary things when they collaborate.What do all these stories have in common? An intense desire to continuously learn and focus on improving skills and performance - come hardship, pandemic, rain or shine.Sanjay Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-the-human-spirit-surviving-thriving-and-always-learning-101631278319349.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab extends Covid-19 restrictions till Sept 30 in view of festive season||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered the further extension of coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related restrictions in the state till September 30 due to the forthcoming festival season.Chairing a virtual high-level Covid-19 review meeting, Singh appealed to all political parties to lead by example – while directing the Director General of Police (DGP), Dinkar Gupta, to ensure compliance of curbs by all.The chief minister also asked the department of social security to start preparations to open Anganwadi centres within this month – thereby making Punjab the first state to do so. However, he mentioned that the opening of these centres will be in regards to the vaccination of the employees and other protocols that will be laid down by the state health department, an official release noted.Also Read | Punjab to send unvaccinated govt staff on compulsory leave after Sep 15Meanwhile, Dr KK Talwar, head of Punjab government’s Covid expert committee, said that the coronavirus situation in the state was “under control” but there was a need to prepare for the third wave, and also for the upcoming festival season. He has also appealed to Singh to ask religious organisations such as temples and Gurdwaras to make regular announcements for wearing of masks.Dr Talwar has asked for the same protocol to be followed in markets as well, with shopkeepers and their staff getting tested “aggressively” in view of the festival time.What are the guidelines laid down by Captain Singh?1.     Not more than 300 people can attend gatherings, including political ones and strict enforcement of Covid-19 protocols of wearing masks and maintaining social distance will be in place.2.     Chief minister Singh has also mandated all organisers, including political parties, to make sure that participants, management and the employees at food stalls during the festival season, are inoculated with at least one dose of the coronavirus vaccine.3.     Singh has also directed chief secretary Vini Mahajan to form joint flying squads with the state police in order to ensure adherence to Covid-19 norms at marriage places, and restaurants, among others.4.     Captain Singh has also ordered ramping up of testing from the current 45,000 per day to at least 50,000 each day as preparations to combat the probable third wave of the coronavirus. He added that besides sentinel testing, outreach camps and testing should be adopted, especially where public gatherings are likely due to the festival time.5.     The chief minister has also asked all infrastructure augmentation tasks to be completed and expedited.6.     Singh further directed the health department to take micro-containment measures using GIS-based surveillance and prevention tools for areas or neighbourhoods where Covid-19 cases are above five. These tools come with an auto-trigger mechanism for localised restrictions, and are now live in all districts of Punjab, the official release read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-extends-covid-19-restrictions-till-sept-30-in-view-of-festive-season-101631276535187.html
10-09-2021||Pune||Online fraudsters dupe businessman of ₹4.48 crore in Pune||Pune: The Mundhwa police filed a case against cyber fraudsters for allegedly hacking into the email account of a businessman and defrauding him of ₹4.48 crore. The 48-year-old victim and complainant sells expensive paintings in the country and abroad. The complaint has been filed under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Information Technology (IT) Act. According to the police, the victim was in talks with an international company Jerar Marty. The cyber criminals contacted the victim using a fake email id in the name of Marty. Through seven to eight transactions, 5.97 lakh US dollars amounting to ₹4.48 crore was transferred to the said account that was siphoned off by the hackers. Inspector Vijay Patil, the investigation officer in the case, said that the fraud took place between March 26 and May 2021. “On releasing the fraud, the complainant lodged an FIR. The complainant’s company staff found the email details bonafide and fell for it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/online-fraudsters-dupe-businessman-of-rs-4-48-crore-in-pune-101631276758520.html
10-09-2021||Pune||Ganesh festival begins in Pune on muted note||The annual Ganesh festival began in Pune on Friday as devotees welcomed the deity in their homes and at pandals but without much fanfare in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions on processions and gatherings. Key Ganesh mandals, including five 'manache' (revered ) mandals, performed 'pranpratishtha' (installation) of idols in pandals (marquees) in the city with COVID-19 protocols. This is the second year in a row when the festival, the most popular and awaited religious event in Maharashtra, is being celebrated in a muted and simple manner in view of Covid-19 and looming threat of a third wave. Mahesh Suryavanshi, a trustee at Shreemant Dagdusheth Halwai Ganpati, said the 'pranpratishtha' of the city's most endearing deity, was performed inside the main temple in a simple manner and by following all COVID-19 norms. The civic administration has appealed to all Ganesh mandals to celebrate the festival in a simple manner and make arrangements for online 'darshan' for devotees to avoid gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ganesh-festival-begins-in-pune-on-muted-note-101631276419687.html
10-09-2021||Mumbai||Ganesh Chaturthi: Famous Lalbaugcha Raja Pandal deserted as govt orders virtual darshan||The Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations at Mumbai's famous Lalbaugcha Raja Pandal were subdued amid the state government's restrictions to curb the Covid-19 spread in Maharashtra. Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) has been imposed in the area, prohibiting the gathering of people.The local restrictions also barred devotees from entering the pandal to offer their prayers, forcing them to pray virtually. This is the second time in a row that the pandal is seeing sombre observance of Ganesh Chaturthi due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The outside lane was also deserted as a huge line of security personnel guarded the venue and restricted devotees from going inside. The officials also hung a "No devotees allowed to go for prayers" outside the pandal.
10-09-2021||Other||‘Attacks on CPM offices pre-planned’: Sitaram Yechury writes to PM on Tripura violence||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) central committee general secretary Sitaram Yechury sought intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the recent violence in Tripura alleging that many of the CPM party offices and even media houses were attacked by ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in a pre-planned manner. Yechury also claimed that these attacks happened as the state government failed in its attempt to suppress activities of the oppositions in the state. In the letter written on September 9, he stated that many party offices at different places, including the state headquarters located at Agartala, were ransacked. “In a pre-planned fashion, scores of offices of the CPI(M), including the state headquarters, were attacked by mobs of BJP men. Among the offices which were damaged or burnt down are the Udaipur sub-divisional office, Gomati district committee office; Sepahijala district committee office; Bishalgarh sub-divisional committee office, Santar Bazar sub-divisional office; West Tripura district committee office and the Sadar sub-divisional committee office,” the letter read. Yechury also alleged in the letter that the BJP cadres also damaged office of Daily Desher Katha, a Bengali daily newspaper and also mouthpiece of the CPM and ransacked houses of many CPM leaders and activists. Nearly ten people sustained injuries amidst clashes that occurred between BJP and CPM at separate places of the northeastern state on September 8. The clash started from Udaipur centering a rally of CPM’s youth wing, the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) before it spread to other parts of the state. Police got two cases in this regard and arrested two persons in this connection, as per latest report. Both the BJP and CPM organised rallies protesting violence in the state on Thursday. “We strongly urge you to intervene without any delay to stop these violent attacks against the CPI(M) and the Left Front. The manner in which the attacks took place makes it clear that the state government is grossly failing in discharging its Constitutional responsibility of maintaining law and order and trampling on the Constitutional rights of the opposition to organise political activities in a peaceful manner,” Yechury wrote in the letter. On the issue, Left Front convener Bijan Dhar said, “We will discuss to fix our next target.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/attacks-on-cpm-offices-pre-planned-sitaram-yechury-writes-to-pm-on-tripura-violence-101631272080492.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to send unvaccinated govt employees on compulsory leave after September 15||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday announced the decision to send state government employees compulsorily on leave who fail to take even the first dose of vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The chief minister also ordered an extension of the existing Covid restrictions in the state till September 30 in view of the upcoming festival season.At a high-level virtual Covid review meeting, Singh cited the inoculation and infection data to highlight vaccine efficacy. The decision to send unvaccinated employees on leave was taken to ensure vaccinated individuals do not pay the price of vaccine hesitancy, according to the chief minister’s office.“Special efforts were taken to reach out to Government employees, and those who continue to avoid getting vaccinated will now be asked to go on leave till they get the first dose,” the CMO said in a release.Also Read | Covid situation in Punjab gets better, no signs of surge yetThe teaching and non-teaching school staff who had taken at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine over four weeks ago will be allowed to resume their duties, given they submit negative RTPCR test reports every week. The school staff with co-morbidities will only be allowed once they are fully vaccinated, as per the latest decision.Punjab's Covid-19 situation has further improved even as some states are reporting a spike in infections. While the reopening of schools has caused concern, Singh expressed satisfaction that the situation remained under control with aggressive testing. The chief minister noted that only 0.05% of the samples taken from students, teaching and non-teaching staff tested positive for Covid-19. Citing the latest serosurvey, Singh said that “our children, even though affected by Covid, have remained largely safe from serious disease,” according to CMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-send-unvaccinated-govt-employees-on-compulsory-leave-after-september-15-101631270442271.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Heavy rain floods Amritsar, throws life out of gear||Incessant rainfall in Amritsar and neighbouring Tarn Taran district since 6am on Friday left the cities inundated and threw life out of gear. Almost all roads in Amritsar, including Heritage Street that leads to the Golden Temple and Jallianwala Bagh, were waterlogged. With lack of proper drainage, the area was under one to two feet of water by the afternoon. Most localities in the heart of Amritsar were flooded with commuters struggling to reach their destination. Rainwater entered houses and shops in low-lying areas. Also read: Punjab elections: Farmers meet Congress, SAD, AAP leadersSuch a heavy downpour for a prolonged duration has not been witnessed in recent years. The day started like a normal rainy day and people left for work in the morning, but the continuous downpour till the afternoon left many high and dry. Students and their parents were the most worried. Downpour concern for paddy growers Heavy rain at this stage is worrisome for paddy growers as the harvesting season is nearing as procurement starts in the first week of October. “At present, the early sown paddy has ripened and is nearing harvest. Heavy rain can affect the ripened crop,” said Amritsar chief agriculture officer Kuljit Singh Saini. “Waterlogged fields will delay harvesting as combine harvesters cannot be operated in fields in such a situation,” he said. Meanwhile, residents of the area along the Ravi and Beas rivers are worried as the area is inundated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heavy-rain-floods-amritsar-throws-life-out-of-gear-101631269318958.html
10-09-2021||Patna||Ropeway to reach the top of Bihar’s Mandar hill to be launched soon||Visiting sites atop Mandar hill in Bihar’s Banka will now be easier as the state tourism department is all set to launch a recently developed ropeway at the 700-foot-high Mandar. The second such facility in the state after the ropeway at Ratnagiri hills at Rajgir in Nalanda. The Mandar ropeway‘s length is 377.36 metres and it’s expected to cover the distance from the ground to the top of Mandar hill within four minutes. Currently, it takes two hours to reach the top.The airlift facility which eight cabins, each accommodating four persons at a time, has been developed at a cost of over ₹9 crore. “Mandar draws a good number of Hindu pilgrims, especially during Shrawan months and on Shivratri festival. Even Jain devotees visit the hilltop. But travelling to the top of the hill is tough and exhausting. This is why people have been demanding for an airlift facility,” Narayan Prasad, tourism minister, said. Now that the facility is ready, it will definitely make the journey more convenient and comfortable, he added. The minister said that chief minister Nitish Kumar has been requested to launch it. “Once we get the green signal, date of launching will be announced,” he said. Last Tuesday, a team of the Bihar State Tourism Development Corporation (BSTDC) had visited the site to review the project and submitted the status report. “And I will visit Banka to make a final review of the project,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ropeway-to-reach-the-top-of-bihar-s-mandar-hill-to-be-launched-soon-101631268718648.html
10-09-2021||Lucknow||33 districts in Uttar Pradesh are now Covid-free: State govt||There are no active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in 33 districts of Uttar Pradesh, the state government informed on Friday. About 67 districts have not reported a single new case of the viral infection in the last 24 hours, the government said, noting the steady improvement of the Covid-19 situation in the state.The 33 Covid free districts include Aligarh, Amroha, Ayodhya, Baghpat, Ballia, Balrampur, Banda, Basti, Bahraich, Bijnor, Bhadohi, Chitrakoot, Chandauli, Etah, Deoria, Fatehpur, Ghazipur, Gonda, Hamirpur, Hapur, Hardoi, Hathras, Kasganj, Lalitpur and Mahoba. The list also includes Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Pilibhit, Rampur, Saharanpur, Shamli, Siddharth Nagar, and Sonbhadra, according to the state government data.Overall, the state has a total of 199 active cases, while the positivity rate came down to less than 0.01 per cent. The recovery rate, meanwhile, has improved to 98.7 per cent. As per the state's health bulletin, Uttar Pradesh reported only 11 new Covid-19 cases and zero deaths in the last 24 hours. The fresh cases came out of 2.26 lakh samples that were tested in the last 24 hours. As of Friday, the state government has conducted 7.42 crore tests, according to the data published by Uttar Pradesh's health department.On the vaccination front, around 7 crore people in the state have received their first dose of the jab. The vaccination coverage in the state has exceeded 8.47 crores, out of which, 12 lakh people have been inoculated in the last 2 hours.Meanwhile, the overall nationwide tally climbed to 33,174,954 after recording 34,973 cases in the last 24 hours. This was around 19% lower than Thursday when the country had logged 43,263 fresh infections. The death toll stands at 442,009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/33-districts-in-uttar-pradesh-are-now-covid-free-state-govt-101631267966925.html
10-09-2021||Mumbai||Woman jumps off in lake in Thane, body recovered||The dead body of a 33-year-old woman was found in Ganesh Lake early on Friday. officials said. Mumbra police are investigating the case and an accidental death report has been registered in the matter.The deceased woman was missing from her home for a day. Mumbra police on early Friday was informed about a dead body found in the lake. The body was recovered by the Regional Disaster Management cell.A Mumbra police officer said, “We have sent the body for the postmortem and are inquiring with the family members. The woman was unmarried and was said to be mentally disturbed since the lockdown started. She was frustrated about being alone and told her parents the same. She went out on Thursday and didn’t return. Through the initial investigation, it was found that she jumped into the lake on Thursday. Her body has been handed over to the family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-jumps-off-in-lake-in-thane-body-recovered-101631267579911.html
10-09-2021||Patna||New gazetteers in Bihar to contain info about socio-cultural traditions, land, heritage sites||The department of revenue and land reforms which has been working to come up with Gazetteers of all 38 districts in Bihar, plans to incorporate local socio-cultural traditions and architectural specialities in them. The Gazetteers will also include information regarding heritage sites, monuments, temples and shrines in each district and their architecture. The land reforms department is also preparing to make the digital editions of the Gazetteers available for the first time.“Its (Gazetteer) was prepared for the first time in 1881 by the British rulers in our country. In the Gazetteers published by the British, we find every detail of the land, it’s location and landscape along with the information of local social life. But things have changed much since then, and life and society in those areas too have changed a lot. Things need to be reviewed and revised to make the Gazetteer more topical and relevant,” Vivek Kumar Singh, additional principal secretary of the department of revenue and land reforms, said. Gazetteer is an official document about the districts and states with the most authentic information. It not only contains the history of the land and landscape of the district or the state, but also has the details of its socio-cultural life. “Also there is a need to document local socio-cultural trends and traditions along with land and locations,” he said. Many of these local traditions are fast disappearing because of growing urbanisation and might be lost permanently in the coming years, he added. “What we can do now is to get these documented and preserved for the next generation. We are consulting experts on these subjects for the documentation work,” he said. The official said that the forthcoming Gazetteer is expected to turn into a reference book for a wide variety of topics. “If you need information regarding a monument or temple in any district or its architecture, you may consult the Gazetteer,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/new-gazetteers-in-bihar-to-contain-info-about-socio-cultural-traditions-land-heritage-sites-101631266739434.html
10-09-2021||Other||All you need to know about the road to Goa’s Dudhsagar that has environmentalists fuming||On Wednesday, the Bombay high court’s Goa bench restrained the Goa Public Works Department from going forward with a road project to “upgrade” the current kutcha road leading to the world famous Dudhsagar Falls to a paved road. Here’s all you need to know about the road and why it was stoppedWhere is the road being constructed?The Goa Public Works Department undertook the upgradation of the road from the entrance of the Mollem National Park upto the Dudhsagar Falls -- a total length of approximately 26km -- to allow the public easy access to the waterfall, a great tourist attraction in Goa. The Dudhsagar Falls in Bhagwan Mahavir National Park, Mollem, features in most tourist guide books and attracts a large number of domestic and international tourists -- around 325,000 per year.Why is Mollem National Park important?The Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park covers an area of 240sqkm within Dharbandora and Sanguem talukas in Goa, and is a part of the contiguous protected area network in Goa. The area is one of Goa’s oldest wildlife sanctuaries, originally notified in 1967. Subsequently, in 1978, a part of the sanctuary measuring around 107sqkm was notified as the Mollem National Park.This protected area is a vital wildlife habitat of Goa, being home to a number of endangered species, including tigers. It provides a safe and pristine habitat for a plethora of wildlife, flora and biodiversity to thrive. Reports confirm that a number of endemic and endangered species of flora and fauna are found here. The area is part of the core zone of the proposed tiger reserve for Goa.Why did the forest department decide to ‘upgrade’ an existing road? Two years ago, the chief wildlife warden, in a presentation before the Goa Wildlife Board, argued for the upgradation of an existing road, saying that during heavy rainfall the existing kutcha road is eroded and jeep, taxis cannot travel, inconveniencing visitors. The circuit remains closed during the monsoon and opens for tourists, jeep operators in the first week of October every year once the rains have subsided. During the summer, the continuous movement of tourist jeeps on the road leads to dust pollution in and around 50 metres on either side of the road in the protected area. There have been demands from locals as well as tourists to improve the road, adopting new available eco-friendly materials for better upkeep and reducing pollution, the forest department said. What did the present project entail? In order to mitigate the effects of noise pollution in the wildlife habitat and for the convenience of tourists, the existing road may be strengthened through either paver block, proper drainage, laterite stone and strengthening of adequate provisions of small culvert/bridges in between so as to make it waterproof at places prone to waterlogging leading to skidding of vehicles, the forest department said.In the first phase, the road is being repaired with lateritic soiling with murram duly compacted in the best manner possible in their current form and present width to make it suitable for plying of vehicles before the end of the monsoon season. In the second phase the work will make the road an all weather facility by the laying of interlocking pavers laid over a bed of cement concrete.Why did the Goa Foundation object?According to the foundation, no permission whatsoever can be granted for work of this nature, evidently to further human purposes, within an area notified as a national park. The taxis to the Dudhsagar Falls which run the present route from Mollem (distance: 10.1km) are required to maintain a speed of 10km per hour in order to prevent any harm or danger to wildlife. An all-weather road will not only lead to enhanced traffic but also induce drives to exceed speed limits.“The proposal is to construct a spanking new permanent road which will completely replace the existing kutcha road and cause nuisance to wildlife in all manner of ways, fragmenting the habitat, causing anxiety, obstruction and disturbance of wildlife throughout the year,” the Goa Foundation said. “The brand new road will become a curse in the wildlife sanctuary and ensure that whatever wildlife is left in this area will not be seen again. At the present moment, the number of vehicles is restricted to 240, which is already in excess of the carrying capacity and these are all jeeps due to the terrain. However, the equations will change once the road has been upgraded. There will be no respite for the wildlife even in the monsoon. At present, the wildlife and the forest get a much-needed breather of at least five months due to the monsoon and the turbulent nature of the Dudhsagar river,” the Goa Foundation said in an affidavit. What did the high court say?In case of any conflict between tourism and conservation interests of a protected area, the paradigm for decision must be that tourism exists for the protected areas and not vice versa, and that demands of tourism must be subservient to and in consonance with the conservation interests of protected area. While revenues earned from tourism can help the management of the protected area, maximisation of income must never override the main goal of tourism viz. to educate the visitor and create in them a respect for nature, said the court. In such matters, the precautionary principle will have to be applied because the damage to the eco-sensitive protected area will be much greater if the proposed works proceed without any approval from National Board for Wildlife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-you-need-to-know-about-the-road-to-goa-s-dudhsagar-that-has-environmentalists-fuming-101631266558571.html
10-09-2021||Other||Inclusion of RSS ideologues’ books in college syllabus sparks row in Kerala||The inclusion of books written by Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologues VD Savarkar, MS Golwalkar and Deendayal Upadhyaya in the syllabus of a post-graduate course in Kannur University (north Kerala) has kicked up a row. State higher education minister R Bindhu on Friday sought a report from the vice-chancellor of the university regarding the issue. Activists of the Kerala Students Union, the student wing of the Congress, and the Muslim Students Federation, the youth wing of the Muslim League, burnt copies of the books and the syllabus in the university on Thursday. The Communist Party of India (CPI), part of the ruling Left Democratic Front, also criticised the move to include these books. But the Students Federation of India (SFI), the student wing of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), and the V-C maintained that these books were part of the postgraduate course to let students realise the “divisive and hate politics of the RSS and its propagators”. Also Read | Kerala HC reserves order on anticipatory bail plea of woman who pretended to be lawyer“This is a sensitive issue. I have sought details from the V-C. Personally I feel such content is not good,” said Bindhu. But V-C Gopinath Raveendran said the syllabus was decided by an academic committee and he did not find anything wrong in it. “We should understand the ideas of those we are opposing. If we ban such works what is the difference between us and Taliban,” he said, adding that blind opposition to other ideas or thought is also wrong. He said these books are a part of a 30-book syllabus. “These books are included in the comparative literature section of a post-graduate course and students should realise these men’s thoughts and the damage they did to the country and society in general, only after going through them,” said university union chairman MK Hassan, a leader of the SFI. These books are included in the third semester of the public administration course at the Government Brennen College in Thalassery, the alma mater of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Extracts of Savarkar’s Hindutva: Who is a Hindu?, Golwarkar’s We or Our Nationhood Defined, Upadhyaya’s Integral Humanism and Balraj Madhok’s Indianisation, What, Why and How are included in the syllabus, among 30 books. Many academics and writers also criticised the move. “It is really shocking how such books got into the syllabus,” said literary critic and writer professor MN Karassery. But a section of teachers said it was not proper to blindly oppose books of a particular ideology, adding that students should imbibe different connotations and ideologies to arrive at a conclusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/inclusion-of-rss-ideologues-books-in-college-syllabus-sparks-row-in-kerala-101631266258583.html
10-09-2021||Patna||Children rescued after school van plunges into river in Bihar||At least fifteen school children had a narrow escape after their school van skidded off the road and fell into a river in Bihar’s Begusarai district on Friday morning, officials said. The accident took place in the morning hours and led to anxious moments for parents. The emotionally-charged crowd was later pacified by the police personnel. Police said that the incident took place at Suryapura village under Bhagwanpur police station when a private school van was carrying 15 children at the time of the incident. As soon as the van reached the outskirt of the village, it plunged into the local Bainti river. There was about four-five feet of water in the river when the mishap occurred. Soon after the accident was reported, the parents of the children, school administration and villagers rushed to the spot and pulled the children out from the river and saved their lives. Eyewitnesses of the incident said that the children owed it to the locals who jumped into the river, broke the window glasses of the van and saved them. Preliminary investigation suggested that the driver lost control over the vehicle when he reportedly felt sleepy. Injured students were shifted to a private nursing home. A case has been registered against the driver for negligence and an investigation is on. Begusarai range DIG Rajesh Kumar said that three of the injured were admitted to a private hospital and others were sent home after treatment. Police said none of the injured was in a severe condition. Some of them complained of uneasiness having consumed the river water. The local administration met with all the students to ensure their safety and recovery. The DIG said that a notice has been issued against the school while a probe is underway to ascertain the exact cause of the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/children-rescued-after-school-van-plunges-into-river-in-bihar-101631264640174.html
10-09-2021||Other||Goa halves licence fee to help beach shacks offset pandemic losses||For the second year in a row, the Goa government has waived beach shack fees to the tune of 50 per cent in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.The move, announced by chief minister Pramod Sawant at a cabinet briefing on Thursday, comes on the back of shack operators demanding the licence fee be reduced to offer relief to the industry that has been severely hit by the pandemic.As per the Goa shack policy, a shack operator has to pay up to ₹one lakh as a shack licence fee depending on the size and location of his shack. The shacks are usually set up after the monsoon season ends, beginning October, and are dismantled by May prior to the onset of the monsoons. However, in view of the pandemic and lockdown last year, the shacks were set up unusually late in November owing to low footfall which began to pick up only in December. They also had to close earlier in March this year as cases picked up and the industry once again saw thin numbers before restrictions were imposed once again.Shacks are a crucial part of the Goa beach experience and around 400 shacks are set up on Goa’s beaches each year offering visitors to sip and munch while enjoying a view of the waves.President of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa, Nilesh Shah, said that despite a recent uptick, numbers continued to remain low but much depended on the Covid situation on whether the trends will continue.“A lot of verticals like casinos, watersports, river cruises, spas and nightclubs continue to remain closed as part of Covid restrictions. Depending on the situation over the next few weeks, if the government relaxes some of these restrictions, we could see an uptick in tourism,” Shah said.President of the All Goa Shack Owners Welfare Society, Cruz Cardoso, said that the sentiment remained subdued across the industry, especially among the shack industry, after more than a year of restrictions. He was, however, hopeful that the reduction in the fee would help make ends meet.“We had actually asked the government for a 100 per cent fee waiver and if not then it should be at least 75 per cent. But that the government has given us 50 per cent, we won’t hold a grudge for it. Something’s better than nothing. The numbers are yet to pick up. Maybe if the government allows more reopening then more tourists will come. But it all depends on the Covid situation and protocol will have to be followed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-halves-licence-fee-to-help-beach-shacks-offset-pandemic-losses-101631260439231.html
10-09-2021||Lucknow||Asaduddin Owaisi booked by UP police for allegedly ‘vitiating communal harmony’||The Uttar Pradesh police on Friday booked All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi for allegedly causing communal disharmony, making “indecent” remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and violating Covid-19 norms at a rally on Thursday.Barabanki superintendent of police Yamuna Prasad said that the Lok Sabha lawmaker has been charged under sections 153A (promoting enmity on ground of religion, race etc.), 188 (disregarding order of a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Epidemic Act.Prasad said that Owaisi made statements that ‘vitiated communal harmony’. “In his speech, the AIMIM chief made statements for vitiating communal harmony and said the 100-year-old Ram Sanehi Ghat mosque was razed by the administration and its debris was also removed. This is contrary to the fact. By this statement, Owaisi tried to vitiate communal harmony and incite feelings of a particular community,” the superintendent of police was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.He said that the supporters at the Hyderabad MP’s rally in Katra Chandana flouted social distancing guidelines and did not wear masks. The police said that Owaisi was charged for arranging huge crowds.Owaisi’s AIMIM is aiming to contest 100 seats in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections scheduled to be held next year. He kicked off his campaign at Rudauli town in Ayodhya district on Tuesday. He criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government led by Adityanath in the state and also blamed governments led by Samajwadi Party (SP), Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) and Congress in Uttar Pradesh for the “plight of the Muslim community”.“Muslims constitute 19% of UP whereas Yadav community leader becomes CM though they are mere 9% of the population. The Muslims are denied government jobs. The Muslims in UP are harassed and exploited. They have been denied a share in the power, education and basic facilities. They have been denied justice,” Owaisi said.He also said that the community is leaderless and no party is interested in addressing the grievances of Muslims in Uttar Pradesh. Owaisi claimed that political parties are interested in the Muslim community when elections are declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/asaduddin-owaisi-booked-by-up-police-for-allegedly-vitiating-communal-harmony-101631259513195.html
10-09-2021||Ranchi||CM Soren says can halt Coal India's ops, as it owes ₹1.5 lakh crore to state||Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Thursday said if the opposition BJP supports him, he can stop functioning of Coal India Limited (CIL), which owes ₹1.5 lakh crore to the Jharkhand government, in the state.Despite that, the Centre is auto-debiting huge funds from Jharkhand's RBI account, Soren said in the assembly and attacked the central government for its alleged partisan approach towards non-BJP-ruled states."If the main opposition party (BJP) supports, I can make a decision to stop the work of Coal India. It owes ₹1.5 lakh crore to the state."When we raise the issue, some central minister comes and the CIL pays ₹50 crore or ₹100 crore. So far, only ₹300 crore has been received," the chief minister said during the last day of the Monsoon session of the assembly.However, he said he does not want to make such a decision that will affect the Central government and leave other states without power.Soren alleged that the Centre is not giving the state its due but is deducting thousands of crores of rupees from its account.Earlier, BJP legislator Dhullu Mahto asked a question related to compensation to people displaced due to CIL projects in Dhanbad region to which Soren said the PSU was not heeding to requests of the state government.In July, Soren had asked the CIL to immediately pay ₹56,000 crore outstanding dues in lieu of government land allotted to it for mining.Attacking the BJP, Soren said the party has failed to digest defeat in polls in Jharkhand as well as in neighbouring West Bengal."During the election in West Bengal, it appeared that it was a war between India and Pakistan. One should accept defeat. The opposition too has its role. We also spent five years in opposition," Soren said.The BJP-led central government is deducting money from the consolidated account in the name of Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) dues citing an agreement signed in the past while the state has limited resources, he said.To settle the dues of the DVC, the Union Power Ministry recently auto-debited ₹715 crore from Jharkhand's RBI account.The then BJP government of Jharkhand in 2017 had made a deal with the Centre and had entered into a tripartite agreement between - State, Centre and the RBI.The pact was an arrangement of payment mechanism of outstanding power bills to the DVC and other PSUs supplying power to the state. It had a clause of auto-debit if the state failed to pay its bill against the purchase.Soren also defended his government's decision to promote regional languages ​​mentioned in the employment policy and reservation for 10 years in the appointment of Class III and IV staff for the state service."What illegal has been done if I am promoting regional languages. Shouldn't we promote languages? This will help absorption of local and tribal people in jobs," he said.The legislation to provide 75 per cent of jobs to locals in the private sector will benefit the people of the state, Soren said."The poor, downtrodden and Dalit people will be benefited. The government of India is also realising the power of the country's OBC," he said.He said 5 lakh more farmers will get Kisan Credit Card in addition to the 2 lakh who are already getting the service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cm-soren-says-can-halt-coal-india-s-ops-as-it-owes-rs-1-5-lakh-crore-to-state-101631258794297.html
10-09-2021||Lucknow||Literacy campaign with library on boat!||This boat that houses a host of books, study material and activity stuff is drawing the attention of slum children living on the banks of the River Gomti. This ‘Library on Boat’ moves to different ghats where volunteers engage slums and children to inculcate reading habits in children and engage them with fun-and-learn activities.On the banks of Kudiya Ghat, young Laxmi says, “I am living with my mother here and I go to school but there we do not have such activities. I am having the best time here reading stories and making drawings.”They have done colour coding as per level of their education. The reading session is the biggest draw which is done in four methods – reading aloud, paired, shared and independent reading.Room to Read programme officer Avinash Verma informs, “The purpose of setting up the Boat Library was to reach children who are not frequently reached by anyone. Children residing in riverside slums like near Daliganj and near Kudia Ghat generally do not get such opportunities.” Besides, they are running mobile library vans in different parts of the city.It’s being held in collaboration with Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and SCERT. The first mobile library van was launched on August 18 by the Basic Education & SCERT, Uttar Pradesh, director Sarvendra Vikram Bahadur Singh in Lucknow and second on August 28 by the District Education Officer Rakesh Singh in Varanasi.HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/literacy-campaign-with-library-on-boat-101631259238432.html
10-09-2021||Patna||5 inmates escape from Jamui remand home, 3 home guards detained||Five inmates of Bihar’s Jamui remand home, facing heinous charges, escaped late on Thursday evening by removing the window. officials said. All of them were recently involved in a series of crimes, including murder and motorcycle theft. Three home guard jawans, who were on duty, have been detained for investigation. The police did not find any clues from the spot apart from the iron rod the accused had used to break open the window panes. A senior official of the social welfare department said the authorities had decided to hold a departmental enquiry into the repeated incidents of escape of inmates in Bihar. The remand home is located between Jamui-Khaira main road near Neema river falling under Town police station. There were only ten inmates lodged in Jamui remand home, while six home guard jawans and others are deputed there for round the clock vigil. Detained home guard jawans were being interrogated about the escape. According to police, the incident came to light at around 8.30 pm on Thursday when the security guard of the remand home could not find the iron rods on the window of one of the bathrooms in the main barrack. In the emergency headcount conducted thereafter, five inmates were found missing. All the five who managed to escape were said to be released from their wards for play. Jamui DM Awanish Kumar said that a probe committee under the supervision of DDC has been constituted. “I have sought a detailed report about the circumstances that led to the escape despite the presence of security personnel and identify lapses to fix accountability,” he added. The DM said that all necessary steps would be taken to beef up security at the remand home and prevent any recurrence. “If it is found that there was laxity on part of any staff members, they will be punished. The incident is of a serious nature,” he added. The DM said the inmates who escaped from the home were teenagers but faced serious charges. “The incident has also called for the need to properly verify if the inmates are minor or they reach remand homes by fudging documents to escape harsh punishment commensurate with their crime. This often creates serious problems in remand homes which is meant for minors in conflict with the law,” Awanish added. Sadar SDPO Dr Rakesh Kumar said police have launched a manhunt against the juvenile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/5-inmates-escape-from-jamui-remand-home-3-home-guards-detained-101631259118945.html
10-09-2021||Kolkata||Bengal by-polls: BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal to challenge Mamata from Bhabanipur||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday fielded advocate Priyanka Tibrewal as its candidate against Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee for the by-polls to the Bhabanipur seat on September 30. The BJP has also nominated Milan Ghosh and Sujit Das from the Samerganj and Jangipur constituencies in the state respectively.Tibrewal was earlier part of a shortlist that the West Bengal BJP leadership had sent in Delhi, proposing names for potential candidates to take TMC chief Mamata Banerjee from Bhabanipur. An advocate, Tibrewal is the vice-president of the BJP’s state youth wing. She was also a petitioner in the post-poll violence cases in the Calcutta high court, which ultimately resulted in the court ordering a CBI probe.Mamata, the chief minister of West Bengal, has to win the by-poll from Bhabanipur – a reason why she is contesting it from a familiar constituency – if she is to hold on to her office. In the state assembly elections held earlier this year, Mamata was routed by turncoat leader Suvendu Adhikari, even though her party dominated the opposing the BJP with an overwhelming victory.Trinamool MLA Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who won the elections from the Bhabanipur constituency, later vacated the seat to allow Banerjee, the party supremo, to contest from there in the by-polls that were necessitated due to his resignation.Mamata Banerjee, while addressing the TMC workers' convention in Chetla on Wednesday, had confirmed that she would file her nomination for the Bhabanipur assembly by-election on September 10.The Election Commission earlier this month announced dates for the upcoming by-polls on three seats in West Bengal and one in Odisha. The by-poll for the Bhabanipur seat will be held on September 30 (Thursday), according to the schedule announced by the Election Commission. On the same date, by-elections would also be held in the Samserganj and Jangipur seats of West Bengal, as well as in the Pipli constituency of Odisha. The counting votes will take place on October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-by-polls-bjp-s-priyanka-tibrewal-to-challenge-mamata-from-bhabanipur-101631255063899.html
10-09-2021||Bhopal||Man thrashed by villagers, arrested for attempting to rape minor in MP||A man, who was allegedly trying to rape a minor girl, was thrashed by villagers in Shivpuri district on Thursday, said police. The 17-year-old girl informed the villagers and police that 24-year-old Nadeem Khan raped her twice in the past month and was blackmailing her with dire consequences if she refused further advances, said Rajesh Chandel, superintendent of police, Shivpuri. “On Thursday, Khan called her at Bharka Salon picnic spot and tried to rape her again but some villagers saw him. When the villagers spoke to the girl, she broke down and shared her ordeal,” he added.Later, villagers tied the man up and beat him up. They also shot a video of the incident which went viral on social media on Friday.Police arrested the accused under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, SC/ST (Prevention Of Atrocities) Act and under relevant section of Protection Of Children From Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/man-thrashed-by-villagers-arrested-for-attempting-to-rape-minor-in-mp-101631255157930.html
10-09-2021||Other||CAG report says Odisha’s oldest university failed to provide placement to students||On a day Utkal University, the largest and oldest state-controlled university of Odisha improved its ranking in National Institutional Ranking Framework from 96 last year to 87 this year, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India said the university has failed to provide career counselling and placement to students.The CAG report titled “Outcomes in Higher Education in the State”, tabled in the state Assembly on Thursday said Utkal University spent only ₹0.29 lakh of ₹17 lakh it received since the Placement Cell was started in March 2017.“There was less than optimal functioning and, in many cases, there was a complete absence of placement and career counselling cells and job fairs at test checked universities and colleges. On an average, 26.10 per cent (2014-19) students of the university could get placements through placements cells/job fairs,” the report said.The CAG report said that for improving the performance of students in the Civil Services Examination, the university received ₹30 lakh and conducted training for two batches comprising 60 students each in 2017-18, however, none of them qualified in the Civil Services examination. It was observed that the scheme was initiated without a detailed implementation plan as the university had neither appointed a course coordinator for the coaching centre nor engaged professional trainers,” the report pointed out.The CAG audit was conducted between October 2019 and January 2020 covering the period from 2014-15 to 2018-19 at Utkal University and North Odisha University, both state-controlled universities. Out of a total 299 colleges under these universities, 32 were selected for test check.The audit report pointed out that Utkal University and North Odisha University facilitated the placement of 1,089 and 70 students respectively through job fairs. In Utkal University, of the total enrolled students, the percentage of students who qualified in different competitive examinations ranged between 2.23 and 27.10 per cent during 2014-19, except in 2015-16 when it was 40.19 per cent. The CAG has said that on average, 26.10 per cent (2014-19) students of Utkal University and 3.79 per cent (2014-19) students of North Odisha University could get placements through placements cells/job fairs.The report said in Utkal University, against a sanctioned strength of 232 teachers, only 144 were posted while in North Odisha University, against a sanctioned strength of 67 teachers, there were only 44 teachers.Incidentally, Odisha higher education minister Arun Sahoo on Thursday told the state assembly that at least 1,007 teaching posts were lying vacant in the state with Ravenshaw University having the maximum number of vacancies at 188, followed by 126 in Rajendra university, 112 in Kalahandi University, 101 in Rama Devi Women’s University in the teaching category.Similarly, 80 teaching posts in Berhampur University, 76 posts in North Odisha University, 66 posts in Gangadhar Meher University, 61 posts in Sambalpur University, 42 posts in Fakir Mohan University and 29 posts in Shri Jagannath Sanskrit University were vacant.The CAG audit said there was no long term vision on the part of the department of higher education of the state to provide a continuous supporting mechanism for the students and improve results.“Curricular aspects are the mainstay of any educational institution and include curriculum design, development, enrichment, planning and implementation. Syllabi of 18 out of 42 subjects in Utkal University and North Odisha University found that syllabi of 15 subjects were not revised, though due for revision. In North Odisha University, only a quarter of courses focussed on employability and not a single value-added course was introduced in any of the test-checked higher educational institutions,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cag-report-says-odisha-s-oldest-university-failed-to-provide-placement-to-students-101631255099077.html
10-09-2021||Lucknow||Demand to convert British-era Agra city railway station into heritage structure||The National Chamber of Industries and Commerce (NCIC) has demandedthat the government develop Agra city railway station as a heritage railway station and set up a museum here to depict the glorious past of Indian Railways. Built in 1903 during the British regime, the station is located in the heart of the city. It lies barren and unused for most part of the day as most passenger trains do not stop here.Built to serve business interests, the Agra city station was part of the loop line around Gadha Pada station and both were located close to Belanganj – the commercial hub of old Agra. “I visited the station recently with former chairman of NCIC Sitaram Agarwal and chairman of railway cell SN Agarwal. The railway staff told us that no passenger train stopped here,” informed Manish Agarwal, chairman of NCIC. “We have sent a proposal to railway authorities, Member of Parliament from Agra and others, suggesting that they develop Agra city station as a heritage railway station with a museum. it would be an added tourism attraction in the city of Taj. The station should be kept operational but its conservation could be undertaken on a heritage pattern,” he said. “Cast iron garden Victorian benches should be placed at the railway station and waiting room. It is said that lanterns were used here for lighting when there was no electricity. This could be revived on one of the platforms and bulbs could be placed in these lanterns for better light. The station could display expressive paintings related to the history of the railways,” he said.“The four acres of land at the railway station could be used for enhancing greenery in the area,” said Agarwal. Rajeev Saxena, a veteran journalist, said that Agra city station had everything to make it a heritage railway station and would be an attraction for people. “The railway station, built in 1903 by the British, served the city’s business requirement, as it was located in the heart of old Agra. That was the time when overbridges were not laid for reaching one platform from another--the Agra city railway station has an underpass for this purpose. This underpass could be lighted and developed,” said Saxena. “While developing it as heritage station, a toy train could be added to attract families. The old system that worked for the railway could be illustrated in a museum,” said the veteran journalist. The vice-president of the Tourism Guild of Agra Rajiv Saxena agreed that the idea to develop Agra city station as a heritage structure is brilliant. “It could serve as a window to this historical city which was once the capital of the Mughal empire,” he said Public relations officer, North Central Railways, SK Srivastava said that proposal for developing the railway station as a heritage railway station was not under consideration yet as per his knowledge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/demand-to-convert-british-era-agra-city-railway-station-into-heritage-structure-101631254857878.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to broadcast Ganesh Chaturthi aarti live on TV today: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the government will organise Ganesh Chaturthi rituals on Friday evening which will be broadcast live on some TV news channels, even as he urged people to participate from their residences, citing Covid-19 regulations which prohibit community celebrations in public spaces this year.“I request you to tell your children about Ganesh Chaturthi and its role in India’s freedom struggle. Bal Gangadhar Tilak organised the first community festival, which eventually played an important role in mass mobilisation. It is an important chapter that highlights a perfect blend of spiritualism and patriotism,” said Kejriwal in an online video press briefing.He also said, “We need to be together in this fight against Covid-19. Community festivals are not allowed this year for your safety. So, we have organised Ganesh aarti. I will be present along with my ministers. It will be broadcast live on TV from 7pm. I request you to join us from home. Popular vocalists Shankar Mahadevan and Sudesh Wadkar will be guests at the event.”HT on Friday published a report about the government’s plans regarding the Ganesh Chaturthi event. It will be organised at a temple in north Delhi. The programme will be broadcast live via the Aam Aadmi Party’s social media handles too, government officials said.On September 7, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority issued an order prohibiting Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in public spaces citing Covid-19 regulations. This is the second time in a row that the festival had to be restricted to homes because of the pandemic. Delhi has around 100 committees which apply for police permission for community celebrations of Ganesh Chaturthi every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-broadcast-ganesh-chaturthi-aarti-live-on-tv-tomorrow-kejriwal-101631253841203.html
10-09-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati says no ‘bahubalis', mafia candidates for BSP. This strongman is first to be replaced||Mayawati said on Friday her Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) will not field 'bahubalis’ (strongmen) or mafia candidates in the crucial Uttar Pradesh assembly elections scheduled to be held next year, and announced that jailed gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari will not be given a party ticket from Mau again. “The BSP's effort in the upcoming assembly polls will be to not field 'bahubali' and mafia elements. So, the name of Bhim Rajbhar, the BSP UP president, has been finalised from the Mau assembly seat in place of Mukhtar Ansari," she said in one of the tweets in Hindi.“The decision has been taken in order to meet people’s criteria and meet their expectations and so I appeal to the party in charge to take special care while selecting the party’s candidates so that if the government is formed, there is no problem in taking action against such elements,” Mayawati added in another tweet.Also read | Expand BSP’s base among ‘sarv samaj’, Mayawati tells partymenMayawati's announcement comes days after Mukhtar Ansari's brother Sigbatullah Ansari joined the Samajwadi Party led by Akhilesh Yadav. Afzal Ansari, one of Mukhtar's other brothers, is a BSP lawmaker, who represents the Ghazipur seat in Parliament. He defeated the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Manoj Sinha, who is now the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir."Alongside ensuring 'a rule of law, by law', the BSP's resolve is to also change Uttar Pradesh’s image now,” Mayawati said adding that the BSP should be known as the government that follows the philosophy of 'Sarvajan Hitay and Sarvajan Sukhay' or universal good.3. बीएसपी का संकल्प ’कानून द्वारा कानून का राज’ के साथ ही यूपी की तस्वीर को भी अब बदल देने का है ताकि प्रदेश व देश ही नहीं बल्कि बच्चा-बच्चा कहे कि सरकार हो तो बहनजी की ’सर्वजन हिताय व सर्वजन सुखाय’ जैसी तथा बीएसपी जो कहती है वह करके भी दिखाती है यही पार्टी की सही पहचान भी है।Also read | In Mayawati's poll pitch, there's Brahmin security but no new parks or memorialsIn yet another effort to mobilise Dalits, who have been the core support base of the BSP, for the 2022 assembly elections, Mayawati has asked party workers to work on a war footing to expand the party’s base among the ‘sarv samaj’. Mayawati has called upon supporters from across UP to visit Lucknow in strength to pay tribute to Kanshi Ram on his death anniversary at his memorial in Lucknow on October 9—the death anniversary of party founder. She has also addressed the ‘Prabudh Varg Sammelan’ aimed at garnering the support of intellectuals, especially Brahmins. She has also said a high-level inquiry will be set up to probe the “wrong actions” taken by the BJP government against the Brahmin community if her party came to power in the state next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-bahubalis-mafia-candidates-for-bsp-this-strongman-is-first-to-be-replaced-101631252925289.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Farmers meet Congress, SAD, AAP leaders||Amid the ongoing agitation against the three contentious farm laws, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), comprising 32 farmer organisations, will meet leaders of the Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and other parties in Chandigarh on Friday on campaigning for the Punjab assembly elections and agriculture-related issues. Also read: First off the blocks, Akali Dal campaign runs aground amid farm protestsThe meeting – the first formal engagement between the SKM and political parties ahead of the Punjab elections – is crucial in the backdrop of protesting farmers disrupting political rallies and programmes in the state. All political parties, except the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), have been invited for the meeting. Sidhu to lead Congress team Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu will lead a three-member team of the ruling party at the meeting. PPCC general secretary Pargat Singh and state working president Kuljit Singh Nagra will accompany him. Kisan wing state chief Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Aman Arora (MLAs) and state unit spokesperson Jagtar Singh Sanghera will represent the principal opposition party at the meeting. The SAD has constituted a four-member committee, comprising Balwinder Singh Bhunder, Prem Singh Chandumajra, Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal and Daljit Singh Cheema, for talks with farmer union leaders. Akalis faced brunt of ire Though leaders of all parties have been at the receiving end of protests by farmers, the Akalis have faced the maximum brunt of their ire. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had to postpone his Gal Punjab Di campaign last week in the face of protests by farmers in Moga. The farmer leaders, who are protesting at Delhi’s borders for the past nine months, have been asking the political parties to suspend their campaigning till elections are announced as their rallies divert attention from the agitation and diminish its impact. The unions are likely to set the ground rules for rallies after their meeting with political leaders, who are expected to convey their stand on the farm protest. The SKM representatives will meet leaders of each party separately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-farmers-meet-congress-sad-aap-leaders-101631253417758.html
10-09-2021||Jaipur||Amid coal crisis, Rajasthan discontinues supply to UP, reduces to Punjab||Facing a coal shortage, the Rajasthan government cut short its supply of electricity to Punjab and discontinued to Uttar Pradesh, officials said. Though the situation of coal and power generation has improved in the last week, a unit of Kalisindh thermal power plant is shut due to the shortage. The state faced a shortage of coal as the Rajasthan Vidhyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (power generation firm) failed to make payments for coal, and thereafter the supply has become difficult as the coal mines are flooded with water. To deal with the power crisis, the Rajasthan government has completely stopped the supply of electricity to the neighbouring BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh. Power supply to Congress-ruled Punjab has also been cut short as out of 200 MW, 80 MW of power is being supplied to the state. There has been a complete ban on 600 MW power being given to Uttar Pradesh. August witnessed, undeclared power cuts of 4-5 hours in the state, especially in rural areas, as the electricity demand increased due to poor monsoon. In August end, due to the shortage of coal, seven thermal power units in Rajasthan were shut and the rests have 3-4 days of stock left, HT had learnt. Energy minister BD Kalla, who twice held meetings with the Central officials for an adequate supply of coal, believes that the situation has improved. Kalla said, “The supply crisis was for 5-7 days and now this is being managed properly. The state is receiving around 7 rakes of coal daily from Coal India. Other than these, 9-10 rakes are coming from our allotted coal blocks in Parsa, Chhattisgarh. The state requires 20-25 rakes daily for smooth production and maintaining stock.” On discontinuing supply to Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, he said the production is usually in surplus these days (during monsoon), but due to the shortage, the power banking system got affected and the supply to the states was postponed. “As it is in surplus these days, we give supply to states for Kharif crops and take during Rabi,” said Kalla. The minister said the demand during monsoon is less but this time instead of 20 crore units, the demand was 30 crore units. Daily 4.5 rakes are allotted but only 3 were given by the Centre. The crisis was only for a week, and similar was the situation in other states such as Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, he added. The state has cleared all the outstanding of coal firms, leaving one, which will be done soon, he said. He informed that in peak hours, between 6 am to 9 am, and 6 pm to 9 pm, the state sometimes needs to purchase electricity. As of August 1, 2021, Rajasthan has to clear an outstanding of ₹409 crore to Parsa Kanta Collieries Limited (PKCL) while ₹1375 crore has been paid. A total of ₹68 crore is to be cleared of Northern Coalfields Limited, ₹325 crore is released; ₹444.6 crore is pending for South Eastern Coalfields, ₹530 crore has been released, said an official. Rajasthan has thermal units in district Suratgarh with 2160 MW capacity, Kota (1240MW), Chhabra (1320MW), Kalisindh (1200MW), Giral 250MW (Barmer), 270.50MW plant in Jaisalmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/amid-coal-crisis-rajasthan-discontinues-supply-to-up-reduces-to-punjab-101631252700176.html
10-09-2021||Other||3 of family killed in Chhattisgarh; probe on||Three members of a family, including a woman and a child, were killed with sharp-edged weapons in Udaipur area of Surguja district , police said on Thursday. Police said that bodies were found on Thursday and the motive behind the killing was yet to be ascertained. “We have sent the body for post-mortem examination and investigation has started. The incident took place on Wednesday night in Lenga village under Udaipur police station area. A forensic team, along with a dog squad, was also sent to the spot but till now we have no leads in the case. The bodies bore wounds inflicted by a sharp-edged weapon,” Vivek Shukla, assistant superintendent of police, Surguja told HT. The deceased have been identified as Megharam Sirdar (50), his daughter-in-law Kalawati Sirdar (27) and his 10-year-old grandson. On Thursday, villagers informed police after they saw the bodies of the child and his grandfather outside their house while the woman was lying dead inside the house premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-of-family-killed-in-chhattisgarh-probe-on-101631248377901.html
10-09-2021||Other||Police question 4 J&K journalists, searches conducted at different places||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Thursday night said that the four journalists who were questioned by it had links with the mastermind behind the blog kashmirfight@wordpress.com, which allegedly had been running a slander campaign against political workers, activists and journalists in Kashmir.The police spokesman, in a statement, said that during the investigation of case FIR No. 82/2020 of Police Station Kothibagh, credible evidence was found linking Mir Hilal of Bemina; Mohammad Shah Abbas of Yaripora, Anantnag, presently staying Rajbagh; Azhar Qadri of Bemina and Showkat Motta son of Lalbazar with the mastermind behind the blog.“On the basis of the evidence collected, searches were conducted at four different places after obtaining proper search warrants from the competent court of law. During the searches so conducted, some mobile phones, laptops and other gadgets were seized,” the police statement said.The spokesman further said that for investigation the journalists were called for questioning and were allowed to go in the evening and have been directed to present themselves tomorrow again.“The investigation is in progress and the scrutiny of electronic gadgets is also going on. So far, various numbers of Pakistan, Turkey, Saudi have been found, besides they are also found to have been in contact of various virtual numbers,” the spokesman added.The spokesman, while quoting inspector general of Police Vijay Kumar, denied it to be an issue of harassing journalists and said that a due process of law is being followed while investigating a sensitive case. He advised the media fraternity not to spread false news or the narrative which may amount to unnecessary interference in the investigation of the case.“The involved persons would be arrested in this case as and when the evidence is collected,” the spokesman said.Police on Wednesday carried raids on the houses of four journalists in different parts of the city raising concerns over the freedom of the press in Kashmir.Reporters Sans Frontiers, in a tweet, condemned the raids on journalists, “@RSF_inter firmly condemns as crude intimidation this morning’s police raids at the residence of 4 journalists - @KashmirNarrator editor Showkat Matta, @trtworld and @HuffPost’s @mirhilaal, and freelancers @AzharQadri and Abbas Shah #JournalismIsNotACrime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-question-4-j-k-journalists-searches-conducted-at-different-places-101631248019631.html
10-09-2021||Mumbai||As Ganesh Chaturthi begins, Maharashtra monitors Covid situation closely||As the 10-day long Ganeshotsav begins on Friday, the Maharashtra government is closely monitoring the Covid situation, amid a jump in active cases on Thursday. The state reported 4,219 fresh Covid infections, while the active cases jumped from 47,880 on Wednesday to 50,229. The state reported 55 deaths, pushing its toll to 138,017. A day after Mumbai recorded a seven-week high, it reported 457 fresh Covid infections on Thursday. Mumbai also reported two fatalities, pushing the toll to 16,006. Maharashtra is seeing an overall downward trend in Covid cases over the past few days, but around five districts, including Mumbai and Pune, are showing a rise in daily Covid-19 cases. The rise in cases in the two cities is a cause of concern for authorities, as Mumbai and Pune were major hotspots during the first and second wave of infections since the pandemic began in March 2020. Also Read | Ganesh festival begins in Maharashtra, state watching Covid situationPune district, too, saw an increase in its active case count. The district’s active cases went from 12,364 on Wednesday to 12,758. On Thursday, Pune city, its rural areas and Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 233, 541 and 177 fresh cases, respectively. Pune city’s cases have gone from 198 to 276 between September 6 and September 8. A similar trend is seen in the rural areas of Pune. Between September 6 and 9, the daily cases increased from 416 to 541 on Thursday. The state has not decided to impose any lockdown restrictions during the festive season, but authorities have appealed the people to exercise caution and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour in view of the impending third wave of Covid infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-ganesh-chaturthi-begins-maharashtra-monitors-covid-situation-closely-101631245677299.html
10-09-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee to file her nomination today for Bhabanipur bye-elections||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will file her nomination for the bye-elections to the Bhabanipur assembly seat on Friday. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief, who took oath as the state’s chief minister on May 5, needs to win a bye-election before November 5 to retain the post. While the bye-elections are scheduled on September 30, the counting will be held on October 3. Even though the TMC returned to power with a sweeping victory winning 213 of the 292 seats where polls were held in the recent assembly elections, Banerjee who had contested from Nandigram in Purba Medinipur lost by 1,956 votes to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari, who moved to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Election Commission of India on Saturday announced that it will hold elections and bye-elections in four constituencies in West Bengal and Odisha. Also Read | Chaos as Kolkata Police hand over body of BJP worker killed on May 2“This election will be a challenge. This will be a big game ahead of the 2024 elections. After this game is over we will have to win the bye-elections in the remaining four assemblies. Then we will have to win the civic polls,” Banerjee said on Wednesday. The TMC has already prepared a blue print for the election battle ahead. While veteran party leaders have been asked to take charge of the campaign in various civic wards of the constituency, councillors have been asked to spend more time in the wards. Party MP Mala Roy has been asked to consolidate the women votes. TMC leaders have been asked to ensure that all booth agents and counting agents are fully vaccinated. Bhabanipur constituency has 206,389 electors, of which 95,143 are female voters, which comes to around 46%. It has a sizeable population of Sikhs and Gujaratis. However, the area is dominated by middle-class Bengalis. The area lies in the heart of south Kolkata and was earlier a Congress stronghold. It later became a citadel of the Trinamool Congress as Banerjee’s house in Kalighat is located in this constituency. She won the assembly elections in 2011 and 2016 from Bhabanipur. In the recently held assembly polls, veteran TMC leader Sovandeb Chatterjee contested the polls from Bhabanipur. He won by more than 28,000 votes but later vacated the seat so that Banerjee could contest from the seat to retain her post. While the Congress has already decided not to field any candidate, the BJP’s unit in West Bengal has proposed six names from which the party’s top leadership in New Delhi is expected to choose one who will be fielded against the Trinamool Congress chief. The Left Front announced the name of advocate Srijib Biswas for the seat. “We can assure that no election will be a cakewalk for the TMC. This election shouldn’t have happened because every day our leaders are coming under attack. On Wednesday morning, bombs were hurled at BJP MP Arjun Singh’s house. At Santipur in Nadia, a BJP MP and union minister of state Subhas Sarkar came under attack,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP’s spokesperson in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-to-file-her-nomination-today-for-bhabanipur-byeelections-101631245617623.html
10-09-2021||Other||Assam additional chief secretary to probe Brahmaputra boat accident||The Assam cabinet has entrusted a senior bureaucrat to probe Wednesday’s boat accident on Brahmaputra river involving two boats that claimed one life while two other passengers are still missing, officials said. The decision was taken at a meeting held in Guwahati on Thursday evening. “Additional chief secretary Maninder Singh has been asked to complete the inquiry within a month and submit report. The Jorhat district police has been directed to file a criminal case against those responsible for Wednesday’s accident,” health minister Keshab Mahanta said after the cabinet meet. Three senior officials of inland water transport department, which oversees operation of boats on Assam’s rivers, have already been placed under suspension. Collision between two passenger boats, a smaller private boat and a government-operated larger vessel, between Nematighat in Jorhat district and Kamalabari in Majuli district had capsized the smaller boat. While 89 of the boat’s 92 passengers were rescued or managed to reach the Nematighat bank, around 100 metres away from the collision site, on their own, two passengers are yet to be traced. The accident, which claimed life of 28-year-old college lecturer, Parimita Das, has led to questions on safety standards on boats operated between Jorhat and Majuli—the primary mode of communication between both banks of Brahmaputra as construction of a bridge proposed years ago is yet to start. On Thursday, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who inspected the accident site, announced the state government would ban private boats using single engines from operating—a similar move was announced in September when a boat accident on Brahmaputra in 2018 in Guwahati had killed three persons. “From now four ferries of inland water transport department will operate between both banks of the river. Ro-pax (roll on-roll off passenger ferries) ferries would also serve passengers and we are bringing two more passenger vehicles from Guwahati,” Sarma said. The cabinet entrusted finance minister Ajanta Neog the responsibility to monitor construction of the Jorhat-Majuli connecting bridge. “Construction of the proposed bridge connecting Nematighat and Majuli would begin from November this year and would be completed within four years,” Sarma said. In 2016 ahead of the Assam assembly elections, union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari had laid foundation stone of the bridge connecting Nematighat and Kamalabari. In February this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had conducted ‘bhumi pujan’ of the bridge via video conference. An Assam government minister was ‘gheraoed’ by protesters in Majuli on Thursday when he went to take stock of the accident. Police had to resort to baton-charge to disperse a group of students who were protesting against inadequate safety measures in the capsized boat. Power minister Bimal Borah had to spend several minutes on the road due to the protest and return back without interacting with local residents. Thursday’s cabinet meeting also decided to stop operations for a month against Dimasa National Liberation Army (DNLA), in response to the militant outfit’s announcement of a six-month unilateral ceasefire. During this time, DNLA cadres have been directed not to carry arms or make extortion demands. On September 7, DNLA, which was formed in April 2019 with the goal of setting up an independent nation for people from the Dimasa tribe through armed struggle, had announced a 6-month ceasefire in response to CM Sarma’s call for cessation of violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-additional-chief-secretary-to-probe-brahmaputra-boat-accident-101631244958414.html
10-09-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka Gandhi on UP visit, party’s poll readiness on agenda||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will on Friday attend the meeting of the party’s election panel in Uttar Pradesh’s Lucknow and interact with party leaders to get their feedback on the selection of candidates ahead of the crucial Uttar Pradesh assembly elections scheduled to be held next year. Priyanka Gandhi, who reached Lucknow on Thursday, will conduct an organisational review and is also likely to visit Rae Bareli, the Lok Sabha constituency of Congress president and her mother Sonia Gandhi. She may also go to Amethi, once the family’s bastion.Priyanka Gandhi told reporters at the Lucknow airport on Thursday that she has come to meet her party’s workers. Several senior Congress leaders have said that the party has already shortlisted about 40 to 50 candidates and many of them have been informally sounded out about the move. The Congress party usually makes a formal announcement about its candidates after the Pradesh Election Committee (PEC) and Central Election Committee (CEC) finalise the names of nominees.Also read | Congress to contest Uttar Pradesh polls alone, construct cow shelters if voted to power: UPCC chiefLallan Kumar, Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president, said Priyanka Gandhi will hold meetings with the party’s election committee and advisory committee of the state unit. Kumar said she will also review the district-wise progress of the party's mass contact programme "Har Goan Congress" (Congress in every village). The Congress party’s Uttar Pradesh unit launched the mass contact programme on August 19 to cover the state's 30,000 villages and wards where party leaders were directed to stay for over three days during the drive.Priyanka Gandhi will also take feedback from the party’s newly appointed nyaya panchayat chiefs and office-bearers from across the state. The Congress general secretary will also finalise the blueprint of party programmes for the next one month.Also read | Uttar Pradesh BJP picks new election team, aims to strike caste balanceKumar said she will also review the progress of the first phase of the party’s "Prashikshan Se Parakram (Valour through training)” programme. Launched last month, the programme aims at giving training to two lakh party grassroots workers by holding 700 training camps.Priyanka Gandhi who is leading the party campaign in politically significant Uttar Pradesh has a Herculean task to lift the grand old party's sliding stock in the state. The Congress lost miserably in the 2017 state polls and managed to win only seven seats in the 403-member UP assembly polls. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, it could manage to hold Rae Bareli parliamentary seat of Sonia Gandhi but lost the Gandhi family's bastion Amethi where Rahul Gandhi was defeated by Union minister Smriti Irani.Also read | If BSP voted to power, we will ensure security of Brahmins, says MayawatiThe Congress has said it will not get into an alliance either with the Samajwadi Party or the Bahujan Samaj Party and would prefer tie-ups with some smaller UP-centric parties in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-gandhi-on-up-visit-party-s-poll-readiness-on-agenda-101631243960997.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Cloudy skies, moderate rain likely today, says IMD||Delhi is likely to see a cloudy sky with moderate rain on Friday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 26 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 32 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature on Thursday was 34 degrees Celsius and the minimum was 27.2 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal.Also Read | Weak La Nina to disrupt weather pattern againDelhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Friday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 79. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 75.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the satisfactory condition due to higher winds and clean condition in presence of a cyclone in north-west India. The cyclonic conditions will intensity and will lead to improved AQI in good to moderate due to light rainfall and cleaner air influx.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-cloudy-skies-moderate-rain-likely-today-says-imd-101631243397218.html
10-09-2021||Mumbai||As Ganesh Chaturthi festival starts today, prohibitory orders in Mumbai||The 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations that will begin from Friday will be muted in Mumbai after the city police banned a gathering of five or more people citing the Covid-19 pandemic and put in several other curbs to be strictly imposed as per government directions. According to a police statement, no processions would be allowed in Mumbai between September 10 to 19 and devotees would not be allowed to visit Ganesh pandals. All prominent Ganesh mandals would be offering virtual darshan facilities, police said.Deputy commissioner of Mumbai Police S Chaitanya referred to the directives of the home department as well as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in his order. People can have ‘darshan' of Ganesh idols installed in pandals through the online mode or through other electronic media such as TV, the police release said. Anyone violating the orders would face action under section 188 (disobeying order lawfully promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other relevant laws, it said. On Wednesday, the Maharashtra home department issued a circular banning visits to pandals to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Also read | Ganesh festival begins in Maharashtra, state watching Covid situationMumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale also issued a video message, urging residents of Mumbai to observe precautions during the Ganesh Chaturthi festival citing the surge in Covid-19 cases in the city as well as its neighbouring areas in the last few days. Nagrale added that all prominent Ganesh mandals in the city have made arrangements to offer an online darshan facility and the permission for mukh darshan or seeing idols by visiting pandals in person is not given anywhere. No public cultural events should be organised during the festival, the police commissioner said. “No crowd will be allowed at any place where public mandals are located. Ganpati idols at homes should not be above the height of 2 feet and public Ganpati idols should not be of more than 4 feet,” said Nagrale.The Mumbai Police chief also said that processions to immerse Ganesh idols, which usually attract large crowds, would not be allowed and mandals should take all safety precautions allowing not more than 10 people for immersion. The number is restricted to five for household idols.Also read | Big Ganesh pandals in Mumbai prepared for online darshanGanesh Chaturthi, also called Vinayaka Chaturthi, is a 10-day festival marking the birth of Ganesh, the god of prosperity and wisdom. It begins on the fourth day of the chaturthi of the month of Bhadra, the sixth month of the Hindu calendar.Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 530 new coronavirus cases, the highest since mid-July. Maharashtra reported 4,219 new Covid-19 cases and 55 fatalities on Thursday, which have pushed the infection tally in the state to 64,87,025 and the death toll to 138,017. According to an official release, the total number of cases was reduced by 15,066 after the removal of duplication and the number of those discharged was also cut down by 15,793 after the reconciliation of figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-ganesh-chaturthi-festival-starts-today-prohibitory-orders-in-mumbai-101631234625790.html
10-09-2021||Bhopal||BJP, JD(U) men among 3 held for minor's rape||Three people including a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and a Janata Dal (United) leader were arrested for raping a 17-year-old girl in Bhopal, police said on Thursday.An FIR was registered against Manish Nayak, Dindori, BJP office in-charge, Dinesh Awadhiya, Janata Dal (United) Dindori district president and petrol pump owner Amit Soni under Indian Penal Code sections 376 (rape), 363 (abduction), 372 (selling minor for purpose of prostitution) and relevant provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, police said.Bhopal south superintendent of police, Sai Krishna Hota, said, “On August 19, the girl, a resident of Haryana filed a complaint at Ashoka Garden police station that she met a woman in a bus. The woman brought her to Bhopal on the pretext of providing a job. Later, the woman tried to push her into the flesh trade. Three men raped her in a flat and in a hotel between August 13 and 19.”The victim managed to escape on August 19 and narrated her ordeal to the police at Ashoka Garden police station in Bhopal, following which the accused were arrested, Ashoka Garden police station in-charge Alok Shrivastava said. The girl had disappeared from her home in Palwal in Haryana last month and had somehow reached Bhopal, the official added.“During the investigation, the police identified three people with the help of CCTV footages and entry in a hotel register. The accused came to Bhopal from Dindori and raped the girl,” the SP said.The SP said the three were arrested from Dindori by Bhopal police.On August 20, the police arrested two women Parula Rathod and Seema, and a man Saif Khan. So far, six people have been arrested in the case. Police are investigating the matter.Meanwhile, the BJP has cancelled the primary membership of Nayak. BJP media in-charge Lokendra Parashar said, “We can’t allow any indiscipline and criminal person as a member of the party. He was removed immediately from the party.”Despite repeated attempts, no state JD(U) leaders could be reached for comment.Opposition Congress attacked the BJP after the arrest of Nayak. The state Congress Committee spokesperson KK Mishra said, “This is the character of BJP and that’s why MP has became rape capital. The matter should be probed thoroughly as more BJP leaders were staying with Nayak in the hotel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bjp-jd-u-men-among-3-held-for-minor-s-rape-101631232225283.html
10-09-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Mamata Banerjee to file nomination for by-polls to Bhabanipur seat today||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee will on Friday file her nomination papers for the by-polls to the Bhabanipur seat, an election she needs to win in order to hold on to her office. This comes months after her party dominated the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the West Bengal assembly elections but Banerjee was routed by turncoat leader Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram. The Election Commission earlier this month announced dates for the upcoming by-polls on three seats in West Bengal and one in Odisha.Mamata Banerjee, while addressing the TMC workers' convention in Chetla on Wednesday, confirmed that she would file her nomination for the Bhabanipur assembly by-election on September 10.Firing a fresh salvo at the BJP-led central government, the West Bengal chief minister said earlier this week, "Only God knows the way polls were held in 2021. The Centre lied, still couldn't beat me. There was a conspiracy behind an attack on me in Nandigram. Thousands of goons from outside came to mislead about Bengal."Claiming that the BJP is “worse than Duryodhana and Dushashana”, the Kaurava brothers in the Mahabharata epic, Banerjee alleged that Modi and Shah hatched a conspiracy to defeat her in Nandigram during the assembly election held earlier this year and forced her to contest a by-poll.Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh termed Banerjee's allegations “baseless” while noting that the contest in Bhabanipur will solely be between the BJP and the TMC and the CPI(M) or Congress announcing their candidatures are not an important factor.“There can be any number of candidates in by-polls, our voters are with us,” Ghosh said. “The CPI(M) and Congress announcing or not announcing their candidates is not a factor in the West Bengal polls; they didn't get entry into the assembly in the last polls. The contest is between the state government and BJP. We are ready.”The Left Front has announced that CPI(M) leader Srijib Biswas will be its candidate for the by-poll to Bhabanipur assembly constituency. The seat itself was vacated by TMC MLA Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who resigned to allow Banerjee to contest from there, necessitating the by-election.September 13 is the last date for filing nominations.The by-poll for the Bhabanipur seat will be held on September 30 (Thursday), according to the schedule announced by the Election Commission. On the same date, by-elections would also be held in the Samserganj and Jangipur seats of West Bengal, as well as in the Pipli constituency of Odisha. The counting votes will take place on October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-mamata-banerjee-to-file-nomination-for-by-polls-to-bhabanipur-seat-today-101631231465280.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: 65 checking in||The red sandstone edifice is regal. The sweep of the driveway is as majestic. Just walking on it makes you feel like a head of State on way to meet a fellow head of State. Such is the grandness of this landmark hotel. Everyone in Delhi calls it Ashoka, not Ashok, and it’s no fault of theirs, for the hotel was renamed The Ashok only in 2007. India’s first state-owned five-star hotel will turn 65 in October. It was built on a rocky hillock in New Delhi’s Chanakyapuri, just in time to accommodate the delegates of the ninth session of Unesco, held in the Capital in 1956.Here are some of the famous (and infamous) guests who checked into The Ashok over the years.On his only trip to Delhi, in 1959, legendary rebel Che Guevara was a guest here.Bombay-based industrialist JRD Tata would stay here, back in the 1950s when the Tatas had no hotel properties of their own in the Capital. He was always given room 442, which would cost ₹250 per day.In 1968, the then prime minister, Indira Gandhi, hosted a reception for a thousand guests here to celebrate her son Rajiv’s wedding with Sonia.Author VS Naipaul stayed here in the 1960s — a Google search throws up a photograph of him, bare-chested, by the hotel’s poolside. In his book The Writer And The World: Essays, he described the hotel in his usual disdainful style, talking of the “worn carpets”, “the grimy armchairs in the service lounge” and “the long-handled broom abandoned there by the menial in khaki who had been cleaning the ventilation grilles”.In the 1970s, a Mumbai-based yarn merchant would make day trips to Delhi to meet ministers and bureaucrats, and would leave his luggage with a friendly clerk at the hotel’s reception. It was only later that Dhirubhai Ambani became sufficiently rich to keep a room reserved for himself at the hotel. He once gifted a bell boy named Dhanush Kodi shares of his company, advising him not to sell them anytime soon.When Cuban president Fidel Castro stayed here, in 1983, the security had three Castro lookalikes at the hotel to confuse potential assassins.When Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat came to attend Indira Gandhi’s funeral in 1984, he was spotted walking down the hotel’s corridors with a pistol at his hip.In the 1980s, Velupillai Prabhakaran, the leader of the Tamil Tigers in Sri Lanka who later planned Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination, stayed in the hotel under the watchful eyes of the government.The entire team of Richard Attenborough’s Gandhi stayed here while shooting the film in Delhi in the 1980s. The film’s lead actor Ben Kingsley would hang out in the pool area to get the right Gandhi tan.In 1994, Masood Azhar, currently one of India’s most wanted terrorists, flew into Delhi from Dhaka, Bangladesh, and checked into this hotel under a false identity (Portuguese passport!).This Wednesday, the hotel hosted the Indian medallists of the 2021 Tokyo Paralympics. Avani Lekhara, the first Indian woman to win a gold in Paralympics, was spotted at The Oudh restaurant, graciously letting starstruck fans photograph her while having lunch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-65-checking-in-101631232053497.html
10-09-2021||Ranchi||Dhanbad judge case: HC raps CBI over lack of progress in probe||Investigation into the death of Dhanbad additional sessions judge Uttam Anand on July 28 has not proceeded beyond the initial arrests, the Jharkhand high court said on Thursday, expressing its dissatisfaction over the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) pace of inquiry.A division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad also criticised the lack of manpower at the Forensic Sciences Laboratory (FSL) and ordered the state home secretary and the FSL director to appear before it on the next date of hearing.Hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) initiated to monitor the probe, the bench said the footage of the incident clearly shows that the auto-rickshaw driver went out of his lane and hit the judge. Even if the driver was inebriated, his intent is clear from the footage, it added.The CCTV footage of the incident shows the judge jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district court early on July 28, when an auto-rickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind, and fled the scene. Some locals found him lying in a pool of blood and took him to a hospital, where he was declared dead.According to a July 29 FIR, Sugani Devi, 44, stated that her auto-rickshaw with registration number JH10R-0461 was stolen on July 17 by unknown people. The same vehicle was used, allegedly by the two accused, to deliberately hit the judge.Dhanbad police seized the vehicle and arrested the auto-rickshaw driver Lakhan Verma and his assistant Rahul Verma.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/dhanbad-judge-case-hc-raps-cbi-over-lack-of-progress-in-probe-101631227609493.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||6,600 people living in city ‘forcefully evicted’ since March 2020, says report||When the country was grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic and people were required to stay home, 6,600 people in the city were rendered homeless due to forced evictions carried out by bodies such as the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), a report released by charitable organisation Housing and Land Rights Network said.The “crisis” wasn’t confined just to Delhi: 257,000 people across the country were evicted from their homes by various government agencies between March 2020 and July 2021, says the report titled Forced Evictions in India in 2020: A Grave Human Rights Crisis During the Pandemic.In Delhi, 1,375 families were evicted in demolition actions carried out by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the three municipal corporations to remove encroachments, said HLRN members. Shivani Chaudhry, executive director, HLRN, said, “It is a cause of great concern that during this public health emergency, when the government should be ensuring a secure home for everyone to stay safe, it has been ruthlessly demolishing homes of low-income communities across India and increasing their risk of exposure to the deadly coronavirus.”She added, “The majority of these evictions take place on grounds that the urban and rural poor are ‘illegal encroachers’ even when they have lived in an area for decades and contributed to its sustainable development.”HLRN members said that the numbers could be much higher, as the report consulted data of known cases. A DDA official said every action the land-owning agency takes is legitimate.“Whenever encroachment on the Yamuna floodplains comes to our notice, we take appropriate action under the guidelines laid down by the National Green Tribunal,” the official said, requesting anonymity.This point was echoed by BK Oberoi, standing committee chairman of South Delhi Municipal Corporation. “All demolition or eviction work is done under the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, which empowers the corporations to take action if there is any encroachment on its land or property,” Oberoi said.The report said in 2020, close to 173,000 people were evicted as 36,812 homes were demolished across India. Of them, 88,517 people were evicted in the pandemic months (March to December). In 2021, 169,000 people were evicted and 24,400 homes demolished across India till July 31.“In 2020, we documented that 49% of the people (living in 17,888 homes) lost their homes for ostensible ‘environmental’ reasons, including from forestland. But forcibly evicting traditional forest-dwellers from their lands not only violates the Forest Rights Act 2006, it is also the recipe for a human rights and ecological disaster. People living in forests know how best to protect them. The government needs to respect their knowledge and uphold their rights,” Chaudhary said.In 2020, 7,689 people were evicted in 73 drives for encroachment removal and beautification, and 8,658 people were pushed out in 33 drives for infrastructure projects across India.“An overwhelming majority of evicted people (87%) did not receive rehabilitation from the government, in the absence of which affected persons have had to make their own provisions or have been rendered homeless. For those who received resettlement, the sites they have been relocated to are remote and devoid of civic and social infrastructure,” read a statement by HLRN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/6600-people-living-in-city-forcefully-evicted-since-march-2020-says-report-101631227591294.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||In major rejig, 56 ACPs of Delhi Police transferred||Newly appointed Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana has ordered a major reshuffle among ACP-rank officers in the city force, showed an order issued by the top cop’s office. The order, which HT has seen, shows that 56 assistant commissioners of police were transferred within the force or given charge of new police subdivisions.Asthana was appointed police chief on July 28, 2021.An ACP is the head of at least three police stations, or leads teams in units such as the special cell and crime branch.Senior Delhi Police officers, who asked not to be named, called the transfers “routine”.“No one has been punished. Yes, many officers were transferred or given charge of new assignments but it is routine,” one officer said.The order shows that many officers of those transferred were those handling their current jobs as additional charges, and their appointments were confirmed on Thursday.For instance, the ACP of the security unit was until Wednesday only holding additional charge as ACP security.Others officers in units such as special branch, PCR or FRRO, who were holding additional charge also got the confirmation of their new roles.Two new IPS officers, who recently joined the force, were also given new posts, as per the Thursday order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-major-rejig-56-acps-of-delhi-police-transferred-101631222970468.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||CM Kejriwal to join Ganesh aarti at North Delhi temple||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will participate in Ganesh Chaturthi rituals at a temple in north Delhi on Friday evening, and the event will be broadcast live by the Aam Aadmi’s social media handles, a senior government official said on Thursday.The official said, “The idea is to ensure that people can celebrate from their homes and they don’t have to gather at public spaces in the light of Covid-19 guidelines. The chief minister will participate in a Ganesh Maha-Aarti.”Last year, the Delhi government organised a Diwali event at Akshardham temple.Meanwhile, the Delhi high court on Thursday declined to hear a plea that challenged proposed Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations to be organised by the Delhi government, saying the petition was filed in a hurry without homework.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cm-kejriwal-to-join-ganesh-aarti-at-north-delhi-temple-101631223698188.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||‘Den of corruption’: BJP members lock Ludhiana Improvement Trust’s office gate||Terming the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) den of corruption, members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday locked the main gate of trust’s office in Feroze Gandhi market over an alleged multi-crore land scam pertaining to the auction of ‘prime’ land in Model Town Extension at ‘throwaway’ price. Despite heavy police deployment, the protesters breached the barricading. Raising slogans against LIT chairperson Raman Balasubramaniam, BJP leaders sought an FIR against him and a CBI inquiry into the matter. They alleged that the chairperson had committed the fraud at the behest of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. They added that a 3.79-acre land with the market value of about ₹350- ₹400 crore was sold to the close aides of the minister for ₹98 crore only with a reserve price of ₹91.86 crore. A complaint in this regard has already been submitted to the DC’s office, seeking cancellation of the sale that took place on August 16. BJP’s district president Pushpinder Singal said, “The chairperson claimed that the reserve price was fixed by a committee led by the DC, but he denied it. Now, it is certain that a fraud of at least ₹250 crore has been committed. We will also meet the police chief and DC, seeking an FIR against the chairperson. Also, the matter will be taken up with the state and central governments.”Akali leaders led by their district chief Ranjit Dhillon also submitted a complaint to police commissioner Naunihal Singh seeking an FIR against Balasubramaniam and others involved in the ‘land scam’. Youth Cong workers break open main gateIn an attempt to break the chain and locks put up by the BJP protesters, the Youth Congress workers led by district president Yogesh Handa broke the main entry gate of the LIT office. When questioned about damaging public property, Handa said it happened unintentionally and the Youth Congress will get the gate repaired. BJP has no proof to substantiate allegations: Chairperson LIT chairperson Balasubramaniam said the BJP was levelling baseless allegations and had no proof to substantiate their claims. “The reserve price of the land was fixed by the committee led by DC Varinder Sharma and the land has been auctioned through an e-auction. The final decision on whether to approve the auction proceedings has to be taken by the local bodies department,” he added. “The BJP is trying to gain political mileage by adopting such tactics. The BJP has no proof of any fraud and if it claims that the land is worth ₹350 crore, then it should come forward to buy the land at the same price and we will cancel the auction. In 2016, chairperson Subhash Verma had allotted 1,000 sq yards of land to the BJP for its office near Gill Road grain market at even lower rates. Why did not the BJP raise the issue then?” he questioned. Protest leads to traffic chaosInstallation of barricades at both the access points of the market from Ferozepur Road and Pakhowal Road ahead of the protest led to traffic chaos on Thursday. Parking issues further left the traders and visitors a harried lot. As the vehicles were not allowed to enter the market during the span of protest, cars and two-wheelers were seen parked on the roadsides while the parking lots near Feroze Gandhi market were also jam-packed. Trustees seek removal of their colleagueAmid a row over the alleged multi-crore land scam pertaining to auction of prime land in Model Town Extension, six of the newly elected trustees of the LIT have sought removal of their colleague Dharminder Sharma alias Vicky Gypsy from the trust, accusing him of supporting land mafia and trying to take illegal possession of the LIT complex on Rani Jhansi road. The six trustees — Vijay Gaba, Ranjit Gandhi, councillors Anil Parti, Reet Kaur, Seema Kapoor and Gulshan Kaur Randhawa — had submitted a complaint with the LIT chairperson on Wednesday evening and the latter had further marked the letter to principal secretary of the local bodies department. The government had appointed eight trustees of LIT in August. As per the sources, the trustees were ‘forced’ to sign the letter by senior Congress leaders after Gypsy raised questions over the auction of prime land in Model Town Extension at a low price and even proposed to buy the said land at ₹125 crore during a meeting held recently. The LIT has auctioned the land for over ₹98.38 crore (including 6% cess). Chairperson and Gypsy had even entered into a tussle over the issue. Gypsy stated that the final decision has to be taken by the government as he has been appointed as the trustee by government only. LIT chairperson said the complaint has submitted by the trustees and he has nothing to do with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/den-of-corruption-bjp-members-lock-ludhiana-improvement-trust-s-office-gate-101631222635985.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police chief takes aerial route to study traffic bottlenecks||From drone surveillance to conducting a survey in a chopper, the new Ludhiana police chief is looking for an aerial route to study the traffic bottlenecks in the city. After taking a round of the city on a helicopter on Sunday, police commissioner Naunihal Singh started surveillance of the traffic constrictions through a drone. Besides keeping tabs on the roads with heavy traffic flow, the drone will also keep a watch on the areas where police officers remain absent. Sources in the department said on spotting any violation, the drone operator will call the police chief and thereby send a live feed to the top cop so that immediate action can be initiated. Naunihal Singh said, “Pertaining to the drone, we are conducting a study of traffic bottlenecks in the city. The drone is being used to take a bird’s eye view of the problem areas and how we can resolve them. Certainly, Ferozepur Road is one of the focus points which receives heavy traffic throughout the day. But at the same time, similar emphasis is being laid on other bottlenecks across the city.”“As far as the chopper ride is concerned, I along with joint commissioner of police (traffic) had gone up. It was a field visit to check the traffic scenario across the city and what needs to be done to resolve the problems,” he added. JCP (traffic) Deepak Pareek said, “All four zones now have separate ACPs. Also, PCR and traffic cops’ movement has been increased to monitor the situation.”The chopper used for the aerial survey belongs to a city-based realtor and industrialist. Strengthening the CCTV surveillanceThe police are also strengthening the CCTV surveillance in the city. As per the latest directions, the SHOs have been directed to identify streets where no CCTV camera is installed. The police officers have also been told to identify the houses where CCTV cameras have been installed and how many among them are working. Sources said the cameras will be linked with the control room surveillance. The process is being carried out to keep a check on snatchers, thieves, eve teasers and other anti-social elements, said ADCP (investigation) and nodal officer for media interaction Rupinder Kaur Bhatti.No furlough from night dutyIn the meantime, the cops on night duty have been asked to keep the locations of their mobile phones switched on from 11pm to 5am. The move has been taken to ensure that the officials remain on the ground during their night duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-chief-takes-aerial-route-to-examine-traffic-issues-101631222096196.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||How Covid-induced delay in Tokyo Olympics turned out to be boon for two hockey stars||The delay of one year in the Tokyo Olympics 2020 worked wonders for two key Indian hockey players, who played pivotal role in creating history this year. Indian hockey team is riding high after its heroic performance at the multi-sport event as it ended India’s Olympic medal drought of 41 years after striking bronze with a fabulous performance. Gurjant Singh, forward expert of the Indian hockey team, revealed that he and Harmanpreet, vice-captain of the team, could have missed the Tokyo Olympics if the games hadn’t been delayed for a year due to the pandemic. “Both of us had suffered serious injuries and underwent surgeries. If the games wouldn’t have been delayed, we both might have missed the chance to be a part of the history,” Gurjant said. Harmanpreet, along with his teammates Hardik Singh and Gurjant, was here to attend an honorary function at Gulzar Group of Institutes, Khanna, on Thursday. Motivating the students, Gurjant said, “I was dropped from the team a few times, but still made it to the Olympics. Once the goal is set, one needs to work dedicatedly and fearlessly to achieve it. We are not satisfied yet as we want to get gold for India in the Paris Olympics.” On the dinner hosted by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for Olympians in Mohali on Wednesday, the three hockey players said it was a “life-time experience” as the CM himself cooked and served food to the players. Since their return from Tokyo, the players have been travelling across the country to attend honorary functions and felicitations, but they have yet to start preparing for the upcoming Commonwealth Games and Asian Games next year. “It feels amazing to get so much love and respect from the people around. Our lives have changed after we bagged the medal. We have been so busy attending the felicitation ceremonies that the team hasn’t got the time to start the preparations for the upcoming mega sports events. Moreover, our training camp is yet to be scheduled following which, we will start our practice,” Harmanpreet said. Talking about hardships and communication gaps experienced by them during the lockdown, Hardik Singh, midfielder in the national team and nephew of hockey legend Jugraj Singh, said, “Since the beginning of the lockdown in March last year, the team had been staying in Bengaluru. There used to be a very little communication with the outside world. We all stayed away from our loved ones. Our families used to hide any bad news from us to help us stay focused. Today, all our sacrifices have paid off.” Gurkirat Singh, executive director, Gulzar Group, announced a scholarship of ₹1 crore for the budding players of their campus. “Our students have played at the university and national levels and in future, they will be honoured with the scholarship for bringing the medals,” he added. BCM school principal Paramjit Kaur and motivational speaker Gaurav Deep Singh were the special guests on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/how-covid-induced-delay-in-tokyo-olympics-turned-out-to-be-boon-for-two-hockey-stars-101631221495880.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Theft at Ludhiana temple; donation box, silver ornament stolen||In yet another incident of theft, burglars targeted a temple built inside a gaushala in Jamalpur on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, police said. The thieves decamped with a donation box and a silver crown from the idol of Lord Krishna. The Moti Nagar police have registered a first information report (FIR) against unidentified accused and initiated an investigation.The case has been lodged on the basis of the statement of Kamal Singh, manager of Gau Sewa Samiti, Jamalpur.Kamal told the police that he used to take care of the gaushala. “On Thursday morning, when I came to the temple, I was shocked to see the donation box and crown of Lord Krishna missing. I immediately informed the police,” he added. Head constable Jagbir Singh, who is investigating the case, said the FIR has been registered under sections 457 and 380 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the unidentified accused.It is the second such incident in the past 16 days when the burglars targeted a temple. Earlier on August 23, a man had stolen a silver ornament from a temple in Naseeb Enclave. The stolen item was a snake made of silver and installed on the ‘shivling’, which was worth ₹70,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/theft-at-ludhiana-temple-donation-box-silver-ornament-stolen-101631221015714.html
10-09-2021||Other||Hizb militant nabbed from Awantipora||Police on Thursday claimed to have arrested an active militant of Hizbul Mujahideen from south Kashmir along with arms and ammunition.Police said that on specific input regarding movement of militants, police, 50RR and 185Bn CRPF launched a joint cordon and search operation in Androosa Khrew area of Awantipora.“During the search operation, joint forces observed some suspicious movement in the orchard area where a suspected person was trying to escape but was tactfully apprehended by the joint parties. He has been identified as Shahid Ahmed Khanday of Mandakpal, Khrew,” police spokesman said in a statement.Police said arms and ammunition were recovered from the militant’s possession. Cops further revealed that Khanday was an active militant and affiliated with Hizbul Mujahideen.“A case under relevant sections of law was registered at Khrew police station,” police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hizb-militant-nabbed-from-awantipora-101631220835868.html
10-09-2021||Other||170 new Covid cases in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 170 fresh Covid-19 infections on Thursday. There were 147 cases in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 23 infections. The summer capital Srinagar in Kashmir saw the highest count of 80 cases. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 158 with active positive cases reaching 1,263.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 575 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 168 and 142 active cases respectively. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,20,806 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.26%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,26,480 and the death-toll stands at 4,411. Officials said 50,865 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/170-new-covid-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101631220235699.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Battle for 2022 Punjab polls: First off the blocks, Akali Dal campaign runs aground amid farm protests||With the Punjab assembly elections around the corner, the Badals-led Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) took a head start over its rival parties in terms of preparedness in the run-up to the 2022 assembly elections and its cadres were full of enthusiasm. Though the party was first off the blocks, its ‘Gal Punjab di’ campaign starting August 18 ran aground in the face of dogged protests by farmers in Moga last week even as it galvanised the workers and forged ahead in the perception game for a while. Earlier, the party had faced sporadic protests by the farmers, but the last week’s backlash in a constituency traditionally seen as it bastion forced SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal to put his on-ground mobilisation on hold for a week or so and set up a three-member panel to negotiate with the farmer bodies. The SAD leadership is worried over these developments which can potentially undercut the party’s efforts to live down the charges of having initially supported the Modi government-piloted three contentious farms laws perceived by the peasantry against their interests. The party has offered to resolve the matter by indulging the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), inviting leaders of 32 farmer bodies for talks. A four-member committee is seeking to initiate talks with the farmer leaders in an effort to reach a middle ground so that the party’s rallies are not disrupted. So far, a response from the farm bodies is awaited. Party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema tried to play it down, saying the party is resuming mass contact programme from September 11 from Amloh as was announced earlier. “Before that we are hopeful of reaching a common ground with the farmer leaders who have already advised their volunteers not to disrupt the rallies of political parties other than the BJP,” he said, adding that it’s worrying that activists of the Congress and the Aam Admi Party are disrupting their rallies and are adversely impacting the farmers’ agitation. “We have identified the persons who are disrupting our rallies and made public their antecedents and the two parties have not rebutted our claims,” he added. A key electoral contender in the state, the SAD suffered a serious setback over the 2015 sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib as it was in government at the time but is keen on coming clean. After its worst-ever performance in the 2017 polls when it secured only 15 seats, the party says it is on a course correction now. Also, having snapped ties with its two-decade old ally BJP, which is leading the government at the Centre over the contentious farm laws, the SAD wasted no time in entering into an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in the state that has a sizeable Dalit population. As part of the seat-sharing arrangement, the party has offered 20 seats total 117 in the state assembly to its new ally and sees the move as a game-changer. With just 5 months left for the polls, its rivals — Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and BJP— have not come up with their poll programmes so far. On the other hand, the SAD-BSP combine has announced a 13-point vision programme to be implemented in case it forms government after the 2022 polls, offering 400 free power units for domestic sector, ₹10 per litre rebate on diesel and interest free loan of up to ₹10 lakh for students planning to study abroad. Moreover, it has announced 22 candidates for the upcoming polls and 12 halqa heads. But then, the issues of sacrilege, drug peddling and mining and transport mafia operating with impunity during Akalis’ tenure in government continue to hound them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/battle-for-2022-punjab-polls-first-off-the-blocks-akali-dal-campaign-runs-aground-amid-farm-protests-101631220120293.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Battle for 2022 Punjab polls: Sidhu-Amarinder bad blood roils Congress||The Congress is in the throes of a bitter infighting in Punjab with less than five months to go for the assembly elections. The dramatis personae in the tussle for control of the party are incumbent chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh (79) and his bête noire, newly appointed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu (57). Amarinder, who had declared the 2017 battle in which he led the Congress to a near two-thirds to be his last one, is now raring to have another go, whereas Sidhu has never cloaked his ambition and pictures himself as the natural claimant to the mantle of the chief minister if the party retains power in the upcoming polls. The cricketer-turned-politician was appointed the state president on July 18, ignoring the CM’s opposition to his elevation. The feud, fuelled by their competing ambitions, has left the state unit, particularly ministers and legislators, divided, making the party cadre becoming apprehensive about its impact on electoral prospects. To make matters worse, Sidhu and Amarinder have continued to indulge in one-upmanship, rarely letting go of any opportunity to pull each other down. “The way things stand, there appears to be a little chance of them (Capt and Sidhu) joining hands. There is fear among many party leaders that the worst is still to come,” said a senior Congress leader, blaming a litany of self-goals for the present turmoil. The political landscape seemed highly favourable to the Congress until the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the special investigation report (SIT) report in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case on April 9. The legal setback opened Pandora’s box in the Congress as Sidhu along with some party ministers and MLAs questioned the CM’s handling of the sensitive case related to the emotive sacrilege and police firing issues. The blame game quickly escalated into a full-blown war between Capt and Sidhu with allegations flying thick and fast. The Congress high command, particularly general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and former president Rahul Gandhi, backed the cricketer-turned-politician and named him the state chief, but not before a public spectacle played out live on TV by parading party leaders, including Amarinder, before a three-member central committee. Though the high command expected the situation to ameliorate, it has not got any better. An 18-point agenda, based on issues listed by Sidhu and other disgruntled leaders, was handed by the central leadership to Amarinder for implementation, denting the narrative spun by him on fulfillment of most of the election promises. The detractors are now trying to pin the chief minister down for not doing enough on these “priority points”, including sacrilege and police firing cases, action in drug rackets and scrapping of power purchase agreements (PPAs). The newly appointed state party chief’s handpicked advisers’ statements on Kashmir and Pakistan also added fuel to the fire. A senior Congress leader said the only thing still keeping the party (Congress) in contention is that its rivals Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have been in disarray. “They (opposition parties) are still grappling with their own sets of problems. We have made far too many mistakes and need to make amends sooner than later,” he said on condition of anonymity. Till then, it is Congress-versus-Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/battle-for-2022-punjab-polls-sidhu-amarinder-bad-blood-roils-congress-101631220119074.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Battle for 2022 Punjab polls: In a bind over CM face, AAP fancies a chance in rivals’ woes||Down in the dumps for nearly two years due to internal conflicts, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Punjab is now sniffing an opportunity in growing fissures in the state unit of the ruling Congress. The AAP, which has made no secret of its keenness to fish in troubled waters, is not just going all-out to take advantage of the state of flux in the Congress, but is also expecting to see some discontented leaders jump the ship to join its ranks. The common thread running through its campaign slogans and speeches of leaders is, “You have seen the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), now give us a chance”. The party, which constantly reminded people of the promises the ruling party failed to keep, is getting some of its ammunition from newly appointed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and other Amarinder-baiters who are hitting out at their own government over the sacrilege and subsequent police firing cases, failure to arrest of “big fish” behind drug rackets, and the power purchase agreements (PPAs) and high electricity rates. Delhi model, populist pitch Kotkapura MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan says the Akalis had exposed themselves totally during their 10-year-long rule and the Congress failed to deliver on its promises. “There is public anger against them. We are asking people to look at our work in Delhi and give us a chance. The response has been good so far as many of them have visited the farmers’ protest sites (on the Delhi-Haryana border) and seen the work done by our government there,” he adds. Besides hoping to tap into this resentment, the AAP, which won 20 seats to become the principal opposition party in 2017, is banking on its much-touted ‘Delhi model’ of governance and promise of freebies to emerge on top. Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has already made a populist pitch by “guaranteeing” 300 units of free power for residential consumers, waiver of pending bills and round-the-clock supply if his party comes to power in the state. “This is just the beginning. Kejriwal ji will be in Punjab again very soon with more announcements,” says a party office-bearer. Pressure builds up to name CM candidate The biggest question before the AAP remains its chief ministerial face even as pressure is building on the leadership from within the party, including several MLAs and workers, to declare state chief Bhagwant Mann’s name. Kejriwal had, on June 21, announced in Amritsar that the CM candidate will be from the Sikh community. As reports of AAP leaders sending feelers to prominent Sikh personalities started doing the rounds, the two-time Sangrur MP, who remains the party’s most popular leader in Punjab, appeared to run out of patience. “The party should know the ground reality and listen to volunteers before declaring the CM face. A large proportion of them see me as CM candidate,” he told reporters on Saturday, pointing to party workers who are visiting his residence for the ‘volunteer meet programme’ in droves. As the party distanced itself from such feelers, and several leaders, including Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh, got in touch with him, Mann postponed his volunteer meet from Wednesday and has gone to Delhi. “The party leadership knows how we suffered in 2017 by not naming the CM face. Kejriwal ji will be back in Delhi from his vipassana session and sort out everything. There is nothing to worry,” says a party MLA who is backing Mann, playing down his remarks. But not many seem to agree. Party watchers see these developments as a sign of fresh trouble brewing. The party had remained in disarray for much of the past four years due to internal strife and can ill afford another row with just a few months to go for polls, they say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/battle-for-2022-punjab-polls-in-a-bind-over-cm-face-aap-fancies-a-chance-in-rivals-woes-101631220055746.html
10-09-2021||Other||All Parties Hurriyat Conference hopes new dispensation in Afghanistan will be inclusive||All Parties Hurriyat Conference (APHC) led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Thursday hoped that the new dispensation in Afghanistan was inclusive and broad-based.The conglomerate said that after the unfolding of confusing and chaotic events in Afghanistan during the past month, it hopes that the formation of the new government will put an end to the four decades of ceaseless conflict and uncertainty.“APHC also hopes that the new dispensation in Afghanistan is inclusive and broad-based and bears in mind that Islam as a religion is unambiguous in advocating human equality and rights, economic fairness and religious tolerance as foundational values,” it said in a statement.The APHC also said it hopes these values will be the guiding principles of the new dispensation both in letter and spirit, as well as keeping up with internationally accepted norms . The Hurriyat further said that it understands that no two conflict regions are the same and the differences between Afghanistan and Kashmir are well-known.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-parties-hurriyat-conference-hopes-new-dispensation-in-afghanistan-will-be-inclusive-101631219935771.html
10-09-2021||Other||Rahul Gandhi treks 12.5km to pay obeisance at Vaishno Devi shrine||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday reached Jammu on a two-day visit and embarked on a 12.5km long trek via Himkoti on foot to the holy cave shrine of Vaishno Devi in Trikuta hills of Katra. “I have come here to pay obeisance to Mata…. Let’s see,” he told reporters at Katra before embarking upon the pilgrimage. When asked for reaction on Bharatiya Janata Party’s recent statements in which he was called a ‘Chunavi Hindu’, Rahul said, “I don’t react to BJP statements and I don’t want to give any political statement here.” A senior official of the shrine board said, “The Congress leader walked the distance to the cave shrine and reached Bhawan around 6.15pm. Thereafter, he paid obeisance at the sanctum sanctorum.” Congress’ J&K unit president Ghulam Ahmed Mir said, “After paying obeisance at the sanctum sanctorum, Rahul Gandhi also attended Atka Aarti that started around 7.05 pm.” Vaishno Devi shrine is situated at a height of 5,200-ft above the sea level. The holy cave is approximately 30 metres long and 1.7 metres in height. Rahul Gandhi will be staying overnight at the Bhawan after paying obeisance and will return to Katra around 7am on Friday before reaching Jammu city around 10am. On Friday, he will be addressing party workers at JK Resorts at 11am and then meet senior party leaders and delegations at Hotel Radisson Blue before returning to Delhi at 3.30 pm. Mir said Rahul has strong faith in Vaishno Devi and had been longing to visit the cave shrine for long. Speaking to news agency ANI, Mir said, “The first thing he will do is pay obeisance to Mata Vaishno Devi. However, unlike other leaders who use choppers and horses to visit the temple, we believe that he has made up his mind to walk on foot from Katra to the temple. On his return, he will, once again, walk on foot. We have not scheduled any political engagements on the first day of his tour.” He added that from Katra, the Wayanad MP will go to Jammu by car and attend a small party function there. “We have not stopped Congress workers from organising small programmes to welcome the former party president, on his way back from Katra.” This is Rahul Gandhi’s second visit to Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370. Earlier, he had visited Srinagar on August 9 to inaugurate the new office of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rahul-gandhi-treks-12-5km-to-pay-obeisance-at-vaishno-devi-shrine-101631219816129.html
10-09-2021||Other||Jammu and Kashmir lines up festivals to promote 75 new tourist spots||To attract foreign and domestic tourists towards Jammu and Kashmir, the Union territory is planning to promote 75 new tourist spots through a dedicated festival which will be held by the end of this year.J&K is witnessing an uptick in tourist arrivals after a long time and the government is leaving no stone unturned to ensure more footfall, especially in areas less explored. J&K chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta on Wednesday chaired a meeting with top officials to review various activities being undertaken by the tourism department to highlight and promote new tourist destinations. “It was informed that the tourism department is organising various events such as road shows. As a part of Azadi ka Amrit Mohatsav, the department will organise an iconic week celebration in the last week of October which will include performances on Hafiz Nagma, Kalam-e-Khusroo, Kalam-e-Baba Fareed, Qawwali, Baul Sufi folk, Darrvish Sufi dance, and Haziri Kathak, besides literary seminar on Sufism and exhibition of local arts, calligraphy, and Sufi traditions,” said J&K government spokesman.The officials said that the tourism department will also promote destination-festivals like Sonamarg Autumn Festival, Pahalgam Winter Festival, Khadinyar Cultural Festival, Gulmarg Snow Festival, Basholi Art Festival, Mata Vaishnodevi Sangeet Samelan, Kishtwar Saffron Plucking Festival, and Suchetgarh Seema Darshan.Similarly, Autumn and Houseboat festivals; Saffron Festival; Christmas and New Year festivals; and Winter Carnival will be organised to promote Kashmir-based destinations.“To promote rural tourism, it was informed that specific activities will be organised along the identified rural circuits across Jammu and Kashmir, including Hokersar-Parihaspora-Gohan in Gulmarg, Waderbala, Nowgam Mawar- Lolab in Kupwara, Chari-Sharief-Doodhpathri-Yousmarg in Budgam and Saderkoot Payeen- Watlab in Bandipora,” the spokesman said.“The department was asked to organise a 3-month tourism festival from November to January around the new tourist places,” the spokesperson said adding that Mehta told officials to preserve, restore, and promote the cultural and architectural heritage of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jammu-and-kashmir-lines-up-festivals-to-promote-75-new-tourist-spots-101631219515806.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Old ambulances parked at Ludhiana civil hospital on burglars’ radar||Ambulances dumped at Ludhiana’s Lord Mahavir Civil Hospital are on the radar of burglars, who have so far stolen their tyres, stretchers, batteries, hooters, medical support system and other parts as well. A police post has already been set up at the civil hospital, but it failed to deter the miscreants. It may be noted here that the civil hospital authorities have not lodged any complaint with the police after the thefts came to their notice. Due to this, the police did not take any action as they awaited a formal complaint to proceed further. The ambulances were dumped in a corner of the civil hospital around 18 months ago after the vehicles were declared unfit for carrying patients. The hospital staff, however, suspect involvement of drug addicts in the burglaries. Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said she will mark an inquiry into the matter and stern action will be taken for negligence and not reporting the thefts to authorities and the police. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Rajinder Singh, in-charge of the civil hospital police post, said they have not received any complaint from the hospital staff. “We will take action after receiving a formal complaint,” he added. Interestingly, a car has also been lying abandoned near the civil hospital mortuary for the past one year, but no action has been taken to remove it. Thick vegetation has grown around the Mitsubishi Lancer bearing registration number PB-72-7373.The police have, however, contacted the regional transport office for the details about the owner of the car. The staff suspect that some miscreants could have abandoned the vehicle at the hospital after using it to commit a crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/old-ambulances-parked-at-ludhiana-civil-hospital-on-burglars-radar-101631219215836.html
10-09-2021||Other||Sero survey: Covid antibodies found in 84% of Kashmir’s population||At least 84% of Kashmir’s population has developed antibodies against Covid-19, the latest sero-survey has revealed. Experts are encouraged by the outcome of the survey, saying it indicates that the third wave of the pandemic won’t be strong in the Valley unless there is a new strain.The survey was conducted in July across 10 districts of the Valley, taking samples from 5,663 persons, including 2,077 police personnel, healthcare workers and pregnant women.“Our study among the general population shows that 84.3% of our population was positive for IgG-II (or the anti-spike protein) antibody which is produced after infection with SARS CoV -2 as well as after vaccination,” said Dr S Muhammad Salim Khan, professor and head, community medicine, Government Medical College, Srinagar, and principal investigator of the study.“The results show that we have achieved a significant level of Covid antibodies among the population, which indicates that the third wave won’t be that strong unless we have a new variant,” Khan told HT.He, however, cautioned against complacency. “We should not be complacent as new variants could emerge and apprehend immune escape. So we need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, and all those who haven’t got vaccinated yet, must go and get the doses,” he said.The IgM antibody, which is usually produced by a recent infection with SARS Cov-2 and can rarely through recent vaccination, was positive in about 20.75 % of the participants. Also, a majority of the study population was yet to take the first dose of vaccine when the study was conducted.“At the time of study in July 2021, a total of 20.3% participants had received two doses of vaccine and the majority (79.25 %) had received none,” Khan said.Khan further said that since then, vaccination has scaled up in the Valley, which means sero positivity would also have gone up.The study also revealed that Srinagar and Anantnag have the highest sero prevalence at 89.7% and 87.2% respectively. “The lowest sero prevalence was in Pulwama district at 78.24%,” it said.The pan-Kashmir cross-sectional sero-study was conducted by Government Medical College, Srinagar, in collaboration with community medicine departments of SKIMS Medical College, Srinagar, Government Medical College, Anantnag, and Government Medical College, Baramullah, with cooperation from the directorate of health sciences, Kashmir, and supported by National Health Mission.“Within each district, 10 clusters were randomly selected and within each cluster, 40 samples were collected from individuals aged above seven, after obtaining proper informed consent for the study,” Khan said.In November 2020, Kashmir’s first ever district-wise sero-survey of Covid-19 had shown anti-bodies in about 39% of the population in the Valley. At the time, blood samples were collected from a total of 6,230 persons, of which 2,415 were positive for the Covid antibodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sero-survey-covid-antibodies-found-in-84-of-kashmir-s-population-101631218975811.html
10-09-2021||Other||Farooq, Omar express grief over Wazir’s demise||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah and vice-president Omar Abdullah on Thursday expressed shock and grief over the demise of Tarlochan Singh Wazir, former member of legislative council and a senior party leader.In his message, Farooq Abdullah hailed the contribution of Wazir in different capacities to the people during his public life. He said the void created by Wazir is difficult to fill.Expressing his condolences and sympathies to the bereaved family, Omar said that he was shocked by the news.“It was only a few days ago that we sat together in Jammu not realising it was the last time I would be meeting him,” Omar said.The JKNC president and vice-president expressed solidarity with the bereaved family, prayed for peace to the departed soul and strength to the family to bear this irreparable loss.General secretary Ali Mohammed Sagar also condoled the demise of Wazir and conveyed condolences to the bereaved family.In his condolence message, Provincial president Devender Singh Rana described Wazir as a leader with qualities of heart and mind, who served the people in his different capacities. With the passing away, the National Conference has lost a public-spirited leader and the vacuum created will be difficult to fill.Rana expressed solidarity with the bereaved members of the family and prayed for peace to the departed soul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farooq-omar-express-grief-over-wazir-s-demise-101631218735987.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM lays foundation stone of facility to train youth for selection in armed forces in Tarn Taran||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday digitally laid the foundation stone of permanent camp of C-PYTE at Asal Uttar in Tarn Taran district to provide training to the youth of the state for selection in military and paramilitary forces and to commemorate the bravery of company quarter master Havaldar Abdul Hamid. He also inaugurated the 7th state-level Mega Rozgar Mela with a target to fill 2.5 lakh vacancies across Punjab and launched free online coaching for government recruitment exams, apart from rolling out the ‘Mera Kaam Mera Maan’ scheme to provide employment assistance allowance of ₹2,500 per month to workers and wards of workers registered under Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW) Welfare Board, according to an official release. Amarinder said Sardar Bahadur Amin Chand Soni Armed Forces Preparatory Institute was being established at Bajwara, Hoshiarpur, at a cost of ₹26.96 crore for preparing youth of Punjab to compete and qualify in CDSE/AFCAT. The CM said that during the first wave of Covid-19, the department of employment generation, skill development and training had organised the 6th state-level Mega Rozgar Mela and Mega Self-Employment Mela through virtual/physical means in all districts, facilitating 2.09 lakh candidates. “September 9 marks the 56-year anniversary of Battle of Asal Uttar, one of the largest tank battles fought during Indo-Pak War of 1965 which resulted in victory due to fierce battle put up by Indian Army,” he reminisced. He said the battle also witnessed the personal bravery of Havaldar Abdul Hamid, 4th Grenadiers, who was honoured posthumously with the Param Vir Chakra for knocking out several enemy tanks with a recoilless gun. Employment generation and skill development Charanjit Singh Channi said the C-PYTE centre would come up on 8.5 acres of land at a cost of ₹5 crore in the first phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-lays-foundation-stone-of-facility-to-train-youth-for-selection-in-armed-forces-in-tarn-taran-101631218675613.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana woman loses gold bangles to car-borne snatchers||Helping a few car-borne men in filling their water bottle cost dearly to an elderly woman, who was robbed of her two gold bangles on Shingar Cinema road on Wednesday. The Division Number 3 police have registered an FIR against the unidentified accused and launched a probe. The case has been registered on the basis of the statement of Aman Chawla, a resident of Harbanspura. In his complaint, he said that he, along with his mother Sunita Chawla, was returning home after paying obeisance at a gurdwara near Samrala Chowk. “When we reached the Shingar Cinema road, a car stopped near my mother. The occupants of the car requested my mother to fill their water bottle from a water cooler installed on the roadside,” he told the police. As his mother handed over the water bottle to the accused sitting inside the car, they took out the bangles she was wearing and fled. ASI Gurjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the FIR has been registered under sections 379-A and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the unidentified accused. The police are scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-woman-loses-gold-bangles-to-car-borne-snatchers-101631218555652.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Now, call for free lifting of animal carcasses in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh municipal corporation has awarded the contract for lifting of animal carcasses in the city.Residents can contact the helpline 0172-278-7200 or send an e-mail at mohmcc-chd@nic.in to avail of the free service.“Citizens are requested not to pay any fee to the contractor or workers. Any demand by them should be brought to the notice of MC. Cooperation of citizens is solicited in keeping the City Beautiful clean,” said an MC spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-call-for-free-lifting-of-animal-carcasses-in-chandigarh-101631218495723.html
10-09-2021||Other||Wazir’s demise: Passenger, commercial vehicles to remain off road for a day in J&K||Following the death of former MLC and National Conference leader TS Wazir in Delhi under mysterious circumstances, All J&K Transport Welfare Association has given a call for complete ‘Chakka Jam’ across the union territory on Friday. He had been the chairman of the association.In an official statement issued here, the association stated that ‘no passenger or commercial vehicle will ply on the road from Lakhanpur to Srinagar and Uri on Friday to express resentment against the killing of late TS Wazir’. The association has also demanded an impartial probe by a special investigation team and stern action against the culprits responsible for his killing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wazirs-demise-passenger-commercial-vehicles-to-remain-off-road-for-a-day-in-jk-101631218375673.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two snatchers nabbed after chase in Chandigarh||A 42-year-old man and his neighbours caught two snatchers after a chase in Raipur Kalan on Tuesday.The accused, Deepak Kumar, 23, hailing from Uttar Pradesh and currently staying in Dhakoli, and Ankit Chauhan, alias Goli, 21, of Baltana, had fled after snatching the wallet of Hare Ram when the chase ensued.Ram told the police that he had almost reached home from work around 10pm on Tuesday. There, two men stopped him to ask for directions to an address. As he started to guide them, the duo manhandled him and fled with his wallet containing ₹200, his factory identity card and PAN card. Ram raised the alarm and his two neighbors, Ramakant and Rajkumar, who were out for a walk came to his rescue. They ran after the accused and nabbed Deepak from whom the wallet was recovered. On his disclosure, his accomplice, Ankit, was also arrested. Both were booked under Sections 379A (snatching) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code. They were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-snatchers-nabbed-after-chase-in-chandigarh-101631218195784.html
10-09-2021||Other||Six more succumb to contagion in Himachal||The death toll due to Covid-19 mounted to 3,612 in Himachal as six more people succumbed to the contagion on Thursday. Two deaths each were reported in Mandi and Shimla and one each in Bilaspur and Kangra. Meanwhile, the state’s Covid case tally rose to 2,15,235 after 161fresh infections were reported on the day. The highest, 31, cases were reported in Kangra, 28 in Mandi, 22 in Bilaspur, 21 in Hamirpur, 20 in Shimla, eight in Kullu, five each in Solan and Una, four in Kinnaur and two in Lahul-Spiti. The active cases climbed to 1,719 while recoveries reached 2,09,887 after 139 people recuperated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-more-succumb-to-contagion-in-himachal-101631218015729.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||92-year-old becomes latest Covid fatality in Chandigarh||A 92-year-old woman from Manimajra died due to Covid-19 at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, on Thursday, the third virus-related fatality in Chandigarh in September.Earlier, the UT health department had recorded Covid deaths on September 1 and 7. Mohali and Panchkula have not reported any casualty in September so far.On the cases’ front, tricity’s daily tally rose from 11 to 13 in the past 24 hours.Chandigarh logged four cases, after three on Wednesday. The number rose from four to seven in Mohali, but dropped from four to two in Panchkula.In Chandigarh, three infections surfaced on PGIMER’s campus and one in Sector 24. In Mohali, all cases were from Mohali city and Kharar, and Panchkula’s both cases were from Kalka.The active cases increased to 89 – 48 in Mohali, 28 in the UT and 13 in Panchkula.Chandigarh’s caseload stands at 65,142, of which 64,298 patients have recovered and 816 have died.Mohali has recorded 68,658 infections till date. As many 67,550 patients have been cured, but 1,060 have died – highest in the tricity. Panchkula’s case count is 30,699, including 30,309 recoveries and 377 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/92yearold-becomes-latest-covid-fatality-in-chandigarh-101631217956162.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana gets 1 lakh syringes for vaccine||The health department on Thursday received one lakh syringes to meet the acute shortage. The vaccination drive on Wednesday was hampered after the department ran out of syringes.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said that there has been a mismatch in the number of syringes and vaccine doses. “But today, we received one lakh syringes to match the number of doses available. We urged the authorities to send more syringes to replenish the stock,” said Dr Ahluwalia.Only 29,000 out of the targeted 70,000 people were inoculated on Wednesday. With the arrival of syringes on Thursday, the department managed to vaccinate over 48,000 residents of the district.With that, the district crossed the 23 lakh inoculation mark. As many as 23,39,521 people have been inoculated in the district, so far.The health department had inoculated 20 lakh people on August 31 and vaccinated the rest in nearly nine days.As many as two fresh cases of Covid- 19 were reported in the city on Thursday. While the active cases have gone up to 31, the mortality count of the district has reached 2,098.A total of 87,494 people have been infected so far and as many as 85,365 people have successfully recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gets-1-lakh-syringes-for-vaccine-101631217895793.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Burglars strike at contractor’s house, decamp with cash, jewellery||Burglars targeted the locked house of a contractor in Upkar Nagar and decamped with cash, jewellery, mobile phones and electronic gadgets on Wednesday. The Division Number 8 police have registered an FIR against the unidentified thieves and initiated an investigation. Two accused have been captured in the CCTVs installed nearby while entering and fleeing the house. Complainant Gaurav Arora of Gurdev Nagar said that he also has a house in Upkar Nagar. On Thursday, he saw the window of his house broken and found the rooms ransacked when he went inside. Arora told the police that the burglars have taken away one necklace, two mobile phones, an iPad, 12 silver coins and ₹74,000 in cash. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhdev Singh said that two men have been spotted in the CCTV footage while entering the house around 1.30am. “They remained inside the house for 45 minutes,” he added. The FIR has been registered under sections 457 and 380 of the IPC at the Division Number 8 police station. The police are trying to identify the accused, the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-burglars-strike-at-contractor-s-house-decamp-with-cash-jewellery-101631217777337.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||In Chandigarh, parking lots still riddled with issues||Haphazard parking, missing parking attendants and lack of aesthetic kiosks continue to plague the parking lots in Chandigarh.A report on the status of the parking lots, submitted by municipal corporation (MC) officials to commissioner Anindita Mitra on Thursday, states that while most of the 10 basic features have been made operational by the parking contractors, some are still missing.Mitra, a week ago, had directed MC officials to inspect all parking lots in the city and report whether the provisions and facilities mandated under the parking contracts are being complied with.In a meeting with the parking contractors on September 1, the commissioner had given them a week to implement the provisions completely. The issue of mismanagement at parking lots was recently highlighted by UT adviser Dharam Pal and even came in focus during the last MC General House meeting.Two parking contractors manage the 89 parking lots under MC’s jurisdiction in the city. What’s done, what’s missingHaphazard parking was found in the evening at major parking sites, including at Elante Mall, Sukhna Lake, and Sectors 17, 20, 22, 26, 35 and 43.In smaller lots, no parking staff was deployed. “Attendants are needed to provide necessary assistance in clearing logjams. Even in parking lots where staff was available, they didn’t have whistles and sticks,” said an MC official, requesting anonymity. In line with aesthetic conditions to be followed, the inspection team directed the parking contractors to paint the kiosks. Barricades were available, but many required repairs and paint job. “Also, more cones are required to regulate the smooth movement of traffic,” states the report.Of the 10 basic features, e-ticketing, LED display, e-payment, staff wearing uniform at most sites and boom barrier (at required sites) have been provided in nearly all parking lots. For instance, LED display has been provided in most major parking lots, except at Fun Republic, Tourist Bus parking 1&2, GPO and Sector 9-D.Mitra said, “To a large extent the features have been provided, but not everything has been achieved. We will continue to strive to make parking better for residents.” The commissioner will hold a meeting to review further progress made in the matter.Major findings from inspectionDress code: Most attendants wearing uniforms, but not all wearing parking caps Staff availability: No staff deployed in several small lotsLED displays: Available at most major lots; missing in some smaller onesE-tickets: Provided in most lots, except two in Sectors 26 and 34E-payment: All parking lots, except four in Sector 34Haphazard parking: Common in evening in major parking lotsRate list, boom barrier: Provided in all lots Aesthetic kiosks, barricades, cones and chains: Still incomplete.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-chandigarh-parking-lots-still-riddled-with-issues-101631217776168.html
10-09-2021||Other||HC notices to Shimla admn over illegal sheds on govt land||The high court of Himachal Pradesh on Thursday issued notices to the chief secretary, commissioner of Shimla municipal corporation, Shimla deputy commissioner, and Shimla superintendent of police in a matter pertaining to construction of illegal sheds on government land in Downdale, Phagli, Shimla and intimidation of the complainant, who is a leprosy patient. Divisional bench comprising acting chief justice Ravi Malimath and justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed these orders on a petition taken up suo moto by the court as public interest litigation on a letter addressed to the chief justice by one leprosy patient, Tek Chand. The petitioner has alleged that he is residing in the government accommodation built for lepers and two other leprosy patients - Gulab Singh and Partap - also live in the said building, who have illegally raised four permanent houses and 38 temporary sheds on the government land. He alleged that last year, the councillor of Fagli ward and the junior engineer erected a wall, costing ₹70-80 lakh, on a land encroached by Gulab Singh and Partap. He added that they were allotted government houses in 2013, but these two persons were not in need of government accommodation as their old houses are already on the land. He alleged that these encroachers threatened to ostracise him from the panchayat of the lepers and to expel him from the government accommodation. He urged that he may be allowed to live freely in the government accommodation, strict action be taken against the wrongdoers, and an inquiry be conducted in this regard. He said the encroachments should be removed. The court posted the matter after four weeks and directed the respondents to file a reply by then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-notices-to-shimla-admn-over-illegal-sheds-on-govt-land-101631217655714.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting contractual staff shuts down Ludhiana bus stand for 2 hours||The contractual employees of Punjab Roadways and PRTC shut down the Ludhiana bus stand on Thursday as a part of their ongoing protest against the state government for not regularising their jobs.The indefinite strike entered its fourth day with over 200 government-run buses remaining off-road.After the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Terminal was shut down by the employees, private bus operators continued their operations from outside the stand, resulting in a traffic chaos. Traffic police personnel were deployed outside the stand but, the movement of a large number of buses created traffic bottlenecks.Shamsher Singh, district president of Punjab Roadways/PRTC contractual employees union, stated that the state government had failed to fulfil the genuine demands of the union.“The government has stepped back even after making a promise to regularise the employees during the assembly elections in 2017. A meeting was also held between the state government and union members in Chandigarh on Wednesday, but the government did not accept our demand. We will continue the strike until our demands are fulfilled,” said Singh.Meanwhile, the passengers at the bus stand were a harried lot as they had to wait for the private buses to reach their respective destinations. Also, the women passengers, who travel for free in government-run buses, had to shell out for travelling in private buses.Gurmeet Singh, a passenger waiting for a bus to Amritsar, said that the employees should not harass the general public while protesting against the state government.“The passengers had to stand in the scorching heat outside the bus stand as they had to wait for private buses. At least the employees should keep the bus stand open. As a large number of buses remained off-road, very few private buses were available due to which many of us were running late,” said Singh.Kuljit Singh Sodhi, the bus stand station supervisor, said that 25-30 buses of the roadways department were operated by the permanent staff but the majority of them operated by contractual staff remained off-road. The state government is working to resolve the issue with the employees’ union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-contractual-staff-shuts-down-ludhiana-bus-stand-for-2-hours-101631217537228.html
10-09-2021||Other||Keep monitoring cotton fields for pink bollworm infestation: PAU expert tells farmers||Amandeep Kaur, entomologist, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), advised farmers to keep monitoring their cotton fields regularly for pink bollworm infestation.Referring to the history of pink bollworm, she said that this pest was earlier observed on BT cotton hybrids in Southern India. “In 2018, it was first noticed in Jind district of Haryana, and in 2019 and 2020, it had attacked cotton bolls in different villages of Bathinda,” she revealed.As per the recent survey conducted by PAU experts in Mansa district, the attack of pink bollworm has resulted in damage of the crop at some places, she warned.Dr Kaur urged the cotton growers to remain vigilant and contact PAU experts if any such incident is observed. She also explained the life cycle, symptoms, and control measures of pink bollworm during the PAU live programme on Thursday.Varsity experts Gurpreet Virk and Dr Inderpreet Kaur Boparai advised the farmers to provide irrigation to paddy and basmati as per need.Rajat Sharma, IT in charge, explained the process of participation in virtual Kisan Melas of PAU.Dr Madhu Bala, Floriculturist, said that the festive month has increased the demand for marigold, chrysanthemum, gladiolus, rose, desi rose, etc. for commercial purposes and household garden decoration. The demand for flowers was escalating due to their traditional uses, she added while explaining the cultivation practices and marketing of different flower crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/keep-monitoring-cotton-fields-for-pink-bollworm-infestation-pau-expert-tells-farmers-101631217535617.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||At 25.6mm, Chandigarh logs more rain in a day than entire Sept last year||The 25.6mm rain in about an hour on Monday morning was higher than the precipitation recorded in the entire month of September last year, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Up to 30mm rain is expected on Friday and Saturday as well, IMD officials said.In 2020, 22mm rain was recorded in September. But it was much lower than the 166.4mm rain witnessed in the same month in 2019. This year, since the onset of monsoon in June, 456.9mm rain has been recorded against a normal of 756.1mm – a shortfall of 40%.Meanwhile, city’s maximum temperature dropped from 34.4°C degrees on Wednesday to 33.8°C on Thursday, still one degree above normal, and the minimum temperature from 28.1°C to 24.5°C, which was three notches above normal. The day temperature will remain around 33°C and the night temperature between 25°C and 26°C over the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-25-6mm-chandigarh-logs-more-rain-in-a-day-than-entire-sept-last-year-101631217355644.html
10-09-2021||Other||Magisterial probe ordered into free langar service at IGMC||Himachal Pradesh government on Thursday ordered a magisterial probe into the controversy surrounding the free langar service run by Shimla-based philanthropist Sarbjeet Singh Bobby’s NGO Almighty Blessings at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) cancer hospital. The orders instituting the probe were issued by principal secretary (home). Certain issues regarding operationalisation of langar services at IGMC, Shimla, including allotment of its premises, terms and conditions etc, have come to the notice of state government, the order stated. It has been considered necessary to conduct a magisterial inquiry to ensure a proper resolution in public interest. Therefore, Rahul Chauhan, additional district magistrate (law & order), Shimla, is hereby appointed as inquiry officer, it added. He will submit the inquiry report to the home department within 15 days of the date of issue of the order. The controversy erupted when the IGMC administration, with the help of police, forcibly shut the langar services last Saturday. Bobby who goes by the name of Vella Bobby and is currently recovering from kidney transplant, said the police had forcefully vacated the langar hall and had thrown utensils and food on the road. He said the langar has been running without break since October 25, 2014, and has provided free food to around 3,000 people daily, including patients who come to the Cancer Hospital for treatment and their attendants, he wrote. The entire episode led to a furore among the public while the opposition Congress’ legislator Vikramadiya Singh also held a protest at the Ridge to oppose the arbitrary decision of IGMC to shut the langar. While the government drew flak from all quarters, the IGMC administration alleged that the electricity and water connection at the langar hall were illegal. It was also alleged that the donation the organisation was receiving was not audited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/magisterial-probe-ordered-into-free-langar-service-at-igmc-101631217235666.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman hangs herself, boyfriend booked for abetment||Police have booked an Una resident for abetment to suicide after his girlfriend hanged herself from a ceiling fan in his presence at a hotel in Zirakpur on Thursday night. The deceased, 32, was a resident of Mauli Jagran. The accused, who works at a hotel in Ludhiana, had come to Zirakpur to meet her and they went to a local hotel. There, they had an altercation, following which the woman ended her life. The body was found by the hotel staff, with the accused missing. He was booked under Sections 306 and 323 of the IPC. After autopsy, the body was handed over to the family members. 55-year-old found hanging in Sec 25A 55-year-old man died by suicide at his house in Sector 25 in Chandigarh on Wednesday. The deceased, a sanitation worker at Panjab University, was found hanging from a ceiling fan by his family members. No suicide note was. Police have initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-hangs-herself-boyfriend-booked-for-abetment-101631217177458.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 pandemic triggered suicidal tendency among school children: Expert||World Suicide Prevention Day (WSPD) is observed on September 10 every year to raise awareness about suicides and prevent them. As per World Health Organization records, one person dies by suicide every 40 seconds.“It is the most common cause of death for people between 15-38 years of age. The rate of suicide attempts tends to be two-three times higher in women than men,” says Dr Rupesh Chaudhary, professor of the department of psychiatry, DMCH.Dr Chaudhary says that suicide prevention has become very important as the number of suicide attempts has gone up amid the Covid-19 pandemic.During the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, the suicidal tendency among schoolchildren also rose significantly. A student dies by suicide every hour in India, as highlighted in the Indian Journal of Psychological Medicine 2021.“They experience emotional trauma due to prolonged confinement, a hostile home environment, lack of interaction with friends and teachers, study-related pressure, lack of appropriate facility to attend online classes, a financial crisis in the family, overuse of social media, fear of contagion, parental pressure, domestic violence, and substance abuse,” Dr Chaudhary adds.He further stated that suicides can be prevented if everyone learns the warning signs such as if a person is threatening to hurt or kill themselves or talking about wanting to die or is looking for ways to kill themselves or seeking access to weapons or other lethal items or appears to be hopeless or is in a rage or seeking revenge or is acting reckless or talks about feeling trapped or is withdrawing from friends, family, and society or is getting anxious and is unable to fall asleep or has dramatic mood shifts.The doctor says that the concerned person should directly be asked if he is getting suicidal thoughts, should be listened to without judgment, should be responded to with kindness and care and taken seriously, and should be supported during the transition from crisis to recovery. To prevent such thoughts, one must practice self-care, make time for friends and family, engage in social activities, engage in activities that one enjoys, eat healthy food, get enough sleep, set a bedtime, meditate, do some light stretching, listen to soothing music, take a hot shower and exercise.If under stress, one must reach out to family and friends whom one trusts, call a helpline, see a professional therapist, read others’ stories of hope and recovery, and/or join a support group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-pandemic-triggered-suicidal-tendency-among-school-children-expert-101631217176059.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Dirty water supply in Ludhiana: Residents take dig at civic body||Fed up with the issue of contaminated water supply in their area, residents of Atam Nagar in ward number 49 led by former president of youth Congress (Atam Nagar constituency) Gurjeet Singh Shinh bathed and brushed at the municipal corporation’s Zone-D office on Thursday to take a dig at the civic body. The residents rued that they have been raising the issue for more than 20 days, but the authorities have failed to resolve it. They added that it is even difficult for them to even bathe and brush at their homes, due to the contaminated and foul smelling water. Also, they are forced to purchase water bottles from the market to meet their daily needs, they added. They also slammed area MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains for turning a blind eye towards their problems.Shinh said, “MC officials and MLA have been ignoring the residents’ problems for the last two years. Whenever a complaint is submitted, the authorities make temporary arrangements, but the contaminated supply returns after some time. The authorities need to find a concrete solution for the problem.” Meanwhile, MC superintending engineer Ravinder Garg, said, “I also visited the area on Thursday and there was no issue with the water supply. The sewer lines got choked in the area on Wednesday, due to which there might have been some contamination, but the issue has been resolved. However, MC teams are still conducting inspections in the area and if someone faces any problem, they can contact the MC officials and it will be resolved at the earliest.” Despite attempts to reach Bains, he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dirty-water-supply-in-ludhiana-residents-take-dig-at-civic-body-101631217115880.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sector-27 robbery in Chandigarh: ‘They would have killed me if I didn’t lock myself’||The three men who robbed a model-cum-actor of ₹6.5 lakh at her Sector 27 house on September 7 would have killed her, had she not locked herself up in a bathroom. The 27-year-old, in her statement to the police, said during the robbery, she had recognised one of the accused, Arjun, after his saffron patka came off. He was the same man, who along with others, had delivered furniture at her house on August 30. As she recognised him, the robbers had told Arjun that “she will have to be killed”. Recounting the horror, she told the police that soon after entering her house, one of the masked men covered her mouth with his hand, another hit her on the back, while the third restrained her neck with his arm. The accused picked up a knife from the kitchen and her ATM card lying on the bed. After forcing her to reveal the PIN, one of the accused left, while Arjun started searching the house and his accomplice stayed with her. As both men left the room, she bolted the door from the inside. She then locked herself in the bathroom, taking with her ₹6 lakh kept in the house. But Arjun proceed to cut the mesh window of the bathroom window, while she kept screaming for help. She then threw the cash out, praying to be spared, and the accused after collecting the money jumped off the house’s back wall. The accused are facing a case under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code. Arjun was bailed out in MayAccording to police, the main suspect, Arjun, aged about 23, lives in Kharar and had been convicted of burglary. He was released from the Ropar jail in May 2021 after finishing his sentence. He has previously been lodged in the Patiala jail as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sector27-robbery-in-chandigarh-they-would-have-killed-me-if-i-didn-t-lock-myself-101631216935639.html
10-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana DC inaugurates mega rozgar mela||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Thursday inaugurated the seventh Mega Rozgaar Mela which was held at Government ITI, Gill Road, here.Accompanied by Punjab Youth Development Board chairman Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, Punjab Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation (Backfinco) vice-chairman Mohammad Gulab, Punjab Large Industrial Development Board vice-chairman Ramesh Joshi, the DC said that as many as 200 leading industrial and business giants would be visiting the melas. He said that the second fair will be held at Gulzar Group of Institutes, Khanna, on September 13, the third at SRS Government Polytechnic College of Girls on September 15, and the last at CICU Focal Point on September 17.Sharma also launched the Mera Kaam –Mera Maan programme to hone the skills of unemployed youth and provide free online coaching to them for various government competitive examinations.He said that under the scheme, an employment allowance of ₹2,500 per month for a period of 12 months would be given to the trainees from the commencement of the course under the short-term skill training programmes at the Punjab Skill Development Mission training centres. The registered construction workers must contact the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise (DBEE) to avail the benefit of the same, he added. The DC urged the eligible candidates to come forward and get themselves enrolled for these free-of-cost online classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-dc-inaugurates-mega-rozgar-mela-101631216875642.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mahapanchayat: 4 lakh CHB residents to discuss one-time policy||With UT administration not conceding to the demand of a one-time policy for need-based changes, the Residents’ Welfare Federation of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided to call a mahapanchayat of 4 lakh CHB residents.The federation will also approach MP Kirron Kher to invite the Union urban housing minister to this mahapanchayat.President of the federation Nirmal Datt said that the administration’s decision had shocked the allottees: Once again, a blind eye has been turned to two intractable problems: excess coverage and encroachment that ail huge numbers of population. The most closed-minded administration has done it again and again since 2001,” said Datt.“The most absurd thing is that the administration piously plans through a secretary-level committee to find an innovative solution, by itself rejecting the most innovative Delhi solution,” added Datt.“If invited, we shall definitely present our case before the newly envisaged secretary committee, though we know from past experience that whatever this new committee suggests will be ignored by the architect’s office with great contempt,” said VK Nirmal, finance secretary of the federation.“The Delhi solution is only a better version of the board’s annual penalty solution. Under the model, a mandatory structural security certificate ensures no harm in case of a seismic situation. One-time charges only replace the current annual charges plan because no regularisation of excess coverage inside/outside plot and no legal right over it will only let the current situation prevail till the time in not distant future when redevelopment of congested areas will restore by-laws and NBC, and all street view aberrations, and seismic threats will permanently disappear,” said Datt.New board membersMeanwhile, Chandigarh BJP leader Poonam Sharma, state vice-president Surinder Bahga (architect) and chairman of the Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), Hitesh Puri, have appointed the new non-official members of the CHB board. Their term will be of three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mahapanchayat-4-lakh-chb-residents-to-discuss-one-time-policy-101631216635848.html
10-09-2021||Other||Charges framed against five in a 2013 draft case||In a 2013 draft case, the special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has framed charges against five accused including an assistant manager, New Officers Colony branch of State Bank of India in Patiala.The accused include Gurpreet Singh, 41, of Hasanpur in Sangrur (Punjab), Naresh Kumar, 51, of Rajpura in Patiala, Ashok Kumar, 42, and Shilpa Rani, 33, of Bhatia Colony in Fatehabad (Haryana).The case dates back to 2013, when Gurpreet Singh opened an account with Uttrakhand Gramin Bank, Balawala, Dehradun after impersonating himself as Neeraj Kumar, chief, Haryana public health engineering department, Panchkula.As per CBI, he submitted forged documents and entered into a conspiracy with others. The co-accused include Naresh Kumar, who was posted at assistant manager, New Officers Colony branch of State Bank of India in Patiala, Ashok Kumar, Shilpa Rani and Jarnail Singh (approver).As per CBI, even the mobile number used by Naresh for coordinating with other co-accused was bought using forged documents.The court of Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI observed that they all dishonestly accessed the account, used fake and forged cheques in 2013 and 2015, and fraudulently withdrew ₹13.53 crore from an account of engineer-in-chief, maintained with the SBI, Sector 10 Panchkula in the name of Kumar.Hence, charges have been framed under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Section 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of the PC Act, 1988 and Section 66 read with Section 43 of the IT Act, 2000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/charges-framed-against-five-in-a-2013-draft-case-101631216399600.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||NIRF 2021: Chandigarh’s Panjab University climbs six notches, ranks 38th||Panjab University (PU) went up six notches to rank 38 among educational institutions in the country in the Union education ministry’s National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) announced on Thursday. Last year it was ranked 44. Among universities, PU’s ranking has also gone up from 26 in 2020 to 23 this year. Varsity’s overall score improved from 50.24 to 50.31. Started in 2016, when PU got the 12th position, the rankings were announced by education minister Dharmendra Pradhan.The top three spots went to IIT Madras, IISc Bengaluru and IIT Bombay, with all three scoring over 80 points. As many as 5,000 institutions participated in the exercise which had 11 categories.This year, PU’s score in teaching, learning and resources, which includes its total student strength, faculty-student ratio and financial resources, dropped to 48.88 from last year’s 50.08. It scored lower in research and professional practice as well with a 40.86 score against 42.83 in 2020. This parameter includes the varsity’s patents, both published and granted, combined metric for publication and footprints of projects. Besides, its score also decreased in outreach and inclusivity, which includes the percentage of students from other states and countries; woman students, economically and socially challenged students and facilities for disabled students. Betters score in perception The overall rankings improved largely due to its score in perception category that rose from 26.27 last year to 37.31 this time. The score in graduation outcome also increased slightly to 71.57. Graduation outcome includes metric for university exams and number of PhD students graduated. “The better perception can be credited to the faculty’s efforts. We hope to continue this streak in future by maintaining the current pace,” said Dr Ashish Jain, PU’s director of internal quality assurance cell.Second rank in pharmacy The university’s pharmacy department once again retained the second rank in the pharmacy category that was topped by Jamia Hamdard in Delhi. The third rank went to Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, while National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Mohali, ranked fourth, down from third last year.In engineering category, PU slipped from rank 72 last year to 89. IIT Madras, IIT Delhi and IIT Bombay bagged the top three positions here. PEC, Chandigarh, settled at the 70th position against 68th last time.A new category of research institutes was introduced in which PU ranked 28 among the top 50 such institutes of the country. IIT Ropar’s ranking goes upOverall ranking of IIT Ropar is 31 this year, eight notches up from 39 in 2020. Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Mohali, has been ranked 40, higher than its last ranking of 59. Chandigarh University, Gharuan, was ranked 77.Government Home Science College, Sector 10, Chandigarh, was the only college from the tricity to figure in the top 100 colleges of the country. It was ranked 86 in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nirf2021chandigarhs-panjab-university-climbs-six-notches-ranks-38th-101631216398518.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Eight-year-old golfer from Chandigarh on the rise||Chandigarh’s Fatehvir Singh grabbed the limelight when he scored an albatross by hitting a hole-in-one on a par 4 on Day 2 of the recently conducted IGU North Zone Sub-Junior/Junior Feeder Tour 2021 at the Forest Hill Resort Golf Club. The drive was so precise, that the eight-year-old managed to putt the ball directly into the hole without any rolling. Even though he finished fourth in Category E, he earned praise from all corners. A student of St Kabir High School, Chandigarh, Fatehvir, is trained by coach Preetinder Kaur at the Mohali Golf Range. Also a member of the US Golf Kids, USA, he has participated in all-India junior tournaments like IGU North Zone Junior Feeder Tour, ICGA Canada Junior Golf Tournament, Jeev Milkha Golf Championship, Albatross Golf Tour, India; Maharaj Krishan North Zone Junior Golf Tournament, Shubhankar Sharma All India Junior Golf Tournament, Bogey Sport India and Middle East Tour. With 40 trophies under his belt and participation in over 75 tournaments, Fatehvir is set to train hard this season for more junior titles. “I have played 12 tournaments since the pandemic outbreak. I want to train hard and aim to participate in more tournaments this season. Competing in Shubhankar Sharma All India Junior Invitational Series 2021 and Greens To Glory Junior Golf Day and IGU tournaments gave me confidence,” said Fatehvir, who idolises Jeev Milkha Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eightyearold-golfer-from-chandigarh-on-the-rise-101631216396670.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||NIRF 2021: PGIMER Chandigarh second best again after AIIMS||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, retained its position as the country’s second-best medical institute for the fourth consecutive year in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) announced in Thursday. Delhi’s AIIMS remained on the top, while Christian Medical College, Vellore, ranked third. A total of 118 health institutes competed for excellence. PGIMER improved its score to 82.62 points by 2.6 points from last year. Institute’s teaching, learning and resources category improved by 2.09, research category by 3.85 points, graduation outcome by 2.11 points and perception scores by 5.29 points. However, in the outreach and inclusivity category, PGIMER’s points dropped by 1.68 points, when compared to last year’s rankings. Besides, the institute got only 76.73 points in the perception category, whereas AIIMS managed to bag a 100% score. Even though PGIMER’s points in the research and professional practice category improved to 86.31, the institute is far behind AIIMS, which scored 97.16 points. “PGIMER attained this position due to the combined team efforts of all faculty and staff and due to immense support from the central government. I congratulate each member of the PGIMER family for continuous support and efforts in achieving this feat. Also, we will continue to provide the best medical facilities to the people and will improve on all parameters,” said director Dr Jagat Ram. GMCH-32’s ranking slips by four spotsCity’s Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, slipped by four positions, settling at rank 29 against 25 in 2020. While the college improved significantly in research and professional practice category, its performance dropped in the other four categories. “The institute is focused on improving its medical research and professional practice. Also, we got less points in placements as students do not inform the college after joining other institutes. We are trying to keep a tab on every student and will definitely improve our rankings next year. We are keen on providing best patient care and medical facilities,” said Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal, GMCH.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nirf-2021-pgimer-chandigarh-second-best-again-after-aiims-101631216395567.html
10-09-2021||Other||Haryana disability court pulls officials for non-compliance of its orders||The court of Raj Kumar Makkad, state commissioner for persons with disabilities, Panchkula, has pulled the officials of Haryana School Shiksha Pariyojna Parishad for violation of its orders passed on June 15 and adjourned the matter for October 26 for final arguments.In its recent order passed on Wednesday, the court observed: “A smooth administration cannot be expected if the lawful directions of the courts or quasi-judicial authorities are by-passed by some outside authorities not party to the petitions. It not only creates lawlessness but also gives a wrong signal in the society.”The matter pertains to the earlier order when the court had asked a state official to inquire about any financial irregularities in conducting some camps for these students in March this year and to remove an assistant programme coordinator (APC) till the conclusion of the inquiry.The petition was moved by special teachers for disabled in Ambala, represented by advocate Pradeep Rapariya.However, the official showed his inability to remove the APC citing some “oral orders” from the state project director, who asked him to continue with the inquiry.On this, the court said the official deliberately disobeyed directions passed by them and observed: “It seems the official is fond of working just under the oral directions of his bosses rather of the written directions passed by the court…it is a wrong signal and also a denial to rule of justice.”The court order said the official unconditionally tendered his apology and a compliance report will be submitted it a week before the next hearing. A copy was also forwarded to the chief secretary and state project director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-disability-court-pulls-officials-for-non-compliance-of-its-orders-101631216336562.html
10-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: I-T raid at fruit trader’s residence, office continues for second day||Suspecting tax evasion at large, the income tax (I-T) department on Thursday continued its raid against a commission agent-cum-fruit trader at the wholesale vegetable market near Jalandhar bypass for the second day.As per information, the raids were also conducted at the residence and office of the company in Sirsa district of Haryana simultaneously on September 8 and action was taken by the directorate of income tax (investigation), Ludhiana.The trader deals in bananas and papaya at a large scale. During the raids, the teams checked the documents and also cross-checked the stock with the bills.Teams from other states/districts were also part of the search operation and paramilitary forces also accompanied the I-T department teams.The Ludhiana directorate also raided eight other premises in Khanna including the office of an edible oil and bakery products manufacturing unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-i-t-raid-at-fruit-trader-s-residence-office-continues-for-second-day-101631216335589.html
10-09-2021||Other||Former BSNL GM awarded 4-year jail in bribe case||Stating that corruption is like a plague which is not only contagious but if not controlled spreads like a wildfire, the special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) awarded four-year imprisonment and ₹10 lakh fine on the then general manager, telecom district (BSNL), Karnal.A case was registered in June 2014 following the complaint of Yashpal, junior telecom officer, BSNL, office of divisional engineer, Karnal. He told the CBI that Chanderhas, GM, telecom district (BSNL), Karnal was demanding bribe of ₹3 lakh for reducing the penalty in a matter of chargesheet against him, which was issued by the department in 2013.On Thursday, the court of Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI convicted Chanderhas for committing the offences punishable under Sections 7 and 13(1)(d) read with 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.Chanderhas said his son is an IAS officer of Maharashtra cadre and daughter is an IPS officer. Pleading for a lenient view, he said he had an unblemished service record.Due to his efforts, his department turned into a profit-bearing unit during his posting at BSNL office, Karnal as senior general manager, BSNL, Karnal.He pleaded that he is facing the agony of criminal trial since 2014 and is suffering from many health problems so a lenient view be taken.Whereas public prosecutor for CBI, KP Singh, argued that to check rampant corruption in public life it is need of the hour to give exemplary punishment to the public servant, who is found to indulge in corrupt practices.The judge observed: “The duty of the court is that any anti-corruption law has to be interpreted and worked out in such a fashion as to strengthen the fight against corruption. Corruption in a civilised society is like a disease, which if not detected in time is sure to afflict every walk of life leading to disastrous consequences.”Stating that the court agrees with the public prosecutor that undue sympathy to impose inadequate sentence would be more harmful to the justice systemThe court held him guilty under Section 7 and 13(1)(d) punishable under Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. It has awarded rigorous imprisonment of four years and a fine of ₹10 lakh on the convict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-bsnl-gm-awarded-4-year-jail-in-bribe-case-101631216215361.html
10-09-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand forest dept files case against 4 PWD engineers for felling trees in Champawat||The Uttarakhand forest department has registered a case against four engineers, including an executive engineer of the Public Works Department (PWD) in Champawat district for allegedly changing the alignment of the road and felling trees. “We have registered a case under the Forest Act against four engineers of PWD for changing the alignment of the road and felling trees in Danda range under Haldwani forest division. The officers have been issued notice also about the case,” said RK Maurya, sub-divisional officer, Tanakpur forest in Champawat. Maurya said a 16-km road was sanctioned with a budget of ₹8 crore from Taknagoth to Danda Malla in Champawat block around 100-km from Champawat district headquarters under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna. It was alleged by the forest officials that the department assigned the construction of the road not only changed the alignment of the road as per survey but also cut trees in a 95-metre stretch of the road in the Danda forest range. Mukesh Shail, ranger, Danda forest range said, “PWD not only changed the alignment of the road but also cut 37 Sal trees in a 95-metre of stretch. The trees were uprooted by a JCB machine.” When contacted, Sanjay Tewari, assistant engineer, PMGSY (PWD) said, “On a 16-km road, a stretch of road was slightly changed to protect trees. In the old alignment, 43 trees were to be felled but after slightly changing the alignment to protect trees, in the new alignment, we had to cut only 37 trees.” He said correspondence regarding the matter was carried out with the forest department. A reply to the notice has been given and I hope the matter will be sorted out soon, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-forest-dept-files-case-against-4-pwd-engineers-for-felling-trees-in-champawat-101631216098091.html
10-09-2021||Other||More Class 4-8 students in attendance than Class 9-12 pupils in Haryana govt schools||After the Haryana government reopened schools for students from Classes 4 to 12, a total of 58% pupils studying in government schools in Class 4-8 and 46% in Class 9-12 attended classes on Wednesday, Haryana school education department officials said on Thursday.As many as 1.80 lakh students in Class 9-12 and 3.19 lakh students in Class 4-8 came to school.In Class 9-12 category, 73% students went to school in Jhajjar, followed by 70% in Rewari and 65% in Rohtak. Only 1% students visited government schools in Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s home bastion Karnal and 12% in Nuh.However, in Class 4-8 category, 94% students attended classes in Jhajjar, 88% in Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal’s home district Yamunanagar, and 86% in Jind. Total 3% students attended classes in Karnal, 14 % in Nuh and 29% in Palwal.Karnal district elementary education officer Rajpal said they were unable to upload the attendance data on the government portal as the state government has suspended internet services in district.“Most school authorities have failed to upload the data. Students are coming to schools and farmers are not stopping anyone. The exact figures will be revealed once internet services resume in district,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/more-class-4-8-students-in-attendance-than-class-9-12-pupils-in-haryana-govt-schools-101631216095526.html
10-09-2021||Other||ICSE, ISC board exams 2021: CISCE releases semester 1 datesheet||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Wednesday released the datesheet for ICSE, ISC Board Exams 2021 semester 1. Crispin Maria, principal of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sector 39, Ludhiana, apprised the students of the availability of the date sheet on the council’s official webpage.The semester I exams for both ICSE and ISC will begin on November 15 and will end on December 6 for Class 10 and December 16 for Class 12.Further, the principal said that in view of the pandemic, the council had already introduced a modified system of examination last month. “The semester 1 exams will be conducted in November and semester 2 exams will be held in March/April 2022. The semester -1 papers will be MCQ-based. Sample papers for the same are already available on the portal,” said Maria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/icse-isc-board-exams-2021-cisce-releases-semester-1-101631215975792.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers protest in Mohali over low land acquisition rates||Farmers under the banner of Road Sangharsh Committee held a protest rally near district administrative complex in Sector 76, Mohali, on Thursday against inadequate compensation being given to them for land being acquired by the Punjab government for road construction projects. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI)’s ambitious project to build a greenfield alignment to decongest Airport Road in Mohali besides Chandigarh and Zirakpur has hit a hurdle. Even though the authority released ₹450 crore to acquire 400 acres of land to construct the 32-kilometre road, affected landowners in Nagiari, Devi Nagar and other villages have objected to the compensation being provided for acquisition. The amount ranges from ₹24 lakh to ₹4.12 crore per acre depending upon the location. The protesters raised slogans against the Punjab government and demanded that they are compensated based on prevailing market rates. Farmers from nearby districts also started arriving at the rally site in tractor trolleys and by 10am, blocked all the roads leading to the administrative complex. Due to the rally, residents faced problems in getting their work done at government offices located in the administrative complex. Heavy jam was witnessed at Sohana village and its surrounding areas and the police had a tough time in diverting the traffic. Many employees also reached their offices late. Addressing the protesters, farmer leaders Sonia Mann and Dr Karamjit Singh Chilla said that the central government was acquiring fertile land for construction of highways and other roads, but the compensation being paid to the farmers was meagre. They added that till the farmers are compensated fairly, they would not allow acquisition of land.Even though many political leaders like Aam Aadmi Party’s Anmol Gagan Mann and Gurtez Pannu were present on the occasion, but they were not allowed on the stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-in-mohali-over-low-land-acquisition-rates-101631215862125.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana announces ₹12 per quintal hike in sugarcane prices||The Haryana government on Thursday announced ₹362 as per quintal as state approved price of sugarcane, a hike of ₹12 per quintal over the last year.“Haryana will now be paying the highest price for sugarcane in the country,” said state agriculture minister JP Dalal, adding that the hike was decided after approval of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.While ₹362 per quintal will be paid for early maturing varieties of sugarcane, ₹355 per quintal will be provided for late maturing varieties of sugarcane, up from ₹340 per quintal earlier. With the revision, Haryana will be paying ₹two per quintal more than Punjab.“The price of sugarcane in Punjab was ₹310 for the last four years which has now been increased by ₹50 due to the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab,” he said, pointing out that no neighbouring state has more farmer friendly policies than Haryana.He said this time, all sugar mills have been directed to operate in the first week of November so that farmers can get their crops crushed on time.Stating that Haryana is excelling in sugarcane production, Dalal said 100% payment has been made to all sugar mills except one sugar mill in Naraingarh. Dalal said ₹192 crore subsidy was provided last year to revive the mills from losses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-announces-rs-12-per-quintal-hike-in-sugarcane-prices-101631215795519.html
10-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Teachers demand action against deputy DEO, clerk||Seeking transfer of Kuldeep Singh, deputy district education officer (DEO), and Harminder Singh Romi, a clerk at district education office, around 1,500 teachers from across the district laid siege to Bharat Nagar Chowk on Thursday evening for about half an hour. Initially, the protesters staged a protest at the Mini Secretariat around 2pm. After two hours of protest, when no officer came to address their demands, they marched towards Bharat Nagar Chowk and blocked the crossroad at 4pm. Hundreds of vehicles got stuck in a jam due to the roadblock.The teachers ended the protest after the district administration officers scheduled their meeting with education minister Vijay Inder Singla for Tuesday. The teachers stated that they will intensify the protest if they don’t get a favourable response from the minister.Sukhbir Singh Sekhon, president of Elementary Teachers’ Union, said, “The deputy DEO and the clerk humiliated Sapandeep Kaur, head teacher of Government Primary School, Purana Bazar of Sahnewal, to please a politician. The accused had threatened her, following which she had suffered a paralysis attack.”Sekhon added that they had filed a complaint against the duo with the police and the department, but no action was taken.Teachers’ union leader Satbir Singh Rauni stated that a vaccination camp was organised at the school on August 31 without prior information, yet they cooperated with the health department team.On September 1, a health team again arrived, but left after finding all classrooms occupied. Minutes later, deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh and clerk Harminder Singh Romi reached the school, and rebuked the school head teacher for not accommodating the health team. Following the humiliation, she suffered a paralysis attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianateachers-demand-action-against-deputy-deo-clerk-101631215735531.html
10-09-2021||Other||Arunima clinches sixth title on final day of Ludhiana District Badminton Championship||Arunima Pal on Thursday bagged her sixth title in the tournament on the final day of the Ludhiana District Badminton Championship being organised at Shastri Hall near Guru Nanak Stadium.In a tough fight, Pal defeated Surinder Kaur by 21-18, 21-17, winning the U-19 girls’ singles championship.Meanwhile, Krish Chadha, who had earlier won three titles in the championship, lost to Arnav Jain by 15-21, 21-15, 21-10 in the finals of the U-19 boys’ singles category.However, Wazir Singh won the U-11 boys’ singles by beating Arnim Singla in two straight sets by 21-5, 21-7. In the finals of U-11 girls’ singles, Ameliya Bhakoo beat Gurnez Kaur.Mohinder Singh Grewal, president of the DBAL, awarded the winners. District badminton association vice president Jai Parkash, secretary Anupam Kumaria and technical secretary Charanjit Singh were also present during the finals. In U-11 boys’ doubles, Satvik Bhatia and Aarush beat Swastik Saadi and Harsh Dhillon by 21-13, 21-12. In U-15 boys’ singles, Jasraj Singh beat Prabhjot Singh by 21-4, 21-10. In U-15 girls’ singles, Vaasvi Singal beat Saanvi Nautiyal by 21-8, 21-19. In boys’ doubles U-15, Jasraj Singh and Jasmeh Singh beat Manik Joshi and Rayan Kapoor by 21-12, 21-13. In U-15 girls’ doubles, Vaasvi Singal and Saanvi Nautiyal beat Gayatri Aggarwal and Tanishka Mittal by 21-6, 21-1. In U-15 mixed doubles, Rayan Kapoor and Anupama beat Nirman Jain and Prabhnoor Kaur by 21-19, 21-12.In U-19 boys’ doubles, Lakshay Sharma and Arnam Jain beat Tanmay Tomar and Akshat Maithani by 21-15, 21-10. In U-19 girls’ doubles, Arunima Pal and Surinder Kaur beat Prabhleen Kaur and Siya Trehan by 21-3, 21-7. In U-19 mixed doubles, Akshat Maithani and Saanvi Nautiyal beat Milan Malhotra and Anshita Bhatia 21-17, 21-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/arunima-clinches-sixth-title-on-final-day-of-ludhiana-district-badminton-championship-101631215557707.html
10-09-2021||Dehradun||Can’t come to Har-ki-Pauri drunk. Breath-analyser checks soon: Ganga Sabha||Haridwar: Security guards deployed around Har-ki-Pauri in Haridwar will be equipped with alcometers to check visitors and tourists for alcohol if they are suspected to be in an inebriated condition, people familiar with the matter said.The decision comes in wake of several incidents over the past few months of some people creating a ruckus, commotion, partying and creating a nuisance at Har-Ki-Pauri, considered sacred among Hindus.Ganga Sabha, which manages the sanctum sanctorum of the Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri Ganga ghats, was formed way back in 1914 by Pt Madan Mohan Malviya to look into affairs of Har-Ki-Pauri, where every alternate six years, Mahakumbh and Ardh Kumbh fair, is organised.Ganga Sabha general secretary Tanmay Vashisth said while police started Operation Maryada to rein in hooligans at Ganga ghats, the sabha also decided to equip and deploy its security guards at the entry points of Ganga ghats to ensure visitors who have consumed alcohol or narcotics are barred from entering the sacred area.“Post leniency in Covid curfew in the past few weeks, the arrival of people has increased sharply from other states at Har-Ki-Pauri. And so have cases of hooliganism and anti-social activities. With alcometer equipment, security guards will check such suspected offenders and bar them from entering the Ganga ghats at Har-Ki-Pauri and adjacent ghats,” said the Ganga Sabha general secretary.Security guards will be deployed to check visitors at the entrance of Har-Ki-Pauri on Upper road, Kangda ghat, Ashes immersion ghat and Mahila ghat.About 20 security guards will be deployed at various other sites also, he said.Mahamandaleshwar Harichetnanand Maharaj of Shri Panchayati Naya Udasin Akhada, Kankhal said that in Sanatan Dharma such acts are deemed immoral and hurt religious sentiments and aura of religious places.The seer added that visitors should ensure they adhere to the sacredness and sanctity of such holy places.Under Operation Maryada of Uttarakhand police launched in July, more than 350 people have been fined, booked or arrested for creating nuisance at Ganga ghats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/cant-come-to-har-ki-pauri-drunk-breath-analyser-checks-soon-ganga-sabha-101631215556549.html
10-09-2021||Other||Five arrested in Kaithal gurdwara clash||The Kaithal police have arrested five people for their involvement in the Kaithal gurdwara clash, in which one person was shot dead and five others sustained injuries.Joga Singh, 55, of Dushana village, had died of bullet injuries and five others were injured in a clash between two groups over succession of jathedar’s post at Gurdwara Neem Sahib in Kaithal on Wednesday.The jathedar’s post had fallen vacant after the death of gurdwara head priest Gopal Singh, three months ago.Police said three licensed weapons and 29 cartridges have also been recovered from the accused.Police said the accused have been identified as Kulbir Singh, Sahab Singh, Gurjit Singh, residents of Shila Khera, and Sahab Singh and Kamal Kushal, residents of Dera Gadla in Kaithal.The accused will be produced in court and police will seek their remand for further interrogation.One of the injured Ajmer Singh, had filed a police complaint and named 16 people for the attack.Kaithal police station in-charge Surender Singh said the FIR has been registered against 16 people under Sections 302, 307, 323-324, 148, 149 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-arrested-in-kaithal-gurdwara-clash-101631215555443.html
10-09-2021||Other||Dismal show of Haryana educational institutes in NIRF ranking||Haryana’s educational institutes have not performed up to the mark in the sixth edition of the Union ministry of education’s National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings announced on Thursday.The institutions have been ranked under 11 different categories – overall, university, colleges, engineering, management, pharmacy, law, medical, architecture, dental and research.Of these categories, no institute from Haryana was among top 100 rank-holders in overall, law, architecture and research categories. For the first time, the ministry has added research category in NIRF.According to the NIRF 2021 rankings announced by Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Rohtak’s Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU)’s ranking has slipped from last year’s 76th position to this year’s 78th. Hisar’s Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology’s rank has improved from last year’s 94th to 88th position this year.Apart from these two varsities, a Sonepat-based private university has received 95th rank. These three universities from Haryana were placed under 100 best universities.In medical, Ambala’s Maharishi Markandeshwar private university bagged 35th rank and it is the only institute in this category from Haryana among 100 position-holders across country. In dental, Rohtak’s Post-Graduate Institute of Dental Sciences got 16th rank, Ambala’s Maharishi Markandeshwar received 34th rank and Faridabad-based Manav Rachna Institute of Research and Studies placed at 39th rank.In management, Gurugram-based Management of Development Institute and BML Munjal University bagged 11th and 44th position, respectively, while Indian Institute of Management, Rohtak placed at 28th spot.In engineering, two institutes – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra got 44th rank and Gurugram’s Northcap University bagged 97th spot.In college category, IC College of Home Science in Hisar got 38th rank and is the only college from Haryana among top 100 colleges in India. In pharmacy, Hisar’s GJU got 27th rank, MDU 31st and Ambala’s Maharishi Markandeshwar 34th.After receiving the best university’s rank in state, MDU vice-chancellor appreciated the research publication efforts of the faculty as in this criterion the varsity has shown improvement from last year.“The university administration is committed to ensure rapid development. We have prepared a comprehensive plan for betterment of the university, especially in context of the National Education Policy. The MDU has embarked upon mission 2025 to attain ranking in the top 25 universities in country,” he added.Two senior professors of MDU and Hisar’s GJU, pleading anonymity, said that less budget allocation, shortage of faculty members and slow approach in research work are responsible for weak performance of the state universities in the NIRF rankings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dismal-show-of-haryana-educational-institutes-in-nirf-ranking-101631215496011.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: New facilities started at GMCH-32||Chandigarh adviser Dharam Pal inaugurated new medical facilities at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, on Thursday as the medical institute celebrated its 30th annual day. “A new virus research and diagnostic laboratory (VRDL) was inaugurated at the hospital. So far, Covid-19 tests were being conducted in the old lab, but this advanced lab will further help in Covid management. Also, an OPD at the pulmonary medicine department has also been started. To provide comprehensive treatment to patients suffering from respiratory patients, a separate respiratory intensive care unit (ICU) has been established at Level-V, Block-A”, said Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal of GMCH-32.Dr Kaur added, “To meet the National Medical Council requirement, a new skill lab has been established, in which the undergraduate and postgraduate students will boost their skills.”The construction work of a 200-bedded emergency-cum-trauma block is also underway at the hospital. Besides, a 300-bedded mother and child care centre has been added to the UT’s priority list.Meanwhile, Pal congratulated the medical college’s faculty and staff for their valuable contribution in providing quality healthcare facilities and managing the pandemic. Besides, he drew attention towards pressing healthcare requirements, including shortage of doctors, the need to curb growing menace of non-communicable diseases and adoption of hygiene and sanitary practices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-new-facilities-started-at-gmch32-101631215435500.html
10-09-2021||Other||Guru Nanak Khalsa College of Women celebrates Int’l Literacy Day||The IQAC and Legal Literacy Club of Guru Nanak Khalsa College of Women, Gujarkhan Campus, celebrated International Literacy Day on Thursday. Co-ordinators of the club Parveen Arora, assistant professor, department of public administration, and Rajwinder Kaur, department of business management and commerce along with Daisy Wadhwa, head, department of computer science and applications, organised a workshop for Class IV employees. Harpreet Kaur, assistant professor, department of computer science and applications was the resource person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/guru-nanak-khalsa-college-of-women-celebrates-int-l-literacy-day-101631215375369.html
10-09-2021||Lucknow||BJP to celebrate 54 months of Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh on September 19||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would celebrate four-and-a-half years (54 months) of the Yogi Adityanath government by organising booth-level programmes at all the 27,700 shakti kendras across the state on September 19. The move comes about six months before the Uttar Pradesh assembly election which is due early next year.A cluster of booths are referred to as shakti kendras by the BJP. In these programmes, the party has decided to highlight the achievements of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and the Yogi Adityanath government in the state at the booth level. BJP national president JP Nadda would virtually inaugurate the party’s booth vijay abhiyan (campaign for victory at the booths) on Saturday, party leaders said. He would address party leaders at all the shakti kendras across the state on the occasion, the party leaders said. On September 20, all BJP lawmakers would be in their constituencies to talk about their initiatives as well as those taken by the party. Subsequently, on September 26, the party cadres would carry a booklet of achievements of the Modi and Yogi governments. On Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary on October 2, the party would launch a cleanliness campaign across the state. “The party leaders and cadres would hold booth level chaupals (small meets in rural settings) to talk of the achievements,” the party decided at the meeting held at the state BJP headquarters in the presence of the party’s UP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal. The party’s national vice presidents Radha Mohan Singh and Rekha Verma, national secretary Harish Dwivedi and Vinod Sonker, the state’s co-general secretary (organisation) Karmvir, state’s co-incharge Sunil Ojha, Satya Kumar and Sanjeev Chaurasia and various others were also present on the occasion during which Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s forthcoming visits to UP were discussed. Modi is set to visit Uttar Pradesh twice this month, before and after the BJP celebrates the party government’s achievement. It was also decided at the meeting to celebrate Modi’s birthday (September 17) by launching Sewa Samarpan Abhiyan (service initiative) from September 17 to October 7, party leaders confirmed. During this period, the BJP would run a host of programmes including health, vaccination and blood donation camps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-to-celebrate-54-months-of-yogi-adityanath-government-in-uttar-pradesh-on-september-19-101631215258255.html
10-09-2021||Other||Section 144 imposed in and around Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar||Amritsar With the restoration/renovation of the Jallianwala Bagh sparking a controversy, the administration has imposed Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in and outside the memorial. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP-city) Parminder Singh Bhandal issued these orders on Wednesday, imposing restrictions on gathering of five or more people for protesting in and outside the historic site for two months. Since the inauguration, family members of those massacred in 1919 have been protesting, claiming that ‘history has been erased’. “It has come to my attention that in protest against the renovation of the Jallianwala, Bagh organisations have been planing to launch protests, sit-ins, rallies and marches. There is a historic memorial of martyrs in Jallianwala Bagh and holding protest rallies is not right there,” the order reads. It adds, “I, Parminder Singh Bhandal, using my rights under Section 144 of CrPC 1973, restrict the organisation of protest rallies, sit-ins, holding meetings, and assembly of five or more people in and outside Jallianwala Bagh. The order will remain in force till November 6.” With the imposition of the Section 144 itself creating another controversy, an Amritsar police spokesperson said that the order stood withdrawn. Till the filing of this report, however, no official written police communication on withdrawing the order was available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/section-144-imposed-in-and-around-jallianwala-bagh-in-amritsar-101631215077161.html
10-09-2021||Other||Key accused of Haryana Police constable paper leak case held||The crime investigation agency (CIA) of the Kaithal police have arrested the key accused in the constable paper leak case.Police said accused Muzaffar Ahmed was arrested from Jammu. He had played a key role in providing question papers and answer keys to the other accused. Police had announced a cash reward of ₹2 lakh for any information on Ahmed.Police have so far arrested 34 people and said two employees associated with a Jammu-based examination agency, which had been given the contract to prepare question papers for the written exam, had leaked the questions and answer key of the male constables’ recruitment exam conducted by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC).According to a statement issued by Kaithal superintendent of police (SP) Lokender Singh, “Ahmed, a resident of Ramban district in Jammu, had taken a copy of the question paper and answer keys from accused Jitender Singh, who was employee of the examination agency and Ahmed and other accused Azaz Amin, of Srinagar, had allegedly sold the answer keys and question paper to Afzal, of Srinagar, at ₹60 lakh. Later, Afzal sold them to accused Raj Kumar at Delhi airport at ₹1 crore,” claimed the police.The SP said investigation is on in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/key-accused-of-haryana-police-constable-paper-leak-case-held-101631215075744.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||No dues certificate: Ambala property owners complain against MC officials over delays||Irked over the alleged delay and subsequent “harassment” for getting their issues resolved in the issuance of no-dues certificates (NDC), several residents registered their protest against the municipal corporation (MC) officials in the presence of mayor Shakti Rani Sharma on Thursday.Sharma was chairing a “Janata Darbar” at the MC office to resolve issues related to NDC, in the presence of deputy municipal commissioner Arun Kumar, executive officer Jarnail Singh and other concerned officers.Almost 250 complaints appeared before the panel, most of them were resolved and 22 were transferred to Kumar for an examination, the office of the mayor said.Dr Subhash Monga, a resident of Shahzadpur, who had applied for a property under the MC limits, claimed that the said area was shown approved but when he applied for an NDC it was shown unapproved.Dr Monga alleged harassment by MC officials, which was seconded by other complainants. Ved Prakash, a resident of Ranjit Nagar, also voiced his complaint to the mayor on the same issue.The allegation led to a war of words between ward councillor Vijay, alias Tony Chaudhary, and the MC officials, the former accusing the latter of corruption. On this, said that the motive of the meeting was to clear the pendency in issuance of NDCs and the officials were asked to clear them at the earliest.“Most of the complainants were unaware of the fact that the area they had applied for is already unapproved. They’ve been coming to the office for more than six months, but such documents can’t be cleared and NDC can’t be issued. There is still a lack of awareness among applicants,” Sharma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-dues-certificate-ambala-property-owners-complain-against-mc-officials-over-delays-101631214835499.html
10-09-2021||Other||DMCH doctor gets National Award||Union minister Ramdas Athawale felicitated Dr Sarit Sharma, professor of community medicine, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, with the prestigious 37th Dr S Radhakrishnan Memorial National Teachers Award-2021.The award was given during a function organised to commemorate the 134th birth anniversary of former President late Dr S Radhakrishnan by the association of freelance journalists and writers of India in New Delhi.As many as 35 eminent persons from across the country were felicitated for their contribution in the fields of education, medical education, media, and social services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dmch-doctor-gets-national-award-101631214775521.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||SC order: Kher to work with Chandigarh admn to improve working of estate office||Welcoming the Supreme Court’s order to improve the working of the estate office, Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher on Tuesday said she is in communication with the UT administration for its implementation.The SC has directed the administration to constitute a committee comprising the MP, an architect, an advocate who is or had represented UT before the high court; two representatives of the municipal corporation and administration officials to review and streamline the processes of sanction of mutation, grant of occupancy certificate, no-objection certificate and other citizen-centric requirements including calculation of unearned profit under the 1973 or 2007 Rules. “The committee shall submit its report to the administrator and Chandigarh administration, preferably within three months. We hope that the learned administrator will take appropriate steps to implement the suggestions made by the committee, including forwarding of the proposed amendments in the Statute to the ministry of home affairs, if any, suggested by the committee,” states the SC order.A bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and AS Bopana observed, “The residents of Chandigarh are widely harassed while seeking no-objection certificate for sale of leasehold property, as the procedure for its grant and of deposit of unearned increase is interpreted in different manners by different officials, which the administration has failed to control.”“Another area of concern is the unreasonable procedure adopted by the administration for affecting mutation after the demise of the leaseholder or the allottee and of completing other formalities at the offices of the appellant. The difficult and near impossible procedure leads to arbitrary and discriminatory action by officials of the estate office,” states the order.UT adviser Dharam Pal said, “We are examining the order and will initiate action accordingly for its implementation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-order-kher-to-work-with-chandigarh-admn-to-improve-working-of-estate-office-101631214476497.html
10-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC dismisses Kangana Ranaut’s plea to quash Javed Akhtar’s complaint||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday dismissed the petition filed by actor Kangana Ranaut challenging the proceedings initiated by the Andheri metropolitan magistrate in the criminal defamation case filed against her based on a complaint filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar. The court also rejected Ranaut’s prayer for quashing of all orders and summons issued to her by the magistrate on the grounds that the magistrate had applied his mind while passing orders. The single judge bench of justice Revati Mohite Dere, which had concluded hearing Ranaut’s petition and had reserved orders on September 1, in the order said, “No ground is made out for interfering or quashing the proceedings on the basis of alleged procedural irregularity/ illegality adopted by the learned magistrate while taking cognisance of the complaint. The order issuing process dated February 1, 2021 reflects application of mind and hence, warrants no interference.” Justice Dere has clarified that the order has only addressed Ranaut’s plea challenging the procedure initiated by the magistrate and not the allegations levelled against Ranaut by Akhtar. Advocate Rizwan Siddiquee, for Ranaut, had submitted that the magistrate had not followed due procedure on receipt of the complaint and had assigned investigation into the complaint to Juhu police which he should have done himself. Siddiquee had also said that the magistrate had not applied his judicial mind while issuing process or issuing a bailable warrant after Ranaut failed to appear in court. He had said that the complainant had not placed any evidence before the magistrate and the same was brought on record by a third party. Siddiquee said as the procedure laid down under section 202 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) was not followed, the entire proceedings, orders and summons issued by the magistrate should be quashed. Reacting to this, advocate Jay Bharadwaj for Akhtar had submitted that the magistrate had three options — to either conduct the investigation himself/herself; direct an investigation to be made by a police officer; or direct a third party to conduct investigation. He added that as the magistrate had taken the second option, there was nothing averse, hence Ranaut’s petition was not maintainable. Bharadwaj had further stated that apart from considering the allegations and taking the statement of the complainant, the magistrate had also summoned the accused but she had not appeared. He said the magistrate also went through the report of the police and the footage in which Ranaut had made the defamatory comments against Akhtar. While dismissing the petition the court noted, “As far as the impugned order issuing process is concerned, the same is not solely based on the police report, but is a combined analysis of the verification statement of the complainant, averments in the complaint, the CD/pen-drive, police report and other documents on record.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-dismisses-kangana-ranaut-s-plea-to-quash-javed-akhtar-s-complaint-101631214475330.html
10-09-2021||Other||CMCH celebrates World Duchenne Awareness Day||Christian Medical College and Hospital celebrated World Duchenne Awareness Day.The theme for this year was: Adult life and Duchennes. William Bhatti, director, CMC, said that Duchenne muscular dystrophy is a devastating genetic disease that affects young boys.CMC has established a multidisciplinary team with over 19 consultants from various specialties to care for these children into their adulthood.Dr Jeyaraj Pandian, principal of the medical institution, said that the hospital is going to establish a neuromuscular centre of excellence that will have all the necessary diagnostic and treatment facilities available under one roof.Dr Vineeth Jaison, associate professor and in charge of the neuromuscular clinic, said that the average life expectancy of these children in India is 15 years whereas in developed nations they can live up to 40 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cmch-celebrates-world-duchenne-awareness-day-101631214416459.html
10-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC gives nod to 1,996 Ganpati mandals, 381 applications rejected in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has given permission to 1,996 community Ganpati mandals ahead of the Ganesh festival that starts on Friday. The civic body received 2,520 complete applications, of which 381 were rejected and 143 others are pending approval.Last year, following the first wave of Covid-19 in the city, 1,764 mandals had received permission from BMC.In six wards, there will be more than 100 mandals. These include D ward which covers parts of Girgaum and Grant Road with 129 mandals, G-North ward covering parts of Dadar, Shivaji Park with 123 mandals, K-East ward covering Andheri with 117, M-East ward covering Chembur and Govandi with 107, N ward which covers Ghatkopar with 137, and S ward covering Bhandup with 107 mandals.The civic body had received 3,104 applications this year but 584 were void due to duplication. Of the 2,520 applications scrutinised, 79% of them received permissions. Of the 381 that were rejected, two were rejected by the traffic police, and 11 were rejected by the Mumbai Police.Naresh Dahibavkar from Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshostsav Samanvay Samiti said, “Until two years ago, the number of mandals was around 3,100. In 2020, around 95% of the mandals applied for permission due to Covid-19. This year, 100% of the registered mandals applied for permission. However, following government restrictions on physical darshan, many mandals will find it difficult to celebrate the entire festival. A lot of our revenue is generated from advertising, and mandals had already found sponsors.”Earlier this week, BMC announced that physical darshan will not be allowed, and mandals will have to give the option of online darshan. BMC also disallowed processions or gathering and restricted the number of people allowed at visarjan to 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-gives-nod-to-1-996-ganpati-mandals-381-applications-rejected-in-mumbai-101631214415441.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PGIMER, Dadumajra health centre inspected by parliamentary committee||A parliamentary standing committee of the Union ministry of health and family welfare led by chairperson Ram Gopal Yadav inspected the healthcare system at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and Dadumajra health and wellness centre (HWC) on Thursday.The committee comprises members of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha including Indu Bala Goswami, Dr L Hanumanthaiah, Dr Sanghamitra Maurya, Arjunlal Meena, K Navaskani, Adoor Prakash, Hazi Fazlur Rehman, Dr Rajdeep Roy, Dr DNV Senthikumar S, Dr Mahesh Sharma, Dr Sujey Radhakrishna Vikhepatil and Dr Krishan Pal Singh Yadav.“The parliamentary team reviewed PGIMER’s patient care facilities, its working and medical research, changed norms due to Covid-19 pandemic, out-patient department tele-consultation, preparations regarding third wave and more,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.Dr Ram added that the team also reviewed PGI’s neurosurgery department and image-guided radiation therapy (IGRT) and eye department.Amid the possibility of a third wave, it is likely that the committee kept its focus on Covid-19 management plans at UT government hospitals. However, the central government team also reviewed anti-Covid vaccination and patient care facilities at Dadumajra health and wellness centre (HWC).Besides Chandigarh, the parliamentary panel is expected to inspect hospitals in Punjab and other states as well. The committee reviews the healthcare system annually. The team will submit a recommendation report to the Union ministry after a month, it was learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pgimer-dadumajra-health-centre-inspected-by-parliamentary-committee-101631214297149.html
10-09-2021||Mumbai||In Mumbai, buildings, high-rises report more Covid cases than slums||As new Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Mumbai, the number of sealed buildings and floors increased, indicating that cases are more in middle class localities than slums and chawls which mostly house working class population of the city. According to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in the past two weeks, the number of sealed buildings has doubled and sealed floors increased by around 43%. However, there has been no increase in containment zones in past two week.According to BMC protocol, a chawl or a slum is declared as containment zone when there are five or more Covid cases in the particular chawl or slum and in case of high-rises, a building is sealed when five or more cases are reported from a particular building. However, in case of one to four cases, only that particular floor of the building is sealed.As per BMC data, on August 22, 22 buildings and 1,089 floors were sealed. This number went up to 50 on September 8 in case of sealed buildings and 1,564 in case of sealed floors. Andheri, Vile Parle, Khar, Santacruz, Bandra, Malabar Hill, Grant Road are among areas in the city with the highest of five or more sealed buildings.The city has zero containment zones since the past month. According to BMC officials, this indicates that cases are majorly coming from buildings and high-rises. A BMC official said, “One of the major reasons for maximum cases coming from high-rises is because those residing in buildings are getting tested on their own upon seeing symptoms or post travelling. Due to this, we are having increased number of Covid cases from high-rises amid relaxations.”HT had on Tuesday reported how despite the increase in number of cases, BMC has maintained that the spike is not the beginning of the third wave and that the next 30 days would be crucial. Civic officials said there might be a further spike a fortnight after the Ganpati festival which begins on Friday.On Thursday, the city reported 457 new Covid cases and two deaths taking tally to 733,896 and toll to 16,006. Mumbai clocked 711,147 recoveries and recovery rate is 96%. There are currently 4,298 active cases and the mortality rate is 2.18%. Further, 13,709 duplicate cases were removed from overall cases, leading to a dip in cumulative cases in Mumbai, as per state health department.Meanwhile, on account of Ganesh festival on Friday, vaccination drive will remain shut and will resume on Saturday. On Thursday, 131,204 citizens were vaccinated. So far, 10,357,072 vaccine doses have been administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-mumbai-buildings-high-rises-report-more-covid-cases-than-slums-101631214295952.html
10-09-2021||Other||PAU celebrates National Nutrition Month||The department of extension education and communication management of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) celebrated National Nutrition Month. More than 40 Anganwadi workers and farm women participated in the celebrations.Kiranjot Sidhu, head of the department of home science extension education and communication management, expressed her views on the importance of health and nutrition. She emphasized the need for the adoption of nutrition gardens at the household level and the use of local and seasonal food sources to meet the nutritional requirements of families.Sukhdeep Kaur, assistant professor, spoke about the importance of celebrating National Nutrition Month. She discussed the theme ‘Feeding Smart Right from Start’ for this year’s celebration and urged the participants, particularly the young girls to understand the importance of feeding nutritional food to children right from their birth.Mandeep Sharma, assistant professor, emphasized on inclusion of different types of vegetables and fruits in the daily diet because a balanced diet with a combination of essential nutrients and calories is pivotal for the smooth working and growth of a human body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pau-celebrates-national-nutrition-month-101631214175466.html
10-09-2021||Mumbai||Big Ganesh pandals in Mumbai prepared for online darshan||The usual fanfare and long queues outside Ganpati pandals across the city will be amiss for another year with restrictions on physical darshan. With Covid-19 pandemic casting a damp spell on the festive season, most big pandals will go online, making sure devotees are not devoid of a glimpse of the lord.Uday Salian, spokesperson of Andhericha Raja, said they have taken special care to avoid people around the deity. “We ensured that the murti was made in our premises so that in no way do people get a chance to get together while welcoming the lord. To add to this, there are no shades made in order to discourage devotees for offline darshan, which is not allowed by the civic body.”At King’s Circle, the Goud Saraswat Brahmin (GSB) Seva Mandal — one of the richest Ganpati mandals in the city — has decided to conduct regular aartis all day long and make the same available for devotees everyday on the mandal’s Facebook page as well as YouTube channel. While live darshan will be on from 7am to 9pm, devotees have also been given the option to book sevas that will be offered to the idol over the next few days.In keeping with the guidelines by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the famous Lalbaugcha Raja has a four-foot idol this year. Since the 1980’s, the Lalbaugcha Raja has been 14 feet in height. “Before that, the height of the idol varied, increasing gradually over the years,” said Santosh Kambli, the sculptor of Lalbaugcha Raja. Mandal members have allowed only online darshan this year. However, provision has been made for viewing the idol from a distance in case the civic body grants permission midway during the festival.Balasaheb Kamble, a management committee member of Lalbaghcha Raja, said they are strictly following Covid-19 rules. “We had prepared for darshan as per initial rules, but BMC recently changed the same and allowed only virtual darshan. We have no option but to obey. We will be streaming live darshan throughout the coming 10 days.” “BMC has made the rules very clear and we would follow the same. Once again all devotees will get a chance to attend pooja virtually at the comfort of their homes,” said RG Bhat, trustee of GSB Seva Mandal. He added that Ganesh seva will be done in a way that devotees can log in any time and perform the pooja at their homes as well. Here also, the organisers have opted for a four-foot idol, which they will submerge in an artificial pond within the complex on the fifth day of visarjan.Swapnil Parab, secretary, committee of Mumbai Cha Raja — another famous pandal in Parel, said, “We only made provision of online darshan for devotees owing to the latest BMC guidelines.” Expressing concerns over financial issues, he added, “While stall owners are most affected with no offline darshans, organisers are also facing financial issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/big-ganesh-pandals-in-mumbai-prepared-for-online-darshan-101631214115573.html
10-09-2021||Other||Congress, AAP to attend farmers’ meet||Chandigarh The Congress and the AAP will attend the meeting convened by protesting unions with representatives of political parties to listen to their viewpoints on farmer issues. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu will lead the three-member team of the party at the meeting. State unit general secretary Pargat Singh and working president Kuljit Singh Nagra will accompany him. The AAP team will include Kisan wing state chief Kultar Singh Sandhwan, MLA Aman Arora and state unit spokesperson Jagtar Singh Sanghera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-aap-to-attend-farmers-meet-101631214058347.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to start phased reopening of campus from Sept 13||Panjab University (PU) has decided to reopen its campus from September 13 for postgraduate students of the physics and chemistry departments, University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) and dental college.The decision comes after a varsity panel in August recommended phased reopening of campus for students. PU’s dean students’ welfare (DSW) SK Tomar said that due to single accommodation rule at hostels in view of the pandemic, the varsity can accommodate only a limited number of students.The varsity said that students reporting to the hostel must have either received both vaccine doses or have taken at least one dose and have a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours.Students demand complete plan for reopeningHowever, the decision did not pacify protesting student bodies, who demanded the complete plan for reopening. Their indefinite protest entered its 27th day on Thursday. “It is a victory for students, but we demand that the authorities release the definite plan to reopen the whole campus,” the student bodies said in a statement.Guidelines for studentsConsent from parents mentioning that their wards will follow all SOPs/directions issued by the central government and university from time to time will be mandatory for students and they have to submit an undertaking through chairperson of the department that if the situation demands, they will vacate the hostel and leave the university accommodation.The varsity has outlined that for the time being, single accommodation will be provided and when the situation normalises, rooms will be allotted as per previous practice on merit basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-campus-to-start-phased-reopening-of-campus-from-sept-13-101631214055405.html
10-09-2021||Lucknow||100th kidney transplant carried out at Lucknow’s Lohia Institute||The Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences conducted its 100th kidney transplant on Thursday. The transplant programme at the institute began on December 14, 2017.“The 100th transplant was done on a 26-year-old man and the donor was his 45-year-old mother,” said Dr Alok Srivastava, of the department of urology. The transplant programme also has Dr Ishwar Ram Dhayal, Dr Sanjeet Singh along with Dr Namrata Rao and Dr Abhilash Chandra.“We have been conducting only live donor transplant surgeries since December 2017. We have two operating theatres and efforts are being made to increase the number of OTs to four so that more operations can be conducted,” said Dr Ishwar Ram Dhayal.Initially, doctors from the PGI came to Lohia Institute for a few transplant surgeries and the number was few. Transplant operations are also done at PGI. Later, transplant operations were done by doctors here and their number too went up. In 2019, 50 transplants were done. In 2020 due to the pandemic the number of transplant surgeries remained low, but efforts have started to increase their numbers now.Dr Abhilash Chandra said, “We are conducting 2 to 3 transplants every month and we hope to increase the number to at least one a week.”A majority of the patients who underwent transplant surgery come for follow up as directed. Doctors guide them for a healthy life after transplant. Doctors said that since transplant patients are immune-compromised, they need to follow the advice of medication and diet for a long and comfortable life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/100th-kidney-transplant-carried-out-at-lucknow-s-lohia-institute-101631213995629.html
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Nigerian woman sentenced to 10-year RI in drugs case||The court of additional district and sessions judge Harjit Kaur Kaleke on Thursday sentenced a Nigerian woman to 10-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) convicting her for smuggling heroin in Mohali.The court also fined her ₹1 lakh and in default to pay the fine, the convict will have to further undergo imprisonment of one year.Joye Cheeka Ozuma of Nigeria was arrested by the Mohali Special Task Force (STF) in May 2018 near Nature Park in Phase 9 following a tip-off. The STF recovered 1kg heroin from her possession.According to the case, the woman came to India on a business visa in 2015 and sold readymade garments in Delhi, Noida and Tripura, but to earn extra money, she started smuggling drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nigerian-woman-sentenced-to-10-year-ri-in-drugs-case-101631213935421.html
10-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police impose section 144 to prohibit crowding during Ganpati festival||The Mumbai Police decided to impose section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) in the city from September 10 to September 19, prohibiting darshan at Ganpati pandals in view of the threat of third Covid-19 wave.According to Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, no procession will be allowed and not more than five people will be allowed to gather at a place. He has also urged the public to opt for online darshan and not crowd at ganpati pandals.He has requested Ganesh mandals to arrange digital darshan for the devotees and made it compulsory for them to put out announcements through social media that physical darshan was not allowed.“No crowd will be allowed at any place where sarvajanik mandals are located. Household Ganpati idols should not be above the height of two feet and sarvajanik Ganpati idols not more than 4 feet,” said Nagrale.The police chief further declared that immersion processions, which usually attract large crowds, would not be allowed and mandals should take all safety precautions allowing not more than 10 people for immersion. The number is restricted to five for household idols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-impose-section-144-to-prohibit-crowding-during-ganpati-festival-101631213635477.html
10-09-2021||Mumbai||Suicide-related calls to helplines rise by 50 per cent amid Covid pandemic||The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has taken a toll on the mental health of people. Financial loss, prolonged isolation, deaths of loved ones and other stressors have piled up, pushing many towards depression. Several mental health helpline numbers have recorded an almost 50% rise in the number of calls regarding suicidal thoughts.In 2018, a 27-year-old from Nagpur took a loan of ₹25 lakh from a local money lender to start a hotel. Business was booming and he was planning to expand it further, but then the pandemic hit in March 2020. The nationwide lockdown forced shut several businesses, including hotels and restaurants.To make matters worse, his 51-year-old father contracted Covid-19 in March this year and the cost of treatment led to added debt. The burden slowly pushed him into depression. “He stopped talking to me and kept his phone switched off most of the time. Every time someone knocked at the door, he thought money lenders were there to harass us. Out of the blue on March 12 I received a call from police saying they had found my husband’s body by the railway tracks,” said his 25-year-old wife, who is currently nine months pregnant and is undergoing psychiatric counselling.Her brother has started an online campaign to raise money to help her pay the pending ₹22 lakh of the loan. “I have no money to pay the money lender. I have already sold off my jewellery. I have no savings for my child’s future,” she said. This is not an isolated case where family members are left devastated following the death of their loved ones, especially the primary breadwinners. Several studies have mentioned “Covid-19 Blues” where youths have started showing suicidal tendencies post the Covid-19 outbreak.Though no cumulative data is available, mental health helpline numbers have recorded almost 50% rise in calls related to suicide amid the pandemic compared to the previous years.Aditya Birla Education Trust-run toll-free helpline number — 1800-120-820050 — named Mpower is getting around three-four calls related to suicide every week. “This has been a vulnerable time for people, both on personal and professional fronts. The cumulative number of calls surged by almost 50% compared to last year. Callers with suicidal thoughts complain of several issues such as break-ups, domestic conflicts, stress related to careers, financial issues,” said Dilshad Khurana, psychologist and head counsellor of the helpline.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) helpline HitGuj has received more than 3,500 calls so far this year. The helpline number — 2413 1212 — used to get one or two calls related to suicide daily, which increased to four-five every day since the outbreak in March 2020.Dr Ajita S Nayak, head of the psychiatry department at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital who is in-charge of the helpline, said, “When the pandemic started, people thought it would get over soon. But now, after 18 months of the pandemic, no one knows when it will end. So, anxiety levels have increased. People are struggling with financial constraints, students with education loans are not getting jobs, people have lost their savings in the treatment of their family members...there are too many mental fatigues among people.”Dr Harish Shetty, a psychiatrist with Hinduja Hospital, also highlighted that many elderly with chronic medical conditions, who live alone, are suffering from loneliness and fear of contracting Covid-19, which pushes them into depression. “Many breadwinners have lost their jobs and are struggling to support their families. In fact, couples with pre-existing marital discord are witnessing intimate partner violence. In the near future, mental health will be the biggest health crisis,” he said.With the local trains open up, many are also facing travel anxiety triggered by transit amid the pandemic. “This happens when people overestimate worst case scenarios, anticipating that the worst incident may happen to them or their family. The only way to look over anxiety is to distinguish between real risk and over-estimated catastrophising,” said Dr Sahir Jamati, consultant psychologist and psychotherapist, Masina Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/suiciderelated-calls-to-helplines-rise-by-50-per-cent-amid-covid-pandemic-101631213515580.html
10-09-2021||Other||Outsourced nurses of SGPGI in Lucknow warn of stir||Lucknow The outsourced nurses of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences have warned of agitation if the outsourcing agency continues to deny joining to nurses reporting back on duty after maternity leave. To note, there are around 400 outsourced nurses in the PGI, out of whom about 10 are reporting back after maternity leave. All these nurses are members of the PGI Nurses Association which is backing their demand. A nurse who was not given the joining by the officials of XEAM Ventures Private Limited (outsourcing agency) said, “I have not been allowed to join after returning from maternity leave, nor have I got the salary of my maternity leave period, which I am entitled to get. They cannot sack me because of maternity leave. This is a punishment for becoming a mother.” Most of the nurses complained that they were treated in a rude manner whenever they approached officials of the company for resuming duties. “They cannot deal with women employees in such a way,” said another nurse on condition of anonymity. President of PGI Nurses Association Seema Shukla said, “It is the right of the nurses to go on maternity leave. If they are denied joining, it is like showing disrespect to a woman who has become a mother. We will agitate if the nurses are not given joining and salaries for the period of maternity leave, as they are entitled to it.” However, Pushkar Srivastava, manager of XEAM Ventures Private Limited said, “We can give joining to the nurses when the posts are vacant or any other nurse goes on maternity leave. We are manpower suppliers. We cannot create posts.” He said, “Regarding the payment of salaries of the maternity leave period, there is a process which has to be followed. The Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) has to pay ₹1.15 lakh for the period of maternity leave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/outsourced-nurses-of-sgpgi-in-lucknow-warn-of-stir-101631213456476.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi state legal services authority to train inmates of Rohini jail||A group of prisoners inside Delhi’s Rohini jail are for the first time being trained in vocational skills by lawyers, judicial officers and computer teachers to help them find jobs after their release, as part of a collaborative programme between the city’s prisons and the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA). The first group of 50 prisoners, called Vidhik Sahayaks (law assistants), is being trained to help them find jobs in courts as clerks, lawyers’ assistants, and other legal roles. Prison officers said the project may soon be extended to Tihar and Mandoli jails. The training for the first batch started on Thursday. DSLSA works under the administrative control of the Delhi high court and provides free legal aid to prisoners who cannot afford services. “We have selected convicts and under trials who have a good record inside prison. They are also the ones who are likely to be released soon. Inside the prison, they will be trained in vocational skills such as data management, basic computer skills, diary and case management, along with the basic knowledge of laws. This will help them find jobs after incarceration,” said Sandeep Goel, the director general of Delhi prisons . Officials of DSLSA, who met jail officers and prisoners on Wednesday told them that the authority will award certificates to candidates who complete the programme.Delhi’s three prison complexes – Rohini, Mandoli and Tihar— together have around 18,000 prisoners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-state-legal-services-authority-to-train-inmates-of-rohini-jail-101631213455369.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Couples can register marriage over video conferencing, says Delhi high court||The Delhi high court on Thursday said that couples can register their marriage by appearing before the authority concerned through video conferencing.Justice Rekha Palli said the mandatory personal presence before the authority for registration of marriage will include appearance through video conferencing, allowing a petition by a US-based couple who approached the court to register their marriage virtually.The couple, in their plea, said their marriage was solemnised through Hindu rites and rituals before the registration of marriage was made compulsory in 2014. They said since they relocated abroad, they were unable to get their marriage registered under the Delhi (Compulsory Registration of Marriage) Order, 2014.The couple said that since their application for green card was not being processed in the United States of America for want of a marriage certificate, they approached the local authority for issuance of a marriage certificate, who maintained that physical presence of the parties was a mandatory requirement.The counsel for the couple argued that several high courts have passed orders allowing virtual appearance of parties for registration of marriages.The Delhi government’s counsel argued that the physical presence of a couple seeking registration of marriage was mandatory and the process could not be undertaken through video conferencing as it required taking a “live photo”.It was also submitted that physical appearance helped prevent false registrations and unwanted litigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/couples-can-register-marriage-over-video-conferencing-says-delhi-high-court-101631213336601.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Ivermectin doesn’t cut viral load in Covid-19 patients, AIIMS study shows||The antiparasitic medicine Ivermectin did not reduce the viral load or duration of symptoms in patients with Covid-19 even at higher doses, shows a randomised controlled trial in 157 patients admitted with mild to moderate disease at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) during the first surge of infections between July and September last year. The study was recently published in the Journal of Infection and Chemotherapy. The AIIMS trial divided the participants into three groups – one receiving 12mg Ivermectin (dosage usually prescribed by physicians), one receiving 24mg of Ivermectin, and the third receiving a placebo. Although the proportion of persons who tested RT-PCR negative on Day 5 was higher among those who received high-dose Ivermectin as compared to those who received the lower dose or placebo, it wasn’t significantly high, according to the study – 47.5% as compared to 35% among those with lower dose of Ivermectin and 31.1% in the placebo arm. “All the Ivermectin being prescribed or being taken by people left, right, and centre will definitely not show any effect. The medicine must be prescribed only under clinical trials as all the evidence so far is not conclusive,” said Dr Anant Mohan, the first author of the paper and head of the department of respiratory medicine at AIIMS. To be sure, he said the study did not look at whether the drug reduced mortality in patients. “It is known to prevent antiviral replication so we wanted to see whether the viral load drops or whether the duration of symptom reduces after giving the medicine,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ivermectin-doesn-t-cut-viral-load-in-covid-19-patients-aiims-study-shows-101631213215515.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Major reshuffle in Delhi Police ranks||Newly appointed Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana has ordered a major reshuffle among ACP-rank officers in the city force, showed an order issued by the top cop’s office. The order, which HT has seen, shows that 56 assistant commissioners of police were transferred within the force or given charge of new police subdivisions. Asthana was appointed police chief on July 28, 2021. An ACP is the head of at least three police stations, or leads teams in units such as the special cell and crime branch. Senior Delhi Police officers, who asked not to be named, called the transfers “routine”. “No one has been punished. Yes, many officers were transferred or given charge of new assignments but it is routine,” one officer said. The order shows that many officers of those transferred were those handling their current jobs as additional charges, and their appointments were confirmed on Thursday. For instance, the ACP of the security unit was until Wednesday only holding additional charge as ACP security. Others officers in units such as special branch, PCR or FRRO, who were holding additional charge also got the confirmation of their new roles. Two new IPS officers, who recently joined the force, were also given new posts, as per the Thursday order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/major-reshuffle-in-delhi-police-ranks-101631213156297.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Taxi driver arrested for stabbing retired Delhi cop in Hauz Khas||A taxi driver was arrested for allegedly stabbing a 61-year-old retired Delhi Police sub-inspector after an argument inside the vehicle in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas area, the Delhi Police said on Thursday.Police said the incident was reported around 8.30pm on Monday when Jitender Rana, a resident of Malviya Nagar, was travelling from Rajouri Garden with his wife and daughter.By the time a police team reached the spot, Rana was already taken to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Police said he was out of danger and was recuperating at the hospital. Quoting his statement, the police said Rana asked the driver to change the position of the side-view mirror, which was reflecting light from other vehicles to his face. This led to a heated argument between them. When Rana and his family asked the driver to drop them near Laxman Public School, he suddenly attacked Rana with a knife and stabbed him twice in the abdomen.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said, “On September 6, around 8.30 pm, information was received at Hauz Khas police station that a cab driver stabbed his passenger. On reaching the spot, it was found that the injured person was already shifted to AIIMS, and the cab driver was handed over to the police by the public.” The accused cab driver sustained some injuries after being beaten by the people, Thakur said. The accused was identified as Raj Kumar, 34, a resident of Nangloi. Police said a case under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC was registered at the Hauz Khas police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/taxi-driver-arrested-for-stabbing-retired-delhi-cop-in-hauz-khas-101631212855525.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||First leopard spotted during Asola sanctuary census||A leopard has been sighted in the Asola wildlife sanctuary, the first camera trap image of the animal captured as part of the ongoing leopard census being carried out by the Delhi forest department in the sanctuary area.According to forest officials, the image was captured on August 30 at 6.09am, after which steps have been taken to secure the animal as well as the surrounding villages. “An alert has been sounded in nearby areas such as Sangam Vihar, Deoli and Tughalaqabad, among others, asking people to not trespass into the forest area. Also, they have been asked to not venture out late in the dark and keep children within the houses. Besides, regular patrolling along the fences has started to keep the animal secure,” Amit Anand, deputy conservator of forests (south division) said.Anand said that though there have been secondary sightings over the past six months, meaning sounds of growling being heard or staff reporting movement of a big cat in the forest, the August 30 image was the first solid piece of evidence about the presence of leopards in the area.The census, the first of its kind exercise in the Asola sanctuary, was launched in July this year. Leopard is one of the focal points of the census, said officials. The census is being carried out by the Delhi forest department along with the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS).The Asola wildlife sanctuary is spread over an area of 32.71 sqkm on the southern Delhi Ridge of Aravalli range on the Delhi-Haryana border. Located in southern Delhi and northern parts of Faridabad and Gurugram districts of Haryana, the sanctuary is part of the Northern Aravalli leopard wildlife corridor, which extends from the Sariska National Park in Rajasthan to Delhi Ridge.As part of the census, 30 camera traps have been installed across the sanctuary. “We plan to increase the number of camera traps in the area of the sighting. It will help us in further tracking the animal’s movement, prey base and his behaviour. So far, this is just one image that has been captured. We require much more data and photos to identify if the animal is a male or a female, and its movement across the wildlife corridor. At present, we don’t know exactly what the animal is preying on. Now it is a long-drawn exercise that will require around a year or a half establishing the presence of the animal and other vitals,” said Anand.He said leopards are difficult to sight, as they are adept at hiding and can even climb trees. Since the sanctuary has a good prey base, including animals such as neelgais, hares, jackals, peafowls and rabbits, it is expected that the leopard may stay for a long period in the area. “This sighting is actually a result of continuous efforts at habitat restoration being undertaken by the division over the past year. Trespassing has been curbed to a large extent and even feral cattle that people from nearby villages would leave here for grazing are being seized,” Anand said.Sohail Madan, ecologist and centre manager of the Conservation Education Centre at the Asola sanctuary, which is maintained by the BNHS, said several leopard sightings have been recorded in the sanctuary by their staff and forest officials over the last two years, but this one is peculiar. “There was a sighting in January where a leopard was spotted near the lake in the sanctuary. This sighting is important, as it has been made from that portion of the forest which had high anthropogenic pressure with cattle grazing, trespassing and other kinds of encroachment. Habitat restoration measures such as curbing of trespassing that was a major disturbance, as well as creating check dams and waterholes have been taken up. So, this sighting is a result of these efforts. However, besides camera traps, we need more study analysing direct and indirect evidences such as pug marks to understand the habitat preference of the animal, what are the wildlife corridors it’s using, prey base estimation,” said Madan.Experts said presence of an apex predator such as a leopard being present in the forest area is a good sign.Faiyaz A Khudsar, scientist in-charge of the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said sighting of a leopard is a welcome sign and is ecologically significant. “Long-term monitoring is required of the paths, tracks and trails for establishing more about the presence, absence and the period of stay of the animal. Any big cat requires a prey base to sustain for a long period. The animal may be a resident. A leopard is a generalist feeder [animals that can survive in various environments] and can explore food such as leftovers from a garbage dump, kill a dog or depend on hares. The sanctuary is surrounded by the Tilpath Valley, another green patch and thus has a large landscape for movement. The habitat has to be kept secured for further study of animal behaviour,” said Khudsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/first-leopard-spotted-during-asola-sanctuary-census-101631212619068.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Jamia students demand phase-wise reopening of campus, can’t decide in haste: V-C||Even as Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University have come out with plans for the phase-wise reopening of its campuses to students, Jamia Millia Islamia is yet to take a call on the matter, much to the ire of students who protested outside the university on Thursday demanding the restarting of in-person classes.Protesting students also submitted a memorandum to the university administration. “Normalcy is being restored in all domains of human interaction… Given the fact that a number of students can’t afford or manage smartphones, Internet connectivity, laptops etc., it will only increase the loss to the student community if the administration prolongs the only option of online education,” read the memorandum submitted by Hammadur Rahman, president, Jamia unit of SIO (Students Islamic Organisation).Rahman said their demands include the reopening of the central library and reading halls, making them accessible to all students and the phase-wise resumption of in-person classes for all students.Shivangi Yadav, a final-year undergraduate student of English, said, “Most students are in favour of resuming in-person classes in a phased manner. First-year students want to see the campus before they leave and many from marginalised backgrounds need access to the library and resources. Many students need access to hostels as well.”Following the Delhi Disaster Management Authority directives on August 30, allowing students of higher educational institutions to return to campuses as long as a 50% seating capacity is maintained in classrooms, both DU and JNU came out with their own reopening schedules.While JNU has allowed final-year PhD students to return to campus since Monday, with a mandatory negative Covid-19 test report, DU has allowed final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students to return from September 15 for their practicals, lab work, or academic consultation. DU students would require to be at least partially vaccinated to enter the campus.Shoaib Khan, a member of All India Students Association (AISA) and a fourth-year law student at Jamia, said, “We have been demanding reopening since March this year and at that time, they (university officials) were inclined on reopening the campus in a phased manner beginning with libraries. But everything changed after the second wave. Most Delhi universities have already come out with a plan whereas there is no such conversation happening in Jamia. We will have to protest if the university doesn’t take a step in this direction [reopening].” Vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar said the university has not discussed reopening the campus to undergraduate students so far. “These matters will be discussed in our executive council meeting. We have already been allowing final-year postgraduate students of professional and science courses to come to the campus for their practicals and lab work. Even final-year PhD students are allowed to come to campus with a special permit. With the risk of a third wave around the corner, we cannot take any decision in haste as that would put our students at risk. The matter will be decided in the executive council soon,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jamia-students-demand-phase-wise-reopening-of-campus-can-t-decide-in-haste-says-vc-101631212439202.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Uptick in dengue cases in Delhi, doctors urge caution||Doctors have reported an uptick in the number of dengue cases in the city over the week, with the current count higher than the same time last year, when Delhi was also grappling with its second surge of Covid-19. Cases are likely to increase over the rest of the month, due to the prevailing humid weather, said experts.Cases of the viral infection, transmitted by the day-biting aedes aegyptii mosquito, start increasing in August after the monsoon and dips in October, as the temperature begins to drop, making it inconducive for vector breeding. The city has reported 124 cases of dengue till Saturday, till which data from the civic bodies is available. Last year, during the same period, the city recorded 96 cases. No deaths due to the infection have been reported this year. To be sure, 1,259 cases of the infection were reported in the same period in 2015 when Delhi saw a severe dengue outbreak which affected nearly 16,000 people and killed 60. “Delhi received patchy rains in July and so we weren’t seeing too many dengue cases till now. But with the rains that the city received now, the mosquito breeding has started. The weather is likely to be hot and humid through September, giving the mosquito ideal time to spread the infection,” said Dr Atul Gogia, senior consultant of internal medicine at Sir Ganga Ram hospital. He said, “We have seen a distinct trend of viral infections this year — first we saw the spike in the Covid-19 cases, then came the flu, and now we are seeing an increase in dengue cases.” Doctors also said the spike in cases this year could be because people didn’t get tested for the disease last year, due to the Covid-19 spike at the time.Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant of internal medicine at Indraprastha Apollo hospital said, “We are definitely seeing more cases of dengue than last year. It could be because patients with fevers other than Covid-19 were not getting tested [last year]. We are likely to see more cases in the coming weeks. People must take ensure there is no breeding in their homes and wear full-sleeved clothes and apply mosquito repellent when stepping out.” When should you suspect dengue? With Covid-19 cases at a record low, doctors said that most of the fever cases are likely to be flu infections. However, if a patient has high-grade fever without symptoms such as blocked nose, runny nose, or cough, it is likely to be dengue. “If high-grade fever lasts beyond two to three days, you should get tested for dengue if there are no respiratory symptoms and there is bodyache or the more telling pain behind the eye. The NS1 antigen tests can pick up dengue from the first day of the symptoms too,” said Dr Rommel Tickoo, director of internal medicine at Max hospital-Saket. Doctors advise against taking any medicine other than paracetamol. “If you have fever, keep yourself well hydrated. Take only paracetamol for the fever,” said Dr Gogia. Dr Chatterjee added, “People should not take antibiotics unnecessarily because they do not help in viral infections. Also medicines such as aspirin and voveran (pain medications) should not be taken without consulting a doctor because it might actually harm in dengue.” Medicines such as aspirin can accelerate internal bleeding, a symptom in some severe dengue infections..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uptick-in-dengue-cases-in-delhi-doctors-urge-caution-101631212437520.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to build multi-level bus parking sites in Vasant Vihar, Hari Nagar||The Delhi government will build two multi-level bus parking facilities in the city, with spaces for car parking and retail outlets as well, senior transport officials said on Thursday. The project, which was first rolled out three years ago, will be executed by NBCC, formerly known as the National Buildings Construction Corporation. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Thursday said these the two multi-level parking spaces for buses will come up at the existing DTC depots in Hari Nagar and Vasant Vihar. “NBCC has been asked to completely redesign the two depots into world-class bus spaces, which will be two to three times the current parking capacity,” he said. The depot at Hari Nagar 1 and 2 is spread over a five-acre area and currently accommodates 100 buses. The 6.21-acre Vasant Vihar depot parks around 230 buses. Once the multi-level parking is ready, these facilities will be able to accommodate 330 and 400 buses each, respectively. “The Hari Nagar depot will have four levels and the one at Vasant Vihar will have seven after the redevelopment. These depots will also account for basement parkings of over 260,000 square feet, accommodating over 690 cars and retail spaces,” said the minister.Construction of these renovated bus depots will start by the end of this year and be completed, in phases, by 2024.Apart from these two sites, DTC colonies at Shadipur and Hari Nagar 3 are being redeveloped into residential units along with retail and commercial facilities. These will also include EWS housing as per Delhi Master Plan 2021 norms.In October 2020, DTC signed an agreement with NBCC to redevelop the transport corporation’s major land parcels in locations across Delhi for multi-level bus parking depots, redevelopment of residential colonies of DTC and more commercial facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-build-multi-level-bus-parking-sites-in-vasant-vihar-hari-nagar-101631212195838.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Genome reports detail rapid spread of Delta variant in Delhi this year||The share of samples in Delhi’s labs with the fast-spreading Delta variant of the Sars-Cov-2 grew from 0 to 91% between February and July, according to documents detailing the genome surveillance during the fourth wave of the pandemic which, the assessment shows, was sparked off by the Alpha variant before the Delta took hold and spread like wildfire.The documents give a previously unseen estimate of how the variants of concern (VOCs) took hold in Delhi: In March, 47.4% of the samples accounted for the Alpha variant (also known as B.1.1.7, first found in UK) with Delta being only 0.9%. The following month, Alpha samples reduced to 12.1% while Delta rose to 54%. The trend continued and by July, Delta accounted for 91% while Alpha reduced to 2.3%. The rest were other lineages. (see box)The findings are based on the whole genome sequencing of 6,673 samples processed collectively by the laboratories in the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Institute of Liver and Billiary Sciences (ILBS) and Lok Nayak Hospital.The information was shared by the health department to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in a meeting on August 27, the minutes of which were notified on Wednesday.Both Alpha and Delta variants have been classified as “variants of concern” by the World Health Organisation (WHO). The Delta variant was identified in India in December 2020 and has subsequently been detected in over 95 countries.A flurry of scientific evidence since India’s devastating April-May peak has established the Delta variant, also known as B.1.617.2, to be harder to contain since it is significantly more transmissible and can also resist immunity triggered by a past infection or elicited by vaccines.“The huge increase in the number of cases was not anticipated because the older variant was not as infectious and would now have caused it. Now, a huge proportion of the people have been exposed to the infection and many others have been vaccinated, leaving only a small pool of susceptible persons. Now, we need to be on the lookout for a variant that might evade immunity. Without that, the virus will not spread because of limited susceptible population,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safadrjung hospital.Earlier this week, a research paper published in the journal Nature found that there was a six-fold drop in the ability of antibodies from a past infection to neutralise the Delta variant, and a greater eight-fold reduction in the potency of antibodies elicited by vaccines.In comparison, the Alpha variant (first found in the UK) triggered only a 2.3-fold drop in potency of antibodies drawn from recovered Covid-19 patients. Another part of the analysis also showed the most evasive variant was Beta (first found in South Africa), followed by Delta and Alpha.The study, which included researchers from India, UK and Japan, also pointed to the variant’s molecular biology that made it more transmissible: it achieves this by having mutated to make its fusion with the host cell more efficient. Once within a cell, it also replicates more widely as compared to the Alpha variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/091-in-6-months-genome-reports-detail-rapid-spread-of-delta-variant-in-delhi-this-year-101631211895350.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Ex-J&K legislative council member found dead in friend’s west Delhi flat||Former member of Jammu and Kashmir legislative council and a senior National Conference leader from Jammu, 67-year-old Tarlochan Singh Wazir, was found dead in west Delhi’s Moti Nagar area on Thursday morning, police said.Police officers said they got a call from the Jammu and Kashmir Police informing them to check on Wazir, who was staying in a flat in Moti Nagar. A police team reached the flat and found that the door of the house was locked from outside. The police got the door open and found Wazir’s decomposed body lying in the washroom.The officers said Wazir’s body was identified with the help of a local acquaintance, and the Jammu and Kashmir police were informed about his death. They added that they found Wazir’s phone at the crime scene.Urvija Goel, deputy commissioner of police (west) said Wazir reached Delhi on September 1, and he was supposed to fly to Canada on September 3. His family members sought the help of the local police after they could not get in touch with him for several days. They also called up their relatives in Canada to ask about Wazir but even they did not know anything about his whereabouts.Wazir’s relatives told Jammu and Kashmir police that he was going to stay in his friend, Harpreet Singh’s flat in west Delhi’s Moti Nagar before flying to Canada on September 3. The local police then got in touch with their counterparts in Delhi.“The body was completely decomposed. Wazir was identified with the help of one of the acquaintances,” DCP Goel said, adding a case under sections 302 of IPC has been registered.Investigating officers said when Wazir’s family got in touch with Harpreet, he told them that he was in 72-hour quarantine in Frankfurt. Local residents also told the Delhi Police that they have not seen Harpreet at his house for several days. The officers, however, did not immediately say if they were treating Harpreet as a suspect, or if they were going to contact him about the case.The local residents told the police that since there was no stench from the body, and the house was locked from outside, they did not suspect anything.Wazir was a prominent Jammu leader, and the president of J&K motor transporters’ association. He was an aid of top National Conference leaders Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah.Expressing his shock at Wazir’s death, Omar said he met him only a few days ago. “Shocked by the terrible news of the sudden death of my colleague Sardar T S Wazir, an ex member of the Legislative Council. It was only a few days ago that we sat together in Jammu not realising it was the last time I would be meeting him. May his soul rest in peace,” the former J&K chief minister tweeted.Wazir’s body was sent for post-mortem examination, officers said, adding they will have to wait for the autopsy report to ascertain the cause of death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exjk-legislative-council-member-found-dead-in-friend-s-west-delhi-flat-101631211775365.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to launch ‘ONE Delhi’ app to cater to all transport needs||The Delhi government will this month launch a mobile application to unify all transport-related transactions such as paying for a bus ticket or locating an electric vehicle charging station in the national capital.Through the ‘ONE Delhi’ app, passengers travelling in Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) or cluster buses will also get a 10% discount on their journey tickets. The discount will also be valid on other partner apps such as Chartr and PayTM, transport officials said on Thursday.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot has directed officials to keep the app ready for a formal launch, which was scheduled to take place by Wednesday. However, senior officials said the launch will take another week or two since the department is still working on making it compatible for iOS users. The One Delhi app is ready for Android users, officials said.The app will be available in English and Hindi.Users of the app can also book pink tickets, meant for female passengers, who are not charged for bus rides in the Capital.Passengers can also book monthly or yearly bus passes using the app by scanning a QR code placed in buses, selecting the fare, or source and the destination stop.The proposal to offer a 10% discount, like the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) offers to all its SmartCard users, was approved by the Delhi cabinet, led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, on July 16. The Delhi government’s contactless ticketing app has been undergoing extensive trials under a special task force since July last year and initial reports have shown that tickets booked through the app account for 6% of all ticketing done in Delhi, a government spokesperson said.Delhi has 6,750 DTC and cluster buses, and an average of 4.9 million passengers use the network every day, a ridership much larger than the Delhi Metro, which clocks an average daily ridership of about 2.5 million.A senior transport official said the move is also expected to save the government’s printing, staff and data storage costs. The department also said the app-based ticketing system will help generate better passenger boarding data, which can be analysed to rationalise routes and better services for the passengers.“We are in the process of putting up QR codes in all DTC and cluster buses, at bus stops and at all inter-state bus terminals (ISBTs). The QR code will be used for scanning and making online payment for the bus journeys, while availing a 10% discount. A back-end team is also being arranged that will exclusively handle the app,” said a transport official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-launch-one-delhi-app-to-cater-to-all-transport-needs-101631211715647.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi must revisit its traffic plans in wake of Covid-19, say experts||A global crisis like Covid-19 has undone many things in many places. In Delhi, it has undone years of work in decongesting roads, among other things. Planners and traffic experts believe there is a need to return to the drawing board to understand the new travelling patterns in the city and the new challenges in their wake. In this last instalment of a four-part series, Hindustan Times spoke with traffic experts, researchers and senior police officers to understand how various aspects of travelling have changed since the pandemic hit, and how the city can reinvent strategies so that private vehicles don’t dominate road traffic. Study the congestion patterns Transport experts said that in the last year since the pandemic began, traffic volume has increased on the city roads, jams are more spread out beyond the rush hour, and newer congestion hotspots have emerged. But many advised caution in interpreting these as permanent trends. Sewa Ram, professor (transport planning) at the School of Planning and Architecture, said Delhi is witnessing a “transition” from a situation that it had never experienced before, and the city administration needs to “wait and observe traffic patterns”. “What we need to do is carefully study the trends for at least another year to understand how congestion patterns are affecting the city. It would not be right to start panicking now, because we are still recovering from a pandemic. Schools and colleges are yet to open, workplaces are yet to come to a set routine, and public transport modes are still functioning with restrictions. Patterns have to be consistent to become trends and we need to carefully monitor the way we travel for the next few years,” Ram said. ‘Flexible’ transit modes needed Ram said that over the last year “non-scheduled trips” or “flexible trips” have increased as private companies are allowing employees to work from home or come to offices for a limited number of days or periods. This was one of the reasons for unforeseen traffic congestions in various parts of the city. Amit Bhatt, director (integrated urban transport) at the World Resources Institute (India), said that another reason for increased congestion in the city is the safety concerns among commuters while travelling in mass transit modes such as public buses and the Delhi Metro. “Delhi was heavily invested in mass transit modes till the pandemic hit us. But now, we have been observing that commuters are reluctant to use these mass transit modes because of safety concerns. This is also leading to people moving more towards private vehicles,” Bhatt said. Surveys over the last year have observed a trend of people switching to private vehicles. In a survey conducted by Cars24, an online platform for buying and selling used cars, April saw a spike in the sale of second-hand two-wheelers and cars since June last year. The survey said that 50% of their customers were in favour of pre-owned vehicles because it not only solved the purpose of privacy during a commute but was also a cheaper and more viable alternative. “The sudden spike in the demand for used bikes and cars come from a consumer base that is looking to shift from public transport options like buses and trains to private vehicles. Given the new social distancing norm where people are trying to stay safe from crowded spaces, there has been a spurt in used two-wheeler buying,” the survey report read. Bhatt said that the takeaway from this is that commuters are moving away from mass transit modes. “So, it might be a wise idea for the city’s decision-makers to now invest in flexible, demand-based transit modes. For instance, a demand-based bus system to cater to the working population that is now having flexible working hours, such a system is already in place in San Francisco. The bus system now is timetable-based but commuter demands are changing because of the pandemic,” Bhatt said. Time is right to go green Experts also suggested that the pandemic has offered an opportunity to shift the city’s infrastructure to greener and more sustainable modes. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said that this would be the right time for the city to invest in green infrastructures such as cycling tracks and pedestrian walkways. “After the first lockdown, we all observed a renewed interest for cycling. Many commuters were seen cycling for leisure or short trips. We need to cash in on this interest so that it can be supported with infrastructure. Continuous lanes need to be created to ensure that there is a safe space for cyclists. This is the safest mode of transportation as it has a single occupant and also ensures social distancing,” said Roychowdhury. Many cities across the world have taken a cue from the pandemic to work towards redesigning their streets and encouraging cyclists and pedestrians, viewing these as the safest travel modes post-pandemic. Paris introduced over 45km of new cycleways, known as “coronapistes”, and restricted motor traffic along selected areas as part of the ‘Paris Respire’ (Paris Breathes) plan to clean the city’s air and improve the quality of life. In Milan, the city officials are transforming around 35km of streets into cycle lanes and widening pavements to ensure that pedestrians get enough space to maintain social distancing while walking. In Germany, Colombia and Mexico, authorities reclaimed more than 150km of roads across their capitals, using existing resources such as cones, temporary lights and lane separators. In New York, the city council is reportedly planning a reconfiguration of roads for walking and cycling, turning 75 miles of roads into “streets for people”. Policing needs a reboot Apart from working on long-term infrastructural tweaks, the city’s traffic enforcement teams will also need to adapt to new ways of policing given the restrictions brought about by the pandemic. “We have directed our officials to be stationed at traffic junctions and intersections during the rush hour, instead of standing to challan drivers. We are shifting our focus to congestion management,” said Muktesh Chander, special commissioner of police (traffic). Other than bringing about an attitudinal change to policing among the staff, the department is also increasing the use of technology to limit interaction among drivers and police officials. Other, smaller cities are also emulating this model of shifting towards technology-driven policing. In Chandigarh, the police department on August 20 directed enforcement teams to refrain from issuing any manual challans and move completely to an online prosecution system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-must-revisit-its-traffic-plans-in-wake-of-covid-19-say-experts-101631211595360.html
10-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to ready winter pollution plan by Sept 30||The Delhi government is preparing a 10-point winter action plan to combat air pollution in the national capital, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Thursday, and added that he will hold a review meeting with all departments concerned on September 14.The minister explained the plan will focus on different aspects of the air pollution, including internal and external factors responsible for hazardous levels of pollutants in Delhi’s air during winters every year. Rai listed some of these factors as stubble burning, vehicular emissions, road and construction dust, waste burning and poor management of pollution hot spots.He said besides focussing on all these things, the government will also look to improve coordination with the neighbouring states for action on crop stubble burning and polluting industries. He also talked about setting up an advance war room for managing anti-pollution measures and upgrade the Green Delhi app that was launched last year as well as better coordination with central agencies such as Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM).“We already held a meeting with the environment and forest department to outline the key focus areas for the plan. Now, we plan to hold a meeting of all departments concerned on September 14, and take suggestions on the same. The winter action plan will be ready by September 30,” Rai said.Each winter Delhi turns into a gas chamber due to meteorological factors such as low temperatures, poor speed and adverse direction of the wind, as well as other factors such as road dust and garbage burning besides vehicular emissions. Despite the city being remained locked due to Covid pandemic for months last year, the situation quickly deteriorated August onwards with the phased reopening of the city and the economy.According to a Centre for Science analysis, from the cleanest August (the cleanest month since air quality records started to be maintained in May 2015), the PM2.5 levels rose dramatically to one of the dirtiest Novembers in recent years.Rai added that several campaigns will be launched in a phased manner to deal with prominent sources of pollution.To address stubble burning across non-Basmati rice fields in the Capital, the Delhi government last year introduced bio-decomposer formula, which can decompose crop residue and turn it into manure within 20-25 days.“Emission from burning of stubble, waste and those from vehicles and dust are the major sources of winter pollution, which have been kept as the first four focus areas in the plan. Besides, areas in Delhi where people are subjected to extremely high levels of pollution, as compared to the rest of the city, are being identified as hotspots. Special attention will be given to these areas,” the minister said.He also talked about installing more smog towers, based on the results from the ones that were set up at some hot spots. The Delhi government recently inaugurated a smog tower Baba Kharak Singh Marg, Connaught Place. Also an experimental smog tower at Anand Vihar --identified as a pollution hot spot --- has been installed by the Union government under the National Clean Air Programme, which was inaugurated by Union environment minister Bhupendra Yadav on September 7.Rai said the integrated war room, set up in 2019, will be upgraded for better monitoring and implementing area-specific solutions.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said stubble burning, which has been fixed as the first focus point in the plan, must be a part of the inter-state coordination. Also, the waste burning, vehicular and dust pollution have been rightly identified as areas of intervention. “The plan should have also included industrial pollution as an intervention area. A specific and detailed strategy for implementation in each of these sectors is required, which will also determine the effectiveness of the plan. For instance, to control waste burning, scaling up of the entire waste management system with adequate infrastructure is required. Also, stringent compliance of the strategies can ensure the plans functionality,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-to-ready-winter-pollution-plan-by-sept-30-101631211415611.html
10-09-2021||Mumbai||Ganesh festival begins in Maharashtra, state watching Covid situation||As the 10-day long Ganeshotsav begins on Friday, the Maharashtra government is closely monitoring the Covid situation, amid a jump in active cases on Thursday. The state reported 4,219 fresh Covid infections, while the active cases jumped from 47,880 on Wednesday to 50,229. The state reported 55 deaths, pushing its toll to 138,017. A day after Mumbai recorded a seven-week high, it reported 457 fresh Covid infections on Thursday. Mumbai also reported two fatalities, pushing the toll to 16,006. Maharashtra is seeing an overall downward trend in Covid cases over the past few days, but around five districts, including Mumbai and Pune, are showing a rise in daily Covid-19 cases. The rise in cases in the two cities is a cause of concern for authorities, as Mumbai and Pune were major hotspots during the first and second wave of infections since March 2020. Pune district, too, saw an increase in its active case count. The district’s active cases went from 12,364 on Wednesday to 12,758. On Thursday, Pune city, its rural areas and Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 233, 541 and 177 fresh cases, respectively. Pune city’s cases have gone from 198 to 276 between September 6 and September 8. A similar trend is seen in the rural areas of Pune. Between September 6 and 9, the daily cases increased from 416 to 541 on Thursday. The state has not decided to impose any lockdown restrictions during the festive season, but authorities have appealed the people to exercise caution, follow Covid-appropriate behaviour in view of the impending third wave of Covid infections. “There are not going to be any restrictions as such, but people should avoid crowding that would lead to more transmission. We all must follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. If people follow these things, it will make our jobs much easier and it will be helpful for the government and administration,” said Rajesh Tope, state public health minister. The state has however imposed restrictions on celebration during Ganesh festival. In view of the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai, the city police have prohibited large-scale celebrations of the upcoming Ganesh Chaturthi festival. As per an order issued on Thursday, section 144 of the CrPC will be in place in India’s financial capital from 10 to 19 September. The police have banned physical darshan at public pandals and restrictions have been imposed on the number of participants in processions during the 10-day long festival. While civic authorities have directed major Ganesh pandals to make arrangements for online viewing and darshan. Senior health department officials said they are monitoring the situation and would wait for a couple of weeks to recommend imposition of some more curbs to check the spread of the virus. An official, who did not wish to be named, said that they had expected some rise in cases in urban areas once restrictions were lifted in mid-August. “With suburban trains being opened to more people [than before] we expected to see some increase. People are moving out and about during the festive season. While we are concerned about Mumbai and Pune, the rise is not a trend yet. Steps are being taken by the local administration for early detection, more testing, to keep transmission low,” the officer said. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, technical advisor to the state on Covid-19, said the situation was “critical” in urban areas. He said, “While people need to understand and not step out unless necessary, the authorities have to restrict movement of people. Despite understanding the seriousness of the situation, people not wearing masks properly.” He further added that state has to increase surveillance. “Contrary to the practice, the surveillance should increase when numbers are low.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ganesh-festival-begins-in-maharashtra-state-watching-covid-situation-101631210035272.html
10-09-2021||Pune||I will reveal scam involving minister from Thackeray govt: BJP’s Somaiya||PUNE BJP leader Kirit Somaiya, on Thursday, said that he would reveal a scam involving a cabinet minister along with documentary evidence. He was speaking to reporters in Pune. “I wanted to complete my work related to finding the ‘third Anil’ in Pune. I will reveal the scam of one more cabinet minister from the Uddhav Thackeray government along with documentary evidence next week,” said Somaiya. He said that the state government yesterday informally admitted to him that the resort owned by Anil Parab is unauthorised and comes under the coastal red zone in Murud village of Ratnagiri district, and that it should be “razed”. “The state government gave an affidavit to Lokayukta and a copy was given to me. CM Thackeray and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray gave the nod for the proposal to raze the structure. My question is, if the state government accepts that the structure is unauthorised and should be razed, then why is Parab still in the cabinet?” he asked.About the ED action at multiple premises in Maharashtra linked to Shiv Sena MP Bhavna Gavali, the BJP leader took a dig at NCP chief Sharad Pawar over his statement on the central agency’s action being taken to subdue the state government. “Gavali had withdrawn cash 40 times from Risod Urban Cooperative Credit Society and not a single withdrawal is below ₹21 lakh. A total of ₹18.93 crore was withdrawn by Mahila Utkarsh Pratishan trust from Risod Urban Cooperative Credit Society. Gavali is the president of both the institutions,” he said. He added that in another instance, ₹7.93 crore in cash was withdrawn by Bhavna Agro Private Ltd, owned by the MP from the same credit society. ₹25 crore in cash is withdrawn by a politician and Sharad Pawar saheb questions the action by ED?” he said. On Maharashtra cabinet minister and NCP leader Chhagan Bhujbal being discharged by the court in the Maharashtra Sadan case, Somaiya said, “Aage Aage dekho… hota hai kya? There are other cases also against him. I have filed a complaint against him for money laundering and illegal holding of properties. Those charges are there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/i-will-reveal-scam-involving-minister-from-thackeray-govt-bjp-s-somaiya-101631207574406.html
10-09-2021||Mumbai||Allot vacant seats to students by September 15, Mumbai university tells colleges||Days after the third and final merit list for undergraduate degree courses was announced by the University of Mumbai (MU), all affiliated colleges have now been informed to complete admissions for vacant seats by September 15. In a circular released earlier this week, MU has asked colleges to announce one or merit lists at their respective institutes within the deadline to allot vacant seats to interested students.“The university in its circular released on August 4 had announced the schedule for three rounds of the common admission process, which ended in the first week of September. Students are now approaching colleges directly and for these new applications, colleges can announce one or more merit lists to fill up vacant seats,” stated a circular released by MU this week.Rising Covid-19 cases forced most school education boards to scrap Class 12 board exams this year and instead promote students based on their performance in Class 10, 11 and 12 following a 30:30:40 formula. This pushed the overall performance of students from all boards—while CBSE and ISC schools witnessed a hike in the number of students scoring 90% and 95% in their batches, the state board witnessed a 12-fold rise in the number of students scoring 90% and above this year, including 46 students who scored a perfect 100% in HSC this year.“Looking at the high demand for self-financed courses including BMS and BAF, we had applied for extra divisions for both and at the same time also applied for 20% increase in intake capacity for rest of the courses. We have received hundreds of fresh applications and have already released two merit lists to accommodate as many as possible,” said Neha Jagtiani, principal in charge, RD National College, Bandra.The first degree merit list announced earlier this month pushed cutoffs across popular colleges ended at 10-13% points higher compared to last year. The third and final merit list was announced on August 30 following which all vacant seats were handed over to respective colleges for them to individually fill up the remaining seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allot-vacant-seats-to-students-by-september-15-mumbai-university-tells-colleges-101631206374965.html
10-09-2021||Pune||PMC bans physical darshan at Ganesh mandaps; only online||PUNE After a state government order on Wednesday banning physical darshan (worship/blessing) at public Ganesh mandaps during the Ganesh festival, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also prohibited physical darshan by issuing an order on Thursday. State authorities made it clear that people would not be allowed to visit the mandaps during the festival starting from Friday. Only online darshan or telecast from the mandaps would be allowed. Deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar urged people to follow Covid- appropriate behaviour and avoid crowding during the annual festival. He earlier had warned that the strict restrictions would return in Pune if crowding is noticed on the first day of the festival.“Ganesh utsav should be celebrated cautiously and in the accordance with Covid-appropriate behaviour. There is a risk of a third Covid wave and we should not create any opportunity to let it happen,” said Ajit Pawar. In a bid to prevent the spread of the Covid virus during the Ganapti festival Pune’s five ‘Manache Ganapati’ mandals appealed to devotees to opt for online darshan this year. Pune’s five Manache Ganapatis are the attraction for devotees during the festival. Dagdusheth Ganapti is also a popular attraction for devotees. The Dagdusheth Mandal has arranged for online darshan of the idol. Home minister Dilip Walse-Patil also a conducted a meeting with the Zilla Parishad authorities to review the preparedness to deal with Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-bans-physical-darshan-at-ganesh-mandaps-only-online-101631205894322.html
10-09-2021||Pune||39-year old rickshaw driver held for kidnap, rape of six-year-old in Pune||PUNE A case of kidnap and rape a six-year-old girl was registered at the Bund Garden police station on Wednesday, days after the gang-rape of teenager. The accused in this case, like the earlier one, is also an autorickshaw driver.The man was identified as Sagar Mandhre (39) who lives in his parked rickshaw in Dattawadi where the girl was found, according to police inspector (crime) Ashwini Satpute of Bund Garden police station. “We traced the suspect within two hours. In this case as well, like the previous one, police responded promptly and arrested the accused based on CCTV footage. As I have said earlier, we are introducing some strict measures,” said Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of police, during an award ceremony he was attending with state home minister Dilip Walse-Patil on Thursday.“He was arrested within two hours of the girl’s kidnapping. We found the girl in the rickshaw and he was in it too. We have completed his arrest procedure and will produce him in court tomorrow (Friday),” said PI Satpute.The girl was sleeping with her parents on a pavement near the Pune railway station. The girl was next to her mother and was fast asleep when the man picked her up and put her in his rickshaw around 1-1:30am.“Another rickshaw driver saw him put her in his rickshaw and woke up her parents and told them. They immediately told the police and we started the search for him. We found them at the spot where he parked and slept,” said PI Satpute.According to police officials, the original owner of rickshaw had given that vehicle on rent to another person who sublet it to Mandhre. Dilip Walse-Patil also praised the role of police in tracing the suspect. Reacting to latest and previous rape case involving 14-year-old, Walse-Patil said, “Arrests were made in both cases after police taken steps measures immediately.” When asked if there is any need to strengthen the existing laws to stop such incidents, he said, “it is a collective responsibility of entire society to prevent such cases from happening.” . The girl is undergoing a medical examination at Sassoon General Hospital, while the main is in a lockup. The girl has a minor injury on her forehead along with the sexual assault injuries for which she has been examined.A case under Sections 363, and relevant sub-sections of 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act was registered at Bund Garden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/39year-old-rickshaw-driver-held-for-kidnap-rape-of-6-year-old-101631204754252.html
