11-09-2021||Mumbai||IITs launch special recruitment drives to fill reserved faculty posts following MoE order||Several Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) across the country are now planning special recruitment drives to fill up faculty posts reserved for socially and economically marginalised communities. The move comes only weeks after the ministry of education (MoE) directed all centrally funded higher education institutes to fill up vacant reserved posts on a mission mode. In a letter issued on August 23, MoE directed all centrally funded higher education institutes such as IITs, Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) and National Institutes of Technology (NITs) to fill vacant faculty positions, especially in the Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST), Other Backward Classes (OBC) and economically weaker sections (EWS) categories, by September 2022. From this month on, institutes will have to send a monthly report on the actions taken to fill vacant positions. V Ramgopal Rao, director, IIT-Delhi, said, “In the last board of governors meeting, we have discussed the matter. We are planning a special recruitment drive for faculty as well as postdoctoral fellowships.” Details for the drive are yet to be chalked out. A senior official from IIT-Bombay said that the institute, too, is planning a special recruitment drive following directives from MoE. However, details are not clear yet. “We will have a mission mode drive soon (for faculty recruitment). Wait for a while,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-Bombay. On Monday, IIT-Banaras Hindu University (BHU), issued a public advertisement for the special recruitment drive and called for applications to fill posts reserved for SC, ST, OBC, EWS and disabled candidates. The drive is for posts at assistant, associate and professor levels. The portal for recruitment is now live. IIT-Kharagpur, too, issued a similar public notice on September 1. The special recruitment drives are a consequence of last month’s letter from Amit Khare, secretary, department of higher education, MoE. “I am writing in connection with the faculty positions that are lying vacant, especially in SC, ST, OBC and EWS category in the central higher education institutions (CHEls) functioning under the administrative control of the ministry of education. In order to clear this backlog, it has been decided that all CHEls should fill these vacancies in a mission mode within a period of one year starting from September 5, 2021 to September 4, 2022 and to report about the action taken and progress made in this regard,” he said in the letter. As directed by MoE, institutes will now have to include a separate chapter in their annual report depicting the status of filling up of backlog vacancies in tabular format during the year. They will also have to include an agenda item in every finance committee / board of governors/ board of management meeting, apprising the committees and boards of the status of filling up of backlog vacancies. Government of India mandates a reservation of 27% in faculty positions for candidates from OBC category, 15% for SC and 7.5% for ST candidates. However, HT had earlier reported that none of the 22 IITs in the country have more than six teachers from ST category, and 18 of them have 10 or less candidates from SC category on their faculty rolls. Seven IITs had 10 or less faculty from OBC category, HT has reported earlier based on responses received under RTI. Of the 23 IITs in India, data for IIT-Mandi was unavailable. Pawan Goenka, retired managing director and chief executive officer of Mahindra Group and chairperson of the board of governors of IIT-Bombay and Madras, had earlier told HT, “The board of governors of IIT-Bombay and Madras is well aware of the gaps in diversity with respect to reserved categories and gender. But we also know that it is not for lack of trying. These IITs are taking proactive steps to address these gaps while going through the recruitment process as per the prescribed norms. I am sure other IITs are doing the same.” Meanwhile, relatively newer IITs such as Palakkad and Goa have been conducting special recruitment drives every year, ahead of the directives of MoE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iits-launch-special-recruitment-drives-to-fill-reserved-faculty-posts-following-moe-order-101631384830235.html
11-09-2021||Mumbai||Covid and surgery: Doctors tweak process, adopt methods to minimise risk of infection||Early this year, when a 65-year-old Covid positive woman admitted to a hospital in Nagothane suffered from a sudden heart blockage, she was rushed to the Fortis Hospital in Vashi for an emergency intervention. Her heart rate had fallen to 30, much below the normal range of 60 to 100. Doctors took her into the hospital’s fifth-floor catheterisation laboratory to implant a pacemaker, a small device that sends electrical impulses to the heart muscle. But a surgical procedure on a patient with an active Covid-19 infection would mean risking the medical staff with the infection too. To minimise the risk, the medical team decided to limit the use of cautery- an electrosurgical machine commonly used to burn and seal a bleeding blood vessel, that produces smoke during the process. This surgical smoke could potentially be carrying the virus and thus be a huge threat to the medical staff in closed operation theatre. “To fit in the pacemaker in the chest wall, we needed an incision of about the breadth of four fingers,” said interventional cardiologist Dr Brajesh Kanwar. “We opted for other techniques like pressing the bleed with gauze and using mosquito forceps- a type of forceps used to control bleeding. But eventually, we had to give in to the cautery machine to burn one bleeder that wouldn’t stop easily,” he said. As the pandemic unfolded in March 2020, surgical procedures came to a complete halt except for emergencies like the case of this 65-year-old woman. When doctors set out to operate on such special cases, they introduced some tweaks and changes on the operation table to reduce the risk of infection inside the theatre. While surgical work has now resumed to a large extent, doctors have stuck to these techniques as a precaution amidst the fear of breakthrough infections and reinfections. “Every patient can be infective at any given point of time,” said Kanwar. “The infection control norms and the personal protection norms are here to stay for a long time. Certain shortcuts that can save time in the operation theatre are also going to be widely used. For instance, a surgeon may opt to use a stapler instead of a suture to save time and limit the exposure in the theatre, especially if the patient has an active infection. Instead of cutting the tissue, doctors may opt for dissecting with the use of closed forceps. This reduces bleeding and in turn, reduces the use of smoke-producing cautery machine. These decisions have to be balanced with the kind of case one is handling,” said Kanwar who has carried out nearly 20 pacemaker implantations and over 150 angioplasties in active Covid patients since last year. Doctors opt to delay the invasive interventions by at least two weeks if patients have active Covid infection and if the surgery can wait. “But there are some cases in which waiting is not an option at all,” said Dr Manmohan Kamat, head of general and minimal invasive surgery at the Nanavati Max Super Speciality Hospital. He cited an example of a 64-year-old Covid positive woman who was shifted from a nursing home with acute abdominal pain. Investigations revealed that she had bowel gangrene which had to be operated out immediately before the infection spread. However, such a surgery would involve heavy spillage of digestive chyme- the partially digested food and secretions of the gastrointestinal tract- which may be highly contagious. “The procedure involved making a cut on the abdomen and removing at least five feet of the small intestine,” said Kamat who has operated on nearly 15 patients with an active Covid infection. “We managed to minimise the spillage by using a stapler cutting method, instead of a clamp and cut method,” he said adding that he preferred carrying out open surgeries on such patients instead of laparoscopic procedures. Among the surgical emergencies, gynaecologists were perhaps the first to jump in the operation theatres amidst the raging pandemic to conduct normal deliveries and cesarean sections of Covid positive women. The Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital in Sion has carried out nearly 500 deliveries of Covid positive women, more than half of them are C-sections. In the process, the gynaecology department adopted several protocols including the use of a knife to cut open the lower abdomen instead of using the cutting probe in the cautery machine, which cuts and helps reduce the bleeding, but produces excessive smoke. “To control bleeding, we opted for ligating the blood vessel by suturing,” said Dr Arun Nayak, the head of the gynaecology department. “The ligating process takes longer time, but we have stuck to it. In cases where use cautery was unavoidable, we used a suction machine to trap the smoke,” he said. According to Nayak, they have also started using an acrylic box while intubating a patient and administering anaesthesia. “The acrylic box creates a transparent barrier between the patient and the anaesthetist and reduces the direct flow of aerosols from patient’s breath or cough on the doctor,” he said. Protocols outside the operation theatre include micro- coordination in terms of sanitising the trail of Covid patients when they are brought into the hospital and moved from one department to another within the premises for investigations. Interventional cardiologist Kanwar said that Fortis Hospital, Vashi has a mic system that announces the movement of Covid patients so that the staff can promptly follow the trail and spray the area with disinfectant as a precaution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-and-surgery-doctors-tweak-process-adopt-methods-to-minimise-risk-of-infection-101631384828393.html
11-09-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 vax coverage gets a shot in arm, 25% Lucknow vaxxed||With the number of second doses administered till Saturday reaching 8,87,565, about 25% Lucknowites are now fully vaccinated, having taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Lucknow has a target of vaccinating over 35 lakh people and till now 22,53,677 people have got their first dose while 8,87,565, their second dose also, since vaccination began on January 16. “We are organising mega vaccination camps to boost vaccination coverage and the focus is upon the second dose also, with dedicated days for administering the second dose,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer, Lucknow. “Vaccination has caught up gradually. The first-5 lakh doses took 96 days to be administered starting from January 16, and the next five lakh in 45-days. The last 5 lakh doses, from 25 lakh to 30 lakh, took just 14 days,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors. Age-wise, beneficiaries between 18 and 45 years have led with the maximum 18,43,774 doses administered. Over 8.23 lakh beneficiaries are between 45 and 60 years of age and those above 60-years got over 4.73 lakh doses. Of the total 31,41,242 doses administered till now, 17,52,873 have been administered to men and 13,87,083 to women. In the state, 8,68,36,618 doses have been administered till now including 7,22,12,835 first doses and 1,46,23,783 second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-vax-coverage-gets-a-shot-in-arm-25-lucknow-vaxxed-101631384589253.html
11-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana government schools gear up for National Achievement Survey||All government schools of the district have geared up and are preparing for the national achievement survey (NAS) to ensure that students excel in the test and achieve good ranks for the district as well as the state.The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), on the directions of the Union ministry of human resource development, will be conducting the survey on November 12 to evaluate learning levels of the students of Classes 3, 5, 8, and 10 from government schools, government-aided, private, KV, NV, Adarsh schools, across the nation.AssessmentThe students of Classes 3 and 5 will be assessed in language, maths and environmental studies, Class 8 in language, maths, science, social science, Class 10 in language, math, science, social science, and English.Students of Classes 3 and 5 will have to answer 47 and 53 questions in 90 minutes, respectively while students of Classes 8 and 10 will have to answer 60 and 70 questions in 120 minutes.Punjab had fetched poor results in the previous survey. Aiming to improve the ranking, Krishan Kumar, secretary school education, Punjab, recently set guidelines related to the aims and strategies of NAS for all school heads and principals during an online training session.The school heads and principals shared their preparation strategy with the secretary. Schools including GSSS Rajewal, Khanna block, GSSS Lalton Kalan, GMS Manglitanda, GHS Sihan Daud, Dehlon-2; also came up with posters to encourage students to perform well in the survey. With around two months left for the survey, the education department is conducting weekly tests and has prepared special modules including, educational videos for NAS that are shown to students in all schools.The strategies to achieve the target include dissemination of assignments to students based on learning outcomes, conducting weekly quizzes, questionnaires on each subject and topic, projector classes for better preparations, NAS training sessions for teachers and lecturers along with school heads and principals; sharing NAS notes modules and solved material from the 2017 examination.Davinder Singh Chhina, nodal officer and principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Shahpur, Ludhiana, said, “Last time, Punjab’s performance was dismal, but this time, our students are prepared to bag the first spot. We are conducting a series of mock tests. A mock drill for NAS is expected to be organised in the first week of November. It will help students excel in the final exams”.Meanwhile, Lakhvir Singh Samra, district education officer, secondary, said NAS aims to help to improve the level of learning among students and develop their overall personality.‘Not child centric but target centric’A few school heads, on the condition of anonymity, termed the ongoing preparations as ‘target-centric’.“The students are mugging up the concepts to be covered under NAS. These preparations are not child centric but target centric. Due to upcoming elections in Punjab, the education department is focused on achieving 100% results which are not possible in reality. Moreover, students are not being able to focus on the mainstream studies and examinations as they are only getting classes for NAS”, voiced a school head. Education dept to hold exams to prepare students Ludhiana The local education department on Saturday announced that it will be conducting exams this month to prepare students of Classes 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, and 12, for the National Achievement Survey and annual final exams. The NAS is scheduled to be held on November 12 and the final exams in March 2022. The preparatory exams will begin on September 13. These MCQ-based tests will be held in two shifts. While Classes 8, 10, and 12 will take the exams in the morning shift, which will commence at 9am, the rest of the classes will appear for the exams in the afternoon shift, which will begin at noon. “The exam pattern for Classes 8 and 10 will be based on the NAS test. The evaluation sheets will be provided by the head office,” said Lakhvir Singh Samra, DEO secondary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-government-schools-gear-up-for-national-achievement-survey-101631384530599.html
11-09-2021||Lucknow||Additional income is a must to realise one’s acting dreams: Shiva Shukla||Hailing from a small-town Phaphund in Auraiya district, when Shiva Shukla expressed his desire to become an actor everyone around mocked him.Last seen in the web-film Sitapur: The City of Gangster, as friend of protagonist Ravi Sudha, the actor recalls, “I didn’t even have a TV at home and used to watch serials on a black & white set at a friend’s home. I used to tell people that one day they will get to see on the same screen, people laughed at me including family members.” Telling more about his journey the UPite says, “During my school days I took part in a few plays. After clearing intermediate I joined theatre. A year later my father passed away that incident made me more adamant to prove myself. Initially, I was into mimicry and started going to places within the state for acts. So, from my town to Kanpur then Lucknow, Delhi and finally I reached Mumbai. Theatre was not paying me well but when I joined event companies. I was doing commercial plays and stand-up acts which gave me better money.” He has been part of crime shows made for an UP-based channel. “I tried my hand in acting and production with the short film Sorry Mom (2017) which was based on de-addiction. It ran widely at de-addiction and rehabilitation centre. Then I got to shoot Rock Band Party with Govind Namdev ji but unfortunately it got shelved. Meanwhile, I launched my start-up which helped me sustain in the city. Now I believe that additional income is must to realise one’s acting dreams. It’s a very tough world out there.” Besides acting in the film Sitapur…he also donned the hat of an executive producer. “I will be next seen in Sagar Pathak’s movie Cypher. Besides, I am shooting for Ek Nashebaaz and its second schedule will be shot in Mumbai from mid-September. Gabriel Vast is the director as well as the lead with Geetanjali Sharma and Govind Namdev. I am associated with the project Kaand... which will be shot in Lucknow,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/additional-income-is-a-must-to-realise-one-s-acting-dreams-shiva-shukla-101631384528350.html
11-09-2021||Other||UP law varsity should be named after Rajendra Prasad: CM||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said that the National Law University in Prayagraj should be named after India’s first President, Dr Rajendra Prasad.At the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Uttar Pradesh National Law University, in Prayagraj, on Saturday, where President Ram Nath Kovind unveiled a plaque, recording the moment for posterity, Yogi said, “Dr Rajendra Prasad, the first President of India, was deeply connected with Prayagraj. He had a great relationship with the city and the National Law University should be dedicated to his memory.”Along with the law university, the foundation stone of a new building complex of the Allahabad High Court was also laid. Yogi reminded that the high court of Allahabad is the largest high court in Asia, serving justice to 24 crore people of the state.Welcoming guests and dignitaries, he said, “Prayagraj is known in the whole world for the Sangam. It is the land of Triveni.“The demand for a law university and multi-level parking was being raised for years. We will ensure a speedy completion of the project.”He said that 599 court rooms for lower judiciary across the state were being built, out of which 311 were already constructed and 288 were under construction. Further, 611 residences for judicial officers were approved out of which 247 have already been constructed and the rest are under construction.“During Covid-19 pandemic, we realised the importance of digitisation of judicial work and therefore, ₹70 crore was released for digitisation of the judiciary in the state. Further, ₹30 crore was released for purchase of computers in the high court and ₹20 crore for purchase of computers for the lower judiciary.“In 2017, when we came to power, I said a law university must be beyond political interference and must be managed under the guidance of the judiciary,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-law-varsity-should-be-named-after-rajendra-prasad-cm-101631384050754.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi court orders compensation of ₹1.18 crore to family of woman run over by truck in Dwarka two years ago||A city court granted a compensation of ₹1.18 crore to the family of a 49-year-old woman who died after being hit by a truck in Dwarka’s Sector 8 two years ago.Presiding officer of Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) Dr Sumedh Kumar Sethi, while settling the claim with an insurance company, ordered that the woman’s family, including her husband and two children--who are in their 20s, be given the claim for the loss of income.The court said the deceased, Geeta Devi, who was working as an administrative officer in the Life Insurance Company (LIC), had a progressive career in the government sector.According to the FIR, a truck, which was being driven in the reverse direction, hit Devi on December 30, 2019. She was taken to a hospital, where her condition was serious. Later, she succumbed to the injuries.The settlement was a part of the National Lok Adalat, which is organised in the Delhi high court and the city courts where cases under the Negotiable Instrument Act, criminal compoundable cases, civil cases, bank recovery matters and cases under labour disputes,are taken up. According to a press release issued by the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA), 194 Lok Adalats have been constituted in district courts, which disposed of total 23,556 cases--- 223 pre-litigative and 23,333 pending cases. The total fine or settlement amount sanctioned was ₹176.51 crore. A Lok Adalat bench was also constituted at Delhi high court where 33 cases were settled and a settlement amount of ₹1.42 crore was sanctioned. In the national level, overall 202 Lok Adalat benches were constituted, in which total 24,431 cases were settled and the settlement amount was ₹215.19 crores.Shri Kanwal Jeet Arora, member secretary of DSLSA, said the next Lok Adalat, for settling the traffic challan cases, will be held on October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-orders-compensation-of-1-18-crore-to-family-of-woman-run-over-by-truck-in-dwarka-two-years-ago-101631384047990.html
11-09-2021||Other||We need more women judges and lawyers: Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind has said that the role of women in the judiciary has to be increased in order to achieve the inclusive ideals of the Constitution.At the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Uttar Pradesh National Law University in Prayagraj and a new building complex of the Allahabad High Court, on Saturday, he said that history was created in the judiciary with the appointment of nine judges, including three women, in the supreme court last month.“I gave consent to the appointment of nine judges of the Supreme Court recently, out of these 3 are women and one of them will likely be the first woman chief justice of India,” President Kovind said.In August, nine new judges, including three women, were appointed to the Supreme Court with Justice B V Nagarathna in line to be the first woman CJI in September 2027.President Kovind emphasised that the establishment of a truly just society would be possible only when the participation of women increases in all areas, including the judiciary. He, however, noted that at present the total strength of women judges in the supreme court and high courts combined is less than 12%.Addressing the august gathering including chief justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, Union law minister Kiren Rijiju, UP governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, and other dignitaries, including senior justices of the Supreme Court – Vineet Saran, Krishna Murari, Dinesh Maheshwari, Vikram Nath, President Kovind said, “We need more women’s representation in every sphere. Also, we need more women judges and lawyers.”Acting chief justice of Allahabad High Court, Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari, hosted the foundation stone-laying ceremony.The President said, “Lawyers and litigants face problems due to a lack of infrastructure in the judiciary. I have seen the poor struggle for justice. Timely and inexpensive justice is our responsibility. Article 14 & Article 32 of the Constitution of India gives a fundamental right of access to justice to the common man. Proper infrastructure and judicial appointment will ensure that timely justice is imparted.”Talking about the law university, the President said that the university must be built after studying the functioning of the best law universities of the world and how they impart legal knowledge and train students.The Union law minister, Kiren Rijiju said that Prayagraj is a centre of culture and education. “We believe in the independence of the judiciary and will take every step to strengthen it. We are almost ready to table a bill on mediation in the next parliament session. We want India to be a centre of arbitration and mediation,” Rijiju said.He also praised CM Yogi Adityanath and said “The CM has taken revolutionary steps in the last 4 years.”CJI NV Ramana spoke about the role of the city in the freedom struggle. He said that the Allahabad high court has a history of more than 150 years and it was Justice Jagmohan Lal Sinha of the Allahabad high court who passed the judgment disqualifying the then Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi, which shook the nation. He said that it was “a judgment of great courage which could be said to have directly resulted in the declaration of emergency.”The CJI advocated for better infrastructure for the judiciary and asked ACJ Bhandari to conduct more Lok Adalats to resolve matrimonial issues.The governor said, “The President, who was also a lawyer, laying the foundation stone of the university is an honour for us. A separate university ensures better education in the field of law and proper training of law students and this University will ensure this,” said the governor.Earlier, the President was welcomed at Bamrauli Airport by the governor, chief minister, Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi, and local MLAs.The event began with the President unveiling the plaques and CJI NV Ramana unveiling an oil portrait of late AB Saran, senior advocate and father of justice Vineet Saran of the Supreme Court.Acting Chief Justice MN Bhandari welcomed all the guests and said that the current court building was built before Independence. The new complex will have 2,300 chambers for lawyers with a canteen facility for 900 people.The new building complex includes a multi-level parking facility, advocates’ chambers, library, and an auditorium, for which the Uttar Pradesh government has released ₹600 crore.The Uttar Pradesh National Law University is being constructed in the Jhalwa area of Prayagraj.Keeping in mind, Covid-19 restrictions, the facility of live streaming of the event were arranged for the members/lawyers of High Court Bar Association, Allahabad at Bishop Johnson School.As part of his visit to Prayagraj, President Ram Nath Kovind also visited the residence of former governor of West Bengal, Keshari Nath Tripathi and inquired about his well-being. The President stayed at Tripathi’s Lohia Marg house for around half-an-hour. Later, the governor, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh also visited Tripathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/we-need-more-women-judges-and-lawyers-kovind-101631383628442.html
11-09-2021||Noida||One killed, three injured in accident on Yamuna Expressway||A mini truck hit a 35-year-old driver of a multi-utility vehicle on Saturday morning when he was changing the tyre on the roadside in Dankaur, killing him on the spot, police said. Two women and a child sitting in the MUV’s were injured in the accident that took place on the Yamuna Expressway, they said.The deceased was identified as Farukh, a resident of Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. Arvind Pathak, SHO of Dankaur police station, said that five persons, including two women and three children aged between 10 and 15 years and the driver were going from Noida to Hathras when their Maruti Suzuki Ertiga’s tyre got punctured in the Dankaur area around 8am. “Driver Farukh stopped the MUV on the roadside and started replacing the tyre. He had changed the tyre and was putting the damaged one in the car’s boot when a speeding canter coming from the same direction hit him. Farukh received serious injuries and died on the spot,” Pathak said. According to police, the two women -- Ruby, 35, and Reena, 18, -- and a child sitting in the MUV’s back seat were also injured in the accident. Two other children on the front seat narrowly escaped. Some passersby informed police and a team from Dankaur police station reached the spot and admitted the injured to a private hospital in Greater Noida. Police said the injured victims are out of danger. “We have seized the truck while its driver managed to escape. A case has been registered against an unknown person under Section 304-A (death due to negligence) and Section 279 (rash driving) of IPC. We have launched a search to arrest the suspect,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/one-killed-three-injured-in-accident-on-yamuna-expressway-101631383567433.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||J&K leader found dead in west Delhi flat: Police say one suspect held a grudge over eviction from Jammu gurdwara committee||New Delhi: The police team investigating the murder of Tarlochan Singh Wazir, the 67-year-old former member of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) legislative council and a senior National Conference leader from Jammu whose body was found in a west Delhi flat, has found that one of the two absconding suspects nursed a grudge against Wazir over his eviction from the management committee of a gurdwara in Jammu.Police said Harmeet Singh, who was removed from the committee a year ago, reportedly on Wazir’s behest, expressed his anger against the J&K leader before some people, said a senior police officer associated with the probe. Police are also looking for other motives to link the prime suspect, Harpreet Singh, who was close to Wazir and had reportedly rented the flat in Basai Darapur near Moti Nagar in west Delhi, where Wazir’s body was found in a semi-decomposed state on Thursday morning.“As of now, we really don’t know the exact motive behind Wazir’s murder. We are working on two-three probable theories, one of which is related to Harmeet’s eviction from the gurdwara management committee on Wazir’s suggestions. The actual reason will be known only when we catch Harmeet and Harpreet,” the officer added.Initial autopsy report shows that Wazir died of a bullet injury in his head and the time of his death was sometime on September 2, another police officer privy to the development in the case said.The Jammu & Kashmir police were already searching for Wazir as he was supposed to reach Canada on September 3 to attend a family function. The family had tried to contact Wazir on his cellphone but the call was answered by Harpreet, who informed that he had already board the flight but had forgot to take his mobile phone with him. Before turning off Wazir’s mobile phone on September 4, Harpreet had called Wazir’s brother in Jammu and confessed to killing him, along with Harmeet. The brother alerted the Jammu & Kashmir Police and the search operation began, the police said.“We have learnt that Wazir frequently visited Harpreet’s flat in west Delhi. On August 15, Wazir had come to attend Harpreet’s birthday party that he had organised at the flat. Another visit was in the last week of August. We are trying to find out what went wrong between Wazir and Harpreet,” the second officer added.Police said many people known to the two suspects are being questioned in the case while multiple teams are conducting raids in Jammu, Punjab and Delhi-NCR to catch them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jkleader-found-dead-in-west-delhi-flat-police-say-one-suspect-held-a-grudge-over-eviction-from-jammu-gurdwara-committee-101631383507915.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||PGTI golf meet: Chikkarangappa walks away with title||Chikkarangappa S shot a final round of seven-under 65, the day’s joint best score, to emerge victorious by two shots at the TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship presented by the Haryana government and Panchkula Golf Club (PGC) on Saturday. The 27-year-old Chikkarangappa (69-65-69-65), who began the day in third place, three shots off the lead, put up a determined performance on the last day to end up with a tournament total of 20-under 268, two shots ahead of the rest at the ₹50 lakh event.Gurugram’s Veer Ahlawat (67-62-71-70), the leader for the last two days, was unable to hold on to his overnight two-shot lead as he fired a 70 to finish runner-up at 18-under 270 on a day that witnessed a constant light drizzle. Yuvraj Singh Sandhu (72-67-66-67) had the best result among the tricity golfers. The 24-year-old Chandigarh lad struck a 67 on Saturday to take third place at 16-under 272. His eagle on the sixth was accompanied by five birdies and two bogeys as he sealed third place, four shots behind the winner.Panchkula’s Angad Cheema took tied 12th at 10-under 278 while Ravi Kumar ended tied 21st at five-under 283. Chandigarh golfer Ranjit Singh (68) took fifth place at 14-under 274.Karandeep Kochhar of Chandigarh finished tied sixth at 13-under 275 along with Gurugram’s Kartik Sharma and Om Prakash Chouhan of Mhow. Kochhar continues to maintain his lead in the PGTI Order of Merit with season’s earnings of Rs. 44.48 lakh. Chandigarh’s Bishmadpal Singh Seerha, the lone amateur to make the cut, took the honours for the best performance by an amateur after he finished tied 36th at two-under 286.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgti-golf-meet-chikkarangappa-walks-away-with-title-101631383230334.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||35-year-old DTC bus marshal mowed down by truck in south Delhi, police say driver ‘inebriated’||New Delhi: A 35-year-old woman, deployed as a marshal in a Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) bus, was crushed to death under a truck, allegedly being driven by a 25-year-old man in an inebriated state, near Madangir bus stop in south Delhi’s Pushp Vihar around Saturday afternoon.Police said the woman was crossing the road while on her way back home from work when the vehicle ran her over, killing her on the spot.The errant truck driver was caught by the public and handed over to the police. The truck was also impounded. Police said a case of rash and negligent driving causing death was registered, adding that the driver, identified as Jamirulla, a resident of Sonia Vihar in northeast Delhi, was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the accident.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said the woman, identified by her first name Anita, lived with her family in Madangir and worked as a marshal for DTC buses. “She deboarded a bus at Khanpur T-Point and was crossing the road when the truck hit her and crushed her under its wheels. Her body was shifted to a government hospital mortuary for the autopsy,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/35yearold-dtc-bus-marshal-mowed-down-by-truck-in-south-delhi-police-say-driver-inebriated-101631383147928.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Rijiju, Bedi among 7 conferred distinguished Delhi University alumni awards||New Delhi: The Delhi University on Saturday felicitated seven of its noted alumni, including Union law minister Kiren Rijiju, filmmaker Imtiaz Ali, and former Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi, as part of its Foundation Day celebrations on Saturday.Principal secretary to the Prime Minister PK Mishra, Chief Justice of Rajasthan high court Inderjeet Mohanty, Uttar Pradesh State Election Commissioner Manoj Kumar and higher education secretary in ministry of education Amit Khare, were also conferred the distinguished alumni award.DU celebrated its 99th Foundation Day on Saturday with a small gathering in the Convention Hall of the university as it could not be celebrated on May 1 due to the surge of Covid-19 cases back then.“The main focus of the celebration was to honour the distinguished alumni who brought laurels to their alma mater by the excellence in their field as well as to felicitate the awardees of the University who have made outstanding contribution to the University in their spheres of profession,” Registrar Vikas Gupta said in a press statement. Twenty-nine teaching, non-teaching, retired and in-service staff were also conferred awards under different categories during the event on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rijiju-bedi-among-7-conferred-distinguished-delhi-university-alumni-awards-101631383088631.html
11-09-2021||Noida||GB Nagar has highest active Covid-19 cases in state||With 18 active Covid-19 cases, Gautam Budh Nagar on Friday emerged as the district with the highest number of active cases in Uttar Pradesh, according to the 24-hour summary report from the state health department. District health department officials said that all the 18 patients are in home isolation.Among 75 districts in the state, GB Nagar has shared the top spot with Prayagraj that also reported 18 active cases on Friday, the official data showed. With 3 new cases on Friday, the total tally of infections in GB Nagar was at 63,281 cases, including 466 deaths. The data also shows that GB Nagar has seen a slight increase in active cases in the past two weeks. From 10 active cases on August 27, the number increased to 18 on Friday (September 10). Between August 29 and September 10, the district has reported a total of 17 new Covid-19 cases. Health officials said that a 10-day surveillance activity that started on September 7 is being carried out in the district to screen all fever patients for Covid-19. “Over 500 teams of Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers are carrying our door-to-door survey across the district to screen any fever cases. If the patient has had fever for more than five days, they are tested for Covid-19,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer, GB Nagar.However, Sharma said that the Covid situation in the district is under control. “Just a few days ago, GB Nagar was at the 4th place in terms of active cases in the state. Such data keeps changing on a daily basis,” he said.Meanwhile, Dr NK Sharma, president of Indian Medical Association (Noida chapter) said that the general public needs to exercise restraint and follow Covid-19 protocols even though restrictions have been relaxed. “People should not think that just because restrictions are removed, Covid-19 has vanished. If Covid appropriate behaviour is not followed, cases are bound to increase,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-has-highest-active-covid-19-cases-in-state-101631383087380.html
11-09-2021||Noida||G Noida: Woman files fake complaint of car robbery||A 25-year-old woman lodged a fake complaint of car loot, alleging that two people robbed her of car at gunpoint in Dadri on Saturday morning, which was later recovered from another society, said police. The woman, identified as Sonu (single name), a resident of Amka Road in Dadri, works in a private company in Greater Noida. In her complaint registered with the police, Sonu alleged she left for work around 7:20am on Saturday. “I hardly travelled 100m in my car when two armed criminals forced me to stop the vehicle at gun point. They snatched my car and fled the spot,” she said. Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer of Dadri police station, said a case was registered against unknown persons under Section 392 (robbery) of the IPC. “We launched an investigation and recovered the car from another society. Preliminary investigation shows she lodged a fake complaint,” said Tripathi. Police said they are trying to ascertain why the woman filed a fake complaint. “Prima facie investigation shows the car was financed. It appears the woman made up the story to evade car loan payment,” said Tripathi. Police are questioning the woman and also investigating the CCTV footage in the nearby areas to see whether someone else was also involved in her plan. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, also said the woman faked the loot case. “We are investigating the matter from all angles. We are not in a position to share more details right now, but we can confirm that this was not a loot case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/g-noida-woman-files-fake-complaint-of-car-robbery-101631383028639.html
11-09-2021||Noida||Lotus Boulevard case: Security agency may lose licence||Noida police have recommended cancelling the licence of security agency, CISS Bureau, days after a handful of guards of the agency deployed at Lotus Boulevard in Sector 100 allegedly assaulted a resident of the society on September 8. The society’s Apartment Owners Association (AOA) has also ended its contract with the agency and is now looking for a replacement. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said prima facie, investigation shows the security guards were not adequately trained. “The security agency also did not comply with the rules laid down in the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, 2005. Noida police have submitted a report to the ADG law and order, Uttar Pradesh, seeking for the cancellation of the agency’s licence,” said the DCP. Suresh Kumar Singh (55), a resident of Tower 28 in Lotus Boulevard, said on September 8, he had asked for the key to the building’s shaft from a security guard as he was installing broadband connection at his home, for which the technician needed access to the shaft. “The security guard refused saying I needed fresh permission from the management. I had sought permission a day before. After a heated argument with the guard, I took the key and got the work done,” he said. Singh said when he reached the ground floor, some 15-20 security guards attacked him with canes, iron rods and cricket bats. The incident was captured in camera and was widely circulated on social media. A case was registered against five named and 15 unnamed persons under Section 147 (rioting), Section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), Section 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at Sector 39 police station. Singh also named the AOA president Tej Prakash in his complaint. Prakash said he had no connection with the incident. “I have not talked to that man (Singh) for over a year. We condemn the incident and resolve to ensure the safety of residents. The same day (September 8), we called a residents’ meeting and decided to replace the security agency. The society has nearly 3,000 flats and 10,000 residents. We are looking for a suitable agency,” he said.Meanwhile, the security agency said the security guards were provoked. Sandeep Kumar, regional manager of CISS Bureau, said Singh first called the security guard from his flat demanding for the keys to the shaft and then abused him. “He then reached the ground floor, abused and slapped the guard. The guard then informed about the incident to other security guards, which led to the unpleasant incident,” he said. Kumar said the security agency had taken charge in May this year and that these guards were hired from the previous company, which was in charge of the society’s security. There are around 119 security guards in the society. The security agency alleged they approached Noida police for a counter FIR but their application was not accepted.On September 9, the police had arrested eight security guards while one more was arrested on Friday. All the suspects are currently in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/lotus-boulevard-case-security-agency-may-lose-licence-101631382787344.html
11-09-2021||Noida||Commuters suffer as rain lashes Noida, Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad was in a “watery” mess on Saturday as roads got inundated, residents grappled to flush out water from their homes, commuters struggled to push their broken-down vehicles through waterlogged stretches and long traffic jams dominated major roads as the city received one of the heaviest showers this monsoon. Noida too received its fair share of high rainfall on Saturday, that left several roads waterlogged. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Ghaziabad district recorded 26.6mm rainfall on Saturday against the estimated normal precipitation of 2.4mmfor September 11. So far, since June 1, the district has received total 267.7mm rain against the normal of 491.9mm. Noida received 31mm rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Saturday, taking the city’s overall rainfall to 187mm against the average precipitation of 491.7 mm. R K Jenamani, a senior scientist at IMD said, “The region may see another spell of rainfall on Sunday... but later, the intensity will drop. There is a low pressure area over eastern Rajasthan that is causing the rainfall in the region. It’s effect will eventually wear out. However, the low intensity sporadic light rains may continue beyond Sunday.” According to weather experts, monsoon will remain active in the region as another low pressure area is also developing. “There is a fresh low pressure area developing in north-east Bay of Bengal and this is likely to reach Odisha by tomorrow (Sunday). This will lead to further rains in central and north-west India from September 16 onwards,” Dr M Mohapatra, director general of meteorology, IMD.Meanwhile, the high intensity rainfall in both the regions led to water logging, traffic snarls and jams at several places.Vinay Gautam, who lives in a ground-floor house in Valmiki Kunj near Patel Nagar II in Ghaziabad, watchedhelplesslyas rainwater started entering his house since early morning. “There was one-and-a-half foot water in my home. I and my family members watched in despair as water entered our home and damaged our belongings. We couldn’t even flush out the water since the roads were already waterlogged. Last week, when it rained heavily, it took two days for the water levels to recede,” said Gautam. Heavy rain, coupled with a road cave-in near Shipra Shrishti high-rise in Indirapuram, forced most residents to stay indoors. “There was heavy waterlogging near Shipra Sun City, Ahimsa Khand II, Vaibhav Khand and other areas. Moreover, there was a major road cave-in near Shipra Shrishti high-rise, that was more than 10-12ft wide. We informed the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) but no one responded till 10am,” said Alok Kumar, a resident of Arihant Harmony in Ahimsa Khand II, Indirapuram. A K Chaudhary, executive engineer from GDA, said several teams were deployed in Indirapuram. “We also roped in jetting machines to flush out water. The caved-in road was barricaded, and repair will start once rain stops,” said Chaudhary. As heavy rainfall lashed Ghaziabad till Saturday evening, dozens of vehicles broke down on major roads like the Link Road, GT Road and Meerut Road due to heavy waterlogging. Vijay Nagar resident Pradeep Kumar took about an hour to cover a distance of about 7km from Crossings Republik to Kavi Nagar. “There was more than 1ft water at Lal Kuan intersection. When I tried passing through the industrial areas, they too were heavily waterlogged. Besides, many vehicles broke down and that compounded traffic,” said Kumar. The situation was no different in Vaishali, where there was heavy waterlogging in Sectors 2, 4 and 5. “I postponed my travel in the morning due to heavy waterlogging. When it rained previously, my car broke down and I had to shell out a heft amount for its repairs,” said Mohit Sharma, a resident of Vaishali’s Sector 1. “We had to deploy all of our eight towing vans since early morning to tow the vehicles which broke down at Bhopra, Mohan Nagar, Arthala, Meerut tri-junction and other places. Our personnel were on the roads throughout the day to streamline traffic and remove snarls,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic). Officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation said their teams were deployed in all five zones. “Due to heavy rain, we implemented the plan we rolled out in August to tackle waterlogging in different areas. Different teams headed by our officers were deployed across the city to flush out water from waterlogged stretches. The volume of rainwater was exceptionally high on Saturday, and it will take some time for the water levels to recede,” said Ghaziabad municipal commissioner M S Tanwar. In Noida, the worst affected areas were Labour Chowk, the underpass at Mamura metro bridge in Sector 61, parts of Sectors 51, 62, 72, 75, 76, Barola and the underpass at Sector 18. “The traffic was moving very slowly due to heavy rainfall and waterlogging. The worst affected area was the stretch from Said Temple to Parthala Chowk, from where we had to reroute vehicles through Gadhi road. Traffic was also affected at Kulesara in Greater Noida, Labour Chowk in Noida and the underpass after Mamura ,” said an official from the Noida traffic police department.“We installed pumps and deployed workers to flush out water from inundated roads. By evening, most of such waterlogged areas were cleared,” said an official from the Noida authority, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, residents said there was no improvement in the authority’s approach to solve the perennial issue of waterlogging. Manoj Chandel, a resident of Sector 76, said, “The underpass at Sector 18 was heavily waterlogged in the morning when I was leaving for work. When I returned in the evening, the water from underpasses was flushed out but the road above still had water on the sides.” Amit Gupta, a resident of Noida’s Sector 77 and a social worker said, “The Noida authority takes up works that requires digging at roadside. At Sector 77, there are big craters, which have been dug to maintain pipes, which have been left open and are filled with water.” Man struck by lightning dies A 22-year-old man, identified as Guddu, a resident of Yaseen Garhi in Dasna, died after lightning struck him at a pond in Ghaziabad’s Dasna around 2pm on Saturday. “The man had gone fishing at a pond, when lightning struck him. He suffered severe burn injuries and died on the spot,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of rural police. He added his friends Mohammad Asif and Mohammad Salim also suffered burns, but they were discharged after primary treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/commuters-suffer-as-rain-lashes-noida-ghaziabad-101631382667525.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Remove obsolete machinery from MC store: Mohali mayor||Mohali mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu visited the Mohali municipal corporation store on Saturday and instructed officials to remove the junk and rusty machinery. Sidhu said there were many junk items at the store and the old machinery was in a state of disrepair. He asked the officials to clear the entire area and reserve another place for goods confiscated by the tehbazari department. He also asked the authorities to carry out a complete clean up of the weeds and to set up a store where only machinery would be stored. Sidhu said that there is also a gaushala here because of which cleanliness is very important. Sidhu said “The machinery procured by the MC over the years has been in a state of neglect at the store.This is a very large area, which can be put to good use if cleaned.” He added that the authorities have been asked to implement these instructions immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/remove-obsolete-machinery-from-mc-store-mohali-mayor-101631382190728.html
11-09-2021||Other||Centre committed to J&K’s tourism sector, says MoS Bhatt||The Union government will take measures to boost Jammu and Kashmir’s tourism sector, which is the biggest industry of the UT, Union minister of state for defence and tourism Ajay Bhatt said.As part of Union Government’s public outreach programme for Jammu and Kashmir, Bhatt had a interacted with the officials of Jammu and Kashmir tourism department in Srinagar on Saturday. The meeting was attended by various stakeholders associated with the tourism sector.Bhatt said the Centre is making all out efforts to keep the essence of Jammu and Kashmir intact by ensuring holistic development of the region. “Besides the existing avenues, measures will be taken to further boost border tourism, eco-tourism and horticulture tourism in the region,” he told the stakeholders.Representatives of tour operators and hoteliers were present during the interaction. They highlighted various challenges being faced by the industry and sought the support and assistance of the government to overcome them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-committed-to-j-k-s-tourism-sector-says-mos-bhatt-101631381887760.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||First hate crime victim in US after 9/11: Respecting diversity will be big honour to Balbir, says brother||Sikhs have always stood up for justice for everyone and respecting people of different colour, creed and gender will be a big honour to Balbir Singh Sodhi, the first victim of hate following the 9/11 terror attacks, according to his brother. As the world marks the 20th anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks in which nearly 3,000 people from over 90 countries were killed, Rana Singh Sodhi recalled the tragedy that struck his family just days after the terror attacks in the US when Sikh people began to be targeted because of their appearance. “My brother, who believed in Sikhism, had a beard and turban on his head. The person thought he looked more like a Talib. He associated our turban with those Taliban and shot and killed my brother,” he said in a video message issued by the National Sikh Campaign. In a tribute, the Sikh Coalition said that on September 15, 2001, Sodhi “was planting flowers outside his gas station in Mesa when he was shot and killed by a man supposedly seeking retribution for the terrorist attacks four days earlier”. Sodhi’s death marked the first recorded deadly post-9/11 hate crime, it said. Sodhi’s killer Frank Roque is serving life in prison. In the video, Rana Singh Sodhi recalls receiving a phone call from his brother on the day of the terror attacks on the World Trade Centre, asking him to turn on the TV and see the news. “Our country got attacked here. Same day, I think they started showing (Osama) bin Laden images on the TV,” he said, adding that before 9/11 he was never concerned about his security. But after the terror attacks, people started “yelling to us ‘Go back to your country” and using expletives, he said. The day his brother was shot, Rana Singh Sodhi said he got a call from one of the employees about a shooting. “And I called my brother and he didn’t answer and then I learned he got shot,” he said. He said his family got justice as the killer was caught within 24 hours and put behind bars. “That justice makes a lot of difference. What we have as Sikh values and American values, they are very equal and well connected to each other. America will always stand for justice and we have a history as Sikhs that if you see injustice right in front of your eyes, you should stand up,” he said. Rana Singh Sodhi said: “We all humans are equal — colour, creed and gender. To honour my brother, if you love your neighbours, if you respect people with different colour, creed and gender, it will be a big honour to my brother”. Rana Singh Sodhi said that every year on the day they lost Balbir , his family members have been gathering at the gas station where he was killed to remember and honour him. This year, they will welcome a wider group of people on this important anniversary, “so that we can pay tribute to all those who have been hurt by hate and also share the love and support that my family has felt for 20 years with the nationwide sangat,” he was quoted as saying in the statement issued by the Sikh Coalition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-hate-crime-victim-in-us-after-9-11-respecting-diversity-will-be-big-honour-to-balbir-says-brother-101631381777790.html
11-09-2021||Gurugram||Four, including wife, booked for abetting suicide of Farrukhnagar resident||The city police booked four persons, including the wife and in-laws of a Farrukhnagar resident, for allegedly abetting his suicide. A case was registered against the four persons under sections 306 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code at the Farrukhnagar police station on Friday, based on a complaint registered by the victim’s father, the police said. According to the police, the complainant alleged that his daughter-in-law, her mother and two other relatives were responsible for leading him to take the extreme step on August 25. In his complaint to the police, the father, a resident of Kheda Jhanjrola in Farrukhnagar block, told the police that his son had consumed a poisonous substance and he died at a private hospital. He told police that at the time of the incident, he was not aware of the reason for the suicide but that later, while cleaning the room of his late son, the family found a diary in which he had written a suicide note. According to the complainant, his son had blamed his wife, mother-in-law and two other relatives for harassing him and forcing him to take the extreme step.When asked about the matter, Subash Boken, the spokesperson for city police, said that a case has been registered against the suspects and that the matter is being probed. In another development, the city police on Friday arrested four persons for allegedly manhandling and snatching a mobile phone from a Chinese national on August 20 in Sector 7 of Manesar. The police said that the four accused, identified as Nitin, Mahesh, Nitesh and Keshav, all residents of Pataudi, were arrested on Friday. A case has been registered against the accused at IMT Manesar police station under sections 395 and 34 of the IPC. Boken said that two motorcycles and sticks used in the crime were seized from the accused. A mobile phone snatched from the victim on August 30 was also recovered, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-including-wife-booked-for-abetting-suicide-of-farrukhnagar-resident-101631381712115.html
11-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram rain leaves roads waterlogged, commuters stranded||Residents woke up to a heavy spell of rain on Saturday morning, with 34.8mm of rainfall leaving several stretches heavily waterlogged and commuters stranded. Many also took to social media to highlight their plight, despite there being fewer vehicles on roads on account of it being a weekend. Heavy waterlogging was reported from the Galleria market Road, at Khandsa on National Highway 48, Narsinghpur Chowk, parts of Dundhahera and interior roads of Palam Vihar, among other stretches, including parts of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway. Traffic movement was affected at a few points of NH-48 between Dhaula Kuan and Gurugram, near Galleria Market, Khandsa, New Colony Road in Sector 7 and parts of Sector 52. A small part of a road also caved in near Manesar on Saturday morning, following a spell of heavy rain. “All our personnel were on alert and on specific spots where traffic congestions were reported to facilitate the traffic flow. Traffic snarls started being reported in the second half of the day but, heavy traffic jams were not reported as such,” a senior official of the traffic department, requesting not to be named, said. Residents took to social media to report that a security camera near Sushant Estate in Sector 52 broke down due to heavy rain, which could eventually lead to accidents. Meanwhile, officials from the infrastructure-II division of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority said that waterlogging was relatively lower on Saturday as the city did not receive heavy rain in a short span of time. “Gurugram received heavy rain once in the morning and late afternoon, but mostly throughout the day, it was drizzling. Due to this, water did not accumulate at one particular point for long and could flow into the stormwater drains easily. This time, water receded quickly from one of our regular spots, Medanta underpass, where water accumulates every time (it rains). Water receded quickly from most roads today (Saturday) as it drizzled mostly,” the official said, requesting anonymity. Explaining reasons behind the decrease in waterlogging this time, the GMDA official said that during repair work after the first spell of rain this monsoon, GMDA found that walls were built in stormwater drains due to which flow was affected. “We had sent cameras down the manhole near Medanta, when we found that almost three walls had been created due to accumulation of dirt and waste, which affected flow of stormwater. We also made sure that on-ground teams clean fallen leaves and other materials blocking the openings of drains beside the roads immediately,” the official said. Besides these measures, super-sucker machines and dewatering pump sets were also used. In 2019, the GMDA had placed eight dewatering pump sets, four tractor-mounted suction pumps, one earthmover, two super-sucker machines, and 5,000 gunny bags at a flood control room in Sector 53. About 10 people worked there round-the-clock, in shifts, to serve as a control room to handle waterlogging problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-rain-leaves-roads-waterlogged-commuters-stranded-101631381710903.html
11-09-2021||Gurugram||Emerald Hills residents protest over lack of access road||Residents of Emerald Hills condominium in Sector 65 on Saturday held a sit-in protest outside their society to protest against the lack of an access road and lack of corrective measures after a temporary access road caved in last month.Residents said that they have approached the developer, Emaar, and the government authorities but there has been no resolution. They said that the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) had also inspected the area and directed the developer to repair the road.Satyanand Shukla, a member of the residents’ welfare association (RWA) said that more than 100 residents took part in the protest on Saturday. “We plan to fight until the developer provides us with three 24-metre access roads and repairs the caved-in road on priority,” he said.The protesters also threatened to block the Golf Course Extension Road and the deputy commissioner’s office at the Mini Secretariat if their issues are not resolved.The developer, however, said that the construction of 24-metre roads to the condominium falls under the jurisdiction of local authorities. “This matter has been followed up regularly with authorities at various levels. Repeated attempts have made been to repair and restore but all such sincere efforts and attempts have, time and again, been stalled by locals. Concerned authorities have been apprised of the issues involved, and we await their intervention in order to resolve the matter,” a spokesperson for Emaar said.A senior official of the DTCP, when asked about the matter said that this issue is under consideration of the department.”We are aware of this matter and will resolve it soon,” the official said.Protesters said that around 3,000 residents of the condominium are suffering for the past month since the road caved in. They also alleged that there has been no action on the ground on complaints to DTCP and CM Window. They alleged that authorities continue to shift the blame among one another and the developer, despite residents having paid external development charges for basic infrastructure.“Despite being just 200 metres away from the Golf course Extension Road, it takes a five-kilometre detour and 30 additional minutes to reach the main road (from the society).The world seems to be so out of bound for us, especially ladies and Kids,” Swati Wilton, a resident, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/emerald-hills-residents-protest-over-lack-of-access-road-101631381709780.html
11-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram rainfall 44% excess this monsoon||The city received 34.8mm of rainfall on Friday and Saturday, which took the total rainfall this monsoon to 675.6mm, over the normal rain limit set by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) at an excess of 44%.According to IMD records, from June 1 to September 11, the normal rainfall for the district is 468.2mm while Gurugram has already received 675.6mm rainfall so far. Neighbouring Faridabad district is still in a 10% rainfall deficit for this monsoon season with 479.2mm of rainfall received so far, against the normal of 531.2mm of rainfall. Gurugram is likely to receive more rain over the coming days till the monsoon starts receding, IMD officials said. According to the weekly forecast of IMD, one or two spells of rain or thundershowers is likely in the city from September 11-15. “Gurugram has been receiving consistent rainfall this season, even though there have been dry spells. The weekly rainfall might be low but overall, the district has received good rain so far in the monsoon season and this will increase further as more rain, approximately 10mm to 20mm of rainfall, is likely for Gurugram and nearby areas over the next one week,” a senior IMD official, who did not wish to be named, said. According to the media bulletin issued by IMD Chandigarh on Saturday evening, Gurugram received 38.4mm of rainfall from 8.30pm on Friday to 5.30pm on Saturday.With rainfall and wind hitting the city, the maximum temperature in the city on Saturday was 27 degrees Celsius (°C), which was seven degrees below normal. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 22°C, which was two degrees below normal. On Saturday, the humidity level at the end of the day was recorded to be 100%. Despite more rainfall predicted, the temperature is likely to rise in Gurugram over the next four days. The maximum temperature is likely to be around 31°C and the minimum temperature will remain around 22°C, officials said. The Meteorological Centre of Chandigarh has also issued a yellow alert till September 13 in Gurugram, Faridabad and other districts of south Haryana. A weather warning bulletin issued by the IMD’s meteorological centre in Chandigarh predicted “heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning, squall” in Gurugram till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-rainfall-44-excess-this-monsoon-101631381708415.html
11-09-2021||Other||146 fresh Covid cases reported in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 146 fresh coronavirus infections on Saturday. There were 121 cases in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 25 infections.Srinagar in Kashmir saw the highest count of 72 cases. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 138 with active positive cases reaching 1,301.Srinagar has the highest of 613 active cases followed by Baramulla and Budgam with 157 and 133 active cases, respectively.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,21,086 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.26%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,26,799 and the death toll stands at 4,412.The officials said that 52,153 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/146-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-jk-101631381652506.html
11-09-2021||Other||Husband, mother-in-law among 3 held for woman’s murder in Kishtwar||A man, along with his brother and mother, were arrested for allegedly killing his wife in Kishtwar district, police said on Saturday.“The Kishtwar police solved the blind murder case of Neetu Devi, wife of Lokesh Kumar in Horna village, who was found hanging in a community hall on July 7,” said a police officer.Following the incident, police had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.“It came to our notice that Neetu’s parents were not informed about the last rites of their daughter. The in-laws had stated that Neetu had committed suicide but during the course of enquiry we suspected some foul play and accordingly the inquest proceedings were converted into an FIR under Section 302 of the IPC,” he added.A special investigation team (SIT) was constituted and the they collected evidence, detained some suspects for questioning and during the course of investigation it was established that Neetu Devi was murdered by her husband Lokesh Kumar, his brother Gowash Lal, and their mother Devki Devi by strangulating her with a dupatta, he said.The trio after committing the heinous crime had shifted Neetu’s dead body to a nearby community hall, hanged it there with a hook using her dupatta to make it appear a case of suicide.During investigation, it came to fore that the in-laws of the deceased wanted to get Lokesh Kumar married to another girl for which they committed such a heinous crime.All the accused were taken into custody and lodged in Kishtwar district jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/husband-mother-in-law-among-3-held-for-woman-s-murder-in-kishtwar-101631381587783.html
11-09-2021||Other||3 of family killed, 2-year-old missing in car crash||Three people, including a two-month-old baby girl of a family were killed while a two-year-old girl remains missing and three others were rescued after a car fell into a canal at Marallian in Miran Sahib area of RS Pura in Jammu district in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday.Miran Sahib SHO, inspector Sultan Mirza, said, “A Maruti car carrying eight persons fell into a canal in Miran Sahib area late on Friday.”“The car driven by one Ganesh Kumar, of Bahadurpur in Arnia, was carrying seven passengers. It was on its way to Bhadarpur from Satwari. However, it veered off the road at Dak Bangalow Marallian and fell into a canal killing four persons,” said the officer.Four on board the car were rescued. They were identified as Ganesh Kumar, Kanchan, Meenu Kumari and Sushant.However, four others died in the accident. They were identified as Surjeet Kumari, her husband Kewal Krishan, and a two-month-old baby Paranshi.“A two-year-old girl, Mansi, is still missing. We are searching for her. The water-level in the canal is a big hindrance in retrieving her,” said Mirza.Police, along with SDRF personnel, are still searching for the minor girl when reports last poured in. “An FIR was registered in the incident,” he said.The officer said, “There is a blind curve near Dak Bungalow in Marallian where the car plunged into the canal. Any vehicle, particular those not familiar with the sharp curve, being driven at a high speed, are always at risk of plunging into the canal”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-of-family-killed-2-year-old-missing-in-car-crash-101631381468017.html
11-09-2021||Other||Mercury falls due to intermittent rain in J&K, Ladakh||Intermittent rains lashed in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh during the night and the wee hours of Saturday bringing down the temperatures.Rain continued intermittently in the region throughout the day.The meteorological department said mostly light rain drenched J&K with a highest of 29.2mm rain in Kathua in the past 24 hours.Gulmarg recorded 8.2mm rain, 6.1mm in Bhaderwah, 4.9mm in Leh, 3.4mm in Jammu, and 2.9mm in Srinagar, the department said.The department has predicted scattered light rainfall for the week starting September 10.“During the week, from September 3 to 9, J&K received 31% less rainfall than normal. The cumulative rainfall during the monsoon from June 1 till September 9 was also deficient,” said MeT deputy director Mukhtar Ahmad.Rains have been intermittently affecting the region since Wednesday. “Similar conditions are likely to continue till September 12 in both the UTs,” said MeT director Sonam Lotus.The precipitation has brought down day temperature across UT. In Kashmir, a maximum of 29.3°C was recorded in Kupwara, while it was lowest in Gulmarg at 17.4°C. The mercury settled at 28°C in Srinagar. In Jammu division, the Jammu district saw 29.2°C temperature while it was 22.7°C in Batote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mercury-falls-due-to-intermittent-rain-in-j-k-ladakh-101631381418913.html
11-09-2021||Other||NC leader Wazir cremated in Jammu||Amid a swarm of people, the mortal remains of former MLC and senior National Conference leader Tarlochan Singh Wazir were cremated at Shastri Nagar cremation ground in Jammu on Saturday.NC vice-president Omar Abdullah and provincial president Devender Singh Rana were among others who attended the funeral.Senior BJP leader and former deputy chief minister Kavinder Gupta and senior vice-president of J&K Congress Raman Bhalla also attended the funeral of the deceased.Omar was seen consoling the bereaved family of the deceased, who were earlier in Canada and had rushed back following Wazir’s death.“Wazir was a leader with qualities of heart and mind, who served the people in his different capacities. In his death, the NC has lost a public spirited leader and the vacuum created will be difficult to fill,” Rana said.Different organisations seek CBI probeWhile hundreds of people turned up for the cremation, various organisations have demanded a CBI probe into his murder.J&K Congress chief GA Mir expressed shock over the tragic death of TS Wazir. He demanded thorough investigation and appropriate legal action as per law of the land.Wazir, 67, was found dead in a flat in West Delhi’s Moti Nagar on Thursday morning.The Delhi Police have registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC and have initiated investigations. Police are looking for two suspects believed to be behind the assassination of the senior NC leader.Wazir’s body had reached his Gandhi Nagar residence from Delhi on Saturday morning. Wazir was a leading transporter, and the chairman of the All J&K Transport Welfare Association.Wazir had reached Delhi on September 1 and was scheduled to leave for Canada but he went missing on September 2. Later, his decomposed body with his head wrapped in a plastic bag was found in the washroom of the flat after his family approached police to know about his whereabouts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nc-leader-wazir-cremated-in-jammu-101631381227864.html
11-09-2021||Other||Rahul Gandhi’s references a cold comfort for Kashmiri Pandits: BJP||“Rahul Gandhi’s ‘Kashmiri Pandit’ references during his two-day tour of Jammu are a cold comfort for the Kashmiri Pandits, who have all along been the victims of the Congress’ appeasement policy in Jammu and Kashmir,” senior BJP and KP leader Ashwani Kumar Chrungoo said on Saturday.He was reacting to Rahul’s statements during his visit to Jammu and Kashmir during which he had identified himself as a Kashmiri Pandit.“It needs to be clarified that the Kashmiri Pandits have no ‘Gandhi’ surname. A fake narrative that Gandhis are Kashmiri Pandits is rejected ab initio. The Kashmir policy of the Congress party under Nehru and Gandhis is the progenitor of the Kashmir problem right since 1947. Kashmiri Pandits were the worst victims of the Congress’s Kashmir policy,” Chrungoo said.In 1989-90, when terrorism overwhelmed the socio-political scenario in Kashmir, there was a coalition government of National Conference and Congress in J&K under the leadership of Farooq Abdullah, he said.“Genocide, ethnic cleansing and mass exodus of the Kashmiri Pandits took place during the same period in 1989-90. Congress is equally responsible for what was done to the Kashmiri Pandits,” he said.“Moreover, when reports after reports were sent to the central government right from 1984 to 1989 regarding the emerging security situation and terrorism in Kashmir, it virtually sat on those reports and allowed the situation to go out of hands. The result was that the communalism, separatism and terrorism ruled the roost in the Valley and the miniscule community of Kashmiri Pandits became the victims of the failures of the then Congress government at the Centre,” Chrungoo said.Even after the forced mass exodus of the KP community, Congress in league with its the then associates played politics with the Kashmiri Pandits and made unsuccessful attempts to blame former governor Jagmohan for the mass exodus.“The party did never come to the rescue of the Pandits during its struggle in exile. It was RSS, BJP, Shiv Sena and VHP which helped the cause of the Pandits,” he added.“After paying visit and obeisance at Mata Vaishno Devi shrine, it is time for the Congress leadership to do some soul-searching and recognise its blunders on the J&K situation as to where it went wrong in the past. Mere rhetoric are not going to bring any solace to the people of Jammu and Kashmir and especially the displaced KPs,” he said.Pandits’ body welcomes Rahul’s statementThe Reconciliation, Return and Rehabilitation of Migrant Kashmiri Pandits (RRRM) Saturday welcomed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s statement in which he said that he will do something for Kashmiri Pandits. “We, the KP community, appreciate Rahul’s concerns about his own community brethren. Rahul is a Kashmiri Pandit, grandson of Indira Gandhi, whom the community admired and wholeheartedly always voted for in Kashmir. Reinforcing his KP identity has given a new energy to the beleaguered community. Rahul is community’s leader,” said RRRM chairman Satish Mahaldar in a statement issued here.“He has promised the KP community, which is his own, to help them. We hope that he takes up his own community’s cause and helps in getting justice which has been eluding KPs for the past three decades,” said Mahaldar.“We hope and pray that the bond that existed between the KP community, the Congress and the Nehru-Gandhi family will continue. The early nineties was a very bad phase for the community, J&K and the country. We hope that Rahul Gandhi as a leader of the community takes the cause of the Kashmiris, KPs in particular, to help bring peace and harmony in the Valley,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rahul-gandhi-s-references-a-cold-comfort-for-kashmiri-pandits-bjp-101631381168776.html
11-09-2021||Other||Five more succumb to Covid in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh recorded 167 fresh Covid-19 infections on Saturday taking the state’s tally to 2,15,604 while the death toll mounted to 3,619 after five patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 35 each were reported in Kangra and Mandi, 28 in Bilaspur, 22 each in Hamirpur and Shimla, 11 in Una, three each in Kinnaur, Kullu and Solan, two each in Chamba and Sirmaur and one in Lahaul-Spiti.Three deaths were reported in Kangra and one each in Mandi and Shimla.The active cases have come down to 1,620 while recoveries reached 2,10,348 after 224 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst hit district with a total of 48,076 cases reported to date followed by 30,289 cases in Mandi and 26,885 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-more-succumb-to-covid-in-himachal-101631380994585.html
11-09-2021||Other||Banjar legislator injured in road mishap||Banjar legislator Surendra Shourie was injured when a vehicle in which he was travelling rolled down a deep gorge near village Bahu in Banjar panchayat on Saturday.First-time BJP legislator Shourie was returning from Balu Panjo festival.The legislator had taken a lift from a local resident.There were seven passengers in the vehicle. All of them fell unconscious after the vehicle rolled down the gorge.The injured were taken to Banjar hospital and those in serious condition were taken to Kullu hospital.All those with minor injuries were discharged from the hospital after first aid.Meanwhile, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed concerns for Shourie and wished him a speedy recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/banjar-legislator-injured-in-road-mishap-101631380929165.html
11-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 3,075 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in 214 days||Even as the state authorities are anticipating a potential rise in the number of Covid-19 cases amid the ongoing Ganesh Festival, Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 3,075 Covid-19 new cases, which is the lowest number after 214 days. The last lowest figure was on February 9, when 2,515 new cases were recorded. Though the cases have come down, the state government is wary about the possible increase in the cases in the state after the Ganesh festival.The low number of cases on Saturday can be attributed to the less number of tests conducted in the last 24 hours —1,33,479 — which is one of the lowest ones in recent months. The testing number is less due to the first day of the Ganesh Festival.The average testing per day in the past 11 days this month has been 169,020, while the average testing in August was 193,848 per day.Amid the crowding at the public places, including markets, Ganesh pandals and people visiting their relatives’ houses, the authorities feel that there could be a rise in the cases in the next two weeks.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said festivals tend to result in a surge of cases.“We have been observing that the cases tend to increase after the festivals. Citizens tend to flout basic rules like wearing masks or maintaining social distance,” said Dr Awate. He cited the recent example of the Onam festival in Kerala, where the cases shot up exponentially after the festival.Currently, Maharashtra ranks second in terms of active cases next to Kerala. There are 37,774 active cases in Maharashtra, of which, five districts Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Satara and Ahmednagar account for 75.85% as the number 37,774 cases.However, on the ground, there are still eight districts that have positivity rates more than the state average of 2.67% according to the weekly report released on Tuesday. Of this Pune (6.33%), Sangli (5.59%) and Ahmednagar (5.39%) has a positivity rate of more than 5%, which indicates that Covid-19 is still not under control.Awate said that the state government has served advisories to all the districts in the state and have especially asked these five districts to ensure all caution. “We have asked them to ramp up the testing facilities as well as ensure that the patients are isolated and started their medication,” said Awate.Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild said the entire scenario is very confusing. “We feel that the variants are causing havoc and not allowing the numbers to come down. In addition, the vaccination drive is not consistent across all districts due to the Central-State tussle,” said Dr Gilada.“On one hand, the government is asking people to celebrate low key Ganeshotsav, and on the other hand, thousands of buses are arranged to transport people to the Konkan region. How can we control the virus in such a scenario,” said Gilada.The state has also speeded up the vaccination drive as 935,575 citizens were administered their vaccine doses on Saturday. The total number of doses administered to date from January, when the drive started, has now reached 67,664,505 of which 18,560,050 citizens have been fully vaccinated. Mumbai, on Saturday, recorded 361 new cases with four deaths.The state’s death toll has reached 138,096, while the caseload stands at 6,494,254. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 49,796, of which Pune tops with 12,949 patients followed by Thane with 7823 active patients and Satara with 5584.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-3-075-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-212-days-101631379189910.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||HC fines Punjab man who sought protection after second marriage||A Muslim man belonging to Punjab’s Malerkotla district, who along with his purported second wife moved the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking protection, has been slapped with ₹1-lakh fine. The court imposed the fine after finding discrepancies in documents submitted by him, relating to his divorce with the first wife and marriage with the second one. The fine collected from the petitioner will be paid to his first wife.The man and his purported second wife had moved court for protection, apprehending threat to their life and liberty at the hands of the former’s first wife and latter’s relatives. While passing the order, the high court (HC) bench of justice Arvind Sangwan observed that it cannot ignore the fact that the man is not only claiming to have divorced his first wife but has also refused to maintain and take care of the upbringing of his two minor daughters, aged two and four.“On the face of it, the present petition is nothing but a ploy to seek a seal of this court regarding the lustful and adulterous life of petitioner No. 2 (the man) with petitioner No.1 (second wife) and the court cannot be a party to the same,” the bench observed. On the man’s argument that he has a right to perform a second marriage under the Muslim Personal Law, the bench called it “misconceived”, adding that “the court instead of taking an academic view is more concerned about the welfare of two minor girls, as it is clear that petitioner No.2 (the man) has intentionally failed to maintain his first wife and two minor daughters”. Earlier, one of the lawyers had told court that the divorce was one-sided as the document did not carry the first wife’s signatures. It also came to light that the second marriage, performed on August 20, was not according to the Muslim Personal Law. The lawyer had pointed out that while taking up this petition, a coordinate bench had asked the man that how much amount was he ready to give to his first wife for maintenance. Even after two hearings in the case, no such proposal ha come, it was noted.Given the facts of the case, the court dismissed the plea even without adjudicating on the issue of protection to life. However, a division bench, subsequently acting on an appeal against this order, directed the Malerkotla senior superintendent of police to take into consideration the representation for protection, and if any substance is found, take appropriate steps to ensure the couple’s life and liberty. However, the division bench did not interfere with the condition of cost imposed on the man.“This direction shall not be construed in any manner to restrain the official respondents (police) to proceed against the appellants in case there is some criminal case registered against them,” the division bench observed, steering clear of the controversy and validity of the marriage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-fines-punjab-man-who-sought-protection-after-second-marriage-101631379007607.html
11-09-2021||Patna||Capital city stinks as sanitation workers’ strike continues||Woes of the residents of the capital city remained unabated as the strike called by daily wage sanitation workers of the Patna municipal corporation (PMC) continued for the fifth day on Saturday.The Urban Development Department (UDD) called the representatives of striking staff for reconciliation but the talks remained inconclusive, shared an official.The city has turned into a stinking heap of garbage and carcasses of animals lying on the roadside. More than 4,000 tonnes of municipal wastes have been accumulated on the sides of Gandhi Maidan, Boring Road, Bailey Road, Dak Bangalow, Frazer Road, Langar Toli, Ashok Rajpath, Mithapur, Station Road, besides other prominent localities due to the strike. The stench emanating from the carcasses of animals is adding to the miseries of the people.Around 40,000 employees of 258 urban local bodies (ULBs) in the state have been holding protests since September 7 under the banner of Bihar Local Bodies Employees Sanyukt Sangharsh Morcha, seeking 12-pointer demand, including regularisation of services of all contractual workers, equal pay for equal work and compassionate jobs.Chandra Prakash Singh, president of the association, said, “Talks with UDD remained inconclusive today. We will not call off the strike unless we get assurance for regularisation of daily wage workers. It is unfair to deprive Dalits and backward communities of government jobs in the name of outsourcing despite working with the civic body for over a decade.”However, later in the day, the principal secretary of UDD, Anand Kishor, said that he reviewed the demands of striking staff and appealed to them to call off their strike, considering the public interest. He said, “The department is compassionately considering the demands of the protestors and a suitable decision will be taken soon. A committee has been constituted to review demands of sanitation staff.” UDD has scheduled the second round of talks with representatives of striking staff on Sunday.Meanwhile, the PMC has roped in outsourced staff for keeping the city clean. Harshita, public relations officer of PMC, said, “Our efforts are on to maintain cleanliness in the city. Actions are being taken against those sanitation inspectors who refuse to cooperate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/capital-city-stinks-as-sanitation-workers-strike-continues-101631378649144.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||IndiGo cancels Amritsar-Milan flight at eleventh hour, passengers protest||AMRITSAR Milan (Italy)-bound passengers protested at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Amritsar, after the IndiGo Airline cancelled the flight abruptly reportedly due to denial of arrival permission from the country concerned. Confirming the development, airport director VK Seth said, “The flight was booked as charter by some travel agents for 215 passengers. Route of the flight was via Istanbul. It was scheduled to depart at 1.30pm, but was delayed by one hour. Finally, it was cancelled by the airline due to lack of clearances from the concerned country’s aviation authorities. The Airport Authority of India has no role in this.” The passengers staged a protest at the IndiGo booking counter. The airline has confirmed the flight cancellation and the passengers were told that they will get the full refund. “IndiGo is committed to refund their entire money,” an official said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indigo-cancels-amritsar-milan-flight-at-eleventh-hour-passengers-protest-101631378647743.html
11-09-2021||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to skip INLD rally on Sept 25||Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar has decided not to attend an Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) rally called by leader Om Prakash Chautala in Jind September 25 owing to “flood and Covid-19 situation in Bihar”, said party officials on Saturday.The rally has been organised to commemorate the birthday of former deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal. Ruling out the CM’s participation in the rally, JD(U) national president and Lok Sabha MP from Munger, Rajiv Ranjan alias Lallan Singh, said, “Nitish Kumar will not take part in Devi Lal’s anniversary function on September 25 due to floods, and to review measures taken to combat the probable third wave of Covid-19 pandemic.” Singh, who was talking to media persons at the party office, however, confirmed that the CM was invited. On Friday, the JD(U) president said that he was not aware of Kumar’s participation in the rally.The rally has been organized with a larger motive of exploring the possibility of a Third Front ahead of Lok Sabha elections in 2024. CM Kumar had met Chautala at his residence in Gurgaon on August. Chautala had said ahead of the meeting,“I will reach out to all Opposition parties. My aim is to unite all political forces opposed to this corrupt government at the Centre and stitch a robust third front. I will visit all states in the next one month.” Chautala has extended invites for the same to several prominent leaders including Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, former Prime Minister and JDS leader HD Deve Gowda, SAD supremo Prakash Singh Badal, National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah, TDP leader and former Andhra Pradesh CM Chandrababu Naidu and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-to-skip-inld-rally-on-sept-25-101631378167892.html
11-09-2021||Patna||Tejashwi demands birth, death anniversaries of ex-Union ministers be made state events||Leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav wrote a letter to chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Friday demanding the birth or death anniversaries of two former Union ministers to be declared state functions.Taking to Twitter on Saturday, Tejashwi said that he has sent a letter to the CM highlighting how both former Union ministers Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and Ram Vilas Paswan immensely contributed to the state by working for the social and economic empowerment of the poor, besides strengthening the social justice movement. “Both Raghuvansh and Paswan were veteran socialist leaders. I urge you to declare their birth or death anniversaries as state functions and also install their life-size statues,” Yadav said. Meanwhile, Tejashwi’s demand for life-size statues of LJP’s founder Ram Vilas Paswan and Raghuvansh indicates the growing proximity between him and LJP leader Chirag Paswan, who recently invited Tejashwi for an event to be organised on September 12 to mark Ram Vilas Paswan’s first death anniversary. Singh, who died on September 13, 2020, due to Covid-related complications, had released a series of letters expressing his reservations over dynastic politics in the RJD and eventually resigned from the party even though the RJD chief Lalu Prasad rejected it. Ram Vilas Paswan died in October last year after he underwent heart surgery. He was the Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution in the BJP government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-demands-birth-death-anniversaries-of-ex-union-ministers-be-made-state-events-101631377987656.html
11-09-2021||Patna||Failed medicos interrupt OPD at Bihar’s PMCH, demand re-evaluation||Some MBBS second-year students of the 2019 batch forced the closure of the outdoor patient departments (OPDs) at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) on Saturday as a mark of protest, demanding re-evaluation of answer sheets of the MBBS first professional examination, conducted by the Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU) in March. As many as 423 of the 1,140 MBBS students (37.10%) who appeared in the exams across nine medical colleges in Bihar have failed the first university examinations, in what was the worst performance by medicos since the inception of the AKU in 2010, university officials said. Students, who accessed copies of their answer sheets through the Right to Information Act, claimed that some of their correct answers remained unmarked during evaluation. The agitating students, who staged a protest near the principal’s office, forced closure of the OPD by 10.30 am, two hours after the services began on Saturday. They also met the principal and gave him a representation, addressed to the AKU vice-chancellor, demanding re-evaluation of answer sheets. The students said they would continue to agitate and allow only emergency services to function at the hospital if their demands were not met. PMCH principal Dr Vidyapati Choudhary sympathised with the students whose correct answers remained unmarked, while some had failed narrowly. “There were around 5-6 students who were not awarded marks for answers evaluated to be correct. I spoke to the registrar of the university and have forwarded their application for consideration. A few students have failed by just one or two marks. Still, our result has been better than most other medical colleges, as 19 out of the 172 students who appeared in the examination had failed,” said Dr Choudhary. The principal said the undergraduate students, for the first time, interrupted OPD services twice during the day, but he got the services restored within an hour or two. The medicos had earlier demanded that the failed students be promoted based on their internal marks, obtained in the first and second semester exams, conducted by the respective medical colleges. The National Medical Commission, which governs the medical curriculum, however, does not allow it, said university officials. The AKU stand so far has been that medicos who have flunked the exams should appear in the supplementary exams to be held from September 27. Medicos of Patna’s Nalanda Medical College Hospital had protested on the AKU campus on September 1, after the university declared the results on August 30. Protests were also reported earlier at the Vardhaman Institute of Medical Sciences in Pawapuri and the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital, Gaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/failed-medicos-interrupt-opd-at-bihar-s-pmch-demand-reevaluation-101631377807683.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Deluge of rain hits border villages in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district||TARN TARAN A flood-like situation has emerged in seven villages situated near India-Pakistan border of Tarn Taran district due to the overflow of Kasur Nullah following incessant rain. The villages, including Algon, Thathi Jaimal, Kalas, Dholan, fall under the Bhikhiwind sub-division. Tarn Taran deputy commissioner (DC) Kulwant Singh said a team will assess the damage on Sunday as chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has ordered a special girdawri. Water entered some houses situated in low-lying areas of these villages along the Kasur Nullah, which flows from Pakistan to India. The CM also directed the principal secretary, water resources, to rush a high-level team and requisite machinery to the affected villages. He also instructed the team to strengthen the flood protection works in the vulnerable areas on priority so as to prevent recurrence of such incidents. The CM also asked the administration to keep its relief and rehabilitation teams ready to face any eventuality arising out heavy rains. Amandeep Singh, a farmer of Makhi Kalan village said more than 20 villages were facing a flood-like situation. “There is a drain that flows from Kairon village in Patti sub-division to Kalsian village in Bhikhiwind sub-division, which is overflowing as it was not cleaned by the drains department despite the farmers’ repeated requests to,” he said, adding, “In our village, residents are trying on their own to flush out water as no official from the administration has reached”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deluge-of-rain-hits-border-villages-in-punjab-s-tarn-taran-district-101631377747813.html
11-09-2021||Patna||Bihar launches pilot project to digitise health records||Bihar has taken the first step to digitise the health records of its people and issue them health cards. It has roped in a Pune-based firm for a pilot project to provide preventive health check-ups to the residents of Kalyanbigha in Nalanda, chief minister Nitish Kumar’s home district, and to create their electronic medical record, said health officials. The initiative, as part of the national digital health mission, aims to enable people to access digitally their medical records synced to their health cards once the system is in place. The pilot project of eHealthSystems Technologies LLP, initiated on September 1, will provide a set of essential diagnostic services free of cost to all the residents, using the mobile laboratory units and fully automatic laboratory units, said Dr Ambarish Darak, director of eHealthSystems. “We will conduct investigations on 76 parameters, including blood serum, urine and ECG tests, and talk to people to know about their medical case history. The digital health records will be stored on a cloud server system and can be accessed on eHealthSystem mobile application for the mobile users, on a personal health card to non-mobile users and through wrist-band for children,” he added. Subsequently, it can also be integrated with the hospital management information system to access data stored on the central server. The pilot project proposes to offer a central dashboard for the district and health authorities to facilitate better healthcare outcomes, said Dr Darak. Besides benefiting patients, who will not be required to carry their previous test reports, doctors’ summary or narrate their medical case history in case of emergency, it will help the government in early tracking and treatment of disease. At the same time, it will help create a database, which the government can use for analytics, identifying disease prevalence, tracking chronic diseases, etc., Dr Darak added. Additionally, in case of emergency, the resident can click the ‘help’ button and immediately send GPS location to five pre-added emergency contacts in the mobile app. They can alternatively, call the local police or ambulance during an emergency. Women can use the emergency ‘help’ button in case of an attack or emergency. The mobile app for the eHealthSystem products can be downloaded from the Google Play Store. “We have already got the permission to execute the project in all 30 districts of Odisha. We hope to complete our pilot project at Kalyanbigha this month itself and showcase our work to the health department so that we can replicate it in all 38 districts of Bihar,” said Dr Darak. Nalanda civil surgeon Dr Sunil Kumar said, “We have completed taking samples and digitising records of 1,000 out of the target group population of 10,000. We target those coming to our district hospital, sub-divisional hospital, referral hospitals and selected primary health centres. Patients are given a unique identification number and their health status with medical records will be uploaded on a server for easy accessibility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-launches-pilot-project-to-digitise-health-records-101631377687611.html
11-09-2021||Other||Woman, 11 relatives booked under anti-black magic act||PUNE: A woman and 11 of her relatives were, on Saturday, booked under the anti-black magic act in a case registered at Kothrud police station by her husband who is a software engineer.The accused woman has been identified as Urmila Jadhav, and the complainant is Kuldeep Shivaji Jadhav (40), a resident of Kothrud.“The case was registered based on a court order. We received the order and case was registered. We will investigate the claims,” said senior inspector Mahendra Jagtap of Kothrud police station.The husband is facing a case under Section 498(a) of Indian Penal Code registered against him in September 2020, according to sub-inspector Kishan Rathod of Kothrud police station.The man had complained to the court, and eventually to the police, that his wife had asked for ₹1 crore“His complaint mentions that they had been in a fight and signed a bond in 2014 that she would change her behaviour henceforth. However, he says that she started to do some rituals with lemons, turmeric, uncooked rice, and fire in the house and started telling him that she knew a baba (godman) who was telling her all the solutions. He has also mentioned that he never met the baba, but the woman wanted him to act as per the directions given by the alleged baba,” said PSI Rathod.A case under sections for extortion, cheating of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013 has been registered at Kothrud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-11-relatives-booked-under-anti-black-magic-act-101631377266992.html
11-09-2021||Other||Pune ghat areas on orange alert due to heavy rain forecast||PUNE Rainfall deficiency in Pune city has reduced thanks to the ongoing active monsoon over the state. Pune city experienced a deficiency of 62.5 mm rainfall till September 3. However, the deficiency was reduced to 26.1 mm on September 10. On Saturday, Pune city reported a rainfall of 5.7 mm along with cloudy weather.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune said that ghat areas around Pune may receive heavy to very heavy rainfall till September 13.“We have issued an orange alert for ghat areas around Pune. These areas are likely to receive isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall in the next few days. Whereas, Pune city areas are expected to receive light to moderate rainfall during this time,” said Kashyapi.“As a result of the low pressure area and its west-northwestward movement and further intensification, lower level westerlies are very likely to strengthen along the west coast till September 16,” said Kashyapi.He added that as a result of active monsoon and various weather systems aiding it, sub-divisions in Maharashtra is also likely to receive heavy rainfall.“Central Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa and Vidarbha have an orange alert which means that many places may report heavy to very heavy rainfall till September 13. It is also very likely that many areas in Konkan and Goa and Central Maharashtra, which includes Pune, may receive very heavy rainfall. During this time, some places in Marathwada are also likely to witness isolated heavy rainfall,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-ghat-areas-on-orange-alert-due-to-heavy-rain-forecast-101631377206987.html
11-09-2021||Other||PMC sets up 60 mobile immersion tanks, 24x7 idol donation centres||PUNE: As the 60 mobile immersion tanks and 247 idol donation centres set up by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) were not operational till noon on Saturday, citizens continued to face difficulties in the immersion of Lord Ganesh idols.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the PMC decided not to erect immersion tanks on various ghats like every year and instead appealed to citizens to carry out immersion either at home or in mobile immersion tanks. However, devotees who immerse their Ganesh idols one-and-a-half day into the festival faced a lot of inconvenience as neither the mobile immersion tanks nor the idol donation centres set up by the corporation were operational till noon on Saturday. It was only after complaints started pouring in that mayor Murlidhar Mohol instructed municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar to make the said facilities operational immediately. Kumar in turn instructed the ward offices and the facilities were activated post noon, with elected members posting directions to the mobile tanks and donation centres on their social media handles.The PMC started the mobile immersion facility to avoid crowding in the wake of Covid-19 and this is the second straight year that the PMC has not erected any tanks for Ganesh visarjan. There are four mobile immersion tanks in each of the 15 ward offices under the PMC while idol donation centres have been set up near schools and health centres. Meanwhile, Mohol and PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne appealed to citizens to carry out immersion within the safety of their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-sets-up-60-mobile-immersion-tanks-24x7-idol-donation-centres-101631376966903.html
11-09-2021||Other||BJP office relocates to near PMC building||PUNE After the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has also relocated its city unit office from Jungli Maharaj toad to a new premises near the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) building. The recently inaugurated NCP office is also in the same vicinity, while the historic Congress Bhavan is just few metres away. The BJP change of office has raised eye-brows in political circles. BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik said, “Yes we shifted our city unit office to near Mangala Talkies. The furniture work is going on and very soon we will do an official inauguration.” Mulik added, “The new office is on the second floor and has enough space. It is bigger than the JM road office which was in Hotel Sanman.” When asked whether the BJP was following the NCP, Mulik said, “Though our office is near the NCP, we are staying away from them. As we were falling short of space there was a need to have a bigger office. During Covid, it was difficult to maintain social distances.” BJP senior leaders, speaking anonymously said that when MP Girish Bapat was guardian minister, he shifted the party office to JM road. It was on rent and in a prime location. “However due to the rent issue, we had to vacate the office,” said BJP leader. The NCP office is on Tilak road near Dengle bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-office-relocates-to-near-pmc-building-101631376907025.html
11-09-2021||Other||Moneylender poses as retired ACP, rapes woman who took loan||PUNE: A money lender, 60, was booked for sexually assaulting a teacher who needed the money by posing as a retired assistant commissioner of police (ACP), sedating her, clicking pictures of her with him in compromising positions, and using them to further threaten her. So much so that she tried to take her own life due to his alleged manipulation.The police said that the complainant works as a teacher and urgently needed Rs20,000 when she approached the private money lender whom she knew and asked him for a loan. He agreed to give her the loan at an interest rate of 10% according to the complainant.Senior police inspector Sunil Tonpe of Sangvi police station said, “The money lender gave her the money in December 2019 and took two blank cheques as security. In October 2020, he asked her to come to his house to collect the cheques which he planned to return. Upon her visit however, he assaulted her, repeating the action twice by using pictures of her with him in compromising positions that he allegedly clicked the first time around. He is definitely not a retired officer as he claimed to be. The complainant tried to commit suicide on September 9 due to his repeated attempts to assault her. But he has now left after locking his house.”The woman claimed that the man sedated her and clicked illicit pictures of her with him in compromising positions, using the pictures to repeat his act twice. A case under sections 376 (sexual assault) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of the Maharashtra Money Lending Act was registered at Sangvi police station. Police sub-inspector Kavita Rupnar of Sangvi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/moneylender-poses-as-retired-acp-rapes-woman-who-took-loan-101631376787730.html
11-09-2021||Other||Pedestrian run over by BMW mobike on SB road ; biker makes bail||PUNE The police have arrested 25-year-old stock trade, for running over and killing a 32-year-old pedestrian woman with a high-end motorbike he was riding on Senapati Bapat road, police officials said on Saturday. The man was released later on bail by a local court. According to the Chaturshrungi police, the deceased woman was identified as Rina Sitaram Mundhe, alias Rina Sachin Madke (32), a resident of Warje Malwadi. The woman worked as a circle officer for the Slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) in Pune. The arrested driver was identified as Akshay Mahadev Ekade (25), a resident of a residential building on University road and a native of Buldhana, according to police. The man was riding his BMW motorbike heading from Chaturshrungi to Deccan on Thursday, when his bike hit the pedestrian while she was crossing the Senapati Bapat road near Pavilion mall around 6.15pm, officials said, after arresting the man. Officials said Edke was arrested on Friday and was released after being produced in court. Ekade, according to police, is pursuing a course in stock market trading and also dabbles in trading. “She was crossing the road, when he hit her. After he hit her, she took her to Ratna hospital. From Ratna hospital, he took her to Joshi hospital where she was declared dead. We were informed then and the case was registered,” said sub-inspector (PSI) Basavraj Mali of Chaturshrungi police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) and 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), along with Sections 184, 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act has been registered at Chaturshrungi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pedestrian-run-over-by-bmw-mobike-on-sb-road-biker-makes-bail-101631376786938.html
11-09-2021||Other||Residents furious about hawker menace in PCB area||PUNE: Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) residents have been complaining about the hawker menace since the past few years, where hawkers occupy all the main and connecting roads including lanes and by-lanes in the area. The residents claim that the lack of action by the anti-encroachment squad has further emboldened hawkers and squatters, who are continuing with their business unabated and without fear. After massive action was ordered against them last year, they are back with a bang, the residents said.The hawker menace is especially visible in areas such as Sherbetwallah chowk, Poona College main gate, Azam campus entrance gate, Aurora towers, Fashion street, Babajan Dargah chowk, Justice K B Hidaytullah road, Solapur bazar road, East street, MG road and other prominent locations of the cantonment area.Farham Mazda, a resident of East street, said, “Over the past one year, no action has been taken against the illegal establishments that have cropped up all over the cantonment area. The hawkers are occupying public spaces and not paying taxes. The board must immediately take action and remove the hawkers from the entire cantonment area.”Meanwhile, organisations of hawkers-cum-vendors have demanded that a street vending committee be constituted to ensure their right to a livelihood. They said that the process will finally provide clarity on the rules guiding them, with the union government recently notifying amendments to the Street Vendors’ (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014. The PCB administration too has initiated the process of setting up a town vending committee (TVC) with regard to the directions of the central government.Once formed, TVCs will not only be responsible for enforcing policy but also for making decisions. According to the act, the government will constitute a TVC under each municipal corporation and cantonment board jurisdiction. The validity of a hawker’s certificate will be for a specified period from the date of issue after which he or she will have to submit a fresh application to the TVC for renewal while rentals from the vendors will be collected by the civic bodies. The new act will streamline the entire street vending system as there will be a concrete list of registered vendors. The TVCs will also be responsible for enforcement namely, keeping a check on illegal vendors. Most importantly, the rules are expected to remove any kind of bribery from the street vending system.The TVCs are in the process of being constituted and once formed, they will first conduct surveys to prepare a final list of street vendors. For registration, a vendor will have to provide a photo identification card along with other documents as per procedure.Notwithstanding, PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “Strict action will be taken against unauthorised hawkers and the board has been conducting regular drives to keep the roads free of hawkers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/residents-furious-about-hawker-menace-in-pcb-area-101631376546902.html
11-09-2021||Other||Ruby Hall Clinic, Amanora Park Town ink MoU for 200-bed hospital||PUNE Ruby Hall Clinic and the City Corporation, promoter of Amanora Park Town signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to establish a hospital. The new 200-bed hospital will be built, managed and run by the Grant Medical Foundation. Amanora Park Town, on its part, has agreed to provide two acres of land to establish this tertiary care centre. The organisations met on Saturday to formally ink the deal.Ruby Hall Clinic at Amanora Park Town will provide primary medical care as well as advanced services, such as cardiac evaluation, oncology, paediatric care, gynaecology, surgery, urology and intensive care, along with emergency medical services. The hospital is expected to be operational within the next two years.“Our partnership with Amanora Park Town will have a huge impact on those living in the area. For us, the opportunity to expand into Magarpatta and provide medical care for this well-established part of Pune is unprecedented,” said Dr PK Grant, managing trustee, Grant Medical Foundation.“The partnership with Grant Medical Foundation ushers in a new phase for us as we enhance Amanora Park Town’s commitment to its community. With this tie-up, we continue to contribute to the transformation of Pune into a leading healthcare destination,” said Aniruddha Deshpande, managing director, City Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ruby-hall-clinic-amanora-park-town-ink-mou-for-200-bed-hospital-101631376007550.html
11-09-2021||Other||PMC employee held for selling stolen mobile phones||PUNE An employee of the city’s health department was found selling stolen mobile phones on the black market to make money to pay off his debt.The arrested man was identified as Tanaji Shahji Randive (33), a resident of Ramtekdi Hadapsar. The man was found to be an employee of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s health department.The police recovered 21 smartphones from his possession and seized a two-wheeler. The total worth of the seizure was found to be ₹1,88,000, according to the police.The man was found on Thursday in Mahavir garden in Bibwewadi around 6pm with six mobile phones by a patrol team led by assistant police inspector Rajesh Usgaonkar.“The police received credible information about a man who arrives at the location and offers to sell mobile phones to passersby. Upon arrival we found a man matching the description trying to sell mobile phones,” read a statement by Bibwewadi police station officials.The man was earning a salary, but had an unpaid debt for which he used to steal mobile phones and sell them in the black market.“He had stolen an estimate of over 50 mobile handsets and sold them to unidentified people on the streets. From the 21 phones found in his possession, three cases were brought to light,” read the statement.Officials of Bibwewadi police station are investigating the case further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-employee-held-for-selling-stolen-mobile-phones-101631376006874.html
11-09-2021||Other||Bovine vaccination for foot-and-mouth disease to begin from Thursday in Pune district||PUNE: Beginning Thursday, the animal husbandry department will start a vaccination drive against foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) for more than one million bovines in the district. The commissionerate of animal husbandry has sent the required vaccine doses to Pune which produces over 4.5 million litre of milk daily, and is one of the highest milk producers in the state. Vaccine doses have also been sent to Ahmednagar and Beed. According to experts, though FMD is not a zoonotic disease, it can majorly affect the cattle population and meat exports with Pune being one of the largest dairy producers in the state.Dr Shitalkumar Mukane, district deputy commissioner of the animal husbandry department, said, “This is the second round since the FMD vaccination programme started in the district. This is a completely central government-funded nationwide programme. Last year despite Covid-19, we vaccinated the entire cattle population (1,057,000) including cows, buffaloes and bulls. From Thursday, we have started vaccinating the entire bovine population and it will now be a regular vaccination programme which is free-of-cost for farmers with only Re1 as registration fee. Each dose costs about Rs35.”“It is crucial to get cattle vaccinated for FMD because if they are infected with FMD, there is a huge loss in milk production in those animals and the animal becomes unproductive. If a cow is infected, it becomes very difficult for the animal to conceive and it may soon become infertile. In case of bulls, their strength is affected besides the animal becoming infertile. It is not a zoonotic disease but the spread of FMD can majorly hamper even meat exports because no country will buy such infected animals,” Mukane said.Pune handles more than 25 lakh litre milk and produces 45 lakh litre milk every day which is among the highest production in the country. The central government has sent 1,439,692 doses to Ahmednagar which is the largest milk-producing district in the state; followed 1,030,404 doses to Pune; and 679,327 doses to Beed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bovine-vaccination-for-foot-and-mouth-disease-to-begin-from-thursday-in-pune-district-101631375826842.html
11-09-2021||Lucknow||With eyes on UP polls, BJP president JP Nadda launches ‘Booth Vijayan Abhiyan’||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls early next year, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Saturday launched the ‘Booth Vijayan Abhiyan’ (Booth Victory Campaign) via video conference. The campaign was launched across 27,700 booths in the state.Nadda addressed party workers before the launch, and said that it is a “matter of pride” that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the “politicis of casteism, familialism, dynasty and communalism” has ended in India and the “politics of development has become popular,” news agency ANI reported. “Under his (PM Modi) leadership, BJP won 325 seats in 2017 and made history. In the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections, people of UP gave their support to the politics of development. The enthusiasm of BJP workers gives a clear indication of the future of Uttar Pradesh,” he was quoted as saying.As per all surveys, a grand victory of BJP is certain in Uttar Pradesh with the blessings of the people. Not only in UP, but the return of BJP is certain in Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur too: BJP national president JP Nadda pic.twitter.com/LkNRiTt9eCNadda said that as per surveys, BJP’s win in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls is “certain.”He also lauded Uttar Pradesh for leading among all Indian states in inoculating Covid-19 vaccines to beneficiaries, emphasising that the chief minister Yogi Adityanath-led state government has contributed in more development of the state that what Samajwadi Party (SP), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Congress could do in the previous 60 years.Nadda also said that during the Covid-19 pandemic, when political leaders went into “lockdown, under quarantine,” BJP workers “risked their lives and considered it their duty to help the needy.” “We have political leaders who go abroad for vacation even when a Parliament session is underway,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/with-eyes-on-up-polls-bjp-president-jp-nadda-launches-booth-party-abhiyan-101631374634235.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC allows virtual registration of marriages||Delhi high court lent its support to virtual appearance for marriage registration citing that web portals and video conferencing have almost become the norm. Justice Rekha Palli said the Registering Authority is refusing to recognise this current reality while exercising its power and jurisdiction under the Registration Order.Justice Palli highlighted that if the judicial system did not switch to video conferencing it would come to a grinding halt in an apparent reference to the Covid-19 pandemic that led to the suspension of physical hearings in all courts across the country. “If not for the acceptance of video conferencing as the norm, this court and the judicial system in this country would have come to a grinding halt, and would not have been able to function at a time when there was the greatest need for the citizens of this country to have access to justice,” Justice Palli said, according to a report by news agency PTI.“ These aspects appear to have been simply overlooked by the Registering Authority, who's continuing to insist that the parties must remain present physically before him,” the court said.The court said that at a time when technology aids in uninterrupted communication along with dissemination of information and smooth functioning of society, it cannot be rigid in its interpretation of the statute which will prevent citizens from exercising their rights. It said that insistence of physical appearance at a time when the personal appearance of parties can be secured through video conferencing will make it cumbersome for them to come forward for registration of their marriages.“I cannot also overlook the fact that The Delhi (Compulsory Registration of Marriage) Order, 2014 is welfare legislation, promulgated at the instance of the Supreme Court to encourage registration of marriages,” Justice Rekha Palli further said.“The insistence of physical appearance even when their personal appearance can be easily secured through video conferencing will definitely make it more cumbersome for parties to come forward for registration of marriages. This will negate the very purpose of enactment of the Registration Order and cannot be permitted,” the Delhi high court said.The court said that welfare legislation should be interpreted in a way that the objective for which the statute was put into effect is fulfilled and there must be no unnecessary obstacle to the beneficiaries when it comes to receiving the benefits of the statute. “Keeping in view the fact that the issuance of the registration order is to promote the registration of marriages, I am of the considered view that Clause 4 must be interpreted in such a manner that encourages parties to easily get their marriages registered,” the court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-allows-virtual-registration-of-marriages-101631374902138.html
11-09-2021||Other||A ‘small’ dream come true for Neeraj Chopra as he takes his parents on their first flight||The country’s only gold medalist in Tokyo Olympics, Neeraj Chopra, fulfilled one of his dreams as he took his parents on their first flight on Saturday. They flew to Bellary in Karnataka from Delhi in a private jet and returned the same day.Sharing a picture of him boarding the flight with his father Satish Chopra and mother Saroj Bala, the 23-year-old javelin thrower wrote on Twitter, “A small dream of mine came true today as I was able to take my parents on their first flight.”A resident of Panipat’s Khadra village, Neeraj’s father is a small-time farmer while his mother is a homemaker. He lives in a joint family of 19 members. As per his family members, Neeraj used to tell his parents about his visits to various countries and promise them that he will take them on a flight one day. Neeraj’s uncle Bhim Chopra told Hindustan Times, “His parents have now returned home and Neeraj has left for Mumbai to attend other programmes. His parents are very happy to have travelled with him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-small-dream-come-true-for-neeraj-chopra-as-he-takes-his-parents-on-their-first-flight-101631375587399.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Moga: Overweight cops to attend two-hour fitness camp daily||All overweight cops in Punjab’s Moga district will have to undergo two-hour morning exercises for three months to get back in shape.The move comes after the Punjab and Haryana high court in August took note of poor fitness among the state police personnel and ordered all senior superintendents of police (SSPs) to maintain digital records of physical training camps being held for them. The court had earlier raised serious concerns about recurring instances in which suspects managed to flee during police raids.Issuing the directions for mandatory two-hour physical training of all unfit and overweight personnel from September 13, Moga SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the three-month camp will save cops from diseases and make them fit and healthy. To identify the overweight and unfit cops, medical checkup of all personnel will be conducted under the supervision of DSP (headquarters) Ravinder Singh. While SP (headquarters) Gurdeep Singh will supervise the fitness camp to be held from 6am to 8am daily, DSPs, station house officers and in-charges have been told to ensure participation of all overweight cops.The exercise and fitness classes will include races, jogging, push-ups, squats and yoga. All sessions will be recorded through videography and photography, as per the high court’s directions.“Cops always remain busy in their duty and never get time to take care of their health. The physical training camp will help them get back in shape and prevent diseases,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-overweight-cops-to-attend-two-hour-fitness-camp-daily-101631375527393.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||12-year-old girl dies, three kids injured in Rajpura house blast||A 12-year-old girl died while three other children aged between six and 13 received serious injuries in a blast at a one-room house, which allegedly was being used for storing firecrackers illegally, in Rajpura’s Sant Nagar on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Manpreet Kaur, the daughter of houseowner Krishan Kumar. The injured were identified as Manpreet’s brother Gurpreet Singh (8), neighbour Krishan (6) and his sister Pallavi (13). Police said the houseowner was allegedly into manufacturing of firecrackers and had stacked raw material in the house. The blast was so powerful that the roof of the house collapsed, while the walls of several houses in the vicinity developed cracks. Deputy superintendent of police Gurbans Singh Bains said forensic teams have collected samples from the mishap site. “We are recording the statements of the injured, their relatives and neighbours. It appears that the family had stored firecrackers and its raw material illegally in the house,” he said. The injured children were rushed to Government Rajindra Hospital from where Pallavi was referred to Post Graduate Institute Of Medical Education And Research, Chandigarh. Police said houseowner Krishan Kumar and his wife were out when the incident took place around 10.30am. The DSP said the investigation is on to find out whether the minors were manufacturing firecrackers at the time of the incident. “A case will be registered on the basis of statements of injured and their families,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/12yearold-girl-dies-three-kids-injured-in-rajpura-house-blast-101631373848050.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||At national council meet, Kejriwal asks workers to work for the nation, not aspire for posts, poll tickets||Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal at the party’s national council meeting made it clear that party leaders should dedicate themselves towards working for the society and the nation to prove their worth. He said no one should aspire for posts and tickets like ‘other parties’.The Delhi chief minister said that citizens of the country should not recognise the party in the same way they recognise the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress. He said that people in the country feel that AAP is the only hope because of the way the Delhi government is run.The chief minister said after seeing the way the party is running the government in Delhi, people across the country have started feeling that "the AAP is the only hope". “If you come to me asking for posts, it means you are not deserving of it and you have to demand it. You should work in such a manner that I have to say that you should hold the post,” Kejriwal was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The AAP is concentrating on expanding across the nation and is focusing on poll-bound states Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat.Kejriwal also asked party members to make sure that factionalism should not enter the Aam Aadmi Party. He said any infighting and factionalism will lead to erosion of trust among people and the party’s supporters.“We see what transpires in other parties. Dozens of people fight for one seat, parties breakaway, factions are formed. We don't want that to happen with our party. If something like that happens, the faith and trust stored in our party will cease to exist forever,” Kejriwal said.Kejriwal also said that the AAP party answered its detractors who earlier claimed that the party will cease to exist in the future. He also said that critics wrote them off saying that after coming to power they will only remain in power for a single term. “When we came into power in Delhi, back then people would say they had one term and their party would finish after that. But now that we have been successfully running a government in Delhi, people look at our work and say that we are the only hope they have left,” Kejriwal further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-asks-workers-to-work-for-the-nation-not-aspire-for-posts-poll-tickets-101631371948413.html
11-09-2021||Other||Emblems of Empowerment| The obstacles could never stop her from reaching her goals||Life threw many obstacles in her path, but none strong enough to pin her down. Soliha Yousuf, 26, the first and only woman to captain and coach the Jammu and Kashmir women’s rugby team for over a decade, never had it easy. From losing her father at the age of 10 to trailblazing into a sport less known, Yousuf remained steadfast as she faced new challenges in life.“I was about 14 or 15 years old when J&K rugby officials came hunting for talent in schools in 2008. I had never seen a rugby ball before that. I was fascinated with it from the very start,” says the 26-year-old who has also dabbled with athletics, kho kho and cricket in her early years.Within the next three years, she reached her first international rugby camp. In 2010, she was selected to participate in the Asian Championship in Pune.“I was the only girl from Kashmir among 30 girls selected for the camp across the country,” she says. Immediately after the camp, she was selected for Level-1 coaching, which she cleared and started coaching the girls in Kashmir. “There were two of us from Kashmir. But I am the one who is still continuing. Till then, no one had been selected for international matches or Level- 1 coaching,” she says.When the going gets tough, the tough get goingShe says the period between 2008 and 2010 was the most challenging. “We used to play on a shared patch at Polo Ground where we had to fight with male footballers and cricketers for space. Many girls were shy to come while the parents of some would not allow them to play,” she says. Yousuf, however, adds things have started to change.One of the most challenging coaching tasks for her came in 2012 when she was asked to train the senior boys’ rugby team for a North Zone match. She had hardly turned 19 at the time and most boys in the team were twice her age. “Initially, they didn’t take me seriously but then I got strict and punished them by making them do rounds of the ground. Eventually they saw that I was not going to budge and they yielded,” she says, adding that the team went on to win the North Zone match.By 2015, J&K Women’s Rugby Team qualified for national games, in which only seven teams of the country can participate. In 2017, the team won gold in Snow Nationals at Gulmarg. “It became memorable for us because for the first time, matches were taking place in Kashmir at such a high-level and in front of our home crowd. Many misconceptions vanished and the local audience boosted us,” she says.The many other hats she donsEncouraged by her mother, Yousuf pursued M.Tech in computer sciences in 2018. Most of her income comes from academic research projects, giving coding lessons and her job as a gym instructor. “There is barely any money from sports though I have been playing and coaching for over a decade now,” she says. She wants the sports council to take the livelihood of coaches seriously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/emblems-of-empowerment-the-obstacles-could-never-stop-her-from-reaching-her-goals-101631371927275.html
11-09-2021||Dehradun||Char Dham priests withdraw stir against Devasthanam Board after CM's assurance||The priests of the Char Dham temples on Saturday temporarily withdrew their agitation for the dissolution of the Devasthanam Board after Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami assured them that their concerns will be addressed by October 30.Eight Char Dham priests have also been invited to be part of the high-powered committee looking into the Devasthanam Board issue, they said.Priests of the Himalayan temples have long been demanding the dissolution of the board that they see as an encroachment upon their rights.Constituted during the chief ministership of Trivendra Singh Rawat, the Devasthanam Board is mandated to run the affairs of 51 temples in Uttarakhand, including the Char Dham.However, soon after taking over, former chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat announced during Kumbh that the temples will be removed from the board's control. But he had to step down before he could keep his word.Also Read | Uttarakhand Char Dham priests to launch state wide protest against shrine board"The chief minister assured us that our rights will remain intact. We will get representation in the high-powered committee looking into the Devasthanam Board issue and our concerns will be addressed," Gangotri Mandir Samiti president and Char Dham mahapanchayat convenor Suresh Semwal said after a delegation of priests met Dhami."On an assurance from him that a solution to the issue will be found by October 30, we have decided to suspend our stir till then," he said.Dhami said the government will take a decision that is in the interest of the state after the high-powered committee headed by Manohar Kant Dhyani submits its report.He said he hoped that the committee will listen to the priests and come up with a solution to the issue."Dhyani ji has worked among priests all his life. The only purpose of constituting the committee is to listen to the priests," the chief minister said.Dhami said the infrastructural development of Char Dham is the responsibility of the state government. Starting the Char Dham Yatra is also a priority.Char Dham mahapanchayat member Umesh Sati said the priests will decide their future course of action on the basis of the outcome of the government's efforts."We have high expectations from the young chief minister... Our next course of action will depend on the outcome of the ongoing efforts," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/char-dham-priests-withdraw-stir-against-devasthanam-board-after-cm-s-assurance-101631370025883.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Partap Singh Bajwa begins poll activities in Batala||Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa, who is eyeing the Congress ticket from Batala for the upcoming assembly polls in Punjab, on Saturday said that former three-time MLA from the constituency Ashwani Sekhri will be “adjusted” according to his stature.Sekhri, who was recently placated by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh with the post of Punjab Health Systems Corporation chairman, also considers himself as a claimant of the party ticket from his home turf. “Ashwani is my younger brother. Taking care of him is my duty. On the last two occasions, I got the ticket allotted to him. This time again, his adjustment will be ensured according to his stature,” said Bajwa, who toured the constituency on Saturday. Sekhri was not available for comment.Besides visiting houses of his supporters, Bajwa also hosted a lunch for mediapersons while launching his political activities in Batala.Raising the issue of granting district status to Batala, Bajwa said: “I wrote a letter to the Punjab CM on August 11, and he is considering this demand sincerely. Captain Amarinder Singh is a very progressive CM, and he will surely correct the historic blunder committed by British rulers by not forming Batala as a district, which holds a lot of religious, historical, industrial and cultural importance.”Bajwa also held a small meeting at Ghasitpur village, which is near Batala but falls under the Fatehgarh Churian assembly constituency. It is the home turf of cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, who is backing Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in the tussle with the CM, while Partap is supporting the latter. However, Partap Singh Bajwa made it clear that he has no plan of contesting the elections from Fatehgarh Churian, as Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa is his “elder brother” and had already announced his candidature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-partap-singh-bajwa-begins-poll-activities-in-batala-101631369647159.html
11-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 629 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 629 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths in 24 hours on Saturday. This took the progressive count to 1.12 million of which 1.09 million have recovered, 19,678 deaths and 12,949 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 0.15 million vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 376 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 350,979 and with one more death reported the death toll went up to 6,707. Pune city reported 144 new cases which took the progressive count to 514,018 and with no more deaths reported the death toll remained 9,130. PCMC reported 109 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 264,154 and with one more death reported the toll stood at 3,492. Vaccine count Pune also saw 152,531 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Saturday and totally 9,076,410 vaccines have been administered in total including 6,503,268 first dose and 2,573,142 are second dose. A total of 773 sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 494 are government and 279 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-629-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-101631367486228.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rain damages imported dry fruit stored at Attari check post||Incessant rain for the past two days has damaged dry fruit stored at the godown of the integrated check post (ICP), Attari, which facilitates India’s cross-border trade with Afghanistan and Pakistan. While the ICP management claimed it to be a “minor damage”, traders have alleged losses worth ₹40 crore. Accusing the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI), which manages the ICP’s affairs, of paying “no attention” towards stored goods during rains, traders have demanded compensation from the central government and action against the officials concerned.Despite the Taliban’s takeover in Afghanistan, around three dozen trucks have been importing dry fruit, including dry dates, fig, walnuts, pistachio and raisin, throught the ICP daily. The demand in India is at peak nowadays due to the festival season ahead. Also read: Heavy rain floods Amritsar, throws life out of gear“Goods brought by around 50 trucks were stored at the ICP’s godown. These goods were damaged by rainwater leaking through the broken roof. We have suffered a loss of nearly ₹40 crore because of the negligence of ICP authorities,” said Anil Mehra, president, Federation of Karyana and Dry Fruit Association, adding that they have been facing the same problem every monsoon.According to traders, each truck contains dry fruit worth ₹70-80 lakh. They pay ₹4 per one tonne as storage charges on the first day, which increases to ₹10 on the second day, and to ₹50-150 thereon. “Despite paying a heavy fee to the LPAI, we have no assurance of safety of our imported goods. Sometimes, customs officials give clearance for loading the goods from the godown after one day, and sometimes the process takes three to five days,” said Mehra. Customs has increased vigil at borderSources said after the Taliban’s takeover in Afghanistan, the customs department has increased vigil at the border, and every truck importing goods from the war-hit country is being examined thoroughly. Another Amritsar-based trader, who didn’t wish to be named, said: “Our trade with Afghanistan has been running on mutual trust. As banks in Afghanistan have been closed due to the Taliban takeover, we are getting dry fruit from our counterparts in the crisis-hit country on credit basis. We are already worried that trade with Afghanistan could be stopped anytime. The ICP authorities should also consider gravity of the situation.”ICP manager Sukhdev Singh said: “We are installing solar panels on the godown roof. Due to the ongoing work, some water had leaked through the roof two days ago. However, the situation is under control and there was only a minor damage to the stored goods.”The ICP is only witnessing import from Afghanistan for the past two years. Pakistan had stopped all trade relations through the transit route with India after New Delhi’s action to abrogate Article 370. Pakistan is not even allowing India to export goods to Afghanistan through the route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-damages-imported-dry-fruit-stored-at-attari-check-post-101631367070452.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||40 rescued from bus trapped in waterlogged underpass after heavy rain in Delhi||As many as 40 passengers were rescued from a private bus after it was trapped at a waterlogged underpass following incessant rain in Delhi on Saturday morning, Delhi Fire Services (DFS) director Atul Garg told news agency PTI. The bus was headed to Mathura in Uttar Pradesh and got stuck at the underpass of Palam flyover, according to officials.At 11.30am, the DFS received a call seeking assistance with the trapped bus. “Two fire tenders were rushed to the spot and all the passengers were rescued safely,” Garg was quoted as saying by PTI.Widespread rain lashed the national capital on Saturday, resulting in waterlogged situations in several parts of the city. The Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport was also flooded with people taking to Twitter to post pictures and videos of the nearly inundated tarmac. “Due to heavy downpour, passengers encountered waterlogging for a short while. The on-ground team was immediately mobilised and the operations are back to normal since 9am,” Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) tweeted earlier in the day.Waterlogging was also reported in RK Puram, Madhu Vihar, Hari Nagar, Vikas Marg, Munirka, and Badarpur, among other areas in the Capital. The Public Works Department (PWD) said that it has deployed its staff to pump out rainwater from the streets.According to the latest alerts issued by the Delhi Traffic Police between 2pm and 4pm, Rani Khera underpass, Dwarka-Sector 20 road number 226, and GTK Road are to be avoided as these areas are still waterlogged.Water logging at Rani khera underpass. Pl take alternate route.⁦@CPDelhi⁩ ⁦@SplCPTrafficDel⁩ ⁦@DelhiPolice⁩ ⁦@dtptraffic⁩ ⁦@DelhiPwd⁩ pic.twitter.com/3domoh9MCXMeanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted more rain over Delhi on Saturday, with the rainfall likely to witness a gradual reduction starting Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/40-rescued-from-bus-trapped-in-waterlogged-underpass-after-heavy-rain-in-delhi-101631363465296.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro's Red Line section faces technical issues, services delayed||Delhi Metro services were delayed on a section of the Red Line on Saturday due to some technical issues, reported news agency PTI. The Red Line, which connects Rithala in northwest Delhi and Shahid Sthal in Ghaziabad, faced disruption in a segment between Shahdara and Shastri Park."Red Line Update Delay in service between Shahdara and Shastri Park. Normal services on all other lines," the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) tweeted on Saturday afternoon alerting the passengers.A senior official told PTI that the services between Shahdara and Shastri Park on the Red Line corridor were delayed due to some issues with the overhead equipment (OHE) line, adding that the problem was being sorted.Many commuters took to Twitter to complain about the problems faced by them due to the delay. A commuter shared a video showing a huge rush at one of the Delhi Metro stations and said they were facing a lot of problems due to the delay and heavy rain.The DMRC later said that normal services on the Red Line have resumed.“Red Line Update Normal service has resumed,” DMRC tweeted to inform the passengers.After the Delhi government updated the guidelines regarding Covid containment in July last week, the general public has been allowed to travel in the Metro with the full seating capacity of its coaches. However, standing inside the Metro is still not allowed in accordance with the revised guidelines."As the standing travel is still not permitted by the authorities, entry at stations will also continue to be regulated through identified gates as per the ongoing practice," the DMRC had said in a release.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-red-line-section-faces-technical-issues-services-delayed-101631362445629.html
11-09-2021||Other||Tourists to pay green tax to cross Himachal’s Rohtang Tunnel||The Himachal Pradesh government started charging green tax from tourist vehicles entering Atal Tunnel at Rohtang Pass from September 10. Two-wheeler riders will be charged ₹50, while ₹200 will be taken from cars, ₹300 from SUVs and MUVs and ₹500 from buses and trucks. Not only Lahaul but vehicles going to Kishtwar and Pangi will also need to pay the tax. Vehicles entering Lahaul on a regular basis will be exempt from paying the tax but will need to carry a pass. The tax will be collected at the barrier set up at Sissu in Lahaul by the Special Area Development Authority. Preserving heritage, fragile ecology The amount collected will be spent on developing infrastructure for tourists along the national highway that connects Manali with Leh. Villages in the vicinity of the highway will also be developed. The influx of tourists after Prime Minister Narendra Modi dedicated the tunnel to the nation last October has thrown new challenges, prompting calls for tighter controls to preserve the cultural heritage and fragile ecology of one of Himachal Pradesh’s remotest regions. Limited infrastructure a challenge With limited infrastructure, it is becoming a challenge to check littering by tourists along the stretch between Manali and Keylong. “Littering is one of the major problems that emerged after the Rohtang tunnel was thrown open. We have lots of tourists coming in the valley. The garbage is lifted by the agencies outside the valley,” said Lahaul and Spiti deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar. Since there are no dustbins on the route and the garbage on the roadside slides down the hills with rain, polluting the rivers. In the absence of toilets, travellers and truckers defecate in the open. Last year, as a first step, the Sissu panchayat near the north portal of the tunnel imposed a fine of ₹1,000 for littering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tourists-to-pay-green-tax-to-cross-himachal-s-rohtang-tunnel-101631363108811.html
11-09-2021||Mumbai||Local body polls in Maharashtra: BJP’s army of 3 million at work||Determined to retain its hold over municipal and district bodies and wrest those with the ruling coalition, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is readying a massive election machinery in the state. According to party leaders involved in the preparation process, BJP is preparing an army of 3 million workers under its Samarth Booth Abhiyan – the outreach programme for the ensuing local body elections. With more than two-third local bodies slated to face elections early next year, the party has set the ball rolling by preparing on three fronts. The party has also started informing the Central government and local bodies’ performance to the people. Its top leadership is concentrating on handpicking of right candidates, for the later stage, as the elections come closer. Twenty-three of the 27 municipal corporations in the state, 27 of the 36 district councils, over 300 out of 362 nagar panchayats and municipal councils and more than 290 panchayat samitis are scheduled to go to polls in the first half of next year. The elections are touted as mini-Assembly polls as they would show which party is in a better position and likely to set the tone for the Lok Sabha and Assembly polls to be held two years later. BJP currently holds the highest local bodies in the state. Of the 2,736 corporators in 27 municipal corporations, BJP has 1099; of 2,000 members in 36 district councils, the party has the highest, 526, sitting members. In 362 municipal councils and nagar panchayats, the party has 1944 sitting members out of total strength of 7,493 of these bodies. Samarth Booth Abhiyan According to party leaders, the person-to-person contact, developed way ahead of the elections, has been strength of the party. Strengthening it further, the party has launched the Shyamaprasad Mukherjee Samarth Booth Abhiyan for the local body polls. The outreach programme will see a head appointed for each of the 96,605 polling booths the state has. Below them, 31 panna pramukhs or head of electoral roll page – which has about 30 voters – will be shouldered with the responsibility of getting in touch with each of the voters multiple times till the day of voting. Five booths will have a Shakti Kendra Pramukh. The booth-level workers have been given orientation, training and introduced with the use of technology. BJP legislative Council member Ramdas Ambatkar, convenor of the Samarth Booth Abhiyan drive, said that the more than 3 million party workers are being roped in for the drive, which kicked off on July 6, and will be completed on September 17. “We have completed appointments of booth and page heads on 80,000 booths and the remaining ones will be completed in the next few days. Every booth has around 30 pages of voters and each page covers around 12 families. We already have roped in 2.4 million workers and the number is expected to cross 3 million in the next few days. We expect our page head to get in touch with the families from time-to-time to take the programmes of the party to them and establish contacts,” he said. The party workers heading the booths are shouldered with the responsibility of upgrading the performance. “We have categorised booths in A, B and C categories based on the votes polled by the party candidates last time. The booth workers are expected to upgrade the performance by continuously being in contacts with the voters. The workers help the families in solving issues related to civic problems and employment on a regular basis and get them attached to the party,” Ambatkar said. The drive has the backup of the war rooms which have been set up in each district and in turn all the war rooms connected with state-level war room. “The war rooms work on three levels – handling of social media, establishing communications till booth-level workers and creating contents which are distributed among voters. The war rooms take feedback and cross verifies if the information provided from the lower level is correct and working. At the same time, it also provides the content based on the programmes and schemes implemented for the people at various levels,” said a party functionary. The two programmes undertaken by party’s two top state leaders – leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and state unit chief Chandrakant Patil – in the past two days indicate how utmost importance is given to the outreach programme. On Wednesday, Fadnavis had visited 23 booth pramukhs at their homes from his constituency in Nagpur. Patil on Tuesday had addressed more than 100,000 party workers and leaders, including booth pramukhs and shakti kendra pramukhs, in a virtual meeting. Batting on Central schemes The party aims to bat on the schemes and programmes launched by the Narendra Modi government. The district-level war rooms are engaged in creating the content related to the schemes and benefits extended to public through various central schemes including Pradhan Mantri (PM) Awas Yoajana, PM-Kisan and Ujjwala Yojana, among others. As part of the outreach programme, the state unit is felicitating the beneficiaries of these schemes to set examples before other voters. “The Jan Ashirwad Yatra by our newly inducted Union ministers was another such attempt to reach out to the people to take our work to them, understand their issues and establish contacts. Similarly, we have been taking development works in the local bodies held by us to the people. It is presented to them in such a manner that people themselves compare our performance with that of the earlier parties such as the Congress,” said party core committee member and former minister Sudhir Mungantiwar. As part of the party strategy of taking the performance to the people, state leaders inaugurated developmental projects in Pune and Nagpur. In Mumbai, the party will attack Shiv Sena for the alleged corruption during its three-decade stint in the civic body and poor development of the city. “The party plank in BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) election will be development of Mumbai. We will try to convince the voters about how important it is to elect BJP to power in BMC for the development of the city and its infrastructure,” said a former city unit chief of the party. Picking right candidates The state unit of the party learnt lessons after the legislative Council elections last December, wherein it lost four out of six seats, including two in its citadels Pune and Nagpur. The conclusion drawn during the introspection by the leadership was faulty selection of candidates. The lessons were learnt immediately, and party put its strategy in the right perspective during the Pandharpur bypoll in May. “In the bypolls, we were swimming against the tide. It was Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) traditional seat, the sympathy wave was in their favour because the son of the sitting legislator was named the candidate after his father’s demise and the three ruling parties (Sena, NCP and Congress) were unitedly standing against us. All stalwart leaders from the three parties campaigned against us. But the right strategy helped us in adding a legislator in the lower house. It has given us a confidence that it is possible to fight against the three,” said another leader. The party has already started tapping the right candidates for the local body elections. The leadership has identified potential candidates from other parties with high possibility of winning over its own probable candidates. “The experiment of importing leaders from other parties worked well during the Lok Sabha and Assembly polls in 2019. We do not have our base in many districts where we will have to depend on the strong local leaders from other parties. Ultimately, winability matters in the polls. There will be an influx of leaders from other parties in Mumbai and other cities,” the leader said. Party leaders also feel that induction of leaders like Kripa Shankar Singh and elevation of Narayan Rane as Union minister will help them in these elections. They claimed that more such leaders from other parties are being tapped for induction in BJP. Fighting without power A section of BJP state unit firmly believes that retaining the existing strength in local bodies is a herculean task before them. “The jump from fourth to top position in terms of members in the corporations, district councils and nagar panchayats could be possible because of the power we had in state until 2019. Power at state level helps in managing government machinery for the benefit of the ruling parties during the polls. Many local leaders from other parties were detained by digging out old cases against them during the Kalyan Dombivli civic polls in 2017. It naturally helped us in winning sizable seats in the civic body. We do not have that advantage this time,” said another leader. Secondly, its three vs one for BJP across the state as the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) partners are likely to fight the polls in alliance. BJP’s state general secretary Shrikant Bharatiya said they see it as an opportunity and 50% of the political space is available for them. “We could grab the half of the space in Pandharpur bypoll. The strength does not get multiply for the three ruling parties even if they fight unitedly as the psyche of the Indian voter recognises political parties as either the ruling party or the one sitting in opposition. In that sense, the three ruling parties will be treated as a ruling unit. The workers of Shiv Sena and NCP cannot work together at local level even if the parties decide to fight polls together. They have been traditional opponents for years, while our fight is against the three parties who have failed on all fronts as ruling parties. As such, we have an equal opportunity against them,” he said. He added that the Shiv Sena would face major loss in these elections for obvious reasons. “In Mumbai, Sena will face double anti-incumbency for three decades of power in BMC as well as because of the state government’s poor performance. Besides, voters believing in a certain ideology have not liked Sena’s decision of joining hands with NCP and Congress by ditching us,” he said. Political analyst Hemant Desai said BJP has been ahead of all other parties in term of their preparations. “Be in power or out of it, the party takes all elections very seriously and makes preparations at micro level. While ruling parties look to be quiet on that front, BJP has been holding constant meetings with workers and leaders. The party had won maximum local bodies when they were in power. It may be a tough task to retain those civic bodies, but they are giving 100% of their efforts to retain them.” Change in guard ahead of polls? Though a section of party’s central leadership believe that the change in the guard in state and Mumbai unit of the party was required, it is unlikely to be done ahead of the polls. Party insiders firmly believe that Mumbai polls cannot be contested under the leadership of its incumbent chief Mangal Prabha Lodha. They also feel the need for change of leadership at state level too. “Being a developer, Lodha cannot raise issues related to corruption in civic body and or take the opponent leaders head on. He may keep talking about larger national issues and pull on religious line, but it would not help us in BMC polls. But instead of changing the leadership, the party may decide to give decision-making power to other leaders such as Fadnavis, Patil, Ashish Shelar among others. Similarly, the change in state leadership may not be done anytime soon,” the leader said. Mungantiwar, however, said, “The core team takes a collective responsibility in any election the party faces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/local-body-polls-in-maharashtra-bjp-s-army-of-3-million-at-work-101631361609484.html
11-09-2021||Pune||Startup mantra: BatteryPool aims to solve charging conundrum for EV fleets||PUNE Electric is the future of mobility,” say experts. Users of electric vehicles (EV) are presently concerned about the lack of charging infrastructure. One of the popular solutions being adopted by the industry is that of “battery swapping”. However, not all EV manufacturers have common battery specifications. The Pune-based BatteryPool startup, founded by Ashwin Shankar, is solving challenges around battery swapping that can lead to downtime of EVs via its flagship product, internet of things (IoT) based, intelligent battery-swapping station for fleets and commercial electric vehicles.In the beginningAfter his schooling at Loyola High School, Shankar earned a Bachelor of Science and Master’s degree in electrical engineering from Purdue University and from Stanford University, respectively. Shankar then moved back to India in 2015. For a year, he was working at a technology policy think-tank, the Centre for Technology, Innovation and Economic Research (CTIER), where he explored technology and innovation in the automotive industry. During the same period, there was an increase in the awareness about EVs following the Government of India’s announcement to go all-electric by 2030. Says Shankar, “We were looking at the technology policy in the Indian context. Being in Pune we were looking at the automotive industry in terms of innovation and technological progress. With all the learnings, experiences and skill-sets that I had gathered over the years, EVs seemed an interesting space. I was thinking about entrepreneurship and decided to build my own startup company. BatteryPool was founded in January 2018.” Lessons from the fleet BatteryPool was initially funded through the Entrepreneurs-in- Residence (EIR) programme under the National Initiative for Developing and Harnessing Innovations (NIDHI) programme launched by Department of Science and Technology for nurturing ideas and innovations – knowledge-based and technology-driven – into successful startups.Says Shankar, “While I was working at the policy think-tank, I had a chance to interact with NCL Venture Centre. I was subscribed to an email list and I got to know about the fellowship through them. It seemed like an interesting arrangement as there are not too many programmes that let you do that.”After the DST fellowship, BatteryPool also got some other grants that allowed Shankar and his team to experiment. He says, “These grants helped us understand the EV space. We realised that in India the adoption of EVs is going to happen for commercial and fleet operations. We wanted to understand the challenges fleet operators faced. So, I put in my own money into a fleet of 20 EV two-wheelers. We gave those EVs to delivery professionals and small businesses in Pune.”“Running this fleet for a year, we identified the problems first hand. From vehicles running out of charge in the middle of deliveries to drivers not being able to locate charge points when they wanted to recharge their battery packs, there were existing bottlenecks. At the backend we were building hardware and software products that helped us address these operational challenges,” he recalls. Pivoting to tech-first Within months of starting up, Shankar realised that the fleet business was operationally heavy. It was financially intensive, managing people and vehicles. So, around June 2020, Shankar decided to pivot. Says Shankar, “During our fleet operations we learnt that delivery professionals can’t afford downtime. They always need to be on the move. One important realisation was that for fleet operators there is no standard battery pack. Every vehicle manufacturer has his own battery standard and so it doesn’t make sense to have a swapping solution where you are forcing a battery pack on an end user. We also noticed that fleet operators were have their own applications. Hence, going for an Application Programming Interface first (API) made a lot more sense than pushing an app on the end user. We had realised that we had a market for swap solutions. Fleets were also coming up in other parts of the country.”Charging solutionsSays Shankar, “We are developing charging solutions for fleets and commercial vehicle applications. Delivery professionals can’t afford to wait three to four hours in the day for a battery recharge. Our flagship product for this segment is our battery swapping station where drivers can exchange their battery packs in a matter of seconds. What is unique about the battery swapping station is that we are battery-agnostic. We don’t push any battery pack on to the customer. We work around their battery pack specifications.”“We typically work with large fleet customers or large battery operators. Ours is a software-first hardware product which means that these fleet operators or existing battery swapping operators can just attach an application onto the swapping station. They don’t have to download separate applications. They can use their existing API to get access to the station,” Shankar said.Battery agnostic… but not inter-operable“Being battery agnostic does not mean that people can take any battery to any station for recharge. It is more that hardware and software can be used across different types of batteries,” explains Shankar. He adds, “Traditional battery swapping operators in today’s market have a certain battery standard which they try to push to end customers. Fleet operators have to retrofit their vehicles and make sure that the vehicle is compatible with battery packs. Our business model and hardware is able to cater to different types of battery packs. Our hardware and software, the entire technology stack, is compatible with customer batteries. It is not interoperable, but it is agnostic in a sense that our hardware can work with any batteries.”“Also, fleet operators have their own applications for drivers. Our swapping station ties into their application. The delivery professional uses their existing last-mile delivery application to access the station,” he added. Software developmentSays Shankar, “In the initial days, we were building the hardware first, but we knew that there has to be a software as it can’t be just a hardware kind of mechanism. From the swap station diagnostics standpoint, we wanted to know the health of the station. Whether batteries being deposited are in good health or not? So we needed software to talk to the batteries. This software would then determine which door should open and close and which battery should be accepted. The hardware communicates with battery ensuring a non-compatible battery is not being deposited.”“It took us a year for us to come to a state to take our product to customers. The software development came quickly in two month. Iterations are happening till date and new versions of our software are coming up based on ground feedback and how the entire EV ecosystem is developing.”Market and deploymentsDelhi NCR is the biggest market for BatteryPool, claims Shankar. “Recently, we have signed large contracts/POs with one of India’s largest e-rickshaw fleets. We are also planning to introduce Smart Plug-In chargers for fleet/commercial EVs without swappable battery packs in the near future,” he stated. “Commercial EVs are picking up in the last mile delivery, shared mobility, e-rickshaw segment in Delhi region. In Pune we are seeing a demand in the two-wheeler segment for last-mile delivery applications. Bengaluru is also an important market for us which will soon witness some deployments,” Shankar said. “We have deployments in east Africa countries as well. In fact, our first customer is from Kenya. A large EV company there was looking for setting up swapping stations and we got their order.”Challenges in deploymentSays Shankar, “From the product side, it’s everything about how the user interacts with the swapping station. Indian consumers interact very differently compared to the West. There are problems of low network coverage, power cuts. Considering these challenges, we had to build lot of things at the swapping stations on the hardware and software side. We realised the magnitude of this problem when we deployed some stations.”“We need internet (IoT based-devices) to access intelligence to the swapping solution. We had cases of no good coverage even within cities, thereby impeding the network application. We tried to locally reduce the dependence on internet connectivity. So we did computing on EDGE which means a lot of intelligence happens on the hardware itself instead of relying on the internet.”If power goes off in middle of a swap, what happens? Shankar says, “As of now we don’t have any solution for this. As an alternative solution, we record the swap, but there is no backup for station. We are planning to give a small battery backup where it will at least open the doors and give access to batteries, if not charge them. There is manual way of opening the swap station doors. We also give training to the operators and a super-admin access to the operators. We have a Standard Operating Procedure about how to install the station and check whether the station is working properly after deployment.”Investor quote“The EV ecosystem in India is evolving rapidly. The use case of going electric is well-known as running costs for fleet operators’ contract. By 2030, the fleet and commercial vehicle charging market size is set to reach $2.7 billion, as these will become electrified. BatteryPool is walking on a path to capture a huge opportunity with India witnessing a rapid shift to electric mobility in the 2&3 wheeler segment, which is where EV adoption will see tremendous velocity. We will offer our proprietary software & hardware solutions and embrace a collaborative platform as we build on our partnerships with OEMs and fleet operators.” -Arjun Seth, Lead Investor at Indian Angel Network||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-batterypool-aims-to-solve-charging-conundrum-for-ev-fleets-101631361186954.html
11-09-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh to get NaMo garden in each block to celebrate PM’s birthday||The Bharatiya Janata Party in Madhya Pradesh will develop 1,070 Narendra Modi (NaMo) parks on government land across the state to celebrate Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birth anniversary, a senior BJP functionary said.“At a state-level meeting of BJP leaders led by state president VD Sharma, the decision has been taken to develop NaMo Udyan in 1070 mandals to plant at least 71 saplings in one garden,” said Jitu Jirati, BJP’s vice-president for Madhya Pradesh.PM Modi turns 71 on September 17 and from that day the BJP, across India, would conduct several events till October 7, when the PM took over as Gujarat chief minister 20 years ago. In Madhya Pradesh, the BJP will plant 75,970 saplings on September 29, 30 and October 1 across 52 districts. The saplings would be provided by the MP forest department which will also guide the BJP workers in the plantation drive. “We have requested the administration of all the districts to provide barren land in every mandal which can be developed as a covered garden. We will spend money on boundary walls and tree guards. If we don’t get land, we will develop gardens, which are in dilapidated condition,” said Jirati.“Simply developing the garden is not our purpose. Seventy BJP workers would be dedicated to each garden to ensure the saplings grow into a full grown-up tree,” he added.Describing the prime minister as India’s pride, state horticulture minister Bharat Singh Kushwaha, said the state government will help the BJP workers in the task.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi is above any party and community. He is a pride of our nation and we are not handing any land to open some office. BJP workers want to develop barren land through plantations and it is good for the environment. We will not only help them but also participate in the plantation drive,” Kushwaha said.Opposition Congress accused the BJP of trying to encroach public land.“Can state government provide any land to any person for the development of a garden? If it is so easy, we will also demand land to develop gardens. This is nothing but the state government’s aim to give land to BJP workers who will encroach upon the land and later RSS will hold shakhas in the garden,” said JP Dhanopia, spokesperson, MP Congress Committee.Countering Congress’ argument, BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “Congress leaders should understand one thing that our purpose is to plant trees for the purification of the environment. It is impossible to develop such a huge garden having 71 trees on private land. We will develop barren land and garden, which are in poor condition. The trees will give oxygen so Congress leaders shouldn’t do politics on everything.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-to-get-namo-garden-in-each-block-to-celebrate-pm-s-birthday-101631360947426.html
11-09-2021||Other||‘Pack of lies...’: Opposition questions Goa govt’s claim of 100% vaccination coverage||The opposition in Goa has questioned the government’s claim of having completed 100% vaccination of the first dose in the state, pointing out that the claim was unfounded with several hundreds of people yet to receive their first dose of vaccine. “[The] claim by @goacm of 100% Covid vaccination to eligible population is one more lie added to the ‘pack of lies’ of @BJP4Goa Government. Insensitive @BJP4India 1st declared Goa as Open Defecation Free, Later announced Goa is connected with Tap Water in every Household. Lies continue…,” Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat tweeted on Saturday. “We Challenge @GovtofGoa and CM to prove this bogus claim of 100% Vaccination in Goa. There are many people in Goa who have not taken their first dose,” Amarnath Panjikar, another Congress leader, said. On Friday, the chief minister announced that with more than 11.80 lakh doses being administered - which, according to the voter’s list that the health authorities have been relying on, is around 30,000 more than the total registered voters in the state - the state has completed 100% vaccination of first dose. The declaration meant that Goa became the second state after Himachal Pradesh to have completed 100% vaccination of the first dose. “I congratulate our Doctors, Nurses and Healthcare Workers for administering the first dose of #COVID19 vaccines to 100% eligible population in Goa. I thank the people of Goa for their support in making this drive a huge success. We shall continue to march ahead with the same energy to ensure that we also complete the second dose,” Sawant said. Several BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, have congratulated the state on completing the milestone. “Well done Goa! Great effort, powered by a collective spirit and the prowess of our doctors as well as innovators,” the Prime Minister tweeted.Goa had initially set a target of completing 100% vaccination of the first dose by July 31 but missed it. The chief Minister has now announced that the target to complete the second dose of vaccination will be achieved by October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pack-of-lies-opposition-questions-goa-govt-s-claim-of-100-vaccination-coverage-101631360648110.html
11-09-2021||Mumbai||Man booked for kidnapping, raping orchestra bar singer in Navi Mumbai||The Kamothe police on Friday booked a man for allegedly kidnapping and raping a 25-year-old singer of an orchestra bar, officials said.According to the police, the survivor worked at a bar at Panvel. The accused used to be her friend earlier, but they had a fight a few months ago following which she registered a case of harassment against him at Panvel city police station.Smita Jadhav, senior inspector of Kamothe police station said, “On Wednesday night when the survivor was returning from work in a taxi, the accused accosted her at Kamothe and then forcefully took her to his car. He then took her to a lodge and then forced himself on her. He also threatened her with dire consequences if she approached the police, and then fled the spot. Prima facie it appears that the accused was trying to take revenge since the harassment case was registered against him.”The survivor was too scared to approach the police. On Friday she mustered courage and registered an FIR against the accused at APMC police station. The case was later transferred to Kamothe police as she was kidnapped from their jurisdiction.“The accused has been booked under sections 376, 363 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). We are now looking for him and hope to arrest him soon,” Jadhav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-booked-for-kidnapping-raping-orchestra-bar-singer-in-navi-mumbai-101631359910114.html
11-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Sakinaka rape case accused sent to police custody till Sept 21||A court in Mumbai has sent the man accused of raping a 32-year-old woman and inserting an iron rod in her private parts in the Sakinaka area of the city to police custody till September 21, news agency ANI reported. The 45-year-old man was held early on Friday in connection with the case, which is being compared to the brutal sexual attack on another woman in Delhi in 2012. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that the accused will be tried in a fast-track court. “I have asked [the] police to expedite the investigation. The case will be tried in a fast-track court and we will ensure strictest punishment is given to the perpetrator,” a statement issued by his office said.Thackeray has also spoken to Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil and Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale about the case, according to the statement.Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik echoed Thackeray on the matter and ensured a speedy probe. “Fast track court should be set up for this case and there should be a punishment that warns people against committing such a heinous crime and also conveys the state government’s stand on it,” Malik was quoted as saying by ANI.He condoled the death of the rape victim, who succumbed to her injuries during treatment at a city hospital, and added that the state government will “definitely file a chargesheet within the time frame,” ANI reported.Deputy commissioner of police, Zone 10, Maheshwar Reddy, said that they received a call at 3am regarding an injured couple on Khiarani Road in Sakinaka, Andheri East. The police found the woman lying unconscious inside a parked auto-rickshaw at the spot and when she was taken to the Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar, doctors confirmed sexual assault. Citing the medical examination reports, police added that the woman was brutalised with the assaulter inserting an iron road in her private parts.The accused has been booked under Sections 307, 376, 323 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-sakinaka-rape-case-accused-sent-to-police-custody-till-sept-21-101631355505863.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||‘Cleared up within 30 minutes...’: Aviation minister Scindia on waterlogging at Delhi airport||Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said he was informed that the waterlogged forecourt at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport was cleared up within just 30 minutes as visuals, showing parts of the airport submerged under water emerged on social media, as heavy rain lashed the national capital and its adjoining areas on Saturday. Scindia was tagged by several Twitter users who complained about the state of the country’s busiest airport.Also Read | After heavy rain in Delhi, parts of airport, other areas waterlogged“Got in touch with officials, and was told that the waterlogged forecourt was cleared up within 30 minutes,” the minister tweeted, responding to journalist Swati Chaturvedi, who was among those who tagged Scindia on the social networking site.  Got in touch with the officials at the airport, and was told that the waterlogged forecourt was cleared up within 30 minutes. https://t.co/P4VYIK4aIJMeanwhile, in its latest update on the situation, the official Delhi Airport Twitter handle put out a video, showing a clear forecourt as passengers make their exit in the background. “Due to heavy downpour, passengers encountered waterlogging for a short while. The on-ground team was immediately mobilised and the operations are back to normal since 9am,” an earlier update noted. Here is the latest update pic.twitter.com/si3LDXeGNk“Due to sudden heavy rain, for a short period, there was waterlogging at the forecourt. Our team was immediately aligned to look into it, and the issue has been resolved,” it said, responding to radio jockey Sayema Rahman. Dear Sayema, Due to sudden heavy rain, for a short period, there was waterlogging at the forecourt. Our team was immediately aligned to look into it and the issue has been resolved. pic.twitter.com/qgBN3D29oOSeveral Twitter users have applauded officials for quick action on their part.
11-09-2021||Mumbai||32-year-old rape and assault victim succumbs to injuries in Mumbai||The 32-year-old woman, who was found unconscious in a tempo, died on Saturday at Rajawadi Hospital, officials said. Her injuries suggested that she was brutalised with an iron rod, officials said.According to Sakinaka police, the woman sustained severe injuries when they found her at Khairani Road in Sakinaka.She was rushed to the hospital where she battled for her life for more than 33 hours before succumbing to her injuries on Saturday morning.On Friday the police arrested a 45-year-old man for allegedly assaulting and raping the woman.According to Maheshwar Reddy, deputy commissioner of police zone 10, “at 3 am the police received a call about an injured couple at Khiarani Road in Sakinaka at Andheri east. On reaching the spot, the police found a man who was lying injured on the road and a woman who was found inside a parked tempo”.While the woman lay unconscious, the police registered a case against an unidentified man for assault and rape. Reddy added.“After registering the case, we scanned the CCTV recordings of the spot and arrested a man who was seen at the crime scene,” he said.Officials said that they have to investigate the sequence of events and find out if there were others who were involved in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/32yearold-rape-and-assault-victim-succumbs-to-injuries-in-mumbai-101631352188390.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Miranda House ranked #1: Eminent alumni elated, reminisce good ol’ days||It was a day of celebration for students and alumni of Delhi University’s Miranda House for retaining first rank for the fifth year in a row in the college wise NIRF rankings 2021. Eminent graduates from the college take a trip down the memory lane and remember their good ol’ days from alma mater. Here’s what they have to say: Urvashi Butalia, writer and publisherI am not surprised that Miranda House has ranked at top. Even at the time, in early ‘70’s, it was very open, had students from various backgrounds, range of subjects which many other women colleges didn’t have. I think Miranda was also the first women college to join DUSU, many other women colleges stayed away from it - they saw it as too political. From what I remember, it was culturally very rich in theatre and music. And my special connection was that my mother was an early Mirandian. When the college didn’t have courses but a hostel where working women could stay - they were there during the partition violence. After that, it turned into an actual college. Anuja Chauhan, authorI wasn’t in a position to choose the college due to my poor marks but I was good at extra curricular activities so I managed to get into Miranda House. It was a safe haven. Girls were not just mere spectators. I never thought of having a political opinion until I started studying here. There was a lot of awakening - be it political, fashion or feminism.”Chauhan also points out how girls used to swoon over guys back in those days. She shares, “The only way boys used to enter our college was when there were fests and girls used to go gaga!”Minissha Lamba, actorI barely made it to the cut off list if I remember correctly. There was an essay that needed to be submitted with an application form, that would have been it ... I don’t quite remember if that was the case though. I studied English, and it was a such a wonderful subject to be a part of that going to college was a pleasure. No more equations and mathematics and formulas... But thoughts, opinions, views, and that wasn’t a view that was wrong. Everything could be argued. And if argued well and with logic, that was the first breath of freshness or freedom that a young adult aspires towards.Shovana Narayan, Kathak exponentI have fond memories. In those days [1960s] there were limited colleges so I didn’t not have too much options to choose from. I only took admission at Miranda House because of the best faculty and reputation of the college. Our classes used to happen at Physics faculty of Delhi but my classmates were hostellers so I used to spend time with them at the college either in their rooms or cafeteria, during our free periods. I was not a part of any society but they used to call me to perform at functions!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/miranda-house-ranked-1-eminent-alumni-elated-reminisce-good-ol-days-101631350265738.html
11-09-2021||Mumbai||Police have failed: NCW says after woman raped in Mumbai’s Sakinaka dies||After the woman raped in the Sakinaka area of Mumbai succumbed to her injuries, the National Commission for Women (NCW) said on Saturday it has taken suo moto cognisance of the crime and will start a probe into the crime. Rekha Sharma, the NCW chairperson, said that the commission will also extend help to the victim's family. “It’s sad to know that the victim of #mumbai brutal rape has lost the battle. Police has failed to arrest the accuseds. @NCWIndia has taken up suo motu and would like to urge @CPMumbaiPolice to immediately arrresr all the culprits and extend all the assistance to family,” Sharma also tweeted.The NCW said earlier that Sharma was written to Maharashtra’s director general of police (DGP) “to immediately intervene in the matter & to file an FIR. “NCW has also sought a fair & time-bound investigation & proper medical facility for the victim,” it said in a tweet about the crime in the Sakinaka area of Mumbai.It’s sad to know that the victim of #mumbai brutal rape has lost the battle. Police has failed to arrest the accuseds. @NCWIndia has taken up suo motu and would like to urge @CPMumbaiPolice to immediately arrresr all the culprits and extend all the assistance to family. https://t.co/vjuDYq083AAlso read | Mumbai woman, who was raped, had rod inserted in private parts, diesMeanwhile, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said the case will be fast-tracked. “We will make sure that the chargesheet is filed within a given frame of time and the case is fast-tracked to bring the accused to justice,” Nawab Malik was quoted as saying by ANI.The 32-year old woman, who was raped and brutally assaulted by a 45-year-old man in the Sakinaka area of Mumbai succumbed to her injuries on Saturday. The victim, who sustained serious injuries after the attacker inserted a rod put in her private parts, was undergoing treatment in Rajawadi Hospital in Mumbai. The man was arrested by the Sakinaka Police early on Friday for allegedly assaulting and raping the woman. Also read | 32-yr-old woman found unconscious in Mumbai’s Andheri east was raped, brutalised: CopMumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said earlier in the day that the condition of the woman was critical. "She has very less amount of blood left and has lost her intestines. She is with her mother. She is on a ventilator," she said, according to news agency ANI.The police rushed to the spot after they received a call about a man beating up a woman at Khairani Road in Sakinaka. They found the woman lying in a pool of blood and took her to the Rajawadi Hospital, where doctors said she was sexually assaulted. According to news agency PTI, the woman was also attacked with a knife by the man. “After registering the case, we scanned the CCTV recordings of the spot and have arrested a man who was seen at the crime scene,” Maheshwar Reddy, the deputy commissioner of police, Zone 10, said.The man has been booked under several sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-have-failed-ncw-says-after-woman-raped-in-mumbai-s-sakinaka-dies-101631349458249.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Rain floods Delhi airport forecourt, flights delayed due to bad weather||The Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport in Delhi was flooded due to heavy rain which lashed the national capital on Saturday. The Delhi Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said on Twitter that the situation lasted for a "short while"."Due to heavy downpour passengers encountered waterlogging for a short while. The on-ground team was immediately mobilized and the operations are back to normal since 9 am," DIAL tweeted.It also followed it up with the latest video which showed the forecourt of the Delhi airport completely free of water.DIAL's tweet came after images and videos surfaced on social media showing aircraft on the partially flooded tarmac of Delhi airport.An unverified video showed people standing with their luggage trolleys in the forecourt area and water all around."Forecourt of T-3 Flooded.. flight operations affected following heavy rain in Delhi," a user Sanjeev Jasrotia said on Twitter while posting the video.Forecourt of T-3 Flooded.. flight operations affected following heavy rain in Delhi.#DelhiRains#Delhiairport pic.twitter.com/tijAmbqXcsNews agency PTI reported that five flights were diverted this morning due to bad weather conditions.Four domestic flights - two of SpiceJet and one each of IndiGo and Go First - were diverted to Jaipur. One international flight - Emirates flight from Dubai to Delhi - was diverted to Ahmedabad, PTI further reported.Delhi received widespread rain on Saturday morning. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the national capital received 97mm rain since Friday morning.The highly unusual monsoon season this year has yielded 1,100 mm of rainfall in Delhi so far, the highest in 46 years, and almost double the precipitation recorded last year, the IMD said.
11-09-2021||Delhi||Leaving home as heavy rain lashes Delhi? Check current traffic advisory here||Delhi and its adjoining areas witnessed heavy rain on Saturday, leading to several routes in the city getting inundated. Dramatic visuals emerged from the Indira Gandhi International Airport as well, showing parts of the country’s busiest airport submerged under water. However, according to the official Delhi Airport Twitter handle, the water has been cleared and operations have been normal since 9am. Here is the latest update pic.twitter.com/si3LDXeGNkAlso Read | After heavy rain in Delhi, parts of airport, other areas waterloggedMeanwhile, the Delhi Traffic Police (DTP), too, took to Twitter, informing about various roads on which vehicular traffic has been affected due to waterlogging. Therefore, before leaving home, check for updates on DTP’s Twitter handle.Also Read | Delhi orange alert: Heavy rain lashes city, adjoining areasHere's the current traffic advisory:(1.) Overflow of rain and drain water on road number 210 and 224 near Delhi Jal Board (DJB) booster pump, Dwarka.(2.) Vehicles moving in a single lane while going from Khajuri flyover towards Brijpuri; traffic towards Rani Kheda underpass affected as well.(3.) Waterlogging at Pul Prahladpur has forced officials to divert vehicles going from Badarpur to MB Road, via Ashram. Route from Dwarka sector-1 to Palam flyover to be avoided.(4.) Both sides of road near GTK Depot, as well as the stretch from Mukarba to Azadpur Chowk and vice-versa badly affected. Commuters request to take alternative routes like the Outer Ring Road and Azadpur-Mukandpur flyover.(5.) Waterlogging on NH48 near Gurugram/Parade Road Crossing, due to which traffic from Dhaula Kuan to Gurugram is worst affected. Vehicles to turn right on Cariappa Marg and then towards left from Thimmaayya Chowk on Thimmaayya Marg to reach IGI Airport/Gurugram.(6.) Stretch near WHO on Ring Road to be avoided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-rain-leaving-home-check-current-traffic-advisory-here-101631347996140.html
11-09-2021||Mumbai||75-year-old cab driver sentenced to 3 years jail for touching minor inappropriately||A seventy-five-year-old taxi driver was convicted by a Special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Court and sentenced to three years of imprisonment with a fine of ₹10,000 for touching a minor girl inappropriately, officials said.The accused inappropriately touched the eleven-year-old girl, who was the passenger in his taxi, while she was returning from school. The court, while pronouncing the order, said the driver’s act of inappropriate touching created fear in her mind and she jumped out of the moving taxi, hence it thinks no leniency should be shown towards such acts.On September 6, 2016, the minor had taken a taxi after her classes in South Mumbai. The eleven-year-old sat in the rear seat, however, the taxi driver asked her to sit in front. After the minor sat in the front seat, the accused touched her inappropriately.The minor got terrified and asked the driver to stop the vehicle, which he refused, after which she jumped from the cab. The girl had suffered injuries on her both knees and was later taken by her parents to a local doctor.They had also registered a case in the matter against the taxi driver under section 354 of the Indian Penal Code and section 8 of the POCSO Act for punishment for sexual assault.The counsel for the accused, Sachin Godase, told the court that the accused was identified via CCTV, however, it is not given on record to the court. “When the taxi was being driven at a speed of 30-40 km per hour, how could the minor girl jump just adjacent to the school? The owner of the taxi was not examined by the prosecution. He could have rented his taxi to the accused to drive as well as to many others,” Godase said. However, Special Judge, Jayshri R Pulate, observed that the victim had properly identified the accused and there was no reason for the CCTV footage to be given on record. Special Public Prosecutor Sanjana Sharma submitted that the speed of the taxi was moderate. The act of running away from the spot by the taxi driver was the subsequent conduct of the accused and thus it can be inferred that he committed the act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/75yearold-cab-driver-sentenced-to-3-years-jail-for-touching-minor-inappropriately-101631347446273.html
11-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai woman, who was raped, had rod inserted in private parts, dies||A 32-year-old woman, who was raped in the Sakinaka area of Mumbai and sustained serious injuries after the assaulter inserted a rod in her private parts, has died during treatment at a city hospital, news agency ANI reported citing the police on Saturday. The woman was found lying unconscious at Khairani Road in the Sakinaka area on September 9 after allegedly being raped.A 45-year-old man was arrested by the Sakinaka Police early on Friday for allegedly assaulting and raping the woman. Maheshwar Reddy, the deputy commissioner of police, Zone 10, said the police received a call at 3am on Friday about an injured couple on Khiarani Road in Sakinaka, Andheri East. The police team found a woman lying injured inside a parked auto rickshaw. They also found an injured man on the road.The police team then took the woman to the Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar where doctors confirmed sexual assault. Police said a case of assault and rape was registered on the basis of the doctors’ opinion as the woman was unconscious. “After registering the case, we scanned the CCTV recordings of the spot and have arrested a man who was seen at the crime scene,” said Reddy.The man has been booked under sections 307, 376, 323 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-woman-who-was-raped-had-rod-inserted-in-private-parts-dies-101631344076694.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||After heavy rain in Delhi, parts of airport, other areas waterlogged||Several areas, including the Delhi airport, were waterlogged after heavy rain lashed the Capital on Saturday as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast “generally cloudy sky, heavy rain/thundershowers, very heavy rain at isolated places towards night”. “We regret the inconvenience caused. Due to sudden heavy rain, for a short period, there was waterlogging at the forecourt. Our team was immediately aligned to look into it and the issue has been resolved,” the Delhi International Airport Limited said, according to news agency ANI.ANI tweeted a video clip that showed aircraft on the ground at the partially flooded Delhi airport. The bad weather has affected operations at the airport with airlines, including IndiGo and SpiceJet, saying departures and arrivals and their consequential flights may get affected as a result of the rain in the national capital. The news agency also cited an airport official as saying that four domestic flights and one international flight were diverted from Delhi to Jaipur and Ahmedabad due to heavy rainfall in the national capital.#WATCH | Parts of Delhi Airport waterlogged following heavy rainfall in the national capital; visuals from Indira Gandhi International Airport (Terminal 3) pic.twitter.com/DIfUn8tMeiSeveral areas in Delhi, including Moti Bagh, RK Puram, Madhu Vihar, Hari Nagar, Rohtak Road, Badarpur, Som Vihar, Ring Road near IP Station, Vikas Marg, Sangam Vihar, Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, Pul Prahladpur Underpass, Munirka, Rajpur Khurd, Nangloi and Kirari, also witnessed waterlogging.Several users posted photographs and videos of waterlogged areas on social media in the Sadar Bazar area, near Minto bridge, ITO, and Nangloi flyover. In a video on Twitter purportedly showing waterlogging in Madhu Vihar, some DTC buses could be seen standing in the water, and other commuters manoeuvring their vehicles through the inundated road.The Public Works Department (PWD) said it has deployed its employees on the ground to pump out water from the streets. "Due to heavy rain in the early morning (on Saturday), waterlogging occurred at a number of places. We are tackling those issues on priority. Our staff is present round the clock to monitor the situation," a PWD official said, according to news agency PTI.The Delhi Traffic Police also posted tweets informing people about the stretches where they are expected to witness waterlogging. "Traffic Alert. Traffic is heavy due to water logging at GGR/PDR. Kindly Avoid the Stretch," it said in a tweet around 11 am. "Traffic Alert. Water logging near WHO on Ring Road. Kindly Avoid the Stretch," it said in another tweet.The India Meteorological Department, which issued an orange alert for Delhi on Friday, said more rain is expected. “Thunderstorm with heavy to very heavy intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of few places of Delhi( Akshardham, Shahadra, Preet Vihar), NCR (Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Loni Dehat, Hindon AF, Indirapuram, Chapraula ),” it tweeted at 12:10pm.Rohtak, Gohana, jind, and Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi (Mundka, Jafarpur), NCR (Gurugram, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh ) Karnal, Assandh, Safidon, Panipat, Sonipat, Charkhi Dadri, Kosali, Rewari,The IMD said on Saturday that the highly unusual monsoon season this year has yielded 1,100mm of rainfall in Delhi so far, the highest in 46 years, and almost double the precipitation recorded last year. "The Safdarjung Observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, had gauged 1,150 mm of rainfall in the 1975 monsoon season. This year, the precipitation has already hit the 1,100-mm mark and the season has not ended yet," an IMD official was quoted as saying by PTI.The figures may change as more rainfall has been predicted in the city during the day. Delhi normally records 648.9mm of rainfall during the monsoon season, according to the IMD. The city normally gets 590.2 mm of rainfall between June 1, when the monsoon season starts, and September 11. The monsoon withdraws from Delhi by September 25.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-heavy-rain-in-delhi-parts-of-airport-other-areas-waterlogged-101631342471417.html
11-09-2021||Patna||Residents of Kaimur district headquarters suffer due to indefinite strike of sanitation workers||Rotting filth and garbage are piling inside Kaimur district headquarters in Bihar’s Bhabua as the indefinite strike of Nagar Parishad (local urban body) sanitation workers continued for the fifth day on Saturday, officials said.People are suffering a lot due to foul smell and other hygiene problems as garbage was not picked from lanes and roads. They are fearing the spread of diseases with mosquitoes, flies and insects multiplying.The sanitation workers were on an indefinite dharna in front of the Nagar Parishad office for four days. They raised slogans against the state government and drew a protest march through the main thoroughfares of the town on Saturday. They called the people to support their 11-point charter of demands, including permanent jobs and payment of minimum wages.Rashtriya mahadalit sangh’s state president Vijay Kumar Rawat, who led the agitation, said, most of the sanitation workers from mahadalit community were working with the urban body since their forefathers. But they were kept on daily wages through middlemen and were not paid even the minimum wages as per the Minimum Wages Act.The poor people had been working in unhygienic and inhuman conditions but the middlemen removed them after the latter demanded minimum wages and better work conditions, Rawat said.“We are demanding ₹18,000 to ₹21,000 monthly salary provided under the act, making the service permanent of the workers who completed 10 years of service as well as hygienic and humane work conditions. The strike would be continued till the fulfilment of demands,” Rawat said.Nagar Parishad chairman Jainendra Kumar Arya said that 80-85 sanitation workers had been kept and paid ₹393 daily as per the directions of the state’s urban development department. The urban body was bound to follow the department’s directions and had no role in the process. The body was trying to maintain the sanitation services in the town with the help of 105 sanitation workers provided by an outsourcing agency for door-to-door garbage collection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/residents-of-kaimur-district-headquarters-suffer-due-to-indefinite-strike-of-sanitation-workers-101631342587017.html
11-09-2021||Patna||Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav planned at different sites in Bihar, celebrations to begin from Sept 17||Bihar tourism has planned year-long celebrations of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav to mark the 75th anniversary of the country’s Independence. The series of events will be held at the sites related to Gandhi and Champaran Satyagrah and at the spots related to Buddhist, Jain, Sikh and Sufi circuits in the state, officials said. While an exhibition on Gandhi’s visit to the state has been planned at Bhitiharwa Aashram in West Champaran, Sufi Mahotsav will be held at Kako in Jehanabad at the Dargaah of the woman Sufi saint. A heritage walk will be held at the ancient age Nalanda University remains, cruise campaign in the Ganga River from Digha Ghat to Didarganj has also been planned during the celebrations.The series of events will begin with the freedom run at Rajdhani Vatika in the state capital on September 17 this year.“Over a dozen events have been planned to celebrate the 75th year of the country’s Independence. Each of these events will be held at different destinations which are already listed in one or another tourism circuit. We want to highlight the historical and cultural significance of these places through the events,” Narayan Prasad, tourism minister, said. “Besides, these events have also been intended to make people aware of the unsung heroes of the state and the country. Many places which have been deeply connected to our heritage, culture and freedom fighters have remained unknown for decades. These places too will be highlighted through the events,” he added.The minister said that the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav is a year-long celebration. “We will update people about the schedule of the events on the department website and social media platforms,” he said.Other events listed for the celebrations include functions at Saran, Kangan Ghat in the state capital, Bodh Gaya, Rajgir, Rohtas, Vaishali, Sitamarhi, Maner Sharif, Munger, Bhagalpur, Banka and Patna Sahib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-planned-at-different-sites-in-bihar-celebrations-to-begin-from-sept-17-101631339946383.html
11-09-2021||Patna||Ward member’s post becomes coveted for wannabe politicos in Bihar panchayat polls||Unlike the last several panchayat polls, it’s the post of ward member in the gram panchayats which is drawing huge nominations from aspiring candidates in Bihar in comparison to other coveted posts like Mukhiya and Sarpanch in the ongoing nomination process for the three-tier rural local bodies polls. The election will kickstart on September 24. As per the data of the State Election Commission (SEC), a total of 8,611 nominations have been filed by candidates for 2,233 ward members posts in gram panchayats of 12 blocks spread over 10 districts, going to polls in the first phase. In total, 15,238 nominations have been filed for 4,955 posts in three-tier local bodies in the first phase. The nomination for 151 posts of Mukhiya in the first phase has drawn only 1,294 nominations while for Sarpanch only 772 nominations have been filed. For 2,233 posts of gram kutchery pancha (equivalent to ward members at gram kutchery level), only 3,225 nominations have been filed. In the second phase of the ongoing nominations, the same trend is visible. Till September 9, the total number of nomination for the second phase of polling stands at 25868 of which 14779 nominations have been filed for the post of ward member. There are a total of 1,13307 posts of ward members out of 2,55,022 in the three-tier rural local bodies and gram kutcheries.The palpable change in preference for holding ward member posts at the gram panchayat level – the bottom tier of three-tier local bodies- by those taking a plunge in politics at the grass-root level is attributed to the new administrative and financial powers given by the state government in 2018 and introduction of new schemes like Jal Nal yojana and Gali, Nali Pakkikaran yojana to be implemented by ward members. “In last few years, we have delegated huge powers for implementation and monitoring of rural schemes at the village level to the ward members which was not there previously. The ward members are getting certain honorariums and allowances, which is another incentive. There are few more proposals in the pipeline to expand the powers and duties of ward members after panchayat polls,” said panchayati raj minister, Samrat Choudhary. People familiar with the matter said, in 2018, the government’s decision to constitute a ward implementation management committee (WIMC), in which every ward member is an ex-officio chairman, has broadened their powers from supervisory to administrative with certain financial powers attached with it. The ward members now can issue cheques and also take important calls in the implementation of key schemes under seven resolves as well as centrally sponsored schemes like MGNREGA, PMAY(G) and other schemes of irrigation, education. Before the constitution of WIMC, ward members had limited powers and had to work directly under the mukhiya who had the overall financial powers and administrative powers. “Every gram panchayat gets ₹5-6 crore for five years which means annually, they have at their disposal ₹1-1.25 crore for the implementation of welfare schemes at the rural level. This is big public money, which has to be spent and monitored at the level of ward members and mukhiyas. This is one reason, why ward member’s post has now become quite coveted,” said another senior officer, who was engaged with the implementation of rural schemes at the panchayati raj department till recently. Under the 15 finance commission, sixth pay commission and allocations under MGNREGA, PMAY(G), the funds are transferred to the gram panchayats directly. Incidentally, till the last panchayat polls, it was the post of Mukhiya (head of gram panchayat) that drew the highest number of nominations ostensibly for the reason that the post comes with a lot of financial and administrative powers under the Bihar panchayat act. “After the 2011 and 2016 panchayat polls, there was a large number of resignations of ward members for which by-elections had to be held. The apparent reason why people resigned from the post was the lack of any financial or administrative powers with the posts. But now, things seem to be changing,” said an SEC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ward-member-s-post-becomes-coveted-for-wannabe-politicos-in-bihar-panchayat-polls-101631337426399.html
11-09-2021||Patna||AAP looking for panchayat polls to bolster presence in Bihar||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is eyeing the panchayat elections, starting September 24, to strengthen its organisation in Bihar and bolster its prospects for the next assembly elections, officials said. The frequent visits of the party in-charge of Bihar, Sanjiv Jha, also an MLA of Borari area of Delhi, and his attempts to get in touch with panchayat-level activists are clear indications that AAP will strive to give a viable alternative to the people during the next assembly elections, said a senior functionary of the party in Bihar.Jha, who originally hail from Madhubani district in Bihar, said that the party would intensify its drive to raise a network of committed workers after the crucial Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) elections in March-April next year. “Although the rural body elections are not held on the party symbols, we are supporting individual candidates in each panchayat to ensure the party’s role in the development of rural Bihar,” he said. “The party has focussed its attention towards Bihar, particularly due to growing rift in the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and the likelihood of a mid-term poll,” said Jha, who concluded his last visit to the state on Wednesday.A senior functionary of the party said that the exercise to reconstitute the state unit would begin once Jha completed his interactions with party workers at the district levels. “So far, Jha has visited as many as 23 districts till his third visit since he was made the in-charge. He will visit nine other districts during his next visit slated for September 27-28,” said Rajesh Sinha, who joined the AAP after quitting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) last year.Another leader said that the party was also looking to induct disgruntled leaders of mass support from all parties and who fit into AAP’s ideology of serving the society. He said that grassroots-level workers of the party were disappointed when the party decided not to contest the assembly election at the last moment.“This time, we are working in a very professional and organised way so that the APP could fulfil the space of Congress and the JD(U), which have lost their credibility among the masses. We hope to give a new state committee by December. A state executive committee is likely to be held in Bihar, which would be attended by party’s seniors like Manish Sisodia, Raghav Chaddha, etc,” said Sinha, adding that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal would be invited after the conclusion assembly polls in four states - Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa - where the party has a lot on the stake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/aap-looking-for-panchayat-polls-to-bolster-presence-in-bihar-101631334125974.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||'Like 9/11': Delhi's IGI airport on alert after threat call to 'blow up' Air India flight||The Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport in New Delhi went on a state of alert late on Friday night after security officials received a bomb threat call for a London-bound Air India flight. The Delhi Police said that the caller threatened to blow up the Air India flight to London on the lines of the 9/11 attacks in the United States.According to the police, the bomb threat call was received by the Ranhola police station in outer Delhi on Thursday night, following which the security at the IGI airport was alerted.“We received a bomb threat call about a flight going to London,” the ANI news agency quoted Delhi Police officials familiar with the development as saying. “At 10.30 pm on Thursday, a phone call came on the landline number of the Ranhola police station in Outer Delhi. The caller said that on the lines of 9/11 attacks in the US, an Air India flight to London will be blown up.”The Delhi Police had also received a separate threat call on Friday, which warned that unnamed miscreants were intending to seize the Delhi airport. The cops have launched an investigation into the matter and are currently trying to trace the numbers, the news agency reported.Meanwhile, the Delhi Police requested passengers to start early if they are to catch a flight from the IGI airport in the national capital. Since there is a security alert around, officials will be checking vehicles and several parts of the airport compound for any potential threats, which may lead to an unwanted delay for passengers.“Travel alert due to SFJ's call to seize the airport, checking of vehicles will be done going to the airport,” tweeted DCP south-west Pratap Singh. “Those who have to board a flight from IGI are requested to start early to avoid any delays.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/like-9-11-delhi-s-igi-airport-on-alert-after-threat-call-to-blow-up-air-india-flight-101631328554042.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Cops, jail staff, doctors lax in Tihar murder||Delhi Police, jail authorities, and prison doctors, all allegedly violated rules at every level in the case of gangster Ankit Gujjar’s alleged murder inside Tihar, and interventions from all three were either delayed or in violation of prescribed procedure, according to case papers seen by HT.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing Gujjar’s death after the Delhi high court on Wednesday transferred the case to the agency while calling the incident a “serious offence, which required in-depth investigation”. The case was earlier with Delhi Police.Gujjar, 29, one of western Uttar Pradesh’s most wanted men who had at least 13 cases in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh against him, was, according to a complaint by his family, beaten to death by prison officers inside Tihar’s jail 3 on August 3. The prison department have said Gujjar and two others were injured in a scuffle that broke out after jail officers confiscated a cell phone, data cable, and a knife inside Gujjar’s cell.HT has accessed copies of the FIR, the status report filed by the police and jail authorities, and the prison’s inquiry report, which show how authorities appeared to cover up Gujjar’s murder, and the Delhi Police failed to intervene in time.Here, according to official documents, are how each of the branches acted, and how they fell short of taking measures that could have saved the life of the prisoner, who was facing trial in at least five cases registered across police stations in the Capital.Delhi PoliceGujjar’s family made 16 distress calls to the Delhi Police control room informing them that Gujjar had been beaten inside the jail, according to a status reportprepared by the police and submitted to the high court. The first call was made at 10.55pm on August 3, within three to four hours of the initial scuffle inside the jail, when Gujjar was still alive.The family was first informed by another prisoner, who came out on bail on the evening of August 3, and called Gujjar’s house in Baghpat. The man claimed to have seen jail officers beating Gujjar. Despite the 16 calls, Delhi Police entered the jail only after learning about Gujjar’s death the following day.The FIR related to Gujjar’s murder shows that a police officer visited the jail office after the distress call, but did not go inside the cells where the alleged scuffle took place, or where Gujjar was lodged after the incident.Neither the FIR nor the police’s status report mentions a visit by any officer to Gujjar’s cell.When police did not directly check on Gujjar on the night of August 3, Gujjar’s family, who live in Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh, reached the Hari Nagar police station at 4am on August 4 and asked the police to intervene. The distance from Baghpat to Hari Nagar police station in Delhi is about 50km.The case papers also show that police officers met the prime suspect in the case, deputy superintendent of police Narendra Meena, at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital at 11.11pm (August 3). Two hours later, at 1.10 am (August 4), Delhi Police filed an FIR against Gujjar, in which the prison officers alleged that Gujjar had beaten the jailors.The case against Gujjar, FIR number 434/2021 was registered under sections of 186,332,353 and 34 (related to assaulting public servant on duty), but police did not file any case against the jail officers. A case of murder against the jail officers was registered only on August 9, on the directions of a city court. This FIR, under Section 302 (murder), named deputy superintendent Meena.Gujjar’s lawyer Mehmood Pracha accused the Delhi Police of trying to cover up the jail officers’ crime.“The victim’s family made a distress call to save his life, but the police conveniently met the accused people instead of the victims. The police only met accused jail officer in hospital, but did not meet Gujjar. They also agreed to the jail officer’s version of events. Should they not meet the victim first and verify the facts?”Experts said that the Delhi Police should have entered the prison cell and checked on Gujjar. Vikram Singh, former director general of the Uttar Pradesh police, said if there is a distress call, police have every right to enter the prison.“It is a distress call -- somebody made a call for help. Normally when there is an inspection or a visit, police or other agencies inform and coordinate with the prison department. But if there is a distress call, and a complaint has been filed, police have every right to enter the jail. I remember an episode in 2008 at UP’s Sultanpur jail, when police entered the prison and helped stop a riot. Police are trained to deal with different situations.”Delhi Police did not comment on questions about the force’s handling of the case, and DCP (west district) Urvija Goel did not respond to messages and phone calls.A senior Delhi Police officer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said it will not be appropriate to comment at this stage because the case is being investigated by the CBI.Tihar jail authoritiesDelhi Police, in their statement in the case FIR, filed on August 9, have noted that one of their officers, assistant sub inspector Ram Avtar, visited jail number 3 of Tihar after receiving a 10.55pm distress call from Gujjar’s family. Police accused the jail officers of not allowing them to enter the jail. The FIR mentions that when ASI Avtar visited jail 3, deputy superintendent Vinay Thakur informed him about a scuffle between prisoners and the jail staff.Thakur, according to the FIR, told the police officer to “come later in the day” because “treatment had been provided to Ankit Gujjar”. The FIR also mentions that the jail officers told police Gujjar suffered “minor injuries” after a “minor scuffle”.A statement to the police by a witness, prisoner Vikas alias Veeru, seen by HT, says that during the scuffle, deputy superintendent Meena requested the jail superintendent to blow the siren and sound an emergency. Vikas has alleged that the superintendent did not give permission to blow the siren.To be sure, the siren inside the jail is sounded when an incident requires intervention of the topmost officials, who have to visit the prison cells immediately and take necessary action.Vikas’s statement is important because he was not just an inmate but was also a “sewadar” who helped jail officers at the control room. Sewadars are prisoners chosen to help jail officers manage the prison. Vikas, who claimed to be part of the search team that inspected Gujjar’s cell, alleged in his statement related to the FIR registered against jail officers, that the prison authorities ordered the CCTVs be turned off during the scuffle, after which around “50 jailers with dandas” assaulted Gujjar.HT on September 4 reported how the CCTV cameras, which could have recorded the scuffle and the events thereafter, were switched off because of “maintenance work”. The Delhi high court on Wednesday also asked the state government and prison director general asking them for “immediate remedial” action to ensure that “unscruplous officers do not take advantage of the knowledge of non working of CCTVs” and get away by doing “any illegal act/ offences”.Also, while Delhi Police was unable to enter the jail, Gujjar’s family, who reached the Hari Nagar police station, sent an email to the superintendent informing them about the incident. There was no response.The high court on Wednesday also directed the prison department to set in place a mechanism, by which “immediate entry is provided to the police on receipt of information of a cognisable offence”.A senior Tihar jail officer said, “Four jail officers including the alleged accused were suspended immediately. Eight others including the jail’s superintendent were transferred to ensure a fair probe. The departmental inquiry has found some other prison officers of jail 3, who were negligent in their duty. Appropriate action will be taken against them too. The prison headquarters is cooperating with the investigating agency and will assist in all forms to aid the investigation.”Jail doctorsThe Delhi high court on Wednesday also noted that when Gujjar was injured, his life could have been saved if proper medical treatment was provided. The high court has also asked CBI to probe the role of jail doctors in this regard.Papers seen by HT show how the doctors failed to provide treatment to Gujjar.After the scuffle inside jail 3, Gujjar was shifted from his cell in ward 5 to ward 1A. The post-mortem report conducted by a medical board at All India Institute of Medical Sciences shows he suffered 12 grievous injuries on his neck, eyes, chest, abdomen, hands, back, knees, and collar bone among other parts of his body.But the jail doctors, who visited Gujjar at 1.10 am (August 4), gave him a painkiller, according to the prison’s inquiry report. Meanwhile, the prime suspect Meena, on the advice of the doctors, checked himself into the DDU hospital. The prison doctors in their statement to police have claimed that “Gujjar refused treatment”.On the morning of August 4, during the roll call of inmates, Gujjar was found dead inside cell 1A of Tihar jail 3.The high court has also asked the CBI to probe the role of the jail doctors.Gujjar’s counsel Mehmood Pracha said every branch of the government worked together to ensure no case was filed because Gujjar’s death “exposed an extortion racket inside the prison”.He said, “We have also submitted proof in the form of bank statements about money Gujjar’s family paid the jail officers. We urged for a CBI investigation because this is not just a murder but a case that exposes the extortion inside Tihar by senior officers. There is no reason why doctors would just administer painkillers. It is convenient for them to say Gujjar refused treatment. The Delhi Police did not register a case and was forced to do so only on the court’s orders. Instead, they met the jail officers and file case against the deceased.”Prisons expert, advocate Ajay Verma, convener of the National Forum for Prison Reforms, a group of lawyers that works to implement reforms across prisons in the country, said, “The high court found merit in the allegations of the family and has ordered a CBI inquiry. So what if the man is an alleged gangster? He also has rights guaranteed by the Constitution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cops-jail-staff-doctors-lax-in-tihar-murder-101631301354674.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Once upon a chai stall||His world has reduced. Stacked against a showroom’s glass wall, Jaiveer Singh’s pavement kiosk in Gurugram’s Roshanpura has lost its joy. This afternoon, the stall seems barely alive. A man is asleep beside it. While Mr Singh is unhurriedly preparing a fresh round of chai in a chipped pan.“Dhanda manda hain (business is slow),” he says gloomily, shaking his head. It is impossible to relate this Mr Singh to the Mr Singh of the pre-pandemic era. He used to be so cheery then, always chatting and laughing. Forever busy carrying trays of chai to the surrounding shops, he would be a happy bubble that continually bobbed along the crowded lanes. His stall’s decline set in with the coronavirus, he says. “Earlier I would end up using 15 liters of milk daily, today it is barely 5 litres.”The stall’s most remarkable aspect was Mr Singh’s handwritten bahikhata, his account book. Pages after pages scrawled in blue link, the precious bahikhata listed the names of his daily customers, which included shopkeepers, labourers, rickshaw pullers, vegetable sellers and “courier wale”—each name marked with the number of times that person had chai at any given day. The account book was an archive into the daily life of a place. It consisted of thick sheaves of pages sewed along one side, exactly the way poet Emily Dickinson would famously sew her handwritten poems into little booklets.And today the bahikhata is nowhere to be seen. “I no longer need it, I get too few orders.” Mr Singh is not clear about what he did with the bahikhata, and isn’t bothered about it. “So many people disappeared from the bazaar,” he says, explaining that a great number of labourers and shop assistants returned to their villages during the worst days of the pandemic and haven’t yet returned. “Those were my customers.”Today it is difficult to comprehend that Mr Singh’s stall was the epicentre of the area’s social ecosystem. Here, traders gossiped about the bazaar. Here, disputes were allowed to run their full course. Every third passerby stopped to exchange a word with Mr Singh. He was like a hyperlocal Homeric bard who would be asked—many times over—to recount the exact details of every street squabble that would unfold.Those times are gone, Mr Singh mutters resignedly. Even so, one thing has remained the same that connects this day to the pre-pandemic days. Mr Singh’s adrak-flavoured chai is as delicious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-once-upon-a-chai-stall-101631320954217.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||HC issues notices to Centre, state over landslides along NHs in Himachal||The Himachal Pradesh High Court has issued notices to the central and state governments and the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) in a matter seeking directions to the authorities concerned to take necessary action for preventing frequent landslides along the national highways in the state. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed these orders on a petition filed by Namita Manikatala, which was taken up by the court as a public interest litigation (PIL). The petitioner has alleged that many areas of Himachal having fragile geologies are prone to the landslides and almost every year, the state witnesses massive landslides, which cause loss of lives and property. The residents of the state as well as the tourists visiting Himachal have a fundamental right to life and it is the duty of the sate to take all those precautionary measures, which can prevent the landslides and stop any further loss to life and property of the citizens, she asserted. The petitioner said the experts have recommended some remedial measures to prevent landslides in various reports such as ‘Landslide Hazard Risk Management Report, 2015’, report of study conducted by AK Mahajan, professor (environmental sciences), report of Geological Survey of India with respect to the road cave-in at Kali Dhank area on Paonta Sahib-Shillai road and the report of the Abhay Shukla Committee constituted by the high court to study the impact of establishment of hydroelectric projects of mountain ecosystems. ‘State, NHAI are not taking into account expert suggestions’But, the Himachal government and NHAI are not taking into account these expert suggestions while undertaking massive development projects in the state, especially highways involving large-scale excavation of hills.Manikatala prayed to direct the state to inform the court about the implementation of the measures suggested by the experts in the aforesaid reports and to engage the services of the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Dehradun, which is the “leading expert institution in the field”, to conduct study on all such landslide vulnerable zones and suggest the measures to be taken for preventing such landslides. She also prayed that the state may be directed to install landslides predicting devices as have been developed by IIT, Mandi and other such similar devices in all the landslide-prone areas. She also sought the court to direct the National Highway Authority of India and Himachal Pradesh public works department to implement all the measures so suggested by the experts for prevention of landslides along all national and state highways.The court posted the matter after four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-issues-notices-to-centre-state-over-landslides-along-nhs-in-himachal-101631313843546.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||HP institutes slip in NIRF grading||Only one institution in Himachal Pradesh, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Mandi made it to the top-100 in overall grading under National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF)-2021 released by the Union HRD ministry, even as most of the state universities dropped several rungs. However, Shoolini University of Biotechnology and Management Sciences, Solan, bucked the trend by climbing several notches on the list of top universities.IIT-Mandi slipped 15 places in the ranking to 82nd spot in the overall list with a score of 49.93. Last year, the institute had bagged 67th spot in the NIRF overall category.Among the engineering institutes, it scored 52.58 to rank 41 — a fall of 10 places. In 2020, the premier institute was ranked 31 with a score of 54.17.National Institute of Technology (NIT), Hamirpur fell one place in this category and was ranked 99th with a score of 39.09. Last year, it was on 98th spot.Among the architecture institutes, NIT Hamirpur slid four places to 23rd rank in the list of top-25 institutes. In 2020, it was ranked 19th. Shoolini University scored 39.53 to rank 89th among the universities. Last year, the institution did not figure on the list of top-100 universities.In the pharmacy category, Shoolini University climbed three places. With a score of 49.38, it is ranked 36th in the top-100 pharmacy institutes against the last year’s 39th rank.Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), Shimla, the oldest university in the state, failed to make the cut and is not even on the list of top-200. Last year, HPU was ranked 169th.The NIRF outlines a methodology to rank institutions across the country. The methodology draws from the overall recommendations of broad understanding arrived at by a core committee set up by MHRD to identify the parameters for ranking various universities and institutions.The parameters broadly cover “Teaching, Learning and Resources,” “Research and Professional Practices,” “Graduation Outcomes,” “Outreach and Inclusivity,” and “Perception”.The first NIRF ratings were released in 2016. Usually announced in April, the ranking this year was delayed by the pandemic.For participation in rankings, the institutes are asked to register and submit their required data. Physical check is done by NIRF to ensure its authenticity.If any institute submits false data, it is debarred from participating in the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-institutes-slip-in-nirf-grading-101631313603472.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Forest clearance granted for bulk water supply scheme in Shimla||The proposed bulk water supply scheme for Shimla has got the forest clearance, HP’s urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said on Friday.He said the clearance came in a short time, paving the way for launch of scheme which will address the water shortage in Shimla.The minister said the state government is committed to providing 24x7 water supply to Shimla and in these endeavours, five wards of Shimla would be provided with round the clock supply by the end of the year. A financial outlay of $250 million ( ₹1,813 crore) has been approved for the scheme, out of which the World Bank will provide financial assistance to the tune of $160 million ( ₹1,160.32 crore) and the remaining amount of $90 million ( ₹652.68 crore) will be borne by government of Himachal Pradesh.The project envisages lifting water from Sutlej near Shakrodi village, involving lifting to a height of 1.6km and pipe laying of 22km to augment 67 MLD water at Sanjauli.The project also seeks to replace the distribution pipe network across Shimla MC to upgrade it to 24x7 water supply system.Additionally, the sewerage network in areas of Mehli, Panthaghati, Totu and Mashobra would be provided. This is a flagship project for the state as it seeks to provide best in class water supply and sewerage system in Shimla that will cater to requirement of the town up to 2050.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/forest-clearance-granted-for-bulk-water-supply-scheme-in-shimla-101631313183347.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||HP: 16 teachers of private school among 202 infected with Covid||Panic gripped Gagret area of Una district on Friday after 16 teachers of a private school tested positive for Covid. Area’s nodal officer Dr Suman said the health authorities had collected the samples of all staffers of the school on Friday, 16 of which were detected positive. The officer said that the contact history of the teachers is being traced. The origin of the infection remains unknown. It is worth mentioning that the schools in Himachal are closed for regular classes. However, the teachers are regularly attending the schools. Meanwhile, state education minister Govind Singh Thakur said that the government is no hurry to open the schools for regular classes. “The schools will be opened once the Covid-19 situation improves,” he said. Himachal recorded 202 cases on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 2,15,437 while the death toll mounted to 3,614 after two patients succumbed to the infection. The active cases have come down to 1,682 while recoveries reached 2,10,124 after 237 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 48,041 cases reported to date followed by 30,254 cases in Mandi and 26,863 in Shimla. In Jammu and Kashmir, 173 fresh infections and one death were reported on Friday. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 142 with the active cases reaching 1,293.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,20,966, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.26%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have mounted to 3,26,656 and the death toll stands at 4,412. Officials said with 80 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 21 in Budgam. As many as 16 other districts had no or single-digit cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-16-teachers-of-private-school-among-202-infected-with-covid-101631312943063.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Suspects called Wazir’s kin, confessed to murder: Police||A day after former member of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) legislative council and a senior National Conference leader from Jammu, Tarlochan Singh Wazir (67), was found dead in Moti Nagar area, senior police officers said that the owner of the flat and another suspect called up the victim’s brother and confessed to killing him.Harpreet Singh, the owner of the flat where Wazir’s body was found, is currently at large, Delhi Police said. The other suspect, Harmeet Singh, is Harpreet’s friend, senior officers said.Officials in the crime branch, to whom the case has been transferred from the West district police, confirmed that the call was made, but said the motive of the alleged murder is still unclear.To be sure, no senior police officer authorised to speak to the media was on record to confirm that the two are the prime suspects, and it was not clear why the call was made.Officials privy to the investigation said that the two suspects turned their phone off after confessing to the crime, and it has been switched off since thenWazir’s body has been transferred to Lady Hardinge hospital and a medical panel has been set up to conduct a post-mortem examination.Police recovered Wazir’s body from the Moti Nagar flat on Thursday morning after they were informed by the J&K Police that he had not been responding to his family’s phone calls since September 1.His family members in Jammu flew to Delhi on Thursday after they were informed about his death.Police said that there is a possibility that the suspects lived alongside the body for a few days and to avoid the stench, locked the body inside the washroom.Police have learnt that Wazir was supposed to leave for Canada on September 3.“Initially, Harpreet had told the family members that Wazir was not taking calls because he was in a 72-hour quarantine at Frankfurt in Germany. On Friday he called the family saying he and Harmeet murdered Wazir, and then disconnected the call,” an investigating officer, who asked not to be named, said.Police said a post mortem report is yet to be submitted. Several teams have been formed to crack the case and nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/suspects-called-wazir-s-kin-confessed-to-murder-police-101631305015627.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Decision on paying rent for poor in 2 weeks: Delhi Govt to HC||The Delhi government on Friday informed the Delhi high court that its July 22 verdict, asking the state to decide on implementing chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s promise that if a poor tenant was unable to pay rent during the Covid-19 pandemic, the state would pay it, is under consideration.Delhi government’s counsel Gautam Narayan told justice Rekha Palli, who was hearing a plea alleging wilful disobedience of the court’s order directing a decision be taken in the matter in six weeks, that the decision will be taken within two weeks.On July 22, the court had ruled that a chief minister’s promise to citizens was enforceable and directed the AAP government to decide within six weeks on Kejriwal’s announcement that the state would pay rent on behalf of a poor tenant who is unable to do so on account of Covid-19.The petitioners, who said they were daily wage workers sought to enforce the promise made by Kejriwal during a press conference on March 29 last year, stated in their application that the failure of the authorities in taking a decision in terms of the order impinged upon their right to shelter.“The 6 weeks expired on 02.09.2021. However, GNCTD has not yet complied with the above direction. Requests dated 29.08.2021 and 30.08.2021 made by Najma (P1), Karan Singh (P4) and Rehana Bibi (P5) have not been responded,” the petition filed through advocate Gaurav Jain said. “By wilfully disobeying the judgment/direction of this Court, respondents have also entered the territory of “Contempt of Court,” it is asserted.In the order, justice Prathiba M Singh opined that against the backdrop of a commitment made by the chief minister, a lack of decision making or indecision was contrary to law.“A statement given in a consciously held press conference, in the background of the lockdown announced due to the pandemic and the mass exodus of migrant labourers, cannot be simply overlooked. Proper governance requires the government to take a decision on the assurance given by the CM, and inaction on the same cannot be the answer,” the court said in its 89-page verdict.It said the assurance was not a “political promise”, as was sought to be canvassed as it was not made as a part of an election rally but was the statement made by the Delhi chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/decision-on-paying-rent-for-poor-in-2-weeks-delhi-govt-to-hc-101631304989958.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||What do Congress leaders know about nation, asks BJP’s J&K chief||BJP’s J&K unit president Ravinder Raina on Friday sharply reacted to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s remark by questioning, “What does Rahul Gandhi and other Congress leaders, who had biryani with Chinese ambassador after Galwan Valley incident and who sympathise with terrorists and Pakistan, know about the nation?” He added, “Their leaders like Mani Shankar Aiyar, Digvijay Singh, and Shashi Tharoor, who addressed terrorist Osama Bin Laden with a ji and those who sympathise with terrorists and Pakistan, what do they know about India and its composite culture.” “He (Rahul) is doing politics. Even on his way to Vaishno Devi shrine, they (Congress workers) carried party flags and wore Congress symbols around their necks. The Congress has nothing to do with religion. What does Rahul know about patriotism?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/what-do-congress-leaders-know-about-nation-asks-bjp-s-j-k-chief-101631311563047.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Court takes note of charge sheet in rape, murder of Dalit girl||A Delhi court has taken cognisance of the police charge sheet filed against a priest and his three accomplices for allegedly raping and killing a nine-year-old Dalit girl, whose body was found at a crematorium in the Delhi Cantonment area, sparking protests by activists and politicians in the national capital.On Thursday, additional sessions judge Ashutosh Kumar took cognisance of the charge sheet filed against Radhey Shyam, the 55-year-old priest, and Kuldeep Singh, Salim Ahmad and Laxmi Narayan. The accused are currently in judicial custody, and Narayan’s bail plea is pending adjudication.Court sources said the judge took cognisance of all charges against the accused. They also said the investigation officer and prosecution have informed the court that a supplementary charge sheet, with all FSL (forensics science lab) reports, will likely be filed within 15 days.The court directed all the accused to appear before it on September 29.In the charge sheet, the police used sections of rape, wrongful confinement, murder, destruction of evidence, and relevant sections under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Prevention of Atrocities Act against the four accused. The 400-page charge sheet was filed on August 28.The girl was found dead by her parents at a local crematorium on August 1. The accused claimed that she died of electrocution while fetching water from a cooler, but the family alleged that they hurriedly cremated her body after raping and killing her.Officials aware of the details of the police investigation said the Delhi Police in its investigation has maintained that the girl did not die of electrocution; and that two of them raped her inside the crematorium before murdering her.HT learnt that the police based their findings on three aspects – confessions the four arrested men made to the investigating officer; circumstantial evidence; and revelations by people connected to the case.To be sure, the confession of any person made before a police officer is not admissible as evidence before a court unless it is backed by other evidence. Only a confession before a judge is admissible as evidence against an accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-takes-note-of-charge-sheet-in-rape-murder-of-dalit-girl-101631301104360.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||J&K Police find links between 4 journalists & mastermind of blog||J&K Police said the four journalists who were questioned by them had links with the mastermind behind the blog on kashmirfight@wordpress.com that had been running a slender campaign against political workers, activists and journalists in Kashmir. A police spokesperson said in a statement that during the course of investigation of the case registered at the Kothibagh police station, credible evidence was found which linked Mir Hilal of Bemina (journalist, TRTworld), Mohammad Shah Abbas of Anantnag (freelance journalist), Azhar Qadri of Bemina (journalist) and Showkat Motta of Lal Bazaar (former editor-in-chief of The Narrator and currently working at a wholesale shop) with the mastermind who is behind the blog kashmirfight@wordpress.com. “On the basis of the evidence collected, searches were conducted at four different places after obtaining proper search warrants from the competent court of law. During the searches, some mobile phones, laptops and other gadgets were seized,” the statement said. The spokesperson further said for the purpose of investigation, they (journalists) were called for questioning and allowed to go in the evening and have been directed to present themselves tomorrow again. “The investigation is in progress and the scrutiny of electronic gadgets is also going on. So far various numbers of Pakistan, Turkey, Saudi have been found. They have been found to be in contact with various virtual numbers as well.” The spokesperson, while quoting Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar, denied it to be an issue of harassment of journalists. A due process of law is being followed while investigating a sensitive case and the media fraternity has been advised not to spread false news or narrative which may amount to unnecessary interference in investigation of the case, the spokesperson added. “The involved persons would be arrested in this case as and when the evidence is collected,” the spokesperson further said. The police had on Wednesday carried out raids at the houses of four journalists in different parts of the city, raising concerns over the press freedom in Kashmir. Reporters Sans Frontiers, in a tweet, condemned the raids on journalists: “@RSF_inter firmly condemns as crude intimidation this morning’s police raids at the residence of 4 journalists - @KashmirNarrator editor Showkat Matta, @trtworld and @HuffPost’s @mirhilaal, and freelancers @AzharQadri and Abbas Shah #JournalismIsNotACrime (sic).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-police-find-links-between-4-journalists-mastermind-of-blog-101631310722879.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cops on toes as suspicious men visit house of Bargari sacrilege accused||Three suspicious persons on Friday visited the residence of Bargari sacrilege accused and Dera Sacha Sauda follower Shakti Singh at Daggo Romana village in Faridkot district, enquiring about his whereabouts and left soon after coming to know that he was not around. Faridkot senior superintendent of police (SSP) Swarndeep Singh said they have started investigation into the matter. “We are checking CCTV footage to identify the men who visited Shakti’s house,” he added. Shakti, who is out on bail in the Bargari sacrilege and the derogatory poster cases, is facing three FIRs in connection with the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib. In June, the Moga police had claimed that the banned Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) was planning to kill him. Upon checking the CCTV footage, it was found that three unidentified persons in a Mahindra TUV are seen coming towards Shakti’s house, another police official said. “One of them came out of the car at some distance, walked towards the house and rang the bell. The others also joined him in the meantime. Someone from the family opened the door and the first man enquired about Shakti’s whereabouts, saying Baljit Singh (another accused in the Bargari sacrilege case) had sent them. When family members told them that Shakti was not home, they left without disclosing their identity. When contacted, Baljit told them that he had not sent anyone,” the official added. The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases had arrested Shakti along with other accused on May 16. The alleged plan to eliminate Shakti came to the fore during the interrogation of two KTF operatives who allegedly killed a prominent dera follower in Bathinda last year. They were arrested by the Moga police on May 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cops-on-toes-as-suspicious-men-visit-house-of-bargari-sacrilege-accused-101631309043340.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Centre directs Punjab government to take action on assistant professor’s harassment complaint||: The Union ministry of women and child development has directed the Punjab social security and women and child development department to take action on the complaint of a woman assistant professor of a college under the technical education department. The assistant professor has alleged that Tajinder Singh Sidhu, director of Shaheed Bhagat Singh State University, Ferozepur, sexually harassed her by promising her to regularise her job as she is working on contractual basis. The state department has forwarded the Union ministry’s direction to the district programme officer (DPO), Gurdaspur, and asked to submit action taken report to the ministry. “Take an immediate action on the applicant’s complaint and submit a copy of the action taken directly to the ministry with intimation to this department,” the directions further read. The complainant alleged that she had lodged a number of complaints with the state authorities, but nobody took action against the director due to his political influence. She also claimed to have audio clips and recordings of the incidents to substantiate her allegations. Tajinder Singh Sidhu said, “She is making baseless allegations. These are tactics to get regularised. She had lodged a complaint with the police that found her allegations baseless.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-directs-punjab-government-to-take-action-on-assistant-professor-s-harassment-complaint-101631308982731.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||7-8 protests a day, CM Amarinder’s home turf turns into hub of agitators||With the Punjab assembly polls just five months away, the Patiala residents are having a harrowing time as chief minister Amarinder Singh’s hometown has turned into protest capital of the state. According to police records, an average 7-8 protests were held in the city daily in the last 5 months with as many as 1,153 agitations from April 1 to August 31. With massive protests being staged in the city, the residents are facing traffic jams, road blockades and traffic diversions due to police barricading on a daily basis. The situation has turned serious for the residents of colonies situated near the residence of CM Amarinder.At present, the protestors have blocked main Passi and Fountain Chowk roads, thus restricting the traffic coming from the interiors of the city. A group of protestors is also sitting at the bus stop opposite Gurdwara Dukhniwarn Sahib. Abhishek Garg, a resident of New Lal Bagh locality, said the roads are always blocked near the CM residence and the police barricading adds to their problems.“Most of the time, it takes 40-45 minutes to cover 2-km distance,” he said.Bhupinder Singh, a local resident, said it has become really difficult to move on the city roads which are blocked from all sides due to ongoing protests and construction works.“We have to take longer routes to reach our destination,” he said.Also, the construction of an overbridge near the new bus stand is causing inconvenience to those travelling on the Patiala-Rajpura road as the administration has diverted the main route through the main city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/78-protests-a-day-cm-amarinder-s-home-turf-turns-into-hub-of-agitators-101631308505499.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Suspend campaign till Punjab polls announced: Samyukt Kisan Morcha to political parties||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of nearly 40 farmer unions protesting against the Centre’s three contentious laws, on Friday appealed to the political parties in Punjab to defer their poll campaign till the assembly election schedule is announced for the state. The farmer unions said the election rallies were adversely impacting their agitation. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Balbir Singh Rajewal, who presided over a meeting of farmer unions in Chandigarh with leaders of political parties, said, “If a party insists on running campaign before the poll dates are declared, it will face the music as the move will be considered anti-farmer.” The parties included the Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), SAD (Sanyukt), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Lok Insaaf Party. The Congress, SAD and AAP lost no time in expressing their disagreement. The Akalis were the most direct in disagreeing with the diktat. Punjab Congress working president Kuljit Singh Nagra, who attended the meeting along with the state chief Navjot Sidhu, said they would approach the party high command and discuss the suggestions and then take a decision. AAP’s kisan wing head and MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan also asked the SKM to reconsider its decision. “There should be one yardstick for every party. If the Congress and SAD go ahead with their campaign rallies, it will not be fair,” he said. SAD leader Prem Singh Chadumajra said political activities were not restricted due to the farmers’ protest anywhere in the country. “Going to the people is as much your right as ours and this should not be curbed,” he said. Party’s Rajya Sabha MP Balwinder Singh Bhundar said the SKM should retain the national character of the agitation by not imposing restrictions on political activities. The meeting was crucial in the backdrop of protesting farmers disrupting political rallies and programmes in the state. Though leaders of all parties have been at the receiving end of protests by farmers, the Akalis have faced the brunt the most. Addressing a press conference after the meeting, Rajewal said the parties were free to hold small functions. “I think a gathering of up to 300 persons is fine for an event by a political party or the government. Even the chief minister will also face opposition if holds public rallies,” he said.The BKU leader also asked the Congress government to withdraw cases registered against the farmers and not to force them to submit ‘fards’ (land record) for grain procurement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/suspend-campaign-till-punjab-polls-announced-samyukt-kisan-morcha-to-political-parties-101631308146819.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||2015 firing: 2 months on, SIT yet to get date from Gujarat lab for lie-detector test on suspended IG Umranangal||The Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) is still waiting for a date from the forensic science laboratory (FSL) at Gandhinagar in Gujarat for conducting a lie-detector test on suspended inspector general (IG) Paramraj Singh Umranangal even as it been two months since it got consent from the official for the test. In June, the SIT got sought permission to conduct lie-detector test on former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, former Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sharma besides Umranangal in connection with the 2015 Kotkapura firing case. While Saini and Sharma had refused to undergo the test, Umranangal had agreed for it, provided the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court are followed. The SIT had sought a date from the Gandhinagar laboratory after Umranangal requested not to get the test conducted at the FSL in New Delhi, claiming the facility was under the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government. Umranangal recently submitted his fresh medical test reports that will be sent to FSL to ascertain if he is medically fit to undergo a lie-detector test, an official privy to the development said. Since a person has to stay at the lab for 10 days for a lie-detector test, it is likely to take longer to get an appointment from the Gandhinagar facility which currently is conducting only two tests a month, it is learnt. The delay in getting the date for the lie-detector test may further hold up filing of the chargesheet in the court. After Saini and Sharma refused to undergo lie-detector test, the SIT last week had sought their voice samples for layered voice analysis (LVA) used for helping detect stress and other emotions. But both failed to appear at the CFSL, New Delhi, to give voice samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-firing-2-months-on-sit-yet-to-get-date-from-gujarat-lab-for-lie-detector-test-on-suspended-igumranangal-101631308142553.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Six held with 425kg cannabis in Ludhiana||Six people were arrested with a whopping 425kg cannabis from Neechi Mangli village here on Thursday. The accused persons were at a party when the directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) carried out the raid. Around 24 staff members from the DRI’s zonal office were part of the operation. The accused were produced before a local court after their medical checkup and have been remanded to judicial custody till September 23. The accused ran a salt godown in the area and would smuggle in the cannabis in salt bags. The contraband was primarily sold in labour colonies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-held-with-425kg-cannabis-in-ludhiana-101631306582480.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man tries to run over customs team, booked||A man was booked for attempting to murder a customs department inspector and his team who wanted to raid his house on Thursday. The accused, Sanjay Chaudhary of New Rajguru Nagar, tried to run over the customs department team with his SUV and fled. A case was registered on the complaint of customs inspector Mohit Khambra.A case was registered under Section 353 (use of criminal force), 186 (voluntarily obstruct any public servant in the discharge of duty), 506 (criminal intimidation), 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sarabha Nagar police station.Assistant sub-inspector Baljit Singh, who is the investigating officer, said the team of custom officials had recovered liquor from the accused’s house. CCTV footage confirms that the accused attempted to hit the customs officials with his car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-tries-to-run-over-customs-team-booked-101631306282449.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting contaminated water supply Ludhiana residents make themselves at home at MC office||Contaminated water in the pipeline would send anybody scurrying to a a friend or relative’s house. However, when the issue was not resolved for 20 days, irate Atam Nagar residents moved in with the municipal authorities at their Zone D office armed with their own toothbrushes, buckets and carpets to boot! On Thursday morning, the MC office had found itself unexpectedly hosting a resolute bunch of unannounced guests who insisted on taking a bath and brushing their teeth at the MC office. They refused to be escorted to their own homes, saying that they could hardly use the stinking water that was being sent to their taps. Having performed their morning rituals at the government office, the quirky protesters decided to camp at the MC office at night as well. They laid down their carpets at the entrance and settled in for the night. The protesters that were led by former youth Congress president Gurjeet Singh Shinh refused to budge on Friday morning as well, but were finally convinced to return to their respective homes when deputy mayor Sarvjit Kaur’s husband Jarnail Shimlapuri intervened. The MC officials also assured the protesters that potable water was being supplied to the area and that regular inspections will be conducted to ensure that sewer waste does not contaminate the water supply. Shinh said, “The issue has been recurring for two years. Each time authorities make temporary arrangements whenever a complaint is submitted, but the problem continues to persist. When our complaint was not resolved for 20 days, we had to raise a round-the-clock agitation on the MC premises to get authorities’ attention. After all, how can we sleep at our houses without potable water supply?”Superintending engineer Ravinder Garg said, “The problem has been resolved and teams are inspecting water supply and sewer lines in the area to check for any leakages, which may recontaminate the water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-contaminated-water-supply-ludhiana-residents-make-themselves-at-home-at-mc-office-101631305983055.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s first breast milk bank set up in Ludhiana||Experts swear by the importance of breast milk for newborns. However, it is not always possible for neonates to access it due to a variety of factors. Keeping this mind, the district administration has set up a breast milk pump bank at the Civil Hospital, which is being touted as the first of its kind in Punjab. Inaugurating the pump bank, municipal corporation councillor Mamta Ashu, additional deputy commissioner (development) Amit Kumar Panchal, and UT assistant commissioner Harjinder Singh Bedi, said the health workers will use the pumps to get breast milk immediately after the birth of infants and would feed them at regular intervals.“Health workers will pump out the breast milk and give it to newborns who have trouble latching on or in cases where the mother experiences extreme pain while breastfeeding the child,” an official said, adding that a container has also been installed to preserve the milk. The bank has two electric pumps, 10 manual pumps, 16 containers and one steriliser.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-first-breast-milk-bank-set-up-in-ludhiana-101631305622730.html
11-09-2021||Other||Punjab ASI sacked for helping wanted gangster flee to Canada||Senior superintendent of police Dhruman H Nimbale on Friday terminated services of an assistant sub inspector (ASI) for allegedly helping an A-category gangster, Arshdeep Singh alias Arsh Dala, to take a flight out to Canada. Dala now runs an extortion gang from Canada. ASI Kuldeep Singh had, in 2017, made a false verification report of Arsh Dala and sent it to senior officials. SSP Nimbale said, “With the help of the false verification report, the gangster had got his passport and flew to Canada. Around three cases, including one for attempt to murder, were registered against Dala when the ASI conducted his verification; but he did not mention it in the report. Now, Dala is wanted in around 13 criminal cases.”Wife, in-laws booked for abetting 38-year-old man’s suicide
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Lone Covid case detected in Ludhiana, no death reported||A single person tested positive for the coronavirus disease in the district on Friday. While the active cases have risen to 29, the death toll stands at 2,098. As many as 87,495 people have tested positive for the virus so far, of which 85,368 have successfully defeated the virus. A total 8,055 people were administered the jab, taking the total tally to 23,47576.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lone-covid-case-detected-in-ludhiana-no-death-reported-101631305262253.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Shahi Imam passes away at 63 in Ludhiana||Punjab Shahi Imam Maulana Habib Ur Rehman Saani Ludhianvi passed away at the age of 63 after a prolonged illness at Christian Medical College and Hospital in Ludhiana on Thursday night.The Shahi Imam had been suffering from renal failure and liver infection. He had returned to Ludhiana a week ago after undergoing liver surgery at a hospital in Chennai. He was hospitalised after his condition deteriorated on Thursday, and he passed away around midnight, said Mustkeem, a spokesperson of the Jama Masjid. He was buried at the Jama Masjid in Field Gunj, near the grave of his father. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter, who is settled in the United States. He was the nephew of 92-year-old Pakistani politician Muhammad Hamza, who passed away last week.Ludhianvi had vociferously spoken against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the National Population Register (NPR) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and even organised a marathon demonstration at the Jalandhar Bypass Chowk to oppose the move.Condolences pour in People from all walks of life condoled Ludhianvi’s death. In a condolence message, Captain Amarinder Singh described the Shahi Imam as a spiritual personality, who always propagated the message of love, peace and harmony.“Shahi Imam’s immense contribution in cementing the bonds of brotherhood, amity and bonhomie amongst mankind would always be remembered by one and all across the state. A void has been created in the religious fraternity, especially among the Muslim community, which is difficult to fill,” the chief minister saidExpressing grief over Ludhianvi’s death, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the Shahi Imam had helped maintain “harmony and brotherhood in Punjab. May God bless his soul and grant strength to his family and followers to bear the loss.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-shahi-imam-passes-away-at-63-in-ludhiana-101631304902340.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi police files case in gurdwara directorate elections ruckus||The Delhi Police has registered a case in connection with the ruckus created at the directorate of gurdwara elections in ITO area here, a senior officer said on Friday. The case has been registered on the complaint of the directorate of gurdwara elections, the officer said. The FIR has been registered at IP Estate police station under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 34 (common intension), the officer said. No arrest has been made so far, he said.On Thursday, a video had surfaced on social media purportedly showing some people shouting slogans at the directorate of gurdwara elections in the ITO area of the city.Former Delhi Sikh gurdwara management committee (DSGMC) president and Shiromani Akali Dal national spokesperson Manjinder Singh Sirsa had claimed that people belonging to his party were angry with the director of gurdwara elections, Narinder Singh, as he “did not follow due procedure during the co-option process for members of the general house of DSGMC”. In the video clip, people were seen shouting slogans against Singh and flinging a shoe at him at one point. “He (Singh) did not go by the rules and deliberately kept the party workers waiting,” Sirsa had alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-files-case-in-gurdwara-directorate-elections-ruckus-101631304722244.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||LIT reserve price row: Congress alleges ‘2016 land allotment scam’||In a counter attack on the Bhartiya Janata Party, Congress leaders on Friday alleged that the saffron party had bought 1,000 square yards for its office in Model Town Extension for merely ₹4,375 per square yard during the tenure of the SAD-BJP government in 2016.Seeking a probe, former councillor and officer on special duty to the mayor, Parminder Mehta, said BJP leader Subhash Verma had been the chairman of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust at the time when the land was allotted to the BJP at concessional rates. “The market value of the land is around ₹50,000 per square yard, but the land was allotted for merely ₹4375 per sq yard.”“The land recently auctioned by the LIT in Model Town extension has been sold for over ₹56,000 per square yard. The BJP’s allegations are baseless. When the BJP bought the land at a throwaway price, was the BJP not concerned about the loss to the public exchequer? Will the BJP seek cancellation of the allotted land now?” he asked. Meanwhile, the BJP refuted the allegations saying that the land was allotted as per the rules. District BJP president Pushpinder Singal said, “The land was allotted to us in 2007, but the payment was made in 2016. After the BJP highlighted the Congress’ multi-crore scam, their leaders are levelling baseless allegations to divert the public’s attention.” “If the allotment was not done as per norms, then why no action has been taken against it till now? The land was allotted at concessional rates as it was allotted for establishing the office of a political party, not a commercial establishment. Even the Congress was offered the land, but they refused to take it at the time,” said Singal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lit-reserve-price-row-congress-alleges-2016-land-allotment-scam-101631304603052.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh trader body calls on new DGP, discusses thefts, snatching||The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) on Friday called on the newly-appointed UT director general of police (DGP) Praveer Ranjan to discuss the rising cases of thefts and snatching in the city.CBM president Charanjiv Singh said, “The beat staff should be strengthened and the police should post more cops in markets in the evening to avoid any untoward incident.”General secretary Kamaljit Singh Panchhi requested the DGP to issue specific instructions to all deputy superintendents of police and station house officers to remain available in their offices from 12pm to 1pm to attend to public grievances.Patron Anil Vohra discussed the beggar issue in the markets and at the light-points of the city, and asked the police to help relocate them.Vice-president Rajan Mahajan said that regular meetings should be held among the SHOs and the market associations to improve law and order situation in the city.The DGP assured the CBM officials that regular meetings will be held and that the beat system and night patrolling would be strengthened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-trader-body-calls-on-new-dgp-discusses-thefts-snatching-101631304422511.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||LIT reserve price row: Take action within 10 days or face stir, says SAD||Training their guns at Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, SAD leaders have claimed that the multi-crore Ludhiana Improvement Trust e-auction scam had been carried out at the behest of the Congress leader and have demanded that the culprits be brought to book within 10 days. SAD leaders, including district president Ranjit Dhillon, Harish Rai Dhanda and Kamal Chatly, said that a number of high-ranking people, including the personal assistant of the LIT chairman to the Cabinet minister himself were involved in the scam and that they had lodged a complaint with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), and Enforcement Directorate (ED), and the chief secretary. On the Cabinet minister’s recommendation that the scam be cancelled, Dhanda said Ashu made the recommendation only after we demanded a probe. “A copy of the complaint has also been forwarded to the director general of police and commissioner of police,” he said. “It has been seen that the LIT has cancelled auctions even the bids were 30% higher as compared to the reserve price of the plots or shops-cum-offices on grounds that the trust could earn more revenue. However, in this case, the auction was allowed even though the bid was less than 1% higher than the reserve price,” said Dhanda. Pointing out that the prime land could fetch as much as ₹400 crore, Chatly said, “If no action is taken against leaders involved in the scam within 10 days, SAD will move court and also raise an agitation.” BJP seeks FIR against minister, chairmanThe BJP has contended that Ashu’s recommendation to cancel the auction indicates that a scam had taken place. BJP district resident Pushpinder Singal and state executive committee member Bikram Sidhu demanded an FIR against the minister, LIT chairman and all those involved in the scam. The leaders said that it was only after the BJP raised the issue and locked the main gate of LIT office in protest on Thursday, was the minister was forced to recommend cancellation. Sidhu said they have already submitted a complaint with the Union government, deputy commissioner and commissioner of police and an FIR should be lodged against the minister, chairman and others involved in the scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/litreserve-price-row-take-action-within-10-days-or-face-stir-says-sad-101631304303292.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||No response from cops on plea seeking digital evidence: JNU students||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, accused in the conspiracy case related to the Delhi riots, on Friday informed a Delhi court that the police are yet to respond to their plea seeking electronic evidence filed five months ago.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat was informed by the counsels for the Pinjra Tod members that they have been accused of delaying the trial, but they have been waiting for a reply from the police for five months.“We moved this application in April. Five months have passed. We haven’t received a reply yet.”Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad told the court that a large amount of data had to be analysed, and there was also the question of privacy involved in this matter.“What they are asking for is all the digital data that has been seized. What has happened is, during the course of investigation, the agency called various people and they were interrogated. Volume of data that has come out is huge. That data contains personal data of people whose equipment is seized. I will infringe upon their privacy.“It contains their financial data and their personal data…..For me to say that I will give to X and not Y, I need to have a basis for that. We need to do analysis before filing a reply. I need to come to a conclusion that these are the data, these are the equipment etc. That is the reason it is going to take time. There is no shortcut method,” the SPP submitted.The two students were released from jail on June 17, along with Asif Iqbal Tanha, another student activist. They were held for allegedly instigating the February 2020 Delhi riots -- charges they deny.Following arguments, the court asked the prosecution to file its reply.During the hearing, United Against Hate (UAH) member Khalid Saifi, another accused in the case, said that he would have to stop saying the greeting “As-salamu alaykum”, in case it is illegal.Saifi’s remarks came days after the police said JNU student Sharjeel Imam, who is also an accused in the case, began one of his alleged inflammatory speeches with “As-salamu alaykum”, which shows it was addressed to a particular community and not the public at large.“I always greet my friends with salaam. I think I will have to stop it in case it is illegal. Is it a law or presumption of the prosecution team?” Saifi asked the court.His query impelled ASJ Rawat to clarify that it was the prosecution’s argument and not the word of the court. The exchange took place through video conference.On September 1, Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad read out a January 16, 2020 speech given by Sharjeel Imam in Aligarh and said: “He (Sharjeel Imam) begins this speech by saying As-salamu alaykum, which shows that it is only subjected to one community”.Furthermore, Saifi said that whenever he gets a bail, he will file a case in the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the police for wasting two million of precious papers on charge sheet in the conspiracy case.He, along with several others, has been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. They are accused of being the “masterminds” of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured.Apart from him, former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the stringent law in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-response-from-cops-on-plea-seeking-digital-evidence-jnu-students-101631301076821.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Four arrested in separate cases of vehicle lifting||The police said on Friday that four persons were arrested in separate cases of vehicle thefts in the city.On September 1, a case was registered on the complaint of one Gurmandeep Singh of Sector 40, who reported theft of his motorcycle from outside his house. Later, the police arrested Rajinder Kumar Yadav, 24, of Uttar Pradesh, and recovered the bike from his possession.Another case was registered on September 6 on the complaint of Pawan Kumar of Sector 41, who reported theft of his Activa scooter parked outside his house.Jaswinder Singh, 26, of Badheri village, Sector 41, was later arrested, produced before a court and remanded to one-day police custody. The scooter was recovered when Jaswinder was held in another case in which Naresh Kumar of Sector 41 reported that his bicycle parked outside his house was stolen.Another complaint was lodged by one Mohit Yadav of Sector 41, who said that on September 8 his bicycle parked under the stairs of his house was stolen. Police later apprehended a 16-year-old resident of Maloya and recovered the bicycle. All four cases were registered under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-four-arrested-in-separate-cases-of-vehicle-lifting-101631304002714.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Improvement Trust reserve price row: Auction cancelled, probe marked||Amid allegations that the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) had auctioned off prime commercial land in the Model Town Extension at “throwaway prices,” the local bodies department scrapped the questionable deal on Friday.The trust had auctioned off 3.79 acres (16,344 square yards) of prime land for around ₹98.38 crore, the Bharatiya Janata Party and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have said, alleging that the land is worth approximately ₹350 crore.Local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra said the auction had been cancelled because there had been a discrepancy in the statements issued by LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam and deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma pertaining to the reserve price of the auctioned land. “The auction has not been cancelled due to allegations of a scam,” the minister clarified.The auction was nullified hours after Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu also recommended that the auction proceedings be cancelled. However, the development is being viewed as a setback for the Congress-ruled state government as the auction was cancelled after the Opposition demanded a probe from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), and Enforcement Directorate (ED) among other departments, alleging that a multi-crore scam had been committed.The Opposition says that the land was auctioned to close aides of the Cabinet minister way below the market price. Meanwhile, the LIT chairman had come under fire after deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma denied fixing the reserve price at ₹91.86 crore , while the chairman claimed that the rate had been fixed by a panel led by Sharma.Breaking his silence on the growing controversy on Friday, Ashu had said that the Opposition’s allegations were “baseless, frivolous and motivated.”“I request the Punjab government to cancel the e-auction of the said land and issue fresh dates, so that any person willing to offer a better price is able to participate,” he tweeted. However, he could not be reached for a comment after the auction was cancelled. The LIT chairman maintained that everything had been done fairly and transparently. “The opposition has no proof to substantiate these allegations. They are levelling these allegations to gain political mileage and malign our image.”Mohindra said, “The auction has been cancelled to clear the facts and not due to the allegations of a scam. The matter will be thoroughly probed. A report has been sought from the deputy commissioner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-improvement-trust-reserve-price-row-auction-cancelled-probe-marked-101631303822693.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||32-kilometre greenfield alignment project in Mohali: NHAI agrees to enhance relief for landowners||After a strong protest by farmers over inadequate compensation for land being acquired to construct the 32-km greenfield alignment to decongest Airport Road in Mohali, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has agreed to increase the rates. NHAI’s ₹700 crore project had been brought to a halt after farmers pressed demand for enhanced compensation.Earlier, the authority was to pay between ₹24 lakh and ₹4.12 crore per acre, depending on the location. Now, those who were to get ₹24 lakh per acre will get between ₹1 crore and ₹1.12 crore. Mohali district revenue officer Gurjinder Singh Benipal said they had conducted a meeting with NHAI officials, who agreed to the enhanced rates. “We will be sending them the final awards, and hopefully, these will be cleared in a week’s time,” he said. NHAI had earlier released ₹450 crore to acquire 450 acres in 66 villages to construct the 32-km road, but affected landowners in Nagiari, Devi Nagar and other villages objected to the low acquisition rates. Gurdial Singh, district coordinator of the farmers’ body, Road Sangrash Committee, said earlier, they were given compensation under Section 26 of the Land Acquisition Act. “But now, they have agreed to give compensation under Section 28/7, which means, they will make cluster of 10 villages and high compensation in any village will be applicable to all villages,” he said.A greenfield road is built in an area that has never been developed. The planned road from IT Chowk near the Chandigarh International Airport to the Kurali-Chandigarh Road will provide an alternative route to traffic moving between the Delhi side and parts of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir. Ashoka Buildcon Limited has been finalised to carry out the project. NHAI had come up with this project after scrapping the project to widen the 40-km Kharar-Banur-Tepla road in July 2019, owing to its high cost. Even member of Parliament Manish Tewari had taken up the need for an alternative route with Union minister Nitin Gadkari in February 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/32kilometre-greenfield-alignment-project-in-mohali-nhai-agrees-to-enhance-relief-for-landowners-101631303708027.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||PGTI golf meet: Veer Ahlawat maintains lead in round three||Despite a quiet day on the course, Veer Ahlawat kept the lead in round three of the TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship presented by the government of Haryana and Panchkula Golf Club (PGC).Gurugram-based 25-year-old Ahlawat (67-62-71) followed up his whirlwind 62 in round two with a sedate one-under 71 on Friday to move his tournament total to 16-under 200. Veer’s mixed round saw him pick up five birdies at the expense of four bogeys.Noida’s Amardeep Malik (71-65-66) was breathing down the leader’s neck at the culmination of the penultimate round as he struck a terrific 66 consisting of eight birdies and two bogeys to be placed second at 14-under 202.Yuvraj Singh Sandhu (66) was the highest-placed among the Chandigarh golfers as he closed the day in tied fifth at 11-under 205 along with Om Prakash Chouhan (66) of Mhow and M Dharma (70) of Bengaluru. Ranjit Singh was the second Chandigarh player in the top-10 after Yuvraj Singh Sandhu. Ranjit was placed tied eighth at 10-under 206 along with Delhi’s Rashid Khan and rookie Kartik Sharma of Gurugram.PGTI Order of Merit leader Karandeep Kochhar of Chandigarh occupied tied 11th place at nine-under 207. Chandigarh’s Bishmadpal Singh Seerha, the lone amateur to make the cut, was tied 39th at even-par 216.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgti-golf-meet-veer-ahlawat-maintains-lead-in-round-three-101631303582377.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two snatchers held in Chandigarh’s Palsora||Two persons out of four accused, who had robbed a Palsora resident at knifepoint, were held, the police said on Friday.The two arrested were identified as Puran, 25, of Desumajra, Mohali, and Sonu, 25, of Palsora village, Chandigarh.In his complaint, Trilok Chand told the police that after his shift working as head chef in Mohali, he was heading home on a bicycle on September 8 when two persons stopped him near PNB Bank in Palsora and put a knife to his throat.He alleged that the duo was joined by two other persons on a bike, and they snatched ₹750 cash from him. The men on bike allegedly hit Trilok and he fell. However, he raised the alarm and managed to catch the two pedestrians, who were handed over to the police by him.The police are looking for the other two accused. A case under Section 397 (snatching), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-snatchers-held-in-chandigarh-s-palsora-101631303522279.html
11-09-2021||Other||Tarn Taran: BSF seizes 6 packets of heroin ‘dropped by Pak drone’||The Border Security Force (BSF) recovered six packets of heroin, allegedly dropped by a Pakistan drone, from the border outpost (BOP) Havelian in Tarn Taran district on Thursday night.BSF sources said that around 11.15pm, the personnel on duty had heard the sound of a flying object coming from Pakistan side. They also heard the sound of the consignment being dropped into a field.The drone was flying back to the Pakistan side, when the troops spotted it fired 14 rounds, officials said. “On searching the area, the troops recovered six packets suspected to be heroin,” an official said.Over the years, Havelian village, which is situated close to the border, has become notorious for cross-border drug smuggling. Many of its residents have been booked under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, the most prominent among them being Ranjit Singh alias Rana, the kingpin of the biggest ever drug haul (532kg heroin) in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tarn-taran-bsf-seizes-6-packets-of-heroin-dropped-by-pak-drone-101631303402480.html
11-09-2021||Other||Punjab: 29 youths with Dubai dreams duped by travel agent||Allegedly duped by a travel agent, 29 youths, who were set to board a flight to Dubai, were stranded at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here on Friday.The unsuspecting youths found out about the fake tickets and visas issued to them only during checking at the airport.“I paid ₹1.6 lakh to the agent for going to Dubai. He told us that we will get a salary of ₹40,000 monthly. He also gave us a ticket for the flight, besides getting a visa issued to us. However, when we began to enter the terminal, we were stopped by airport authorities who told us that our ticket and visa are not real,” said a youth from Baba Bakala.Most of the youths hail from economically weak families. The travel agent, meanwhile, is missing. Police have launched a probe in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-29-youths-with-dubai-dreams-duped-by-travel-agent-101631303223909.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula police arrest two from illegal call centre in Sector 5||After receiving a tip-off, the crime branch of Panchkula police has arrested two persons involved in running an unauthorised call centre here in Sector 5.The accused were identified as Deepak Gian, 31, hailing from Gujarat and staying on rent at Mansa Devi Complex; and Abhay Pratap Singh, 21, hailing from Ahmedabad. The duo was produced before a court on Friday and sent to four-day police remand.In the raid, the police found seven youths making calls through laptops. On questioning it was found that the owner of the centre was one Deepak. When he was asked to provide documents like the name of the company, registration, customer source, mode of payments, etc, he failed to provide the same.The police confiscated 12 laptops, six headphones, four laptop chargers and two mobile phones. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 120 (concealing design to commit offence punishable with impris­onment) of the Indian Penal Code and various sections of the IT Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-police-arrest-two-from-illegal-call-centre-in-sector-5-101631303222348.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Drug supplier, peddler held with 519gm opium in Chandigarh||The crime branch has arrested a drug supplier and peddler with 519gm opium, the Chandigarh Police said on Friday.Gaurav Singh, 21, a supplier hailing from Badaun, Uttar Pradesh, had come to the city to deliver the contraband to the second accused, Room Singh, 34, of Dhakoli. The duo was spotted by a team of crime branch on patrolling duty on Wednesday. On noticing the police party on the Chandigarh-Ambala Road, they started running, but were apprehended by the cops.On frisking them, police recovered 519gm opium, which Gaurav was going to deliver to Room to sell further in the tricity.Both were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act at the Sector 31 police station, and will be produced in court on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-supplier-peddler-held-with-519gm-opium-in-chandigarh-101631302927135.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Experts to assess impact of Smart City projects||To comprehensively assess the effectiveness of the multi-crore infrastructural projects being implemented by the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL), a dedicated impact assessment cell (IAC) will soon be created within it. “Unless we conduct an impact assessment of the projects, we don’t get to know how they have influenced lives of residents,” said Anindita Mitra, chief executive officer of the CSCL.Stating that every project should be comprehensively looked at during different stages of its planning and implementation, Mitra said, “We will bring in people whose core competency is analysing projects’ impact. They will measure them on fixed parameters, which will differ from project to project. These experts will conduct the study on scientific lines.”The impact assessment will be conducted for both ongoing projects and those which are yet to be implemented. “It will be a continuous process. There are different stages in a project life cycle and their affect will be assessed in the immediate, medium and long term,” said Mitra.Projects worth more than ₹2,000-crore are planned under the Smart City Mission and CSCL has started implementing works worth ₹1,225-crore till now. Of the 37 projects under CSCL’s ambit, five have been completed while 20 are in the implementation stage. For most of these, the capital expenditure is to be made by the CSCL, while the maintenance costs will be borne by the municipal corporation.Some of the major projects that have taken off recently include the ₹700-crore upgradation of five sewage treatment plants (STPs), ₹34-crore augmentation of water storage capacity at Sector 39 water works, ₹33-crore legacy waste mining, public bicycle sharing project and construction of Integrated Command Control Centre in Sector 17. The ₹591 crore pan city 24x7 water supply project is likely to start at the beginning of the next year.CSCL working under scannerCSCL’s working has come under scanner, with project implementation getting off to a slow start. The city was even put in the list of 20 worst smart cities in the Union urban affairs ministry’s assessment. It failed to achieve the ₹6,724-crore investment target committed to the ministry in 2016.A major setback for the smart city mission was when the UT forest department refused to hand over land for one of CSCL’s largest projects – a ₹4,000-crore commercial hub in Sector 43 under the public-private partnership model. Failing to get the land from UT, the CSCL board scrapped the project in 2019. It also approached the central government multiple times requesting to revise its smart city plan from around ₹6,724 crore to ₹2,900 crore.Social projects on agendaThe CSCL will also move to diversify its activities from merely infrastructure projects to social projects. “Currently, we are working on infrastructural projects only. In addition to these, we also need to work on projects which have a wider impact on the quality of life of people,” said Mitra.One such social project may include creation of a digital library. “A digital library, particularly during the Covid pandemic, can benefit the residents, particularly students and children. It will have books on all major subjects. For its creation, we will undertake feasibility study and prepare a model for its implementation,” said Mitra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-experts-to-assess-impact-of-smart-city-projects-101631302926113.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area’s Covid cases drop to single digit after three days||After staying in double digits for the past three days, tricity’s daily Covid-19 cases dropped to eight on Friday.Both Chandigarh and Mohali reported three cases each, down from four and seven, respectively, on Thursday. Panchkula’s daily count was two again.On Tuesday, 13 cases had surfaced in the tricity, highest in 11 days, followed by 11 on Wednesday and 13 again on Thursday.Also after the death of a 92-year-old woman from Chandigarh the day before, no more casualties were reported in the tricity on Friday.The latest infections in Chandigarh were from Sector 23, Manimajra and Hallomajra, and in Mohali, one case each surfaced in Mohali city, Dera Bassi and Kurali. The two cases in Panchkula were reported from ITBP Complex and Pinjore.Tricity’s active cases stayed steady at 89, with 49 patients still infected in Mohali, 25 in Chandigarh and 15 in Panchkula.So far, 65,145 people have tested positive in Chandigarh, of whom 64,304 have successfully recovered and 816 have succumbed to the virus.At 68,661, Mohali’s caseload is highest in the tricity. Among them, 67,552 patients have been cured and 1,060 have died. Panchkula’s case tally has reached 30,701, including 30,309 recoveries and 377 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-s-covid-cases-drop-to-single-digit-after-three-days-101631302924556.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||C&D plant in Chandigarh to be upgraded for better output||The machinery at MC’s construction and demolition (C&D) plant at Industrial Area, Phase 1, will be upgraded to maximise its output.Further, the corporation’s effort will be to execute most of its works using material from this plant, said MC commissioner Anindita Mitra during her visit to the facility on Friday. The commissioner instructed the engineers concerned to ensure that the 150 MT C&D plant functioned at full capacity daily.Mitra also visited the Material Recovery Facility (MRF) Station and Sewerage Treatment Plant (STP), 3 BRD, Chandigarh.She emphasised that awareness needed to be created in some parts of city from where waste was still coming in mixed form at MRF stations. She said STPs will be upgraded to ensure high quality of tertiary treated water.The commissioner reviewed the waste water management system, where she was briefed by the chief engineer about treatment of sewage.The commissioner also visited the Water Works in Sector 39, where the chief engineer apprised her of the distribution of 87 MGD canal water received from Kajauli Water Works. He informed her that the per capita availability of water is 245 litres per capita per day, which is highest in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cd-plant-in-chandigarh-to-be-upgraded-for-better-output-101631302923626.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh:Contractor fined ₹20,000 for haphazard parking||The municipal corporation has fined a contractor ₹20,000 for not managing parking lots as mandated by the agreement.“Parkings of Sectors 17 and 22 were checked by MC and haphazard parking was found in Sahib Singh parking lot and Mobile Market in these areas. Challan amounting to ₹20,000 was issued to the contractor,” said MC commissioner Anindita Mitra.Notably, MC commissioner had given the two parking contractors, managing 89 parking lots in the city, a week to comply with all mandatory provisions of their contract.Thereafter, a team of MC officials inspected the lots for compliance.Their report concluded that even after the deadline got over, some of the 10 basic features mandated in the contract were missing. The inspection team had observed haphazard parking, missing parking attendants and lack of aesthetic kiosks in many parking lots.In some smaller lots, no parking staff was deployed. Of the 10 basic features, e-ticketing, LED display, e-payment, staff wearing uniform at most sites and boom barrier (at required sites) have been provided in nearly all parking lots, stated the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhcontractor-fined-20-000-for-haphazard-parking-101631302922104.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets 19.3mm rain, more likely on Saturday||The city recorded 19.3mm rain city on Friday and is likely to receive more showers on Saturday as well, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).An IMD official said, “Rain is expected across many stations in the region on Saturday. From Sunday onwards, chances of rain are likely to reduce and dry weather can be expected again.”Since the beginning of monsoon in June, the city has recorded 469.6mm rain, against a normal of 763.1mm – a deficit of 38%. Monsoon withdrawal is expected towards the end of the month.Following the rain, the city’s maximum temperature dropped from 33.9°C on Thursday to 33°C on Friday, normal for this time of the year. But the minimum temperature rose from 24.5°C to 24.8°C, which was three notches above normal. The day temperature will remain between 31°C and 33°C over the next three days, while the minimum temperature will hover around 25°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-gets-19-3mm-rain-more-likely-on-saturday-101631302862020.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||CHB properties put on auction with reduced reserve prices||With a 10% to 20% cut and change in computation method, the reserve price of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) properties in its latest e-auction has fallen by 10% to more than 50%.The reserve prices of the freehold residential units remain the same as in the previous e-tender, but those of the lease-hold residential units have been reduced by 10% and those of the leasehold commercial units have been reduced by 20% in comparison to previous e-tender.“The reserve prices of corner units with veranda on two sides have been reduced by more than 50% because of a change in methodology for computation. The reduction in reserve prices in these cases is by ₹40 lakh to ₹60 lakh,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB.On offer are 132 leasehold commercial properties, 31 leasehold residential properties and 28 freehold residential properties. Most of the commercial properties are located in Manimajra and Sector 61. Some are also available in Sectors 38W, 40A and 51A. These properties include small booths, big booths, service booths, etc.The CHB board of directors recently approved a cut in the reserve price of the leasehold properties as there were few takers for such properties in previous auctions.The CHB, in the past four months, has conducted four e-auctions for its 121 freehold residential properties and has been able to sell 87 of them, earning ₹70.59 crore. In the same period, it has been able to sell only two residential and nine commercial leasehold properties, earning ₹1.74 crore and ₹4.73 crore, respectively.Willing participants can visit the CHB website www.chbonline.in to understand the detailed procedure for submission of earnest money deposit (EMD) and e-bids, said Garg.Stickers have been pasted at each of the built-up units for better identification and site offices have been provided at different sectors/locations to facilitate inspection by prospective bidders. The location of units on Google Maps, the addresses of the site offices and contact details of officials are available on CHB website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chb-properties-put-on-auction-with-reduced-reserve-prices-101631302802333.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Competent Foundation holds 25 blood donation camps across north India||Union housing and urban affairs and petroleum and natural gas minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday said with the way that the central government controlled the last two Covid waves, India has proved an ideal example for the whole world. He was speaking during the inaugural session of 25 different blood donation camps which were being organised simultaneously across north India to mark the birthday of Chandigarh BJP state president and social worker Sanjay Tandon on Friday.Competent Foundation, of which Tandon is the president, with the help of various blood banks and organisations collected a total of 1,641 units of blood by organising camps at eight locations in Chandigarh, five each in Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh and one each in UP and Delhi.After the inaugural session, Tandon said he had donated blood for the first time on his 18th birthday on the request of his father late Balramji Das Tandon, after which continued with his spree. He added that the foundation has been organising blood donation camps twice a year on a large scale in April and September.Farmers halt camp at ZirakpurFarmers protesting against the agriculture laws halted a blood donation camp being organised by Zirakpur-based NGO, “Blood Donation Group”, at Hotel Gobind Regency to celebrate Tandon’s birthday. BJP leader Dushyant Kumar Gautam was scheduled to attend the event physically.Rakesh Kher, in-charge of the NGO, said they even got permission from the police to hold the camp, which was later cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/competent-foundation-holds-25-blood-donation-camps-across-north-india-101631302624537.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Pvt hospitals in Chandigarh to consider installation of oxygen plants||Private hospitals in Chandigarh sought 15 days to think about installing oxygen plants during a meeting with UT health secretary Yashpal Garg on Friday. “The response from private hospitals was quite encouraging and they requested for clarification on whether PSA oxygen plants can be installed at the rooftop or within the campus and what permissions will be required from different departments. They also requested for 15 days to think over it,” said Garg. Only those private hospitals or clinical establishments with a capacity of more than 50 beds can install an oxygen plant . The move came after several states and UTs complained of oxygen shortage in government and private hospitals during the peak of the second Covid wave.“As per guidelines from the central government, a private hospital should install a PSA oxygen plant if they are catering to more than 50 Covid patients at one time. We have asked large hospitals to reserve at least one-third of their beds as oxygen beds, which can further be connected with ventilators. The UT administration will not provide financial help to them in setting up the plants, but we will help them in training their personnel to use the equipment,” the health secretary said. Garg added that the private hospitals didn’t talk about increasing the bed rates for the Covid-19 treatment.It was decided that another meeting will be held next month to take the initiative ahead and further encourage the hospitals to set up their own PSA oxygen plants so that there is no issue of shortage in case of any crisis, he added. However, the hospitals have been given six months to set up the oxygen plants.In addition to the director health and medical superintendent of Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, representatives from 13 private hospitals also attended the meeting. These included Chaitanya Hospital, Eden Critical Care Hospital, Happy Family Hospital, Healing Hospital and Institute of Paramedical Sciences, Kapoor’s Kidney and Urostone Centre, Landmark Hospital, Mukat Hospital + Heat Institute (A unit of City Clinic), Shri Dhanwantry Hospital (Run by Shri Dhanwantry Educational), Kids Clinic, Homeopathic Medical College 26, ARV Orthopaedics Hospital, Indira IVF Hospital Private Limited and Chandigarh City Hospital. A presentation about the PSA Oxygen technology was given by Dr Manjit Singh, medical officer, GMSH 16, about working of Oxygen Plants and tentative cost for different sizes of PSA plants. ‘Space, finances are concerns’“Most private hospitals in Chandigarh lack space to set up a plant on their hospital campus. A minimum of five-square meters of vacant space is necessary. We are willing to install the plant if administration helps us by easing some rules”, said HS Sehgal, administrator of Healing Hospital Chandigarh.“Besides space constraints, hospitals complained of high expenses in setting up the oxygen plants. The price range of installation varies between ₹20 to ₹80 lakh and hospitals were told to choose the plant, as per their capacity and choice of expenses. Since these plants are assets for the hospitals, most of them are willing to set up the facility, if the administration helps out,” said Dinesh Chopra, CEO of Chaitanya Hospital.Hospitals with less than 50 beds were asked to increase their capacity, so that they can also help out in case of a third Covid wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pvt-hospitals-in-chandigarh-to-consider-installation-of-oxygen-plants-101631302562219.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||First dose of Covid vaccine: After achieving 100% target, Panchkula to start house-to-house survey||With over 100% of the target population having received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine, the Panchkula health department has now started a door-to-door survey to ensure every left-out citizen is vaccinated.This week, Panchkula became the third district in Haryana to achieve 100% vaccination of its target population for the first dose. Gurugram and Ambala are the first two districts.The total target, as per national guidelines in every district, was supposed to be 60% of the total population. Panchkula’s target population is 3.8 lakh of which, 102% of the beneficiaries (3.9 lakh) have been administered the first dose and 65% have been fully vaccinated.This 100%, however, doesn’t mean that every city resident has received the first dose: many people from other states were also jabbed in Panchkula. “Currently, we are providing vaccination in every health centre and urban dispensaries. This week we have assigned ASHA workers the task of door-to-door survey, wherein they will visit every house in villages and ask people to get jabbed. Then they will wait in their areas for those who want to get the shot,” said Dr Sasan.Since the beginning of the vaccination process in Panchkula on January 16, Dr Meenu Sasan said it was not a smooth drive: Rumors, vaccination shortage, reaching out to difficult areas and vaccinating those with no identity cards were a few challenges.At present, 38 centres are inoculating an average of 4,000 persons every day. “We are organising a mega camp on September 13 and 14,” said Sasan, adding: “One of the issues that we are facing is that those who got the first shot during the drive are not turning up for the second one, most of them from other states.”Over 400 persons with no ID cards have been vaccinated including beggars and the homeless, citizens of Nepal and others. Also, 769 persons living in slums were vaccinated using mobile vans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-after-achieving-100-target-panchkula-to-start-house-to-house-survey-101631302442073.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Immunity booster tea to be launched by NIPER Mohali by December||The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Mohali, is all set to launch a herbal tea for boosting immunity by the end of this year.Even though the product was developed in June last year by NIPER scientist and head of the department of natural products, Sanjay Jachak, more scientific information has been provided to show how the plants used in the formulation of the tea individually help in boosting immunity. The product is aimed at being used as a preventive remedy to tackle the coronavirus infection.Director of NIPER, professor Dulal Panda, said, “We will be applying for the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) licence and we are hopeful of getting it by October end. Then we will be launching it in the market in collaboration with a tea company.”Panda further said that the best part about the tea is there is no added sugar, which is helpful for diabetic people. The tea can be had three times a day, even by children and senior citizens without any problem. It is soothing on the throat and can help the body fight seasonal flu problems as well. He added that the tea is an in-house preparation using herbs collected/procured from within the NIPER medicinal plant garden on campus.Six locally available herbs, possessing potent immune-modulatory activity, have been used to make the tea. These include Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera), Giloe (Tinospora cordifolia), Mulethi (Glycyrrhiza glabra), two species of Tulsi (Ocimum species) and Green Tea (Camellia sinensis).These herbs are mixed in carefully selected proportions keeping in mind their action as an immunity enhancer, sensory appeal, ease of preparation and acceptable palatability. The formula has been designed in such a way to achieve the maximum immune-boosting effect, said Jachak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/immunity-booster-tea-to-be-launched-by-niper-mohali-by-december-101631302142334.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula residents under yoke of bad roads||Despite tall promises by politicians year after year, Panchkula still has roads with potholes, patch work, broken dividers, damaged roundabouts and uneven footpaths.While residents have become tired of writing to the municipal corporation officials as well as the mayor, it seems that authorities have also gotten used to the complaints.President of Citizen Welfare Association, SK Nayar, along with other members recently held a meeting with mayor Kulbhushan Goyal and apprised him about the problems being faced due to broken roads. “After months long delay, they have finally repaired the dividing road of Sector 17/18. Reason being, it is a VIP road and has many government offices on the stretch,” said Nayar.He added that in their Sector (15), there were 8-inch deep potholes: “The roads leading to Sectors 16, 15, 10 and 9 roundabouts are in a bad shape. One has to drive very carefully and God is your only saviour if you are driving on inner roads.”The condition of roads in Industrial Area, Phases 1 and 2, are equally battered and similar is the situation in Sector 20.KK Jindal, president of Sector-20 resident welfare association, said that he had written to the mayor twice, apprising him of the poor condition of roads. “They don’t make the roads properly, but only recarpet them. Because of that, the level of roads has increased by one foot, which results in rainwater entering the houses in Sector 20,” he said.Jindal said that dividers in front of Sector 8A and the one from where the road leads to the graveyard and another village were broken, which led to many accidents.The residents said that the quality of raw material used to recarpet roads was so poor that within three to four monsoons, the roads get damaged.MC commissioner Dharamvir agreed that the condition of roads was dilapidated and they had made an extensive plan for which the work would start soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-residents-under-yoke-of-bad-roads-101631302082290.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Suicide prevention in focus during discussion at Panjab University||World Suicide Prevention Day was observed virtually at Panjab University on Friday. UT director general of police (DGP) Praveer Ranjan inaugurated the event. “Suicide among youngsters is increasing and the society must focus on prevention. Today’s youth are facing peculiar challenges in terms of career, education and ongoing uncertainty toward life,” he said.He added that suicide rates have increased by 3.4% as per the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) report of 2019, and that there have been 51 suicides in Chandigarh this year, out of which 15 were female and 38 were male. Last year, there were 151 suicides in the city.UT inspector general of prisons, Omvir Bishnoi, said, “Most of today’s youngsters are not being able to share their issues with their peers, parents and teachers, which is the main cause of their emotional conflict.” Dinesh Kataria, head of psychiatry, Lady Harding Medical College, in his address said that emotional turmoil and non-directional thought are major causes of suicides among youngsters. Pro-vice chancellor of SGT University Gurgaon, NS Tung, moderated a panel discussion in which six speakers shared their expertise and discussed the role of society to eradicate suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/suicide-prevention-in-focus-during-discussion-at-panjab-university-101631301902598.html
11-09-2021||Other||Charuni’s Mission 2022: Punjab farmers to join Karnal protests||A large contingent of farmers from different regions of Punjab on Friday rushed to join the Karnal protests from Ambala’s Shambhu border and to give boost to farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni’s call for Mission Punjab 2022.The farmers’ convoy, named Haryana Kisan Bachao Rally, received a rousing welcome from local leaders.This comes at a time when senior Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders are scheduled to hold a meeting at the Karnal Morcha to decide the future course of action.Sarabjeet Singh, a member of the mission, said, “Government thinks the Karnal protests won’t last long but a jatha from Punjab will reach the morcha daily if the government doesn’t agree with the demands.”Another farmer from Fatehgarh Sahib, Harinder Singh, said, “The protests have been going on for almost 10 months and it seems that the solution will now be political, as advocated by Charuni.”In July, Charuni had said that farmers should contest the upcoming assembly elections for a solution on Centre’s three farm laws, after which he was suspended by the SKM. However, later in August, he refused to form any political party or contest elections after a meeting in Karnal, but unlike other senior SKM leaders, he has not rejected the idea since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/charunis-mission-2022-punjab-farmers-to-join-karnal-protests-101631301661344.html
11-09-2021||Other||₹5 lakh graft case: NHPC official granted bail||A special CBI court on Friday granted bail to Harjeet Singh Puri, chief general manager (CGM, finance), National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC), Faridabad, in a ₹5 lakh graft case from July 2021. The court granted Puri bail against bail bonds of ₹5 lakh, with a condition that he will not leave the country without the court’s permission. He was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for accepting the bribe to clear pending payments of a private firm working on the corporation’s Parbati Hydroelectric Project in Kullu, Himachal Pradesh. Apart from Puri, Sunil Mendiratta, senior general manager (project) of the firm, Gammon CMC Joint Venture, and Sanchit Saini, a Delhi resident, were also arrested. As per the CBI, NHPC owed Gammon CMC Joint Venture payments worth over ₹5.26 crore with regards to the hydel project. The CBI alleged that when Mendiratta requested Puri to expedite the process of payment, the latter demanded a bribe of ₹5 lakh. CBI had arrested Puri with Saini, who had allegedly brought the cash for the payment of bribe, they said. Later, Mendiratta was also arrested by the agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-lakh-graft-case-nhpc-official-granted-bail-101631301601965.html
11-09-2021||Other||Jaunpur custodial death: HC transfers probe to CBI||The Allahabad high court has transferred the probe of the alleged death of a 24-year-old man in police custody in Jaunpur district in February this year to central bureau of investigation (CBI), while observing that “the entire effort of the police is to somehow give clean chit to the accused”.Saying that speedy trial was the essence of companion in concept of “fair trial”, the court observed, “In every civilized society, the police force is invested with powers of investigation of a crime to secure punishment for the criminal and it is in the interest of society that the investigating agency must act honestly and fairly and not resort to fabricating false evidence or creating false clues only with a view to secure conviction because such acts shake the confidence of the common man not only in the investigating agency but in the ultimate analysis in the system of dispensation of criminal justice.” The court “prima facie found that officers of the IPS rank have some involvement in the murder/death of the deceased”.Hearing a writ petition filed by one Ajay Kumar Yadav of Jaunpur district, a division bench comprising justice Surya Prakash Kesarwani and justice Piyush Agrawal on September 8 (Tuesday) transferred the probe while underscoring if the investigation was neither effective nor purposeful nor objective nor fair, the courts may, if considered necessary, order fair investigation, further investigation or reinvestigation as the case may be to discover the truth so as to prevent miscarriage of justice.It is alleged by the petitioner that a police team of Baksha police station in Jaunpur district forcibly took away Krishna Yadav alias Pujari, who was about 24 years of age, on February 11, 2021 in an alleged false case and detained him at the police station. When the informant (brother of the deceased) went to the police station, he was not allowed to meet his brother and the next morning (February 12, 2021), he was informed that his brother (Pujari) had died.Thereafter, a case was registered against the accused police officers under Sections 302 (murder) and other sections of Indian Penal Code at Baksa police station. On the other hand, police claimed that the youth was apprehended while he was driving a motorcycle which fell due to which he received injuries and the public beat him up.As per the police version, when he (the detained youth) was sent for first aid along with a sub inspector and two constables, the doctor at the community health centre referred him to district hospital, Jaunpur, and by the time they reached the district hospital, he had died.Due to the alleged custodial death, a judicial inquiry was set up in the matter under chief judicial magistrate (CJM), Jaunpur, and it recorded the statements of 16 witnesses. However, it did not reach any conclusion.After going through the record of the case, the court observed, “The entire effort of the police is to somehow give clean chit to the accused and for this purpose important evidence are being left and some pieces of evidence are being created and manipulated. But presently we do not want to comment any more since a fair investigation is yet to be carried out by an independent and impartial agency.” Consequently, transferring the probe to the CBI, the court posted the matter as fresh for further hearing on September 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jaunpur-custodial-death-hc-transfers-probe-to-cbi-101631301542041.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Justice Verma to be sworn-in as Haryana lokayukta today||The Haryana government has cleared the decks to appoint justice Hari Pal Verma, a former judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court, as lokayukta of Haryana.Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatraya will administer the oath to justice Verma on Saturday afternoon at Raj Bhawan, official sources said.Justice Verma, who hails from Haryana, had retired in April this year after serving as judge of the high court for around seven years.He will succeed Nawal Kishore Agarwal, a former judge of the Chattisgarh high court, whose five-year term as Haryana lokayukta had ended in July this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/justice-verma-to-be-sworn-in-as-haryana-lokayukta-today-101631301481910.html
11-09-2021||Other||Panipat MLA faces farmers’ anger in Jind||Farmers on Friday protested against the BJP workers’ meeting in Jind, which was presided over by Panipat rural MLA Mahipal Dhanda.After receiving news of the MLA’s arrival, scores of farmers gathered and moved towards the Jind-Kaithal road near Patiala Chowk.Heavy police forces were deployed to maintain the law and order situation but the farmers managed to remove barricades and lay siege outside the BJP district office in Jind. They went back to their homes after the BJP leaders left the venue after five hours.Police had helped Dhanda in leaving the meeting venue from the back door of the BJP office, after which farmers went back to their homes.Meanwhile, farmers and police had exchanged heated arguments when the protesters tried to enter the office. Farmers asked Dhanda to apologise for conducting the meeting despite their ban.As the situation got tense, additional heavy police force was deployed near the office and higher police officials took the front to handle the situation.Jind ASP Nitish Kumar said, “We made a safe escape for the MLA amid tight security and the situation got normalised.”Meanwhile, farmers’ hunger strike entered the second day outside Narwana mini-secretariat in support of the Karnal farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panipat-mla-faces-farmers-anger-in-jind-101631301422386.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Robbery in Chandigarh’s Sector 27: Auto driver who stood guard for robbers nabbed||Making a breakthrough in Tuesday’s robbery where three men held a model-cum-actor captive at knifepoint at her house in Sector 27, police have arrested their fourth accomplice, an auto-rickshaw driver. According to police, it was Prem, alias Motu, a resident of Shahimajra, Mohali, who helped the accused conduct a recee of the 27-year-old victim’s house in his auto-rickshaw and also took one of the robbers to an ATM to withdraw cash from her account. “As the accused went to the ATM and then escaped without being noticed, we started a search for the vehicle used. Human intelligence network helped us track down Prem, who used to socialise with the robbers,” said Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police (SP, City), Chandigarh. Prem was arrested from his house in Shahimajra on Friday. His auto-rickshaw, the victim’s debit card and ₹10,000 in cash, which was his share of the booty, have been recovered. According to police, the three robbers have been identified as Arjun, alias Nepali, the mastermind; Arjun Kumar and Sunil, alias Sunny, alias Bihari, who remain at large. Raids are being conducted at various places to nab them.Stood outside while others executed robbery In his disclosure, Prem told the police that he and the three robbers first conducted a recce of the victim’s house in his auto-rickshaw around 8pm on Monday. They planned to strike the same night, but dropped the idea. A day later, the four men returned and three of them easily walked into the victim’s house around 12.30pm, as the door was left open by the domestic help. Meanwhile, Prem stood guard outside in his auto-rickshaw.Holding the home-alone woman captive at knifepoint, they took her debit card and forced her to reveal the PIN, following which Sunil left to withdraw money from her account.As the two other robbers started to search the house for valuables, the victim grabbed the ₹6 lakh kept in a room and locked herself in the bathroom. But she handed over the cash after Nepali cut open the bathroom’s mesh window. Sunil withdrew money from ATMPolice said Sunil and Prem went to an ATM in Sector 30 in the latter’s auto-rickshaw around 2pm and withdrew ₹20,000 via two transactions. “Prem kept ₹15,000 of this amount and also retained the ATM card for further transactions, while Sunil took ₹5,000,” SP Ketan said.According to investigators, of his share of the booty, Prem had already spent ₹4,000 to pay an instalment for his auto-rickshaw on September 8. Mastermind Arjun ensured no mobile was usedTo ensure that they could not be traced, mastermind Nepali ensured that none of them used a mobile phone while executing the robbery.Police said Arjun, who has a criminal record, planned the robbery after he and four other men delivered some newly bought furniture at the victim’s rented accommodation on August 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/robbery-in-chandigarh-s-sector-27-auto-driver-who-stood-guard-for-robbers-nabbed-101631301362156.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Enrol for IGNOU MBA programmes by Sept 30||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has announced two new All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) approved management programmes- master of business administration -revised and master of business administration (banking and finance). These will be a part of the July session and programme details like eligibility, duration, fee, courses are available on the online admission portal, https://ignouadmission.samarth.edu.in. The last date for online submission of applications is September 30.Also, PG diploma programmes are on offer in marketing management, financial management, human resource management and operations management. The last date for online submission of applications for these courses is September 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/enrol-for-ignou-mba-programmes-by-sept-30-101631301306753.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab health minister hands over ₹13 crore to Mohali MC on behalf of GMADA||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday handed over a cheque for ₹13 crore to the municipal corporation (MC), on behalf of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), to be spent on development works.The cheque was handed over to mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu and MC commissioner Kamal Garg. As per the agreement, GMADA is to pay 25% of maintenance expenses to MC every year.Sidhu reassured the civic body that he would not allow any shortage of funds for development of Mohali. He further said that soon ₹5 crore will be received from the power department and another ₹2.5 crore from Punjab Small Industries & Export Corporation Limited, and will be handed over to the MC.Sidhu also handed over a cheque for ₹10 lakh from his discretionary quota for repairing the bathrooms at the ITI for girls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-health-minister-hands-over-13-crore-to-mohali-mc-on-behalf-of-gmada-101631301241879.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: HC stays all probes against ex-DGP Saini till Feb 2022||In a major relief to former Punjab top cop Sumedh Singh Saini, the high court on Friday stayed investigations into various criminal cases registered against him in the state till February 2020. Citing “exceptional circumstances”, the Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) bench of justice Arvind Sangwan observed that multiple cases registered against Saini could be a “political ploy” in the wake of upcoming state assembly elections.Not only this order gives relief to the former director general of police (DGP), it also stalls investigation into the 2015 sacrilege violence cases, said a senior lawyer associated with those cases. “Prosecution has all along termed him a major link in police firing cases. If his role is not to be probed, how will the Punjab Police fix role of others? ” the lawyer said.The HC has ordered that there will be a clear stay on Saini’s arrest in all cases, pending or likely to be registered, except the one that is pending before the Supreme Court. The court even stayed investigations against him, observing that attempts have been made to arrest him. The order also bars police from pursuing any other case and probe by any commission appointed by the state government till February 2022. The former DGP has also been exempted from personal appearance in an ongoing trial in any court. However, he has been asked to not leave the country.The HC order has come on Saini’s plea moved in 2018, wherein he sought a blanket bail and directions to the Punjab government that FIRs registered or likely to be registered against him be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation. Saini had claimed in the plea that the Congress government was acting out of vengeance against him as he had “become an eye sore” for chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and his associates after he investigated cases against them when he was the vigilance department head in the state. ‘... dare shown by Punjab Police officials...’In its 46-page judgment, the court took note of proceedings and various other developments in criminal cases against Saini, especially on August 19 when an HC bench had termed his arrest illegal and ordered his release.“I am also conspicuous of the dare shown by the Punjab Police officials in trying to overreach the court... which is also a circumstance to be considered about the nature and quality of investigation being conducted by the Punjab Police in the FIRs,” the bench further said. At a time when court was in the middle of hearing petitions related to the former DGP on August 19, a DSP-level officer had purportedly written to the chief justice and the judge concerned alleging “ undue hurry” being shown by the bench in dealing with Saini’s case.Saini’s counsel, senior advocate APS Deol, had also submitted that a fresh FIR has been registered on September 3, wherein a head constable is alleging that he was assaulted for leaking a video about Saini’s arrest on social media. He could be arrested in that case as well, as and when he goes to join probe in some other case, Deol submitted. Giving relief to the former DGP, the bench started its judgment by referring to a Panchatantra story, in which an entire village gangs up to shunt out a monkey, but the sarpanch intervenes and says he won’t allow it without a plausible reason. “This is how the legal system in India works, where the court follows the principal of audi alteram partem, ie nobody should be condemned unheard. The plight of the petitioner appears to be similar to the story as this court protected the right of the petitioner by passing various orders,” observed the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabhc-stays-all-probes-against-ex-dgp-saini-till-feb-2022-101631301062539.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Covid giving rise anxiety, depression in people, communication is key: Doctors||The unexpected death of a loved one, loss of livelihood or difficulties in coping with the day-to-day stresses brought about by Covid-19 and related restrictions have led to an increase in anxiety and depression among people, said experts on World Suicide Prevention Day. But compassion for persons undergoing such problems can go a long way in alleviating their anxiety and keeping them from thoughts of self-harm, doctors said.Suicides are preventable, the doctors said. “Various factors such as loss of jobs and increased intake of alcohol and drugs during the lockdown period influenced the mental well-being of people. Add to that, people also lost out on their social nets such as friends and family because of Covid induced restrictions,” Dr Smita Deshpande, professor of psychiatry, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital. “Those with good resilience will recover with time, but a significant number of people affected by such issues need psychiatric help. The problem is that such help is not easily accessible and the stigma attached to mental health makes people wary of reaching out,” she said. Doctors still do not know the exact impact of Covid-19 on death by suicides, with data being very difficult to collate. “We do not yet know whether the number of death by suicides has increased over the past two years; such cases are usually underreported. There are some reports that suggest that the number hasn’t increased, but that is also cause for concern— what it means is that the number of suicides did not dip despite people being restricted to homes and remaining in the constant company of family members, thereby reducing the opportunities to attempt a suicide,” said Dr Rajesh Sagar, professor in the department of psychiatry, All India Institute of Medical Sciences. He further said, “Stress, anxiety, and depression have increased in not only those who contracted Covid-19 but also everyone else around. Given the size of the pandemic, the magnitude of mental health problems is likely to be much higher.” Studies from National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (Nimhans) and Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research show that men with Covid-19 were at a higher risk of attempting suicide. “ During the Covid-19 lockdown, suicide risk among housewives and the unemployed went up,” said the study from Nimhans. A survey conducted by Dr Sameer Malhotra, director of department of mental health and behavioural sciences, Max Hospital-Saket, shows that there was an increase in suicidal thoughts and self-harm during the pandemic in both adults and children. “We conducted a survey of both children and adults and found that there was a definite increase in thoughts of self-harm and suicide among both groups. About 27% adults reported having such thoughts at least once and a little less than 3% said that they had frequent thoughts of self-harm and suicide,” said Dr Malhotra. “We also saw significant problems in sleep-wake pattern because of altered schedules.” Suicides are preventable, say experts. But in order to help a person, one needs to be aware of certain warning signs, they said. Doctors suggested looking out for behavioural changes, the person isolating himself/herself, not showing much interest in usual activities, constantly planning for death or talking about death, and/or losing hope or being too pessimistic as identifiers of someone at risk of suicide. “Showing them compassion, communicating with them, and urging them to seek help can prevent them from resorting to the extreme step,” said Dr Sameer Parikh, director, Mental Health and Behavioural Sciences, Fortis Healthcare.“People need to look out for changes in behaviour— a person becoming irritable, avoiding other people, feeling sad and hopeless, losing all desire, feeling worthless, and talking about death often. Those around such a person must show the person compassion, make him/her feel connected, help him/her with problem solving, and urge him/her to reach out to a doctor, not necessarily a psychiatrist. All these can help prevent a suicide. Mental health needs to be integrated in all levels of health-care,” he said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pandemic-giving-rise-anxiety-depression-in-people-communication-is-key-say-doctors-101631300822392.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||After 28 days, Panjab University student bodies call off protest||Student bodies of Panjab University called off their indefinite protest outside the vice-chancellor’s office after 28 days on Friday, as the varsity is set to reopen its campus in a phased manner from Monday onwards.President of the Students for Society (SFS), Sandeep, said, “We have submitted a memorandum to PU authorities asking that in the next phase, physical classes are restarted for final year students of all courses. The AC Joshi Library must also remain open 24x7 and boys must be allowed 24 hour entry into hostels like before. Various department canteens and student centre should also be reopened.”He added that a 10-day ultimatum has been given to release the next set of reopening guidelines for the university. Currently, PU has decided to reopen its campus for PG students of the physics and chemistry departments, University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) and dental college.Student parties had started the protest after the varsity deferred polling for the registered graduate constituency of the PU senate. The date for polling has now been fixed on September 26, which was announced this Tuesday. However, even after PU announced the date of polling, the student bodies had said they will continue their protest till the campus isn’t reopened.A number of political leaders including Congress leaders Sukhpal Singh Khaira, Aam Aadmi Party leader Harpal Singh Cheema and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia had visited the protest site on the campus to extend their support to students. Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait had also visited the campus.Student bodies had also organised a protest on Friday, in which they alleged that the son of a professor of the University Business School had been illegally given admission. A memorandum regarding this was submitted to the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-28-days-panjab-university-student-bodies-call-off-protest-101631300701921.html
11-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath leads tributes as UP celebrates birth anniversary of first CM Govind Ballabh Pant||The Uttar Pradesh (UP) government celebrated the birth anniversary of the state’s first chief minister (CM)Pandit Govind Ballabh Pant in all districts on Friday and chief minister Yogi Adityanath paid rich tributes to him on the occasion.He said the present government had resolved to make “the state of Pantji” the top economy in the country.”Pant headed the Congress government in Uttar Pradesh from January 26, 1950 to December 1954. When the state was known as United Province, Pant was the chief minister from July 1937 to November 1939 and then again from April 1946 to January 25, 1950.Yogi Adityanath first offered flowers at Pant’s portrait near the late leader’s statue at Lok Bhavan, which houses the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s secretariat, and then viewed a photo exhibition on his life.The statewide celebrations of Pant’s birth anniversary were held under the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. Yogi said the mahotsav was a great initiative by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to enliven the memories of great freedom fighters.Born in Almora, Pant was a prominent freedom fighter who pursued higher education in Prayagraj, Adityanath said. During his student days in Prayagraj, Pant made the freedom movement the mission of his life, the chief minister added.“When the British government made India participate in World War 2, Pant resigned from the chief ministership. Later, in 1947, he again became the chief minister. During Pantji’s tenure as chief minister, the state’s per capita income was at par with India’s but after that the per capita income of the state fell. Till 2015-16, the state was not among the top five economies in the country,” he said.“Now, under the present government, the state has become the second-biggest economy in the country. The present government has resolved to make “the state of Pant ji” the top economy in the country,” Yogi said.Yogi Adityanath said that the present emblem of the state was given by Pant. The emblem has the Ganga, the Yamuna, and Prayagraj’s Sangam, besides the bow and arrow of Lord Ram. It was in Pant’s time that the state was named Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-leads-tributes-as-up-celebrates-birth-anniversary-of-first-cm-govind-ballabh-pant-101631300523632.html
11-09-2021||Bhopal||MP to enact law to seize assets of gangsters, give them to the poor: Minister||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government will soon introduce a law to curb organised crime with stringent provisions tougher than the law enacted by Uttar Pradesh, MP home minister Narottam Mishra said on Friday.The home and law departments are jointly finalising the draft of the bill to target organised crime, MP’s home minister told reporters in Bhopal. Mishra said the government was going to propose a provision to seize the assets of gangsters.“We are also coming up with a provision to distribute the seized property and money among poor people,” the minister added.Once this law is enacted, Mishra said, “the mining mafia, liquor mafia, land mafia and other anti-social elements will be eliminated from the state.” The home minister said the state will set up special courts for fast disposal of cases and will have a special provision of providing safety to eyewitnesses. “Those who will help these criminals, directly and indirectly, will also be punished under this bill.”The government could introduce the bill during the Winter session of the MP assembly.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan earlier announced the government’s intention to come up with strict laws to curb organised crime.Over the past year, the state government has razed more than 500 houses and illegal structures of criminals in MP.The Congress, however, was unrelenting in its criticism of the government, accusing it of patronising criminals.“Recently, a BJP leader was arrested for raping a minor. If the state government really want to control crime in MP, they should stop patronising criminals,” said Ajay Yadav, MP Congress spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-to-enact-law-to-seize-assets-of-gangsters-give-them-to-the-poor-minister-101631300281629.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Wettest monsoon in a decade, Met records show||New Delhi: The city is likely on its way to break the record for the wettest monsoon ever, said forecasters as light to moderate showers throughout the day on Friday helped the Capital breach the 1,000mm rain mark for the first time in over a decade, data from the weather office showed.Data available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) shows that so far this monsoon, Delhi has received 1,015.5mm rain after parts of the city received showers early Friday morning and in the evening.According to the data maintained by the Met department, Delhi last experienced a wetter monsoon in 2010, when the city received 1,030.5mm rain.“Thunderstorm with moderate to heavy rains, along with winds at a speed of 30-60kmph, is likely over parts of Delhi and NCR starting Friday night. This will continue on Saturday and Sunday,” said the IMD forecast.Met officials said with a forecast of moderate to heavy showers in Delhi-NCR during the weekend, the Capital will “easily surpass” the 2003 record for the wettest monsoon.“Delhi will break its rainfall record for 2010. We will have to see what the new record is going to be. We still have time before the monsoon withdraws,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at IMD.Despite a late-onset, the monsoon this year has seen some erratic, record-breaking patterns. The monsoon officially arrived in the national capital on July 13, after a delay of 16 days instead of its usual onset on June 27. The resultant rainfall, arising from the late arrival of monsoon was, however, covered with only a few spells of heavy rain, with July receiving 507.1mm rain, compared to the normal precipitation of 210.6mm, and recording a surplus of 141%.In August, monsoon patterns changed again when the city experienced two spells of break monsoon. IMD officials said one such spell of break monsoon lasted for 10 days, making it one of the longest dry spells the city has ever seen in the monsoon season.In August, Delhi received 214.5mm rainfall against the average monthly precipitation of 247.7mm. The rainfall trends changed again in September. Unlike August, which by and large remained dry due to the break monsoon, Delhi recorded eight rainy days between September 1 and September 10 with the rainfall recording standing at 248.9mm against the normal of 62.6mm for those 10 days. The overall monthly average rainfall for September is 125.1mm. Last September, Delhi’s rainfall recording was only 20.9mm for the whole month.Weather forecasters said extreme monsoon recordings this season were an impact of global climate conditions as well as local factors that played a part this year.“This will be one of the wettest monsoons Delhi has ever seen. The city is just short of 30mm rain, which will be covered by a single spell of rain,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services, a private weather forecasting centre.Explaining what caused these extreme recordings this monsoon season, Palawat said, “Earlier, we used to see that the low-pressure areas that formed in July and August used to go till Gujarat, and because of this, Delhi did not receive much rain. We have observed in the last few weather systems that the low-pressure areas reached only till Uttar Pradesh. The closer a low-pressure area is, the higher the intensity of the rainfall in a region. Hence, Delhi didn’t get enough rainy days this year, the intensity of rain spells was high.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wettest-monsoon-in-a-decade-met-records-show-101631299630751.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||28-year-old cable TV operator chased and gunned down in Shalimar Bagh||Five assailants on motorcycles, including two who were out on parole, allegedly chased and shot dead a 28-year-old broadband cable network operator outside a private hospital in north-west Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh early Thursday. Two of the alleged attackers, identified as Mustaquim and Harsh alias Pikaso, were arrested within 12 hours of the murder while the other three are still at large, police said.The murder took place four hours after the operator, identified as Yashpal Sisodia, and his 12 associates allegedly picked up a fight with the five men in outer-north district’s Mukundpur village, allegedly over claiming dominance in the neighbourhood. Both groups belonged to Mukundpur village, which is about four kilometers from the murder spot, the police said. Additional deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Aalap Patel said both groups were attending a private function organised in their village on Wednesday night, when the first round of fight broke out. Sisodia and his associates outnumbered the other group led by Anchal Mishra and Mustaquim, who were out on parole.“Mishra and his associates fired a round in the air during the fight after which they were assaulted by Sisodia’s group. Sisodia allegedly abused and slapped Anchal and that left Anchal feeling humiliated and planning revenge,” said the additional DCP.Around 2am on Thursday, Sisodia and his three cousins were at a private hospital in Shalimar Bagh, where his uncle Saurabh Sisodia was admitted following a road accident in Bhalaswa Dairy area. Sisodia and his cousin Aakash were talking outside the hospital gate when Mishra, Mustaquim, Pikaso, Ajay Panwari and Vijay allegedly arrived on two motorcycles and got into an altercation with them over the earlier fight, police said.The five men started assaulting Sisodia as well as Aakash, who tried to save him. Sisodia tried to flee the spot, but the five men chased him down and shot him dead. At least four bullets were fired and three of them hit Sisodia in his leg, waist, and chest. He collapsed on the road after which the attackers fled on their motorcycles. Aakash raised the alarm and Sisodia was rushed to the hospital, where he was declared brought dead. A case of murder and firing was registered and the investigation taken up by the north-west district’s special staff team.“The team recorded Aakash’s statement and identified the suspects. Two of them were arrested around 2pm Thursday. Two pistols and a Pulsar bike that were used in the crime were recovered from them. Searches are being conducted to nab the other absconding suspects,” said the additional DCP.Police said that Mishra was arrested along with his father and sister in 2017 for allegedly murdering a bottled water supplier in Mukundpur village over a personal dispute. Mustaquim was previously involved in six cases, including those of robbery, firing and property grab, among others. He came out on parole around three months ago, said an investigator.“When Mishra came out on parole in August, his gang told him that Sisodia used to trouble them and often made “derogatory comments” about Mishra. When both groups on Wednesday night, Mishra confronted Sisodia over this and the groups got into a fight, which eventually ended up in Sisodia’s murder,” said the investigator, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gang-violence-28-year-old-cable-tv-operator-chased-and-gunned-down-in-shalimar-bagh-101631299501567.html
11-09-2021||Other||Former UP CM Kalyan Singh’s ashes immersed at Sangam||The ashes of the former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh and former governor of Rajasthan, Kalyan Singh, were immersed at Sangam, the holy confluence of the Ganga, Yamuna and the mythical Saraswati, amidst ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chants on Friday. The son of the former UP CM and MP, Rajveer Singh and his wife, Premlata Singh, arrived with the ashes from Ayodhya and performed the rituals in the presence of a number of family members and dignitaries as per Vedic traditions. Kalyan Singh’s younger son, Saurabh Singh, was also present.Earlier, a number of noted persons including UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh and former West Bengal governor Keshari Nath Tripathi, besides BJP leaders and party workers offered floral tributes at the photograph of Kalyan Singh on the banks of the Sangam.BJP workers also raised slogans in praise of Kalyan Singh on the occasion. Those present during the ceremony included MP Keshari Devi Patel and MLAs Anita Lodhi, Sanjay Sharma, Harshvardhan Bajpai, Sanjay Gupta, Praveen Patel, Rajmani Kol, Vikramaditya Maurya and Neelam Karwariya.A Hindutva icon, Singh was the UP chief minister when ‘Kar Sevaks’ demolished the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. He died after prolonged illness at a Lucknow hospital last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-up-cm-kalyan-singh-s-ashes-immersed-at-sangam-101631299445606.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Seven members of ‘Pardi gang’ arrested on way to commit robbery in central Delhi||Seven members of the “Pardi gang”, belonging to an eponymous tribal group in Madhya Pradesh considered to be one of the oldest groups primarily involved in burglaries, were arrested on Thursday night from near Vijay Ghat in central Delhi where, police said, they had assembled to commit a night burglary.Police said they also recovered three country made pistols, nine cartridges, four knives and house breaking equipment from them, adding that they have solved a case of burglary in west Delhi’s Hari Nagar about a fortnight ago with the arrest.The gang, also known as the “kachha-baniyan gang” because of its members choice of attire while committing burglaries, was active in Delhi-NCR for years but the continuous police crackdown on the gang over the past forced them to shift base to other states. Senior police officers said the recent Covid-19 lockdowns brought the gang’s presence in the Capital further down, adding that they resurfaced once the restrictions were lifted.Senior police officers said that the gang, which is believed to have been actively involved in criminal activities since the British era, were among the most dreaded in the Capital due to their brutal violence. The last recorded incident of violence by this gang in Delhi was in July 2014, when five men murdered a woman and grievously injured her mother, before fleeing with their belongings in Narela.Over the years, human rights activists have decried the use of the name of the tribe to identify the gang, noting that it defames the entire community.Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj said that the crime branch’s special investigation unit-1 (SIU-1) recently received information that members of the gang had begun their criminal activities in Delhi. Subsequently, the team gathered information and learnt that some members of the gang were planning to assemble at Delhi Chalo Park near Vijay Ghat and burgle a house nearby.“Our team members laid a trap and caught seven suspects at around 11.30pm on Thursday with illegal weapons and house breaking equipment. Those arrested were identified as C Nikhil Dass (24), Samrat (22), Shravan Raj (22), Ramdas (34), Shiv Pratap (23), Sindbaj (23), and Shaktiman (22), all from Guna district in Madhya Pradesh. They members were previously involved in cases related to burglaries, planning dacoity and attempt to murder in Madhya Pradesh,” said DCP Bhardwaj.Interrogation of the arrested men revealed that they had come to Delhi along with 20 more gang members, including women, around one and a half months ago. Police said some of them were staying on pavements outside Sarai Rohilla and Old Delhi railway stations, while the rest were camped below a flyover in Khajuri Khas in northeast Delhi. However, they had fled from the spots by the time police raided the areas.Explaining their modus operandi, the DCP said the gang posed as balloon and toy sellers during the day to identify potential targets which they subsequently burgled at night.“They enter the house by removing the grill of the window or breaking the doors. While committing the burglaries, they wear only a vest and underwear and apply oil or grease on their bodies to make them hard to catch. To make sure the target house is empty, they first target the house with a slingshot. The burglars also carry arms with them in case situation worsens. Children, teenagers and women are also involved in the gang. They usually target gold and cash kept in the house,” added DCP Bhardwaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/seven-members-of-pardi-gang-arrested-on-way-to-commit-robbery-in-central-delhi-101631299201515.html
11-09-2021||Lucknow||Seven-day special drive launched to rid Lucknow hospitals of encroachments||Bottlenecks and encroached entrances at government hospitals are set to go as the district administration launched a unique encroachment drive aimed to make an area up to 50 metres of the hospital entrances encroachment- free.According to the directives of the district magistrate, the encroachments have to be done away within 7 days.“Though the encroachment drive is a routine affair, but off late, it has been noticed that entrances of the hospitals are heavily encroached and leaves no room for the movement of ambulances that are often seen caught in traffic jams outside the entrances of hospitals,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate.Encroachments at hospital entrances are usually seen in the form of shops, juice and fruit vendors, small-time eateries, and others.The DM said to free entrances, an anti-encroachment drive has been launched in the entire district. “The drive will be carried out in both rural and urban areas under which encroachments will be removed from entrances of hospitals and community health centres (CHC),” said the DM.He has directed Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) and the Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) to mark problematic areas and to ensure removal of encroachments in an area up to 50 metres from the entrance gate, within 7 days.Besides, the DM also directed the Panchayati Raj Department to carry out a similar exercise in rural pockets of the district.Also, the DM ordered the LMC and LDA to launch a special cleanliness drive in the city to ensure that there is no stagnant water in the city and prevent mosquito-breeding. The DM has also directed removal of garbage and debris from vacant plots and areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sevenday-special-drive-launched-to-rid-lucknow-hospitals-of-encroachments-101631299082779.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Power minister Satyender Jain inaugurates solar power station in South Delhi||State power minister Satyendar Jain on Friday inaugurated a 100 kilowatts peak (kWp) micro-grid solar power station and 460 kilowatt hour (kWh) charging station at south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar. Solar panel systems are given a rating in kilowatts peak, which is the rate at which they generate energy at peak performance, such as on a sunny day in the afternoon. A solar panel with peak power of 100 kWp, working at full capacity for an hour, is capable of producing 100 kWh electricity.“Salient features of the smart power system include efficient load management, uninterrupted power supply and decongested power lines. The smart power system has been established as a pilot project. It will be replicated across Delhi if it turns out to be a success,” said Jain in a statement.“A micro-grid solar power station and charging station has been inaugurated. I am highly grateful to the Government of Germany for providing us with their assistance... The quality of this grid is very good. These solar panels and charging stations are efficient and also look beautiful, which makes them different... We will use this grid to further enhance the power infrastructure of Delhi and come out with innovative solutions. This intervention is a revolution in the power sector and should be replicated on a larger scale,” said the power minister. Jain further said, “We will endeavour to scale this up to hundreds of megawatt (MW). If we install such grids in the capacity of 10 MW or 20 MW at different places and scale it up to 600 to 800 MW, then our energy fluctuation will be very minimal. This will make our grid system more robust. Delhi Government will definitely take measures to make this happen. This smart micro-power grid will decongest the power network and ensure uninterrupted power supply to the people of Delhi. This state-of-the-art intervention of the Delhi Government will help in stabilising the power grid, when the demand for power peaks, by efficiently distributing the load.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-power-minister-satyender-jain-inaugurates-solar-power-station-in-s-delhi-101631299081445.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||HC tells cops, civic body to evict hawkers from Munirka market||The Delhi high court on Friday directed the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and Delhi Police to ensure that no hawking takes place in Munirka Village’s Rama furniture market, and reminded the agencies that it was their bounden duty to keep the road or pedestrian zone free of encroachments.“If it is a no hawking, no vending zone, then you have to remove them (hawkers). The executive engineer and the SHO (station house officer) should personally ensure that there are no encroachments..If you have to fence the area, you put up a board of “no hawking, no vending”, ” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said.“In our view, it is the bounden duty of the municipal corporation and the Delhi Police to ensure that no encroachment takes place on the road or pedestrian zone,” the bench said.The court was hearing a petition by Munirka Village residents’ welfare association which said hawkers have illegally occupied the road and rampant encroachments are taking place on public road and pedestrian zones in and around Munirka Village and near the Munirka Metro station.The court observed that hawkers cannot continue to sell their wares from a “no squatting” zone without the connivance of municipal officials.“These people are keeping everyone happy. There is a hafta (protection money) being paid by all of them (hawkers)… It does not happen without that,” the court said.Appearing for the petitioner RWA, advocate Meenakshi Kalra said these encroachments are also taking place around Rama furniture market and, despite repeated requests and representations to the authorities, no action has been taken against the encroachers. Kalra also said all hawkers have also drawn illegal power cables from the metro station premises.On being informed by power discom BSES’s counsel that they have undertaken a survey and booked four people for power theft on September 8, the court said it was not satisfied with the action taken and remarked that the authority has only done a “window dressing exercise”.“Without their (BSES officials) connivance, it would not be possible for anyone to regularly tap into the electricity lines illegally in broad daylight,” the court said.It asked the power company to ensure that no electricity theft takes place in the area.Advocate Beenashaw N Soni, appearing for SDMC, said the corporation has been taking action from time to time but hawkers return once the action is completed. She also said the area is a “no hawking” zone and no tehbazari licences (hawker licences) have been granted and once the hawkers have been removed, it is the duty of the police to enforce that they do not return.However, the court said both authorities should ensure that such an encroachment does not happen. It asked the authorities to file a status report and photographs of cleared up roads on the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/high-court-asks-south-civic-body-police-to-act-against-illegal-hawkers-in-munirka-village-101631299022231.html
11-09-2021||Gurugram||MCG starts campaign to stop illegal dumping of construction waste||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) kicked off a campaign involving a private company to stop illegal dumping of construction waste at different places in the city. The private company will conduct surprise inspections, catch those dumping construction waste in open areas in the city and has the power to issue challans, according to one civic body official. In the last 10 days, over 25 such vehicles were caught in the city, the official said. The initiative was after several complaints from residents regarding the dumping of waste at empty plots other than the designated spots to process construction and demolition (C&D) waste.“In Gurugram, both people from the city and outside come and dump waste in open spaces, which the MCG has to clear at its own cost. According to norms, people can call on the MCG helpline to send a team to pick up the waste for a nominal charge, but many want try to avoid this too,” said the official from the Swachh Bharat Mission wing of the MCG. “This leads to a revenue loss for the MCG, and to stop that, we have started this initiative.” After the vehicles are intercepted, challans of ₹25,000 are issued to these truck and tractor drivers, from where 70% of the amount goes to the private firm and 30% goes to MCG, said the official.The official further said that the initiative was started this month and the firm was hired for one year. According to the MCG’s estimate, the city generates around 850 tonnes of C&D waste daily, most of which is scattered on roadsides and vacant plots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-starts-campaign-to-stop-illegal-dumping-of-construction-waste-101631298960918.html
11-09-2021||Gurugram||MCG official-mayor tiff: Protest called off for five days||Muncipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) employees suspended their protest against the suspension of a superintending engineer (SE) on Friday after the municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja agreed to look into their demand to reinstate him.Ahuja, along with senior MCG officials, had at least three rounds of talks with the protesting workers, officials, and their unions throughout Friday. Officials said Ahuja asked the protesters to give him time till Wednesday evening to resolve the issue following which they agreed to put off their strike till 5pm September 15.On Wednesday, the SE, Ramesh Sharma, was suspended under orders from the Haryana urban local body minister Anil Vij after mayor Madhu Azad told him off the tiff she had with Sharma on Monday. Sharma, who was divested of his charge soon after the incident, had claimed that he was targeted for refusing favours to Azad who denied the allegation. The MCG employees then called a protest, the first in the civic body’s history.“In the first two rounds of meetings, the MCG commissioner asked the protesting employees to return to service and ensure that the public is not inconvenienced. However, the employees agreed to do so only if the SE is reinstated,” said a senior MCG official who was present in all three meetings but did not wish to be named.The official quoted above said that in the third meeting the MCG commissioner asked them for 10 days’ time to resolve the matter. Both sides then agreed to a five-day truce.Earlier in the day, at least 300-400 MCG employees belonging to several departments gathered at a garden near the entrance to the MCG office in Sector 34 office and began their protest.“The responsibility of the MCG is to provide facilities to the common person, and it should be our endeavour that the citizens do not face any kind of inconvenience. Everyone should work together like a family,” said Ahuja speaking at the protest site in the morning in an attempt to discourage the protest.“The unions’ representatives and councillors were told to give their versions in writing that will be sent to the government. We are working towards resolving all matters raised by the protestors,” said Ahuja. The protestors demanded that only elected members and MCG officials should be present inside official meetings. During the MCG review meeting on Monday, SE Ramesh Sharma allegedly also argued with the mayor’s son and the husbands of two councillors before walking out.On Thursday, Ahuja issued an order that only MCG officials and elected members can attend official meetings, as per provisions of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994.“The MCG commissioner has assured us that the SE’s suspension will be looked into. We have put our protest on hold for the interim. In case there is no change, we will start protesting from Thursday onwards and this time, we won’t hold back,” said Rajesh Kumar, district president, MCG sanitation workers union, one of the unions supporting the protest.On Wednesday, the mayor and a dozen councillor met minister Anil Vij demanding action against the SE following which the SE was suspended.The suspension evoked a strong reaction within the MCG as officials with many saying that Sharma’s suspension was not right. Despite many attempts, Ramesh Sharma could not be reached for comment.On Thursday, the protesting employees had observed a pen-down strike, the first such strike in MCG since its inception in 2008.For Friday, the protestors had threatened for a full-scale strike, however, following talks with senior MCG officials they agreed to execute essential municipal services in the city.However, no other civic work in the MCG was executed and no files regarding the development or maintenance of amenities were cleared or floated afresh.“The decision to suspend the SE was taken by the ULB. The protests by Muncipal Corporation of Gurugram officials and workers were a sign of disobeying with the ULB’s decision. I am glad that they have called off the strike for the interim as the public should not suffer the burden of internal MCG matters,” said Azad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-official-mayor-tiff-protest-called-off-for-five-days-101631298900957.html
11-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Over 500,000 children to get medicines during 10-day deworming campaign||To fight parasitic worm infection, over 500,000 children in the district will be given the drug albendazole during the national deworming campaign from September 12-22, said officials from health department on Friday. Soil transmitted helminths (STHs) are worms that are, as the name suggests, transmitted through soil contaminated with faecal matter. Common STHs are roundworm, whipworm and hook worms. Dr Virendra Yadav, Gurugram chief medical officer, said, “Albendazole tablets will be given free of cost to children between 1 and 19 years of age and to women between 20-24 years who are not pregnant or breastfeeding a child. Due to presence of worms in the stomach, the physical and mental development of children can be affected, which can lead to anaemia.” A worm infection can be identified with symptoms such as diarrhoea, abdominal pain, weakness, vomiting and loss of appetite, lack of interest in studies and loss of blood and among problems. To prevent STHs, one should avoid defecating outside, should wash hands particularly before eating and after using toilets, wear footwear, wash fruits and vegetables and eat properly cooked food.In Gurugram, 536,886 children and 99,184 women will be given the drug, said officials. In February 2015, union ministry of health and family welfare launched the National Deworming Day (NDD) as part of National Health Mission to deworm all children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-over-500-000-children-to-get-medicines-during-10-day-deworming-campaign-101631298780818.html
11-09-2021||Gurugram||Prohibitory orders near Gurugram HCS examination centres on Sunday||Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg on Friday imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 of the criminal procedure code on Sunday near the 49 centres where the Haryana Civil Services (HCS) and allied examinations are scheduled to be held on the day. Garg’s order attributed it to concerns over threat to law and order.The order will be in effect on Sunday until the examinations are over — around seven hours. It prohibits the gathering of four or more people near the centres and restrictions on carrying weapons such as firearms, swords, knives, chains, and lathis. The 49 examination centres are located at 45 different locations of the city. According to officials, such orders are not new and was invoked during school board examinations and other competitive exams.In his order, Garg said that “there is likelihood of causing tension, annoyance, obstruction or injury to persons, danger to human life and property, disturbance of public peace and law and order” near HCS and allied examination centres.“I am satisfied that directions are necessary to avoid injury to persons lawfully employed or risk or danger to human life and property and disturbance to the public tranquillity or riot or affray...by virtue of section 144 of the code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 do hereby prohibit the gathering of four or more persons carrying any weapons of offence.. in area of 100 meters around the examination centres in Gurugram District on 12.09.2021 (Sunday) till examination is over,” read excerpts of Garg’s order.The exams are being conducted by the Haryana Public Services Commission over two sessions, 10am to noon and 3pm to 5pm on Sunday.Garg’s order further states that all photocopy machine shops and coaching centres across the city will be shut from 9am till 6pm on Sunday and that any person found guilty of violation of the order will be prosecuted and punished as per law under section 188 (disobeying a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).More than 148,000 candidates will appear in the exam across 538 centres across Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/prohibitory-orders-near-gurugram-hcs-examination-centres-on-sunday-101631298720762.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||AAP alleges irregularites to the tune of ₹100 crore in MCDs, BJP denies||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of corruption in the municipal corporations in Delhi (MCDs) and alleged financial irregularities to the tune of ₹100 crore, a charge which the latter denied as “baseless”.“The BJP has done an advertisement boarding scam of ₹100 crore in the MCDs. They bypassed rules to ensure that certain private company benefitted in crores. Violating a Supreme Court order, the BJP allowed private companies to earn over ₹100 crores through gantry and flyover panel advertisements,” said AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj in a press conference in Delhi.He further said, “The ₹100 crore should have come to the MCD but it went to a private company. The Supreme Court banned gantry and flyover panel advertisements as it distract drivers’ attention. Many accidents have happened due to them. Accidents have increased on the DND flyway due to illegal advertisements. Many people died due to corruption of BJP leaders.”While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations. Delhi goes to the municipal polls next year.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the city government is also using the same contractor. “Bhardwaj has once again levelled baseless allegations which are just intended to malign the image of the MCD. Today Bhardwaj has tried to say that illegal advertising is being done by private contractors on DND flyway and accused MCD officials of illegally pocketing money out of them, cleverly ignoring the fact that even the Delhi government is advertising on the Delhi-Noida road, meaning Delhi government too is using the same private contractor. If Bhardwaj says that MCD officials are pocketing money from the advertising contractor, then he should clarify whether the Delhi government officials too are getting kickbacks from illegal advertising payments. It will be better if AAP leaders, instead of maligning MCDs with frivolous allegations, ask their chief minister to release pending municipal funds as per 4th & 5th Delhi Financial Commission for period between 2015 to 2021.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aapalleges-irregularites-to-the-tune-of-100-crore-in-mcds-bjpdenies-101631298661459.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two girls drown in Samaypur Badli pond||Two girls aged 12 and 10 years, drowned in a pond located near a local temple in the Bhagwanpur Colony of outer Delhi’s Samaypur Badli area on Wednesday night.Police said that the two girls reportedly went to the temple to attend an annual fair, and were reported missing from the spot.An officer from the Samaypur Badli police station said local residents on Wednesday around 8pm reported that a 12-year-old girl has drowned in the pond. He added that when a police team was rushing to the spot, people reporter another girl missing from the same spot.Local residents told the police that the nine-foot deep pond is considered sacred by them, since it was their belief that if they throw a coin in the water while wishing something, the wish would come true.One of the residents told the police that the 12-year-old jumped into the pond to retrieve coins being thrown by the devotees who had gathered on Wednesday at the temple. However, when she did not surface after diving in, they called the policeParents of both the girls are daily wage labourers, police said.The other girl, however, had gone to the temple with her friends and it was not immediately clear if she slipped inside the pond or jumped in by herself. The police found her slippers near the pond.The officer quoted above said divers were roped in and the body of the 12-year-old was retrieved on Wednesday night. The rescue operations continued and the body of the other girl was taken out on Thursday morning.The deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Rajiv Ranjan Singh was not available for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhitwo-girls-drown-in-samaypur-badli-pond-101631298607467.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi gets 36 new Covid-19 cases||The city added 36 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, at a positivity rate of 0.05%, according to data from the state government’s daily health bulletin.Over the past week, Delhi has added an average of 40 cases each day. There have been fewer than 100 new cases a day on average for the past 74 days now. As a result of the low fresh infection count, the test positivity rate — the percentage of tested samples that return positive — has been below 0.1% for 33 days in a row, below 1% for 103 and below 5% for 113 days. No deaths of the viral infection were added for the second straight day, and the ninth time this month, as new cases and fatalities remained at record lows. These metrics in Delhi have been lower only during the initial weeks of the pandemic in March last year.Delhi has added just one death of the infection this month, on September 7, and has recorded 16 deaths of the infection over the past month, showed state government data.The active case count also fell below the 400 mark on Friday, after creeping over that number on two days — September 8 and 9.So far, 1,438,154 people in Delhi have contracted the infection and 25,083 have died, according to government records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-gets-36-new-covid-19-cases-101631298481357.html
11-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: FB official from Ireland, police save 27-year-old from possible suicide||A two-hour-long coordinated effort between an Ireland-based official of social networking site Facebook and officers of the Delhi Police helped to save the life of a 27-year-old man who was allegedly contemplating taking his own life by jumping off the Signature Bridge in north Delhi on Friday, the World Suicide Prevention Day.The man was traced to near Khajoori Chowk in northeast Delhi, nearly 500 metres away from the Signature Bridge, senior police officers associated with the operation said.Police said that the man was upset because of a relationship failure, following which he uploaded a “disturbing post” on the social networking site, hinting that he was contemplating to commit suicide. The post was seen by a Facebook official in Ireland who immediately flagged the matter to the cyber crime unit (CyPAD) of the Delhi Police around 2pm on Friday, said deputy commissioner of police (CyPAD) Anyesh Roy.“After receiving the information from Facebook regarding the suicidal activity, we zeroed in on the last location of the person near Signature Bridge. The station house officers (SHOs) of Timarpur, Dayalpur and Seelampur were informed. They immediately deployed teams to search for the person near the bridge,” said DCP Roy.The DCP further said that through analysis of technical data, CyPAD team members were able to reach out to the man’s brother, who quickly joined the police teams in their search operation. The man was located on a road near Khajoori Chowk. “He is counselled by professionals,” said the DCP.A resident of Seelampur in northeast Delhi, the man was pursuing MBA from a private university but dropped out midway after his relationship ended recently.“The timely coordinated action by multiple jurisdictional authorities, and prompt technical and field operations helped in saving a life on World Suicide Prevention Day,” said DCP Roy, who also shared the operation’s information on Twitter.In August last year, a similar coordinated effort between Facebook and police officials of Delhi and Mumbai police helped save the life of a Delhi-based man who had gone to Mumbai after having an argument with his wife.Despite several attempts, Facebook officials could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhifbofficial-from-ireland-police-save-27-year-old-from-possible-suicide-101631298421417.html
11-09-2021||Other||UP Congress to take out yatra, announce poll candidates early||Lucknow: The Congress has blown the poll bugle, deciding to take out a statewide ‘Congress Pratigya Yatra: Hum Vachan Nibhayenge’ (Congress commitment: We will keep our word) to ‘expose’ the BJP government for not keeping promises and also to present the party as an alternative in the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. A decision has also been taken to declare the Congress candidates for 2022 assembly elections well in advance and not at the last minute. An announcement to take out the ‘yatra’ was made after Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra reviewed the party’s poll strategy at a series of meetings at the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee headquarters here on Friday. “We will take out the ‘Congress Pratigya Yatra: Hum Vachan Nibhayenge’ that will cover a distance of 12,000 km. Senior party leaders will lead the yatra and reach out to the people. The focus of the ‘yatra’ will be on Yogi Adityanath government’s failure to keep its promises, rising inflation, poor health services, rising unemployment, corruption and rising crime, including crimes against women,” said a senior party leader. “We are in the process of deciding the routes and other finer details for the ‘yatra’ that may be divided into four or more parts to cover majority of cities and villages across Uttar Pradesh,” said a senior party leader. A resolution authorising Priyanka to take any decision on selection of candidates was passed at the meeting of Pradesh Election Committee (PEC) that she attended along with senior party leaders. “The PEC has authorised Priyanka Gandhi to take a final call on selection of candidates. First list of candidates for about 40 candidates is ready. For short-listing of candidates on other seats, the PEC will meet again on October 5. Priyanka Gandhi has agreed that the party should declare its candidates well in time and not at the last minute” said another leader. UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu and Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra confirmed that the party would soon take out the ‘Congress Pratigya Yatra: Hum Vachan Nibhayenge’. There are indications that the ‘yatra’ may be launched after a week or 10 days. As the process of setting up organizational structure at block and nyay panchayat level is nearing completion, Priyanka has asked for progress reports about their functioning from the district party presidents. Out of eight party zones, the organizational structure in four zones came for review on Friday while the functioning of units in remaining four zones would be scrutinized on Saturday. “The Congress is making all the efforts for 2022 elections. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is leaving no stone unturned to revive the Congress. If the Congress is able to improve performance in the polls it will be a big achievement. But it’s late for the Congress. Voters are aware that all the ‘yatras’ being planned and promises being made now are being done with elections in mind and so it’s not going to help the Congress at this stage,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department, political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-congress-to-take-out-yatra-announce-candidates-early-101631297401590.html
11-09-2021||Other||Light rainfall forecast for Pune till Sept 13: IMD||PUNE The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast light rainfall in the city till September 13.At present, Pune city has a rainfall deficiency of 32.3 millimetres, since June 1. On Friday, Pune city reported 2 mm of rainfall. The maximum temperature in the city was pleasant at 28.4 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature was 20.9 degrees Celsius. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department, IMD Pune, said that Pune city will receive light rainfall till September 13.“Pune will continue to experience generally cloudy skies with day temperature going as high as 30 degrees Celsius. Ghat areas around the city are likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall,” said Kashyapi.All four subdivisions of Maharashtra are forecast to receive light to moderate rainfall till September 12.“The monsoon trough lies south of its normal position. It is very likely to be south of its normal position till September 13. A trough runs from the Northeast Arabian Sea to eastcentral Bay of Bengal across Gujarat,” said Kashyapi.He further added that another cyclonic circulation lies over east central Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood.“Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the Central Bay of Bengal till September 11. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and concentrate into a depression till September 13. In association with a likely formation of a low pressure area and its west-northwestward movement, strengthening of the lower level westerlies along the west coast is also very likely,” said Kashyapi.Rainfall in August As per IMD, in August 2021, rainfall over the country as a whole was below the Long Period Average (LPA) by 24%. “So far during the period 1901-2021, this August saw the sixth dryest since 1901 after 32.5 per cent less than normal in 1920; 28.4 per cent less than normal in 2005; 26.5 per cent less than normal in 200; 25.6 per cent less than normal in 1913; and 25.2 per cent less than normal in both 1930 and 1993. August 2021 is also the lowest August rainfall that occurred in the last 12 years, since 2002, across India,” said IMD officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lighrt-rainfall-forecast-fror-pune-till-sept-13-imd-101631289059681.html
11-09-2021||Pune||Simple and devotional: Ganesh festival kicks off in Pune||PUNE For the second consecutive year, Punekars on Friday welcomed their favourite diety, Lord Ganesha, in as simple a manner as the Covid norms applied by the state government allowedPune’s five “Manache Ganpati” mandals, along with other prominent mandals like the Shrimant Dagdusheth Ganpati and the Mandai Ganpati Mandal held poojas at their respective mandaps on Friday, celebrated as Ganesh Chathurthi. A public appeal by the mandals to the general public to- avoid physical darshans was maintained across the city, with all the pooja’s being telecast ‘live’ online.This year the celebratory menagerie of dhol-tasha (drum) troupes, musicians, traditional games and mega sound systems, were all missing, in keeping with the call for a simple celebration issued by the state government in light of the Covid-19 pandemic.Shrikant Shete, president, of the Kasba Ganpati mandal said, “We all area aware about the Covid situation in our state and accordingly, the state government has issued guidelines about celebrating the festival. We have kept it simple this year. On all 10 days no volunteers or public will be in the main mandap area housing Bappa. Only our Guruji will perform a daily aarti and rituals.” The Kasba Ganpati is the first of the city’s “heritage five” mandals and was moved on Friday morning with a limited number of participants from Lal Mahal to the main mandap near Shaniwarwada. Pune MP Girish Bapat was present for the pooja held at 11.38am. The second of the Manache Ganaptis followed. Pooja for the Shree Tambadi Jogeshwari Ganpati was done by Moreshwar Ghaisasa Guruji, while for the third of thee five- the Shree Guruji Talim Ganpati mandal – the pooja was performed done by Puneet Balan, festival head of the Bhau Rangari Ganpati Mandal. The Tulshibaug Ganpati mandal pooja took place at 12.30 pm at the hands of businessman Yuvraj Dhamale and the Kesariwada Ganpati mandal pooja was performed by Rohit Tilak, trustee, Kesari Trust. Other prominent Ganpati mandals include the Shrimant Dagadusheth mandal, where the pooja was done by president Ashok Godse and the Akhil Mandai Sharda Ganpati mandal pooja that was done by Dr Avinash Bhondwe, former president, the Indian Medical Association. Mahesh Suryavanshi, treasurer of the Dagdusheth Ganpati mandal said, “This is the second year we have cancelled all the celebrations and are going to make simple. There are no decorations or replicas of temples avoid crowds during the festival. We have appealed to devotees to take darshan online through our social media platforms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/simple-and-devotional-ganesh-festival-kicks-off-in-pune-101631287680763.html
11-09-2021||Pune||Women entrepreneurs take centre stage at ‘Swawlambini’ showcase event in Pune||Pune: Models walked down the runway with an eclectic mix of a designer collection of western and traditional wear styled contemporarily by ‘Swawlambini’ women entrepreneurs at the Women Entrepreneurs Meet 2021 -Live Your Dream With Pride - held at the Sheraton Grand on Bund Garden road last week.With a mission to showcase and extend visibility to small and medium business women entrepreneurs vide the physical platform through which they can reach out to encourage thousands of female SME entrepreneurs across the country, to truly be recognised for their independent work, Swawlambini is now set with its pilot venture. Women entrepreneurs from various segments like interior designers, fashion designers, beauty, and jewellery sectors participated in the event. Himali Navnath Kamble, corporator at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Anita Sanas, past chair at FICCI Ladies and founder of Healing Touch; and Trishla Rana, social sctivist were guests of honour at the event.Rommal Surana, founder, Nanha Gyan Foundation; Shraddha Kulkarni and Deepanshi Nandi, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh State President, WICCI; Bobby Karnani, founder, VNWC were special guests. Swawlambini founders Pranali Vardam, Preeti Yadav and Prachi Pawar felicitated the guests on the occasion. The show was inaugurated with the display of a saree collection by the Late Deepti Sharma (Adima by Deepti). Pallavi Waghmode (Rama’s Collection), Divya Chawla (DC), Binita Sen (Binita Sen Weaves) also showcased their works during the event. Says Divya Chawla, “I have done my designing course from Pune and then I moved to Mumbai to get some experience. I was always fascinated with the fashion world. I have a store at Market Yard. I would like to thank Swawlambini for supporting me.”Ashwini Kurhade (interior designer), Shweta Acharya (beautician), Shilpa Chavan (chef and social worker), Dr (Maj) Preeti Kaushik, Akumla Bakshi (Denevo image consultants) also participated in the event. Encouraging women entrepreneurs, Anita Sanas said, “We as women are always given roles of a daughter, sister, mother, wife, by society. What about the role that we attain for ourselves? We have to do something to show our own individuality, to show who we are. That’s where entrepreneurship comes in and it’s a chance to prove ourselves and that we have a separate identity.”Himani Kamble said, “Working as a woman can be difficult in a world in which you are new. We tend to not show our hardships, emotions and what we are going through. But while achieving the milestones, we may have a shortage of platforms where we are appreciated for our success and hardships. This is why initiatives like Swawlambini are important especially for women entrepreneurs.”Dr Priya Parekh (Beautyesthetics), Chandukaka Saraf and Sons, Lakme Kharadi and Neha Verma Madan were support partners for the event. The event was organised by Craft Your Wishes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/women-entrepreneurs-take-centre-stage-at-swawlambini-showcase-event-101631285879276.html
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Unvaccinated govt staff to be sent on forced leave||Punjab government employees who have not taken even the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, for any reason other than medical, will be compulsorily sent on leave after September 15.The state government made this announcement on Friday while extending the existing pandemic-related restrictions till September 30 in view of the upcoming festival season. At a high-level virtual Covid-19 review meeting, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said that vaccine effectiveness is evident from the data being analysed. “Special efforts are taken to reach out to government employees, and those who continue to avoid getting vaccinated will now be asked to go on leave till they get the first dose,” he said, adding that the strong measure is being taken to ensure that those who are vaccinated do not have to pay the price for continued hesitancy among others. The Punjab government has also allowed teaching and non-teaching school staff who have taken at least one dose of vaccine more than four weeks ago to resume duties, subject to submission of a weekly RT-PCR negative test report. However, all those with co-morbidities will be allowed to return once they are fully vaccinated. Health minister Balbir Sidhu suggested that the gap for the second dose be reduced for the school staff to 28 days. However, chief secretary Vini Mahajan informed the meeting that the Centre had rejected the state’s request. Citing the latest sero-survey, the chief minister revealed that for children in the age group of 6-17 years, the positivity was at 60%, and it was higher in the age bracket of 14-17 years. “Covid-19 has spread equally across gender and place of residence, as per the survey, which has confirmed that our children, even though affected by Covid-19, have remained largely safe from serious disease,” said the chief minister. The social security department has been asked to prepare to open anganwadi centres within this month, making Punjab the first state to do so. “The opening of these centres will be subject to the vaccination of staff members and other guidelines to be worked out jointly with the health department,” said the chief minister. Curbs extended till Sept 30; cap of 300 on all gatheringsIn view of the upcoming festival season, the chief minister also ordered extension of the existing Covid-19 restrictions till September 30, and imposed a cap of 300 attendees on all gatherings, including political. While ordering strict enforcement of wearing of masks and social distancing, he also made it mandatory for organisers, including political parties, to ensure that participants, management and staff at food and other stalls at festival-related events are fully vaccinated or at least have had a single dose. Calling for continued vigil in the light of festivals, the chief minister urged all political parties to lead by example, while directing the director general of police to ensure compliance of restrictions by all. He also directed the chief secretary to make joint squads of administration and police in each district to ensure compliance at restaurants, marriage palaces and other such places. The health department was directed to ensure the vaccination (at least one dose) of the staff at sweet shops, kiosks and dhabas. The state has already vaccinated more than 57% of the eligible population, with the first dose administered to 1.18 crore and second to 37.81 lakh people. The chief minister also ordered an increase in daily testing from 45,000 to 50,000 as part of preparations for the possible third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-unvaccinated-govt-staff-to-be-sent-on-forced-leave-101631282039539.html
11-09-2021||Lucknow||Mass reshuffle in police force on cards||LUCKNOW The process for mass reshuffle of police personnel is on the cards, as the state government has constituted two committees to screen officers from ASP to sub-inspectors rank posted in different districts, said senior police officials here on Friday.The state government order signed by additional chief secretary (ACS), home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi (dated September 9, 2021) directs screening of ASPs, deputy SPs, inspectors and sub-inspectors, who were completing three years in one district till March, 2022, they said.A police official said the state government had formed two three-member screening committees headed by DG, intelligence, DS Chauhan and ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar for the purpose.He said the committee head by DG Intelligence will comprise two other members who will screen ASPs and DySPs. The second committee headed by ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar comprises two other members who will screen inspectors and S-Is.The purpose of the screening committee to list out police personnel who were posted in one district for three or more years as well as those who had inquiries and complaints pending against them. Police personnel having tainted background would be shunted out from the districts, said the official. Another police official said earlier the order of reshuffling police personnel was for changing Vidhan Sabha constituencies, if they were posted in one constituency for three or more years. “Officials and personnel with tainted background will be shunted out of districts while the constituency will be changed for those who have clean and meritorious records,” he emphasised.He said the state government had asked the screening committees to send their report to the home department through DGP Mukul Goel within seven days. He said it could lead to a major reshuffle in the police force by the end of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mass-reshuffle-in-police-on-cards-before-assembly-polls-101631279339454.html
11-09-2021||Pune||Pune police arrest woman for stealing 3-month-old infant from Sassoon Hospital||Pune: The Bund Garden police have arrested a woman for posing as a nurse and stealing a three-month-old baby from Sassoon General Hospital on Friday. The 21-year-old mother with her two kids was in the hospital for sonography test when the incident took place. According to the police, the accused woman picked up the infant and fled. An FIR lodged at Bund Garden police station states that the accused committed the offence with the help of her husband, who has also been detained for questioning. Preliminary investigation points that she committed the crime as she was unable to give birth to a baby. The 26-year-old accused along with her husband entered the woman’s ward of the hospital pretending to be a nurse. She grabbed the infant and escaped within a few minutes. The victim after realising that her child is missing created a scene inside the ward, police said. Sub-inspector Savita Sapkale, investigating officer in the case, said, “The woman was seen taking the child away in her lap and later she sat in an autorickshaw and escaped. An eyewitness caught her after a chase and handed her to the police. On questioning, she said of taking the extreme step as she could not have a child of her own.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-arrest-woman-for-stealing-3-month-old-infant-from-sassoon-hospital-101631275798468.html
11-09-2021||Kolkata||BJP fields advocate Priyanka Tibrewal to take on Mamata in Bhabanipur bye-polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday fielded advocate and vice president of party’s youth wing in West Bengal, Priyanka Tibrewal, against chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee for the September 30 by-election to the Bhabanipur seat.Tibrewal was one of the petitioners who sought an inquiry into the post-poll violence in May, in Calcutta high court. The BJP proposed six names to the party leadership, out of which, Tibrewal’s was selected.“This fight is not against any person. This fight is against injustice. The chief minister doesn’t belong to any party. She is the chief minister of West Bengal. But despite that, she kept silent during post poll violence. I am sure the people of Bhabanipur would understand why Nandigram didn’t vote for Mamata,” Tibrewal told reporters.Banerjee, a resident of Bhabanipur, won the seat twice in 2011 and 2016 but shifted to Nandigram, where the anti-farmland acquisition movement against the Left Front government had transformed her into a major political force, to take on her former protege and now a BJP leader, Suvendu Adhikari.Though the TMC chief powered the party to a resounding win for a third consecutive term in office, she lost the Nandigram seat to Adhikari by a narrow margin.Banerjee has to win the bypoll to become a member of the assembly in order to continue in the chair. She had taken oath on May 5 and must get elected within six months as per protocols.Reacting to Tibrewal’s nomination, veteran TMC leader and party spokesperson Tapas Roy said: “Let them (BJP) bring their central leaders and pit any one of them against Mamata Banerjee in Bhabanipur. When the results are declared, they would not find a place to hide as they would be defeated by a record margin.”While Srijib Biswas was fielded by the Left Front, the Congress has decided not to nominate a candidate for the election.Counting for the polls is slated to take place on October 3.CM Mamata files nominationBanerjee on Friday filed her nomination for the Bhabanipur assembly by-poll.Banerjee was accompanied by the wife of state cabinet minister Firhad Hakim at Survey Building in Alipore where she filed her nomination papers. She was later seen greeting people with folded hands before boarding her car.“The people waiting to avenge the conspiracy that was hatched to defeat Mamata di at Nandigram,” Hakim told reporters here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-fields-advocate-priyanka-tibrewal-to-take-on-banerjee-in-bhabanipur-byeelections-101631256358240.html
