12-09-2021||Gurugram||Faridabad: Ashoka Enclave-3 residents allege contaminated water supply in taps, raise health concerns and seek fix||Residents of over 400 houses in Ashoka Enclave-3 area of Faridabad alleged on Sunday that they have been receiving contaminated supply of drinking water, mixed with sewage, for the past six months and that the authorities have failed to implement a permanent fix for the issue.Residents said that they have been purchasing drinking water for over half a year due to the “foul-smelling dirty water” in the taps. Nikhil Mathur, the general secretary of Kanishka Residency residents’ welfare association (RWA) said that the problem has become more acute over the past two months. “The main problem is that the sewer line in Kanishka Residency was laid approximately 25 years ago, with only a six-inch diameter for the entire colony. This line carries the sewage of over 400 flats, which have over 2,000 residents. Temporary relief measures have been taken but as of today (Sunday), all manholes are overflowing with water flowing on to roads,” said Mathur. “Residents are getting sewer mixed water in drinking water pipelines and there are several families falling sick because of this contaminated water that gets distributed in the drinking water pipeline,” he said. PDT Acharya, a former secretary general of the Lok Sabha, who is a resident of the society, said, “Time and again, we have been complaining to the authorities for a solution, but nothing has been done. For the past three weeks, I am suffering from stomach problems because I used the tap water, by mistake, for rinsing my mouth. This problem has a simple solution of changing the sewer line and there are high-level technologies available to do it easily, but no action has been taken.” Residents said that last month, a delegation met Kishanpal Gurjar, the union minister of state for power and heavy industries in this regard, following which action was taken by a superintending engineer of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF), but the problems started recurring last week. Yashpal Yadav, the commissioner of MCF, said, “Due to rain over the past few days, the situation must have aggravated. The officials are already looking into the matter and we will find a permanent solution to the problem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/faridabad-ashoka-enclave-3-residents-allege-contaminated-water-supply-in-taps-raise-health-concerns-and-seek-fix-101631471367535.html
12-09-2021||Gurugram||RWA applications for resident advisory council called by GMDA||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) last week issued a public notice inviting residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) across the city to submit their applications for nomination to the resident advisory council (RAC).At least three RWA presidents will be shortlisted for the RAC, comprising one each from Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) sectors, areas developed by real estate developers and areas under the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG).Officials said that the GMDA’s chief executive officer (CEO) will draw lots from the list of eligible nominees.“RWAs are well versed with the developments and issues of the city on-ground. One of the main roles of the advisory committee, thus, will be to come up with innovations that can help improve or address Gurugram’s issues, keeping the public in mind. Such suggestions by the RAC can be put forward before the official concerned and can be taken into account by the GMDA for implementation,” Sunil Kumar Chahal, joint CEO of the administration division, GMDA, who is overlooking the matter, said.Chahal said that a RAC needs to have a minimum of 10 and a maximum of 15 members, and that the council will convene quarterly to discuss matters pertaining to the city. The public notice for the same was issued last Thursday.It is the second time a RAC is being formed in the city, after the two-year tenure of the previous council members ended this year. The council will also include officials from GMDA, MCG, district administration, HSVP, gram panchayat, and representatives from industries, labour, industry, civil society, and real estate associations.According to Section 13 of the GMDA Act, 2017, it is mandatory to form a RAC, which will be responsible for overseeing and monitoring the implementation of GMDA’s annual plan for infrastructure, environment, and mobility. For instance, the GMDA’s draft comprehensive mobility plan (CMP) for the city was sent to RAC for approval before it was published.However, the council formed in 2019 could not have much impact as the Covid-19 pandemic broke out in March 2020 and all major projects were temporarily suspended.For being eligible to apply for the post of a council member, the RWA should be registered under the Haryana Registration and Regulation of Societies Act, 2012, should have a website displaying the rules and by-laws of the society, list all members along with each of their addresses, and show audited annual accounts of the society for the 2019-20 financial year. The RWA should also have at least 50 members, who are residents of the society, and office-bearers must not have a criminal record. The last date for submitting applications is September 15 and RWAs can submit applications by hand, email or post. The application should list the name of the association, name of the presidents, name of the sector/society, number of RWA members, RWA website, and the society’s registration number under the Haryana Registration and Regulation of Societies Act, 2012.The applicant will also have to list the category (HSVP sector, MCG area or developer area) under which the society is located.Dhruv Bansal, official spokesperson, Gurgaon Citizens Council (GCC), an umbrella body of RWAs in the city, said, “The importance of committees such as RAC is that it takes into account the views of residents as represented by RWA presidents. GMDA, MCG, HSVP, and district administration officials tend to look at the larger scope of projects. It is also important to have views about residents at a micro level, as it can address their challenges and queries.”“Such committees are important for the city. The GMDA however, needs to create awareness regarding the application process as few RWAs are aware of it,” said Pawan Tharwani, the president of Carlton Estate Condominium Association (CECA), and a member of RWAs United, an umbrella body of 70 RWAs in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rwa-applications-for-resident-advisory-council-called-by-gmda-101631471365401.html
12-09-2021||Gurugram||Work on cloverleaf connecting Dwarka Expressway, Southern Peripheral Road to start||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will commence work on a portion of the cloverleaf interchange on the Dwarka Expressway near Kherki Daula, to connect it with the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) on the other side of the National Highway 48 (NH-48), from next week after receiving a land parcel last week, officials said on Sunday. NHAI officials said that the work on the cloverleaf is expected to be completed by August 2022. Nirman Jambulkar, project director, NHAI, said that work on building structures of a road across the NH-48 will start next week. “The work on structures to take the road across the national highway will commence next week. The work on the entire cloverleaf will be completed by August 2022. This structure will enable traffic movement between SPR and Dwarka Expressway without any interruption from the existing traffic on the highway,” Jambulkar said. According to NHAI officials, the cloverleaf will have interchanges at two levels, in which left turns will be handled by slip roads. A cloverleaf helps traffic on two highways cross one another simultaneously, without any interruption from any side. The cloverleaf on Dwarka Expressway will connect SPR, which starts at Ghata and passes through Vatika Chowk to reach the NH-48 near Kherki Daula. It will be connected with the Central Peripheral Road, which is a part of the Dwarka Expressway. The 29-km long Dwarka Expressway will connect Kherki Daula with Dwarka in Delhi. It passes through several newly developing sectors in the city. It is being constructed in four phases with work on phases three and four, which are in Gurugram, at an advanced stage. The project is expected to be completed by December 2022. Meanwhile, Jambulkar, who also has the charge of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, said that the work on a crucial underpass at the Ambience Mall is almost complete and they are planning to open it by the end of this month. “The record rainfall received by Delhi this year has caused problems, as it is taking more time to put the finishing touches,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/work-on-cloverleaf-connecting-dwarka-expressway-southern-peripheral-road-to-start-101631471364385.html
12-09-2021||Gurugram||Not Aravallis any more? Gair mumkin pahar in Faridabad left out of conservation zone in DTCP report||Only areas categorised as gair mumkin pahar (uncultivable wasteland) in revenue records of Gurugram district have been marked as Aravalli forests in Haryana, according to a ground-truthing exercise of natural conservation zones conducted by the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP), which renders null the protection for such land in Faridabad.A document was prepared by the DTCP on ground-truthing of natural conservation zones (NCZs) in Haryana subregion of the National Capital Region (NCR), according to the orders issued by the principal secretary of town and country planning of Haryana in a meeting held in August. All Aravalli land must be strictly notified as per the Aravalli notification of 1992 issued by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC), stated the minutes of the meeting of a state-level committee, held under the chairmanship of principal secretary, town and country planning.An excerpt from the minutes of the meeting, accessed by HT, states, “Definition of Aravalli may not be extended to other Haryana subregion areas which are not defined in the Aravalli notification dated 07.05.1992 unless the same is done by MoEF&CC through a similar notification. So only specified areas in old district Gurgaon existing on 07.05.1992 may be part of ‘confirmed NCZ’ by virtue of being ‘Aravalli’ and such areas of other districts may be excluded from the NCZ category that is from confirmed and yet to be decided.”The ground-truthing document states that all district level subcommittees (DLSCs) were asked to finalise areas of “confirmed NCZ” with specific reference to Faridabad, Mewat and Rewari districts. But identification of Aravalli was highlighted as a major issue by the DLSCs, as it was noted from revenue records that “there is no term namely Aravalli, rather there is only mention of gair mumkin pahar.” As per the minutes of the meeting, it was also directed that the union environment ministry can add other districts under the Aravalli notification, but “it cannot be considered otherwise as Aravalli by National Capital Region Planning Board or the constituent states.”Confirming the move, an official of the forest department, who took part in the meeting of the state-level committee said, “This primarily means that gair mumkin pahar in Faridabad district, considered as Aravallis at present, will lose the tag now. We are not sure whether this land will be diverted for real estate, but it would not be considered as Aravalli.” Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, who had also attended the meeting said that as per the 1992 Aravalli notification of MoEF&CC, gair mumkin pahar in Gurugram district will be considered as Aravallis.“The 1992 notification of MoEF&CC mentions that gair mumkin pahar of old Gurugram district and Alwar in Rajasthan are to be considered as Aravallis, so that will be done. If any other area from neighbouring districts was part of Gurugram district (in 1992), then that will also be covered,” said Garg. The official said that neighbouring district of Nuh (earlier Mewat) was part of Gurugram when the MoEF&CC notification was issued. Chetan Agarwal, an independent forest analyst said, “Aravallis are crucial to the ecological security of Faridabad for groundwater security, and it is also an important wildlife habitat that is adjacent to Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary. The Supreme Court has given several orders to protect Faridabad Aravallis; it remains to be seen how their implementation will be affected. But this move will deeply impact the ecology of the region with the key part of only green belt of NCR being lost, leading to further deterioration of environment. Now, the 10% of the Mangar Bani sacred forest that falls in Gurgaon will remain in the Aravallis, but the 90% that is in Faridabad district in Mangar village will not be in the Aravallis anymore and will lose the protection of the natural conservation zone.”RP Balwan, a former forest conservator of Gurugram, said, “Aravali Afforestation project funded by European Union was implemented from 1990 to 1999 by government of Haryana in Aravali hills spread over then Faridabad, Gurgaon, Rewari, Mahendergarh, Bhiwani districts; with working plans and district gazetteers describing the Aravali hills extension. Geological Survey of India, Central Ground Water Board, GWC, Haryana Mining Department all mentioned Aravali extension in Haryana. Are all these records wrong?”In December 2016, the NCR Planning Board (NCRPB) in a meeting decided that “specified areas” (land categories of gair mumkin pahar or gair mumkin rada or gair mumkin behed or banjar beed or rundh) as given in the MoEF&CC’s notification dated 07.05.1992 are to be included while identifying /delineating Aravalli in NCR. In the meeting, it was also decided that as there is no specific definition available for Aravallis and that the “specified areas” as per the MoEF&CC notification “will be adopted for delineating Aravallis in the entire NCR.”Officials of the forest department and the Faridabad deputy commissioner also did not respond to requests for comment. KM Pandurang, the director of the DTCP, also did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/not-aravallis-any-more-gair-mumkin-pahar-in-faridabad-left-out-of-conservation-zone-in-dtcp-report-101631471363262.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||Alert motorman, Vasai cop save woman’s life near Mumbai||An alert motorman and a head constable of Vasai government railway police (GRP) saved the life of a 60-year-old woman who tried to commit suicide at Vasai on Saturday. A CCTV camera on Vasai station showed the woman standing on the edge of platform six at around 11am.“When a Dahanu-Borivli local approached the station, she walked on the tracks and stood before the train. Seeing her, the motorman, S Vasant Rao, applied the emergency brakes. As the train slowed down, head constable Eknath Naik, who was patrolling on platform, rushed to the tracks and pulled the woman to safety,” said senior inspector Sachin Ingawale of Vasai GRP.Naik then took her to the GRP base. “When she was okay to talk, she told us that she stays alone in Nallasopara, while her only son lives with his uncle in Parel as it is closer to his workplace. Her husband had died in 2019 due to an illness. Thus, she was depressed and lonely and had decided to end her life,” said Ingawale.GRP officers admitted the woman to Maratha Life Foundation Old Age Home at Bhatane, Virar, and have called her son to Vasai for questioning, said Ingawale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/alert-motorman-vasai-cop-save-woman-s-life-near-mumbai-101631471247335.html
12-09-2021||Lucknow||31K appear for NEET in Lucknow||Around thousand candidates in Lucknow skipped the national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET), the gateway to MBBS and BDS seats in the country, on Sunday. In total 31,551 candidates appeared for the test in exam centres at SDSN Public School, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow International Public School, Etaunja, Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan, Gomti Nagar, Kendriya Vidyalaya in Gomti Nagar, IIM Road and Cantt. “In all 1,169 candidates skipped the exam in the state capital that went smoothly at all the centres,” said Avani Kamal, joint coordinator of the exam. There were 53 exam centres in Lucknow and in all 32,720 candidates were slated to take the exam. Neha, a candidate who took the entrance test at an exam centre in Dubagga, said, “Paper was not tough except for the Physics portion. Due to pandemic the preparation was effected a bit but I am confident about scoring good marks.” The city was divided in to two segments where in 16 centres were under one coordinator and 37 centres under second coordinator. Flying squad also monitored the exam centres. Candidates were given entry from 11 am onwards under strict covid protocol while exam started at 2 pm. “I think merit will be high this time,” said another candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/31k-appear-for-neet-in-lucknow-101631471243843.html
12-09-2021||Noida||Noida: Bangladeshi national held for woman’s murder||A 43-year-old illegal Bangladeshi immigrant was arrested by the Noida police on Sunday in connection with the murder of a 36-year-old woman in Sarfabad village last month.The suspect was identified as Babul Mia, a daily wage earner who had allegedly crossed over into India nearly 15 years ago, said police.Police on August 6 had recovered the decomposed body of the woman, Fatima, from her rented accommodation in Sarfabad. The victim, a native of West Bengal, had moved from Sorkha to Sarfabad recently, police said, adding that the autopsy of the body had confirmed strangulation.Based on a complaint of the landlord, a case of murder was registered at Sector 49 police station. The victim’s eldest son, who lives in Gurugram, had claimed the body while her two other children live with her ex-husband, police said.According to police officials, Babul had helped the woman get the accommodation in Sarfabad and had been absconding since her death.“The suspect was nabbed from near Sector 52. Following the murder, he first fled to West Bengal and later to Rajasthan before coming back here. It seems that he and the woman were in a relationship, but she was trying to end things,” said Vinod Kumar Singh, station house officer, Sector 49 police station.According to police, the two had an argument on August 5 following which Babul, in a fit of rage, strangled the woman with her dupatta before fleeing the spot.The officials said that Babul is an undocumented Bangladeshi national who has been in the country for over 15 years. He was living in Noida’s Barola, Gejha, and Sarfabad for the past several years, they said.Police recovered an Indian passport, two Aadhaar cards with the same number and one debit card from the suspect. Babul has a family in Bangladesh, another in West Bengal, police said, adding that he tried to escape to Bangladesh after the murder but could not due to Covid-19 regulations. According to police, the suspect, who was working at a site in Noida’s Sector 137, had met Fatima in a train journey from West Bengal almost five years ago. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-bangladeshi-national-held-for-woman-s-murder-101631471002564.html
12-09-2021||Noida||Noida: Garbage van does not turn up daily, allege Sector 51 residents||Noida: Despite an ongoing door-to-door garbage collection mechanism in Noida, residents of Sector 51 have been marred with discrepancies in sanitation works and the garbage is not being collected daily.The resident welfare association (RWA) of Sector 51, with over 1,000 families, said that the issue has been persistent for the past two months and some residents have even been dumping garbage at the roadside and near park areas.Officials of the Noida authority, which collects and manages the urban waste, however, said it collects the waste daily. “It has been three to four days that the last garbage was collected from houses. The truck picks up garbage from only a few houses as it gets full. I receive complaints every day, especially from D and E blocks. Some families now even dump the garbage on the road. We have been talking to the authority officials for the past few weeks and urging them to allot a different garbage collection vehicle,” said Sanjeev Kumar, general secretary, RWA, Sector 51.“It was Friday (September 10) when the garbage was last picked up from my place. It was a proper door-to-door collection mechanism a few months ago, Now, sometimes they come, sometimes they don’t. We often have to chase the van... The garbage keeps piling up,” said Rajesh Kher, a resident of Sector 51.Another resident, Rohit Gupta, said, “There are no bins or dump yards in our sector. So, we cannot dump the garbage anywhere. The issue has been persistent for the past two months. Many residents have started to dump the garbage on the roadside or inside the nearby park. We request the authority to please help us, either regularise the door-to-door waste collection or put a dustbin in our sector for the purpose.”Officials, however, say the garbage collection is up to the mark and it could be a timing issue. “The overall collection of garbage is between 750 and 800 tonnes a day in the city. We had also spoken to the RWA concerned, and handed over a new roster. There could be some timing issue. There are times when the vehicles get stuck at the main dumping depot,” said Vijay Rawal, project engineer, Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-garbage-van-does-not-turn-up-daily-allege-sector-51-residents-101631470945342.html
12-09-2021||Noida||Noida resident bodies meet state BJP vice-president, demand better facilities||Noida: Office bearers of various resident bodies met Uttar Pradesh BJP vice-president AK Sharma on Sunday and raised concerns about development works, and demanded better public representation in the city.According to the officials of different umbrella organisations and forums, they are often “under represented, and there are lags in communication with the development authorities” in the absence of municipal bodies in the district. The RWAs also demanded better amenities and “protection from real estate frauds”.“We, as a resident association, have demanded proper representation in the city and empowerment. For now, there is a lag in communication between resident bodies and development authorities, and even for nominal work like getting a road fixed in our sector or for development of a park we need to pursue the Noida authority. Since there are no municipalities in the district or panchayats in the villages in Noida, there is lack of public representation in the city which is crucial for the developmental works,” said NP Singh, president, District Development Residents Welfare Association (DDRWA), an umbrella organisation of all the RWAs of Gautam Budh Nagar.Singh also said that while the district has nearly 16 lakh registered voters, and the total number of residents is much higher, with Noida being home to a large number of floating migrant population, there is a need to empower the residents directly.“In absence of gram pradhans in villages and councillors in development bodies in Noida, there is a need to empower the RWAs,” he added.Rajiva Singh, president, Noida federation of apartment owners associations (NOFAA), one of the largest federations representing high-rise housing complexes, said that while the administration or the authority calls the RWAs for meetings, the same is not being regularised.“A few years ago, there was a citizen forum where the chief of the district’s police staff, CEO of Noida authority, and the district magistrate used to hold talks with the RWAs or resident bodies every month. That doesn’t happen anymore. We shared all civic issues, including environmental issues, with Mr Sharma and had demented further audience where we can talk in detail.”On a three-day visit to western Uttar Pradesh, AK Sharma, who is a voter from the Dadri constituency of Gautam Budh Nagar, said that Noida is his second home.On Sunday, he assured help from the state and central governments to the people. “Issues faced by the people are my problems. That’s the main reason behind today’s meeting, with the residents and their representatives... Noida is an industrial township that has progressed in leaps and bounds, and people from NCR and also across the country prefer living in this city the most. Our party, and government is committed to resolve all the problems faced by the residents here,” said Sharma.Sharma also suggested the RWAs be ready to welcome foreigners with open arms and hospitality if they want Noida to be the biggest investor hub in Uttar Pradesh, and eventually in India. He also said that Noida is a smart “Plug-n-Play” city where the infrastructure has been developed in a way that entrepreneurs and residents feel comfortable there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-resident-bodies-meet-state-bjp-vice-president-demand-better-facilities-101631470944741.html
12-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad civic body asks commercial establishments to obtain trade licence by September||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation has asked about 40 trades -- from nursing homes to hotels and liquor shops -- to obtain a trade licence from the civic body by September 30, 2021. Officials said that the provision for obtaining licences was already there under the Uttar Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, but not fully implemented in the city under the corporation jurisdiction area. The move is aimed at preventing illegal commercial activities, the officials said, adding that the erring establishments will have to deposit delay charges and penalty and may face legal action in case they continue without licences. “The issue cropped up in a recent meeting with the members of auto-rickshaw unions. They complained that some people who have formed a nexus were charging parking fee from them when they operate from municipal roads. Then we decided to implement the licence system whose provisions and rates are already in place,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. “The provision of licence is also applicable for different categories of auto-rickshaws and once they obtain licence, they will not be required to pay parking fees to any unauthorised people,” Tanwar said. According to the officials, the annual rates for the licences vary for different categories of commercial activities. For general hotels, lodges and guest houses, the licence fee is ₹1,000, while for three-star and five-star hotels, the fee is ₹9,000 and ₹12,000, respectively. Similarly, the licence fee for different categories of nursing homes and private clinics ranges between ₹2,000 and ₹5,000, while it is ₹4,000 for dental clinics and ₹1,000 for pathology centres. The officials said that the licence fee of ₹6,000 to ₹12,000 is applicable for different categories of liquor shops, while ₹360 to ₹720 for auto-rickshaws. “Now, no commercial operation will be allowed without a licence. The licence fees are different from the regular tax structure and mean that such activities can be carried out under the corporation jurisdiction area,” Tanwar said. Sanjeev Kumar Sinha, corporation’s chief tax assessment officer is entrusted with responsibility of licensing officer. “The licences can be obtained from our five zonal offices. To ascertain exact number of operators, we have also sought information from different departments like transport, excise, and food and drug departments, among others. After September, we will conduct inspections and penalty will be levied on erring establishments,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-civic-body-asks-commercial-establishments-to-obtain-trade-licence-by-september-101631470944097.html
12-09-2021||Other||Are frequent adjournments killing the spirit of consumer law?||Prakash Krishna Rao was 64 when he first approached the consumer court for resolution of his complaint. He is 70 now, and there is still no finality to his case.His original complaint took two years, instead of the promised three months at the district consumer disputes redressal commission in Mangaluru, Karnataka.. Eventually he won the case, but the joy was short-lived. The manufacturer went in appeal before the state consumer disputes redressal commission in Bengaluru, and here the case dragged on for four years. Thanks to constant adjournments, he says he had to travel from his home in Mangaluru to Bengaluru 20 times during this period. This is despite the fact that he is a senior citizen who is entitled to quicker settlement of his dispute.Repeated adjournments sought by lawyers and sanctioned by those adjudicating over the complaints, have in the last three decades destroyed the very concept of consumer courts envisaged by the law makers and defeated the very raison d’etre of these courts, created as an alternative to the long and complicated process of justice before the civil courts. Since several studies sponsored by the union ministry of consumer affairs and conducted by the Indian Institute of Public Administration (IIPA) had shown ‘repeated adjournments’ as one of the main causes of delay, the Consumer Protection Act of 2019 that replaced the 1986 law should have strictly prohibited adjournments or provided for it only in the rarest of rare cases and limited to just one , with a highly deterrent financial penalty (not just costs) to be borne by the party asking for it.But unfortunately, like the 1986 Act, the 2019 law too pussyfoots on the subject. So it merely says: “….no adjournment shall ordinarily be granted , unless sufficient cause is shown and the reasons for grant of adjournment have been recorded in writing by such commission”. Obviously, the line between what is ordinary and what is extraordinary has got totally blurred. And the word “no” has completely been ignored. So ‘adjournments shall ordinarily be granted’ has become the practice. In its latest analysis of the working of the consumer courts published last year, the IIPA blames adjournments as the biggest contributor to delays in the process of consumer justice. In as many as 71.8 per cent of the cases, adjournments, often given for frivolous reasons, unnecessarily prolonged the time taken for adjudication , says IIPA. While in 18.4 percent of the cases the adjournments were less than three, in 25.6 percent of the cases, they were more than seven!The advocates are not only responsible for frequent postponement of the hearings, but also for bringing with them, all the trappings of the civil courts. As per the IIPA evaluation, in 61.6 per cent of the cases, involvement of the advocates contributed to delays. Unnecessary technical procedures too led to slow-down in 26.5 per cent of cases, while lack of quorum or vacancies in the posts of adjudicating members contributed to disruptions in the process of justice in 34.9 per cent of the complaints. Poor product testing facilities also led to discontinuity in the proceedings in 34.3 per cent of the cases. It is no wonder that between 2016-2019, only 24.3 percent of complaints were disposed of within the mandated 90 days!The CP Act of 2019 requires several amendments to improve the performance of consumer courts. To start with, the government should bring in two urgent amendments. While one is to stop the biggest impediment to speedy justice, adjournments; the other is to ensure that all complaints where the value of goods or services is below ₹2 lakh, are heard without lawyers. There should be strictly no adjournments nor appeals in these cases and they must be decided within the mandated 90 days, so that to begin with, consumer justice becomes a reality at least in respect of complaints of low value.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/are-frequent-adjournments-killing-the-spirit-of-consumer-law-101631470882602.html
12-09-2021||Other||Cong to contest UP poll under Priyanka: Khursheed||Former union minister Salman Khursheed said here on Sunday that the Congress would contest the 2022 state assembly elections under the leadership of Priyanka Gandhi and would not go for alliance with any political party. The party manifesto would reflect issues faced by the common man in the state, he said. Khursheed and Congress national spokesperson Supriya Shrenate were here to interact with the public. They went to several localities to know about people’s problems so that a suitable election manifesto could be drafted. Talking to media persons, Khursheed said Priyanka Gandhi was the face of the party in Uttar Pradesh. “Neither has Priyanka Gandhi commented on who would be the chief ministerial candidate, nor are we authorized to say so. For us, the face of Priyanka Gandhi is enough. It is under her direction that we are travelling to all corners of Uttar Pradesh for drafting a public connect election manifesto,” said Khursheed, who made it clear that the party would not go for an alliance. When asked about young faces like Jitin Prasada going away from the Congress, he said that if one or two people left, this did not mean that young leaders were leaving the party. He denied that the Congress was weak at the organizational level in Uttar Pradesh. “If a party wins the election, then the organization appears big, otherwise small. We are going for election with ‘soul’ of the Congress and winning or losing is not a criterion. We want the citizens of UP to be happy and if that happens, we are successful,” said Khursheed. On being asked if Muslims and Dalits had gone away from the Congress, Khursheed said if that was the case, efforts were being made to bring them back into the Congress fold. Supriya Shrenate said they had travelled to Bahraich, Meerut, Kanpur, Ayodhya, Jhansi and Gorakhpur divisions, to interact with the locals and to know their problems. “Priyanka Gandhi ruled out preparing a manifesto while sitting with experts in Lucknow and asked us to travel and get feedback from the public so that a manifesto could be drafted to which the people would relate. Public complaints were similar in various parts of the state and included inflation, stray animals, unemployment, mismanagement of Covid, farmer and labour exploitation and women security etc,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-to-contest-up-poll-under-priyanka-khursheed-101631470343384.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU: No clarity on this year’s student elections yet||Despite the fact that Panjab University (PU) is set to start phased reopening of campus from Monday, there is no clarity yet whether the elections of the Panjab University Campus Students’ Council (PUCSC) will be held or not.Last year, PUCSC elections were not held amid the pandemic and there is no student council existing after the last council’s term ended in May last year.The matter was even discussed during a meeting of the PU syndicate in July last year. A panel was also constituted to look into the matter and decide if extension can be given to the previous council till the elections are held, but no official announcement was made by the varsity after that.PU’s dean student welfare (DSW) SK Tomar said he could not comment on the matter and that varsity authorities would have to decide. However, he said that the grievances of students were being resolved whenever they approached the varsity authorities.Varsity should start planning: student leadersAman of Punjab Students Union (PSU-Lalkaar) said, “Elections are held everywhere, so polls should be held for our student council as well. The varsity has started phased reopening, so students will also start demanding elections. Authorities should start planning to conduct them.”Madhav Sharma of Students Organisation of India (SOI) said, “Elections should be held because the thousands of students enrolled in PU need representation. Authorities cannot address the issues of individual students.”“Like the elections of the senate are being held, varsity should immediately start planning to conduct student elections as well. With phased reopening, every aspect of campus life should be restored,” said Sandeep, president of Students For Society (SFS).After PU senate polls, Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has also initiated the process to conduct elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-no-clarity-on-this-year-s-student-elections-yet-101631469983260.html
12-09-2021||Lucknow||30 mayors from across country assemble in Ayodhya to discuss urban development issues||Around 30 mayors from across the country have assembled in Ayodhya on Sunday to discuss urban development issues. The members of the All-India Mayors’ Council are participating in the two-day conference.Inaugurating the event, Uttar Pradesh’s urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon said the development of urban areas had been a priority since the time of the Indus Valley Civilisation. “Today, we have projects like Smart City and Amrut cities where a number of urban development works are going on. Under the Smart City project, we are trying to change the face of the cities in the state by strengthening the urban infrastructure. The stress is on improving sanitation, drainage, water supply, electricity and health infrastructure,” he said.“The number of development works executed under the Smart City project is commendable,” he said.Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyaya thanked the urban development minister for providing help during the Covid times.“Ayodhya has undergone rapid development under Modi-Yogi rule. With a grand Ram temple coming up, Ayodhya will have to strengthen its urban infrastructure,” he said.Mahant Mithilesh Nandini Sharan of the Guptar Ghat Panchmukhi Shiv Temple said, “Ram Rajya is by the people, not by the king . Today, we are moving ahead for Ram Rajya.”Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia also mentioned Ram Rajya.“The concept of Ram Rajya originated from this land. In the coming four years, the landscape of Ayodhya would be changed. The kind of development work going on in Ayodhya is being praised all over the country. This is possible due to the Modi-Yogi combination,” she said.Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai expressed his views on the under-construction Ram temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/30-mayors-from-across-country-assemble-in-ayodhya-to-discuss-urban-development-issues-101631468903277.html
12-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan woman constable, RPS officer arrested in obscene video case||The Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police arrested the woman constable who was suspended after she was allegedly seen in an obscene video. According to officials, the woman constable was allegedly seen in a compromising position with a senior Rajasthan Police Service (RPS) officer in presence of her six-year-old son. The RPS officer has also ben arrested.RPS officer Heera Lal Saini was posted as the circle officer- Beawar in Ajmer while the woman constable was posted in Jaipur. They had gone to the resort to celebrate the woman’s birthday, officials said. Saini has reportedly claimed that the video is doctored. SOG, Additional SP, Divya Mittal said the woman constable was produced before a magistrate who remanded her to police custody till September 17. She said the constable was arrested on Sunday under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and is being interrogated in connection with the video. “Her son is with us and will be presented before the child welfare committee which will decide over his custody,” she said. People familiar with the matter said that the videos clips were shot by the constable’s mobile phone at a luxury resort of Pushkar town in Ajmer district on July 10. The police took suo moto cognizance of the video that was going viral on social media and arrested Saini. A case was registered at the cybercrime station of the SOG. The police have lodged a case under the POCSO Act. The video clip purportedly showed Saini in a compromising position with the constable in a swimming pool. The policewoman’s six-year-old son was present in the pool with them. Hindustan Times has not independently verified the authenticity of the video. Apart from Heera Lal Saini and the constable, who were suspended on Wednesday on moral misconduct, two other RPS officers and SHOs of two police stations of Jaipur and Nagaur have also been suspended for dereliction of duty. According to the constable’s husband, on July 13 he saw that his wife posted a video as her WhatsApp status wherein she and Saini could be seen in a swimming pool in a compromising position. In his complaint, he said Saini touched his son inappropriately in front of his wife and that constituted a crime against the minor. The husband forwarded a complaint to SP office Nagaur seeking registration of the FIR against both of them under the POCSO Act and the complaint was forwarded to the SHO of Chitawa police station on August 10 but he did not register the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-woman-constable-rps-officer-arrested-in-obscene-video-case-101631468520315.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination rate to be doubled in J&K districts with higher Covid caseload||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Sunday asked the administration to double the vaccination rate in districts reporting a higher number of coronavirus cases. Officials were asked to focus on Srinagar, which has been seeing an average 70 to 80 cases a day, as compared to other districts that are mostly reporting cases in single digits. A special camp will be organised in Srinagar to increase vaccination coverage. The Covid situation in the Union Territory was reviewed under the chairmanship of chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta.Officials said there was a need to continue with the existing Covid containment measures in all the districts “in view of the uneven trend observed in daily Covid cases.”“Vaccination of all those concerned with functioning of education institutions or coaching centres shall also be accorded priority,”an order said, adding that night curfew will continue to remain in force in all the districts from 8pm to 7 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-rate-to-be-doubled-in-j-k-districts-with-higher-covid-caseload-101631468122987.html
12-09-2021||Other||Abhishek Banerjee summoned again by ED for questioning in coal smuggling case||Trinamool Congress (TMC) national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee has been summoned again by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to its Delhi office on September 21 for questioning in the coal smuggling case. The ED questioned the young Lok Sabha MP and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew for almost nine hours in Delhi on September 6. He was summoned for the second time on September 8 but Banerjee did not visit the ED office and informed the agency that he was unable to travel from Kolkata at such short notice. On September 6, Banerjee threw a challenge at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying using probe agencies against TMC leaders will not help the saffron camp gain any political ground in Bengal. “TMC will never bow before you (BJP). Do whatever you can. If the ED has any evidence against me, make it public. If anybody can prove that I have accepted even ten paisa from anyone I will voluntarily walk to the gallows and hang myself,” Banerjee had said before reaching the ED office. He reiterated himself while leaving Delhi. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) started the probe in the coal smuggling case and the ED initiated a parallel investigation. The CBI registered the case in November last year. It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, have been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of West Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines. Reacting to the third summons from ED, TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said, “Abhishek Banerjee is being harassed because he is expanding the party beyond Bengal. Why is no action being taken against BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari who was caught on camera accepting money in the Narada sting operation that both CBI and the ED are probing?”The ED was recently permitted by a special court in Kolkata to summon two ministers, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, TMC legislator Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee in the Narada case. They were all arrested by the CBI on May 17 and released on bail after days of judicial custody. Before summoning Banerjee, the ED wanted to question his wife, Rujira Banerjee, in the first week of September. She however did not go to the ED’s office in Delhi citing the risk a mother of two infants might face while travelling during the Covid pandemic. She wrote a mail to the agency saying it would be convenient for her if ED officers came to her Kolkata residence. Rujira Banerjee was questioned by the CBI in February. The CBI team visited Abhishek Banerjee’s residence. In March, the CBI also questioned Rujira’s sister Maneka Gambhir and the latter’s husband Ankush Arora and father-in-law, Pawan Arora.Among the prime suspects is former TMC youth front general secretary and businessman Vinay Mishra who renounced his Indian citizenship in December and became a citizen of Vanuatu, a small island country in the southwestern Pacific Ocean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/abhishek-banerjee-summoned-again-by-ed-for-questioning-in-coal-smuggling-case-101631467584818.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Baramulla cloudburst: Four of family dead, 1 missing||Four members of a nomad family, including three minors, were killed in the cloudburst that hit the upper reaches of Rafiabad in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday night.Police have recovered the bodies of Shahnaza Begum and her three children aged five, eight and 15. Begum’s husband, Mohammad Farooq Khari, survived, but his father 80-year-old Bashir Ahmad Khari is still missing. The cloudburst also triggered flashfloods that damaged a playfield and some government buildings. Nomads rescued in Kulgam A nomadic family and their livestock was rescued in Kulgam district of south Kashmir.A police spokesperson said the nomads and their livestock were stuck in the middle of the Yath Yathur nullah due to an abrupt increase in water levels. “Acting swiftly, a police party from Mir Bazar along with a State Disaster Response Force team launched a rescue operation. A family of five, their luggage and 200 sheep were moved to a safer place,” a police spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/baramulla-cloudburst-four-of-family-dead-1-missing-101631467402962.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||'SAD wouldn't have to observe 'black day' if Harsimrat Kaur Badal had rejected farm ordinances': AAP||Had Harsimrat Kaur Badal not “signed” the Centre’s farm ordinances, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) would not have needed to observe September 17 as “black day”, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said on Sunday. AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan made the remarks taking a dig at SAD's announcement on Saturday that they would observe September 17 as “Black Day” on the completion of a year of the promulgation of the ordinances. SAD had also said its workers would take out a protest march from Gurdwara Rakabganj to Parliament to seek the repeal of the three farm laws. “If Harsimrat Kaur Badal had not signed the ordinances as Union minister, the black day would have never dawned on farmers,” said Sandhwan. Sandhwan, however, appealed to all pro-farmer organisations and political parties to observe September 17 as a “black day” at the national level to support farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws. He alleged that the Narendra Modi government has turned out to be become the “most dictatorial government in the history of India, violating the rights of the farmers, labourers, employees and students of the country”. The AAP MLA also said the agitation against the “black laws” from the land of Punjab has not only empowered farmers in India but also created awareness among the farmers and labourers of the USA, Canada, Australia, Europe and Africa, for the protection of their rights. “When the Akali Dal Badal has unwittingly declared September 17 as a black day with reference to anti-agriculture black laws, they should also repent for signing the farm ordinances and campaigning for the agricultural laws for three months,” he said. The AAP leader further said in fact, the Akali Dal was “one of the pioneers of black agriculture laws” and had been “a big supporter and propagandist” of these laws. He said in Punjab, the Akali Dal was not allowed to enter the villages and cities by the public. Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned as Union minister while the Akali Dal had quit the National Democratic Alliance over the farm laws last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-wouldn-t-have-to-observe-black-day-if-harsimrat-kaur-badal-had-rejected-farm-ordinances-aap-101631466170414.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||Sakinaka rape and murder: Political outrage continues in Mumbai||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Republican Party of India on Sunday held protests in Mumbai’s Powai area over the brutal rape and death of a 32-year-old woman. A team of National Commission for Women (NCW) met the family members of the woman who was brutalised with an iron rod in the wee hours of Friday.Slamming the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, leader of opposition in the legislative council Pravin Darekar said the patience of women has run out due to such “repeated” offences, which occur due to “carelessness of the government”.The five-member team also visited the spot where the crime took place. The woman died on Saturday during treatment at a city hospital. The NCW on Saturday took suo moto cognisance of the crime and said they would start a probe into the incident.The BJP leader said such incidents have occurred in several parts of the state and demanded that the MVA government should take steps to curb them. Darekar said women in the city are scared for their safety and demanded an action plan from the state government to stop such crimes. Sheetal Gambhir Desai, Mumbai head of the BJP women’s wing, spearheaded a protest in Powai on Sunday afternoon. RPI workers also held a protest in the city.“The patience of Mumbaiites has ran out now. The women in the city are scared after the incident,” he said, adding that if any such crimes happen again, the Opposition will solely hold the state responsible. “The incident has only happened due to the carelessness of the government. We want an action plan for such crimes to not happen in the future. Rape incidents have happened in Pimpri-Chinchwad, Pune, Amravati, Ahmednagar, Palghar and Vasai where women were brutalised. Now the Sakinaka incident is chilling; it is as gruesome as Nirbhaya,” Darekar said.On Saturday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray termed the Sakinaka rape incident a “blot on humanity”. The case has been fast-tracked by the police, who have apprehended the accused – a 45-year-old man hailing from Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sakinaka-rape-and-murder-political-outrage-continues-in-mumbai-101631466983012.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 87 Covid cases, one more fatality||Himachal Pradesh recorded 87 fresh coronavirus infections on Saturday, taking the hill-state’s tally to 2,15,691, while the death toll mounted to 3,620 after one patient succumbed to the infection. Of the new cases, 27 were reported in Kangra, 25 in Hamirpur, nine in Mandi, six each in Chamba and Una, five each in Bilaspur and Shimla, three in Solan and one in Lahaul-Spiti. The active cases have come down to 1,536, while recoveries reached 2,10,518. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 48,103 cases, followed by 30,298 cases in Mandi and 26,890 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-87-covid-cases-one-more-fatality-101631466922795.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 3,623 new Covid cases, no sign of rise in cases||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 3,623 fresh Covid-19 cases, pushing the count to 6,497,877. The tally of active cases again increased to 50,400. However, there is no sign of a rise in Covid-19 cases.State also saw 46 deaths, taking the toll to 138,142. Pune and Ahmednagar reported the highest toll with nine deaths each. Around 2,972 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours.The state has been reporting between 4,000 and 5,000 cases in the past 12 days, except four days when daily cases dropped to fewer than 4,000. On Saturday, it reported 3,075 cases, the lowest since February 9. In the past 12 days, it has reported 48,067 cases, which is less than 69,344 cases reported in the corresponding period last month.Amid the threat of a potential third wave, the state government is not considering re-imposing any fresh curbs anywhere in the state as of now, as there is still no rise in daily figures. At the same time, it is also taking decisions on lifting restrictions in a gradual manner, according to the state authorities.According to health experts, the impact of the festivals will be seen only after a period of two weeks and a third wave may hit the state by December or January. The state health minister Rajesh Tope said that the decision on reopening religious places will be taken only after the Diwali festival.“As the head of the state disaster management authority, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take the decision on reopening religious places. Ganesh Chaturthi is going on and Dussehra and Diwali festivals are ahead. Even if the daily cases are reduced, the decision on religious places will be taken if the situation will be under control after Dussehra and Diwali festivals,” Tope told reporters in Jalna on Sunday.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force said the state is on red alert because of the festive season as it is still clocking around 3,000-4,000 cases a day and active cases are more than 50,000. “Just after Onam, there was a peak in Kerala, similarly we will come to know the true impact of Ganesh festivals after two weeks. Our test positivity rate has dramatically come down but we have to be very cautious and keep testing because our test positivity rate has to be around 1% or lower than that and Covid deaths need to be zero,” Dr Joshi said.Earlier, the Central government directed the state government to take precautions during upcoming festivals.“We still are looking at the thinning of the tale of the second wave and it appears that the third wave, if at all comes, will come by December or January. We are still on red alert because we want people to behave responsibly and there should be double masking and at least 80% of our population needs to be vaccinated with two doses,” added Dr Joshi.In Maharashtra, there are six districts of concern — Pune, Thane, Sangli, Satara, Solapur, Kolhapur and Mumbai.On Sunday, Pune reported 707 cases (including district and city) Satara, 390, Mumbai 357, Sangli 264, Solapur 223, Thane 102 and Kolhapur 89 cases.With 357 cases, Mumbai’s case tally stands at 735,055. It also recorded seven fatalities taking the toll to 16,022.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 143,791 samples and had a positivity rate of 2.51%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 11.61%, according to the data issued by the state health department.The state vaccinated 181,584 doses on Sunday and has administered a total 67,887,466 doses to date, according to the data available on the Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-3-623-new-covid-cases-no-sign-of-rise-in-cases-101631466623312.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid fallout: With banks issuing takeover notices, HP hoteliers in dire straits||The tourism industry has been reeling due to the curbs imposed to arrest the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. In another setback, many hotels in Himachal have been served takeover notices due to non-payment of loans. Hoteliers have been severely hit due to restrictions on interstate movement. Many hotels in and around Shimla had to temporarily close due to dearth of working capital, others could only list a few rooms. Tourism has been the primary mainstay for people in the hill-state, generating both direct and indirect employment. Lack of financial aid from the state government and the Covid-induced slowdown has left stakeholders in dire straits. “Hoteliers are fuming as far from extending a helping hand, the government has asked them to pay water and garbage bills and property tax,” says Mohinder Seth, president, Himachal Pradesh State Tourism Stakeholder Association.Other states such as Gujarat, Odisha, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Punjab have given relief to hotel businesses by waving off taxes, or demand charges on electricity and other concessions for a year.Hoteliers say the business is no longer viable in Himachal Pradesh. They say the Capital city was the worst affected as it is the only tourist destination in the state where the cost of water, property tax and garbage is highest, while the rent is the lowest due to the presence of a large number of hotels in and around Shimla. The interest subvention scheme has only benefitted a few hotels, while small units continue to struggle. Some tourism units did benefit from the emergency credit line scheme, but tourism units who had availed loans after February were not benefitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-fallout-with-banks-issuing-takeover-notices-hp-hoteliers-in-dire-straits-101631466562809.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Snow in higher reaches: HRTC’s Delhi-Leh bus services suspended||The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) suspended its Delhi-Leh bus services on Sunday as a precautionary measure after high mountain passes on the Manali-Leh highway experienced snowfall. There has been a fresh spell of snow on the 4,850-metre Baralacha La and 5,238-metre Tanglang La pass. Though the road is clear for traffic, the Leh-Delhi bus service has been temporarily suspended for the safety of passengers, said Mangal Chand Manepa, HRTC regional manager, Lahaul-Spiti. He said the bus route will be permanently closed for the winter season after September 15 if the bad weather prevails. The route, which is the longest of HRTC, covering a distance of more than 1,000 kilometres, is also the most dangerous as it passes through five highest mountain passes. The bus services remained suspended for over 21 months due to Covid-19 before resuming on July 1 this year. Every year, the service is suspended for winter months. Dhauladhar range has also experienced its first spell of snow. The snow and rain has brought the mercury down in the state. NH-5 blocked, restored Meanwhile, the Shimla-Kinnaur highway (NH-5) was blocked for hours due to a massive landslide at Badal near Jeori in Rampur subdivision. No loss of life was reported in the incident. However, many commuters were stranded on both sides of the road. The district administration and highway authorities immediately pressed personnel and machinery into service. The road was restored by late evening. MeT officials had earlier issued a yellow alert in view of heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning across the state. Monsoon may withdraw by Sept 26 As per Met officials, monsoon will be weak from Monday onwards and may withdraw from the state by September 26. However, bad weather is likely to prevail till September 17. Till September 12, Himachal has recorded 17% deficit rain. The state has got a cumulative rainfall of 584.9mm against the normal 705.4mm. Kullu and Mandi are the only two districts having recorded 30% and 5% surplus rain. Mandi received 1,049.5mm rain against the normal 1,003mm and Kullu 595.8mm against the normal rainfall of 457.7mm. With only 94.9mm rain against a normal of 347mm, Lahaul-Spiti recorded the highest -73% deficit, followed by Chamba -43% and Sirmaur -27%. As many as 379 people have died in rain-related incidents this season in the state, while public and private property amounting to ₹998 crore has been lost. Thirteen people have been missing. In the last 24 hours, Ghamroor was the wettest place, recording 77mm of rain, followed by Joginderngar (35mm), Sangrah (30mm), Kandaghat (25.4mm), Hamirpur (24mm), Shimla (22mm), Solan (17.6mm) and Dalhousie (17mm).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/snow-in-higher-reaches-hrtc-s-delhi-leh-bus-services-suspended-101631465964445.html
12-09-2021||Other||Case filed against businessman Pashankar for duping 42-year-old of ₹2.4 crore||PUNE A case has been registered against local businessman Gautam Pashankar (65), along with two others, for duping a 42-year-old man of ₹2.4 crore and allegedly assaulting him. A case in the matter was lodged by Narendra Patil, a resident of Pashan.The complainant claimed that he had paid ₹2.4 crore for two flats in a project in Kharadi, through multiple transactions, since January 2019. However, after months he learned that the two flats had been sold to someone else. When he confronted the accused, he was taken to Pashankar’s office in Shivajinagar where he was threatened and assaulted.“Unit 1 officials had made inquiries in the case and investigated the claims made by the complainant. Based on their investigation we have now registered a case,” said senior inspector Anita More of Shivajinagar police station. When asked if sections of the Arms Act were invoked, she said they were not.The Pashankar Group has faced cases due to real estate non-delivery earlier as well. A consumer court order had directed Pashankar in 2017 to deliver a flat that had been pending since July 2014.A case has been registered under Sections 409, 420, 504, and 506 of Indian Penal Code at Shivajinagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/case-filed-against-businessman-pashankar-for-duping-42-year-old-of-2-4-crore-101631465782274.html
12-09-2021||Other||Truck turns turtle, kills man standing under tree||PUNE A 22-year-old man standing under a tree, was killed by a truck that turned turtle and crushed him to death on Saturday afternoon. The deceased man was identified as Nanubabu Pyare Singh (22), a resident of Parandwadi road in Somatne. Singh worked in a restaurant and lived with his brother Lallu Pyare Singh (24), who also worked in the same restaurant. They are both natives of Hardatt Nagar Girant village in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh.The truck is registered in Pimpri-Chinchwad and the driver has been booked in the case, but has not yet been named or arrested, according to police.The deceased man lived at the restaurant where he worked and was heading on a bike to buy groceries for the restaurant, his brother told police. As it started raining, he stopped his bike under a tree to put on his raincoat, according to the complaint.The truck, a concrete mixer, came speeding along the road where Singh was standing, hit his bike and turned turtle, according to police. As it fell, a part of the truck landed on Singh and he was killed instantly, according to police.A case has been registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station under Sections 304(a) (causing death due to negligence), 279, and 338 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Section 184 (rash driving) of the Motor Vehicle Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/truck-turns-turtle-kills-man-standing-under-tree-101631465722283.html
12-09-2021||Other||NEET exam held in Pune on Sunday||PUNE The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) for the academic year 2021 was held at various exam centres across the city on Sunday. The exam is held for undergraduate medical courses. Adhering to all the Covid safety measures, a physical examination was held across the country, including Pune, from 2pm to 5pm. Entry to the examination centre was allowed from 11am onwards to allow for social distancing. Entry was stopped at 1.30pm. Candidates were not allowed to carry any belongings, bags or mobile phones inside the exam centre. Only a pen and identity card were allowed. The test was on a gradable OMR sheet. “The examination went well for me, but the physics paper was hard and I took time to answer the maximum questions. I hope to get good marks and get into a prominent medical college,” said Sakshi Keni, an student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/neet-exam-held-in-pune-on-sunday-101631465662313.html
12-09-2021||Other||FYJC admissions round 3: 73,990 seats still vacant||PUNE After the third regular round of admissions for Class 11 (FYJC) in the city, 73,990 seats are still vacant across 316 colleges in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad.As of Sunday, September 12, 85,518 students have registered seeking admissionsOn September 13, the merit list for the third round and allied cut-offs will be declared. That a large number of seats will remain vacant this academic year now seems an eventuality that cannot be avoided.As of Sunday, at the end of round three, 38,975 students have been admitted to Class 11 in the city. At the end of the second regular round of admissions, a total of 63,805 seats were available, for which 35,694 students were eligible and 15,967 students were allotted a college. Of the 15,967 students, 6005 students were given a college of their first preference, 3,231 students were given a college of their second preference, and 1,988 students were given a college of their third preference. “The Covid pandemic has adversely affected this year’s Class 11 admissions. A large number of students who come from rural areas have not sought admission. Because of financial issues, some have taken a break from education. Now after three regular rounds, the special admission rounds will start,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune, in-charge of the admission process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fyjc-admissions-round-3-73-990-seats-still-vacant-101631465602291.html
12-09-2021||Other||MHADA demands 100 hectares in merged villages for affordable housing||PUNE: The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) has written a letter to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune Metropolitan Development Authority (PMRDA), demanding that 100 hectare land be reserved in the development plan (DP) of the newly-merged villages for the purpose of affordable housing. The PMC is presently preparing a DP of the 11 fringe villages that merged in 2017 but the state has handed over the DP of 23 newly-merged villages to the PMRDA as planning authority.Nitin Mane, chief executive officer (CEO) of the MHADA Pune board, said, “We have sent a letter to the PMC as well as PMRDA to reserve land for an affordable housing scheme in the Pune region. The final decision will be taken by both authorities. We need 100 hectare of land in these merged villages. PMC and PMRDA have started preparation of the DP of fringe villages. So, we have suggested that land be reserved for MHADA.”“Now, we have affordable housing schemes across 176 hectare land in the PMC and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits. There is no open land available in the existing PMC and PCMC areas. We don’t have a ‘land bank’ to develop new schemes in these areas. So, we have requested PMC and PMRDA to reserve land,” he said.Rajendra Raut, chief superintendent engineer and head of the DP cell of PMC, said, “MHADA is a government body and it can raise demand. We will make a decision as per the available land.”A senior official of the PMC said, “PMC has already started schemes under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) to provide affordable housing to the economically weaker sections (EWS) and lower income groups (LIG). We have set a target to provide more than 1 lakh affordable houses in the PMC limit. We already have a shortage of land for the PMAY schemes. Therefore, I don’t think we should have to give land to any other government authority for the same purpose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mhada-demands-100-hectares-in-merged-villages-for-affordable-housing-101631465422233.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||NCW team speaks to Sakinaka rape victim's kin, meets top cop for aid||A team from the National Commission for Women (NCW) visited the family of the 32-year-old woman, who was raped and brutally assaulted in Sakinaka on Friday.The team also met acting Maharashtra director general of Police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey and urged him to pay a compensation of ₹10 lakh to the victim’s family from the Nirbhaya fund and ensure her children have access to good education.The rights body members later went to the Sakinaka police station, the crime spot and talked to doctors who treated the woman before she passed away on Saturday morning at Rajawadi hospital. "First, we went to the victim's house and met the family members. Then we went to the Sakinaka police station and from there with the police officials, we went to the crime spot and from there we visited the Rajawadi hospital to speak with the doctors who treated the victim," Chandramukhi Devi, a member of the NCW team, told reporters.Devi said her team asked the DGP “to get the forensic science laboratory (FSL) report as early as possible and file a charge sheet in a fast track court to speed up the investigation process and get the culprits punished”.The 32-year-old woman who was raped and assaulted with an iron rod in a parked tempo on September 10, succumbed to her injuries on Saturday morning after battling for her life for 33 hours at the state-run hospital. A 45-year-old pavement dweller was arrested after he was caught exiting the tempo on a CCTV camera nearby.The accused has been booked under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape), 323 (assault) and 34 (common intention) and remanded in police custody till September 21. The motive behind the crime is not yet known as the victim’s statement could not be recorded.An 11-member special investigation team (SIT), headed by a woman assistant commissioner of police heading the group, has been formed to deal with the case.Sunday’s visit by NCW members came after Devi criticised Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale for his comment that police cannot be present everywhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncw-team-speaks-to-sakinaka-rape-victim-s-kin-meets-top-cop-for-aid-101631465030814.html
12-09-2021||Other||Abduction of infant raises questions about security at Sassoon hospital||PUNE In the wake of the abduction of a baby episode at Sassoon General Hospital on Friday last week, question marks over the security of new-borns inside the woman’s ward. Earlier cases on misdemeanours at the hospital include the handing over of the wrong deceased person to relatives.According to authorities, so far five incidents - four related to handling corpses and one related to decapitation of a corpse - have been reported at the Sassoon Hospital in the recent past.In 2019, two bodies were misplaced. The confusion came to light when one of the relatives came to claim the corpse and was informed that the corpse had already been cremated. In another incident in 2008, a corpse in Sassoon mortuary was decapitated by three persons and later dumped in a canal in Hadapsar. On August 20 last year confusion prevailed a the Noorani graveyard after a family discovered that the body whose last rites they were preparing for was not related to them. The Sassoon hospital authorities had handed the wrong body to the family.The incident of an infant being stolen from Sassoon General Hospital onFriday last week is the only such incident of infant abduction which has taken place at the government hospital in the past five years, as per hospital records.Dr Vinayak Kale, dean, Sassoon hospital, said, “We have strong security measures in place to ensure that no untoward incident takes place on our premises.” Dr Shrihari Halnor, Sassoon’s Resident Medical Officer (RMO) said, “The last incident took place five years ago, since then, tight security is in place. CCTV surveillance and security guards are stationed at all the wards. Even the current incident is related to an OPD patient and not a patient admitted in the woman’s ward. She had come for some test and in the ensuing melee, the incident took place. However, we have further upgraded our vigil aimed at making the campus safe for all.”The Bund Garden police on Friday arrested Vandana Jethe (24), a Kharadi resident, for allegedly stealing a three-month-old girl from the hospital. According to the FIR , the 22-year-old mother of the infant had come to the hospital for treatment and was at ward number 74, when a woman dressed as a nurse told her that a family member had come to meet her. The accused offered to look after her baby till she returned. The mother handed the baby to the woman and went out of the ward. On her return, she failed to locate the nurse and her baby and then informed the security personnel at the hospital. The hospital authorities informed the police after which a Bund Garden police team reached the spot and launched a search for the baby. The investigators found clues about the accused woman from CCTV footage, which showed a woman wearing the uniform of a nurse leaving the hospital premises with the baby. A police probe revealed that the accused could not conceive a baby and resorted to abduction.Health activist Feroz Mulla, who staged a protest outside Sassoon Hospital said, “Sassoon authorities need a rap from the higher ups as there is callousness which led to the incident. A probe must be ordered and disciplinary action must be taken by the medical board.” Goof ups at Sassoon hospitalAugust 2008 A corpse in the Sassoon mortuary was decapitated by three persons and dumped in a canal in Hadapsar.May 2019 Two corpses are misplaced. Confusion came to light when one of the relatives came to claim a body. The deceased were both senior citizens whose bodies were kept at the Sassoon mortuary for the night. However, by the time the confusion could be cleared, a wrong body was cremated.August 20, 2020At Noorani graveyard a family discovered that the body whose last rites they were preparing for was not related to them. The Sassoon hospital authorities had handed the wrong body to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/abduction-of-infant-raises-questions-about-security-at-sassoon-hospital-101631465182291.html
12-09-2021||Other||Kharadi-Shivane riverside road project stuck due to land acquisition||PUNE: While the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) started work on its ambitious Kharadi-Shivane riverside road in 2012, eight years down the line, the project is still stuck due to land acquisition and the presence of authorised structures in some places along the route. Out of the total 17.10km road length, the PMC needs to acquire land for more than 2km so while the original deadline has been extended once till December 2021, it will have to be extended again in view of the current situation.V G Kulkarni, chief superintendent engineer of the road department, said, “The corporation required land for more than 2km road stretch. The PMC is trying to complete work on phases 1 and 3. In phase 1, we need land for the 350m road stretch between Rajaram bridge and Mhatre Bridge. We require around 9519.60 square metre land for a 2km stretch in phase 3 to complete the project. The corporation will have to raise around Rs300 crore to acquire the land. Therefore, the commissioner has decided to check the option of credit bonds.”As there is a shortage of funds required to acquire land for the Kharadi-Shivane road and widen the Katraj-Kondhwa road, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar has decided to explore credit bonds as an option for acquiring land. Officials however are not sure if this will help in acquiring land. At present, the corporation claims to have completed nearly 61% of the work on the Kharadi-Shivane riverside road but it is in parts and will not serve the purpose of easing traffic congestion along the city’s biggest roads.A senior official of the PMC said, “The project is already stuck as there are a couple of buildings existing in phase 3. Along the Aga Khan bridge to Mundhwa bridge stretch, there is a 700m patch where there are three four-storied buildings, all of them authorised. The purpose of the road is almost ruined.”In 2007, the PMC planned to construct the road in two phases – the first phase being the Shivane to Mhatre bridge stretch which is a distance of 5.95km, and the second phase from Sangamwadi to Kharadi which is a distance of 11.8km. Thereafter, the project was divided into three phases to include the Mhatre bridge to Sangam bridge stretch of 5.50km. However, it was dropped later as it fell along the blue line of the Mutha river.The Kharadi-Shivane riverside road is part of the development plan (DP) of the city and work actually started in May 2013. The project cost was Rs363 crore, with the corporation having paid Rs228 crore to the contractor till date. However the project cost has escalated by Rs41.50 crore because of land acquisition, with the corporation using the deferred payment option (five annual installments of 20% each). While the project was originally scheduled to be completed in three years, it continues to be incomplete even eight years down the line. The 17.10km-long fully-concrete elevated road runs along the banks of the Mula and Mutha rivers and is 24 to 30m wide. Earmarked as a ‘riverside’ road in the 1987 development plan, the road will serve as a vital link between the Mumbai-Bangalore and Pune-Ahmednagar highways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kharadishivane-riverside-road-project-stuck-due-to-land-acquisition-101631465002248.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||OBC Muslims’ body launches campaign for caste census in Maharashtra||As the demand for a caste-based census intensifies, an organisation of backward Muslims has launched a state-wide campaign to press for it. The All India Muslim OBC Organisation (AIMOBC) is looking at expanding this campaign across the country and wants a scientific headcount of all castes, including those among Muslims, for enhanced affirmative action benefits.The body has sought that in case the percentage of other backward classes (OBCs) in the country exceeds the estimate of 52%, then the quota for the section be increased from the present 27%.Around 90% Muslims fall in OBC, Scheduled Tribe (ST) or Scheduled Caste (SC) categories, with upper-caste Ashraf Muslims such as Syeds forming a small number. Muslim OBC activists note that like Hindus, caste runs co-terminus among Muslims with a bulk of them engaged in traditional, caste-based occupations like Bagwans and Rayeens (gardeners), Ansaris and Momins (weavers), Hajams (barbers) and Darjis (tailors).“We launched our campaign after the Supreme Court (SC) struck down Maharashtra’s quota for OBCs in local self-government body elections due to lack of empirical data about their backwardness,” said Shabbir Ahmed Ansari, president of AIMOBC.He added, “Since August, we are submitting memorandums to district collectors and tehsildars and have launched an outreach and awareness programme, especially targetted at the youth to convince them about how established OBC leaders are selfish and have done little for the community.” Ansari noted that it is the youth who stand to benefit the most due to affirmative action measures like reservation in jobs and education.Ansari, who has been associated with veteran OBC leaders like Karpoori Thakur and Chaudhary Brahm Prakash, said no mainstream Muslim politician was speaking up for backward Muslims but is instead seeking separate religion-based quotas for the community, which is unconstitutional and impractical. A religion-based quota would also work in the favour of upper-caste Muslims who were well-heeled.He said they would organise a meeting of OBC leaders from across the country in New Delhi next month to intensify the demand for a nationwide caste-based census.Ansari explained that a scientific headcount of OBC Muslims would help roll out targeted welfare measures for them. “In the absence of rational estimations about their numbers, OBC Muslims have suffered neglect… Around 90% of Muslims in Maharashtra, and almost all Muslims in rural areas are backwards, with upper-castes forming a miniscule section. Upper-caste Muslims have better access to education and resources and have hijacked the share of benefits meant for their backward brethren. Like upper-caste Hindus, these upper-caste Muslims have restricted upward mobility for others,” he said.“Today, there is no separate budgetary provision for OBCs like that of SCs and STs, who get the benefit of outlays based on their population… We are demanding that a nationwide census be conducted now. Since the Centre has refused to enumerate castes (except SCs and STs) in the 2021 nationwide census, it also means that the next such headcount can happen only in 2031,” he added.BOX:Muslims form an estimated 12% of Maharashtra’s population and a majority of them belong to categories like OBC.The actual number of OBCs is unclear, with varying estimates.While OBCs are estimated to be the largest social bloc at around 52% of the population, both Hindus and non-Hindus, according to the BP Mandal commission, which extrapolated data from the 1931 caste census — the last such caste-based headcount conducted in colonial India.However, the National Sample Survey Organization (NSSO) has estimated this at a lower 41% in 2004-2005. The Periodic Labour Force Survey 2019-20 puts it at 43.8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/obcmuslims-body-launches-campaign-for-caste-census-in-maharashtra-101631464883211.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu presses Capt Amarinder for cancellation of FIRs against farmers in fresh letter||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu wrote to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday for necessary action upon the demands raised by 32 farmer unions regarding cancellation of FIRs registered against the protesting farmers during the ongoing stir and reservations about submission of fards (land record) for grain procurement. In the letter, Sidhu, who led a three-member state Congress team at the meeting convened by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) two days ago, said the farmer unions sought the cancellation of unjust and unfair FIRs registered against them due to incidents of violence during the agitation in the state. “The Congress has supported the farmers in every endeavour since the beginning of the agitation. Our government has facilitated the protesting farmers by providing maximum support to their protests,” he wrote, advising the state government to set up a mechanism to cancel all unfair cases after considering each case on compassionate grounds. Sidhu said that farmers saw the demand for fards (land records) to demarcate details of land ownership before procurement as ordered by the central government as unjust. The Congress leader said he also personally believed it to be unfair and against a large number of farmers who were sowing crops by taking land on lease. There was no clear land ownership as for decades, the partition of land had not happened in many parts of the state and also many land owners were now living abroad, he added. He said this was an attack on the resilient system of procurement through arhtiyas and to push the farmers away from APMC mandis towards private markets where no such records were being demanded, urging the government to fight against it. Lauds state Congress’s work for agri sector Praising the work already done by Punjab Congress for agriculture and its commitment to do much more, Sidhu said that Punjab had allocated 10.9% of its budget expenditure for agriculture in 2021-22, which was much higher than average allocation of 6.3% by other states. He also made mention of power subsidy, farm loan waivers and the efficiency of government procurement. “We must do more, standing firmer on our resolution passed in Vidhan Sabha in October 2020 and not let the three black laws be implemented in our state at any cost,” he said. He also reiterated his earlier demands for procurement of pulses and oilseeds through state corporations at minimum support prices (MSPs) and investment in diversification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-presses-capt-amarinder-for-cancellation-of-firs-against-farmers-in-fresh-letter-101631464525525.html
12-09-2021||Other||Pune wholesalers suffers as flower rates heavily slashed||PUNE: With excessive intake of flowers in the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC), the market yard is seeing flower rates down by 90% this Ganesh festival as compared to the corresponding period last year.Last year, flowers such as marigold, shevanti (Chrysanthemum) and hibiscus commonly used during the 10-day festival fetched very good rates (see box). Buoyed by this, many farmers opted to farm flowers. Add good climatic conditions and a majority of these farmers witnessed a bumper production which in turn led to heavy slashing of prices.Arun Veer, Pune Flower Traders’ Union president, APMC market yard, said, “Last year, farmers received very good rates for marigold and shevanti. But the trend this year has been the opposite. Rates have fallen so sharply that farmers have been unable to earn even their carriage expenses.”Last year due to Covid, the market was not completely open helping farmers fetch very high rates. This year, flower stock has come in from across the district which was not the case last year.“If one farmer grows marigold, others will follow. This is a major problem as farmers tend to produce the same flower. This year, there was a 20% rise in production of marigold and shevanti,” Veer said.Stable rates for polyhouses Meanwhile, prices of poly house flowers such as rose and gerbera have remained stable.“Gerbera flowers are mostly used in decoration and every year, their rate rises but with most of the mandaps opting for sober decoration, these flowers are not in high demand,” Veer said.On Sunday, there was a good demand for flowers in wholesale as well as retail markets.“We feared that marigold would go to waste but today, the complete stock of marigold in the Rs15 per kilogramme category was sold out,” Veer added.High rates in retailThe downfall in rates has given good profit to retailers, with each area in the city selling flowers at different rates.“More profit is earned by makeshift flower shops as they put up stalls only during the festive season while those who have permanent flower shops don’t earn more profit,” added Veer.In Kothrud, marigold flowers were sold at Rs70 per kilogram on Friday, Saturday and Sunday.“Flower prices remain high for 10 days during Lord Ganesh’s arrival followed by Gauri pujan – for flower sellers, this is the best time to earn a profit and a majority of them have fixed rates,” said Ketan Gund, Shivtirth nagar, Kothrud.Vikas Gore, owner of Pushpak Florals, said, “If any customer demands more than 2kg flowers, we give them a discount otherwise the rates remain the same for all.”Madhukant Garad Administrator & Secretary, APMC Gultekadi Market Yard Pune, said, “Higher cultivation of flowers and larger supply resulted in slashing of rates. Rates are expected to become stable in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-wholesalers-suffers-as-flower-rates-heavily-slashed-101631464463794.html
12-09-2021||Other||Pune’s rickshaw drivers in firing line as list of commuter complaints gets bigger||PUNE Refusing to traverse short distances, not charging by the meter, and arrogant behaviour are some of the key issues concerning autorickshaw drivers in the city that regular commuters have highlighted in the wake of police action taken against errant rickshaws on Pune’s roadsPune police and the RTO, in a joint action, recorded 3,000 violations by autorickshaws in three days. The action came after two cases of child sexual assault by autorickshaw drivers were exposed last week. “Last week I came to Pune from Indore via train and wanted to take an auto from the railway station to Yerawada. I was told ₹150 is the charge, by the driver. When I questioned such a high fare, other drivers gathered and began defending the charge. This is a regular scene with drivers at the Pune railway station overcharging passengers,” said Hirendra Tripathi, a commuter.During the action, the traffic police fined 740 auto rickshaw drivers, while the RTO officials acted against 177. “The action must continue until rickshaw drivers stop flouting rules and accept the fares determined by the RTO,” said Anant Saharabuddhe, a resident of Bibwewadi. Another passenger, Kavita Pathak said, “I often take an auto from Swargate to Katraj, after I finish work, as there is a heavy rush for public buses. The auto drivers at Swargate’s ST stand are arrogant. We are even afraid to talk to them at times. They also park their autos in such a way that it blocks the entry of ST bsues to the stand. Strict action needs to be taken.” A demand is being raised by passengers to start a prepaid autorickshaw stand at the Pune railway station. One of the rape incidents involved rickshaw drivers kidnapping a minor from the railway station.Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said, “We have already started the process to start a prepaid auto stand from the railway station and necessary permissions and NOCs will be given. Also, action is regularly taken against drivers who are found violating traffic rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-rickshaw-drivers-in-firing-line-as-list-of-commuter-complaints-gets-bigger-101631464222240.html
12-09-2021||Other||All govt staffers in Pune district must ensure 2nd-dose verified on CoWin app: order||PUNE To ensure that all public servants, including those hired on a contract, have got both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, the district magistrate, also the district’s disaster management officer, issued an order on Saturday for all government officials to have second-dose verification completed on the CoWin app. The order states that as per the CoWin app only 21% of the overall beneficiaries have got taken the second dose. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Zilla Parishad, said, “This is a magisterial order. Front-line workers (FLW) have been asked to ensure that they get the certificate of vaccination as proof that they have been fully vaccinated. Public servants or government officials could be potential super-spreaders and so vaccination has been made mandatory for them.” The order is applicable to the all government officials including police personnel, cantonment board officials, members of co-operative societies and those hired on contract basis during the Covid-19 crises; all who have got vaccinated with both the doses must get their verification done. The verification process has to be completed by September 30, 2021 and a copy of the same should be submitted to the collector’s office or Zilla Parishad’s office along with the signature of the nodal officer.The central government issued directives to the state to begin vaccination for front-line workers from February 1 2021. Earlier, the PMC introduced similar strict measures to ensure its employees get vaccinated, including withholding incentives and making vaccination mandatory. The central team during its visit on March 16 said that the vaccine hesitancy among FLWs needs to be addressed including the perception that only one dose is enough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-govt-staffers-in-pune-district-must-ensure-2nd-dose-verified-on-cowin-app-order-101631464163255.html
12-09-2021||Patna||AIIMS-Patna fixes seniority, fills top positions after 2 years||Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has finalised professors’ seniority and appointed deans and associate deans of examination, research and academics, from its faculty members, said doctors familiar with the development. The AIIMS took two years to fill these positions after the regulations were notified on October 18, 2019 and published in the gazette of India. Most other AIIMS in India have already filled these positions. Dr Hemali Heidi Sinha, professor, department of obstetrics and gynaecology, has been appointed as the dean (examination), as per the institute’s order dated September 7. Dr Prem Kumar, professor, department of radiodiagnosis, has been appointed the dean (research). Dr Sadhna Sharma, professor, department of biochemistry, has taken over as the associate dean (examination); Dr Bindey Kumar, professor, department of paediatric surgery, as associate dean (academics); and Dr Punam Prasad Bhadani, professor, department of pathology/laboratory medicine, as associate dean (research). Prior to these appointments, Dr Umesh Bhadani, professor of anaesthesiology, was the only dean (academics), a position he occupies from October 19, 2020. The Institute Body of the AIIMS has already approved his appointment. The institute also elevated Dr Sharma, Dr Bhadani, Dr Sinha, Dr Prem Kumar and Dr Bindey Kumar to the higher administrative grade pay scale ( ₹1,82,200 — ₹2,24,100) of the Central government’s seventh pay commission with effect from September 4. These are the first few appointments among faculty members done as per the seniority list of professors, fixed by the institute, on the basis of their date of joining the institute and in line with the norms of the National Medical Commission. A few hand-picked faculty members, however, continue as sub-dean of undergraduate and postgraduate student affairs; resident doctors; and faculty affairs. These positions, occupied by Dr Ayan Banerjee, Dr Amit Patil, Dr Alok Ranjan and Dr Veena Singh, have not been filled as per seniority, said doctors quoted above. Deciding seniority of faculty members has been a bone of contention at AIIMS-Patna since its inception in 2012. The first seniority list of professors was withdrawn within 20 days of its issue on September 6, 2013. Dr AK Mahapatra, the then director of AIIMS-Bhubaneswar who was also the acting director here had approved the list when AIIMS-Patna director Dr GK Singh had gone on leave. On return, the latter withdrew the order, citing it was issued without the approval of the competent authority. Officiating dean Dr Neeraj Agarwal had issued a provisional seniority list of professors on August 8, 2017. Subsequently, on July 20, 2018, dean-in-charge, Dr Prem Kumar, issued a seniority list of faculties based on their date of joining. The list was finally superseded by one issued by AIIMS-Patna director Dr Prabhat Kumar Singh on August 17. Faculty seniority was thrown to the wind when Dr PP Gupta was appointed the institute’s first regular dean (academics) from November 24, 2016 to July 31, 2019, four years after the inception of the institute in 2012. Mark obtained in the faculty selection interview in 2012 was then made the deciding criteria in Dr Gupta’s appointment as dean, said AIIMS sources. For the initial four years, Dr PN Singh, Dr Sadhna Sharma and Dr Ramji Singh had shouldered the dean’s responsibilities as faculty in-charge, on ad hoc internal arrangement, prior to the appointment of Dr Gupta as the dean. Dr Neeraj Agarwal, who was senior to Dr Gupta, had to stake claim to the dean’s post after the latter’s superannuation before he donned the mantle between August 20, 2019 and October 19, 2020. AIIM-Patna director Dr Singh defended the institute. “Appointments of deans and associate deans were delayed because we could not hold the institute’s governing body meeting due to Covid-19. When it finally met in February, the governing body authorised the institute’s president to take a decision. Then there was a second wave of the pandemic. We got our institute president’s approval when he was here recently,” said Dr Singh. As for the oft-changing seniority list, he said, “There are certain norms which have to be followed before issuing a seniority list. A provisional list is first published, and objections are invited within 15 days, after which the final list is prepared. The one I have issued now has been done following all norms, after due diligence.” On not maintaining seniority in case of sub-deans, he said those were nominations to the post on ad hoc basis and not regular appointments. “The doctors working as sub-deans have been nominated to help the establishment carry out work in a smooth and efficient manner. Some people, irrespective of their seniority, are given responsibility based on their dynamism and zeal to go the extra mile. Dr Amit Patil (head, department of forensic medicine and toxicology), for one, has done tremendous work in framing the rules and regulations that govern an academic course. Let the people who have joined their new posts settle down and we can take a call about the sub-deans later,” said Dr Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/aiimspatna-fixes-seniority-fills-top-positions-after-2-years-101631464162786.html
12-09-2021||Patna||Bihar floods: Ministers to visit flood-hit districts, reassess damage||The state government has decided to reassess the scale of devastation due to this year’s flood and make a fresh claim for the compensation to the Centre soon, said a senior officer familiar with the issue. The drive to assess the flood-related damages in various sectors would begin with the minister-level review of their districts concerned from Tuesday. Deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad will chair the meeting of senior officials of Munger and Patna on September 14 & 15 respectively to evaluate the losses the state and its people suffered due to the current spells of floods. On the day when the disaster management department (DMD), which is nodal department for crisis management, submitted a memorandum of ₹3,764 crore to the Central team and sought the financial help to tide over the calamity last week, chief minister Nitish Kumar had said it was a provisional report and final assessment would be done after the flood situation improved. Panchayati raj department minister Samrat Chaudhary, who will be holding review meeting of Darbhanga as minister in-charge of the district on September 15, said all ministers would be doing the similar exercise to present a realistic claim for the damages. Likewise, other ministers would be visiting their assigned districts between September 14-16 and meet the officials concerned. A senior official of the DMD said they plan to submit the fresh report to the Central government in the next couple of weeks. The volume of losses due to the floods is in likelihood will go up, he said. So far, the current spell of floods, which begun late May this year, has affected more than 15 lakh people of 359 panchayats of 73 blocks in 13 districts. At least 53 people have lost their lives due to the floods, while dozens of cattle heads died in different parts of the state. Last year, the state had incurred a loss of ₹3,328.60 crore due to the floods that hit the population of more than 86 lakh living in 1,333 panchayats of 16 districts. The Central government had provided financial assistance of ₹1,255 crore to help the state compensate the losses. As per the provisional claim made by the DMD before the Central team, water resources department has incurred a loss of more than ₹1,470 crore on account of strengthening of embankments, anti-erosion works and flood-fighting exercises during the rainy season. The DMD and agriculture departments have presented claims of ₹1,165 and ₹661 crore. Rural works department and road construction department claimed that infrastructure worth over ₹235 crore and ₹203 crores were damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-floods-ministers-to-visit-flood-hit-districts-reassess-damage-101631463923279.html
12-09-2021||Other||Malerkotla women protest against Delhi woman’s brutal murder||Sangrur Women in their hundreds, under the banner of Women’s Revolution Foundation, Jamaat-e-Islami Hind and Istri Jagriti Manch, held a protest on at the Sirhindi Gate of Malerkotla on Sunday, seeking justice for Rabiya Saifi, 21, found murdered in Faridabad on August 26, 2021. Saifi worked for Delhi Civil Defence. The protesters have sent a memorandum to Union home minister Amit Shah and the National Commission for Women through naib tehsildar Khushwinder Singh seeking a timely, independent and scientific inquiry into the murder case.Jamaat-e-Islami Hind leader Shagufta Yawar, Istri Jagrati Manch leader Amandeep Kaur and Women’s Revolution Foundation leader Tania Tabassum said that brutal murder of Rabia had shocked people. “The silence of the Kejriwal government and the BJP government on this issue raises several questions that need answering,” said Amandeep Kaur.“Rabia’s brutal assassination, despite working in the defence department, calls into question our country’s defense system. In our country, women are considered as second-class human beings and since the BJP government assumed power, dalit and muslim women have been targeted,” she alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/malerkotla-women-protest-against-delhi-woman-s-brutal-murder-101631463562809.html
12-09-2021||Other||Sunday crowds outside Dagdusheth Ganpati temple send Covid norms for a toss||PUNE After a sedate start to the Ganesh festival in Pune, Covid norms largely observed on the first two days, Sunday saw a huge crowd at the Dagdusheth Ganpati temple on Shivaji road; this despite all prominent mandals appealing to the public to opt for online darshans. People queued for darshan on a footpath outside the temple, with heavy police bandobast in place to ensure no chaos.“I came from Daund to Pune city to take the darshan of the Dagdusheth Ganpati. After seeing the crowd outside the temple, I was bit afraid of getting Covid-19. Still I went ahead to take the darshan,” said Kiran Pisal, a devotee. Because of the crowds, vehicles coming from Shaniwarwada were diverted towards Junna Bazaar road leading to traffic jams in the evening peak hours. Vijay Chaudhary, assistant commissioner of police (traffic) said, “We are continuously monitoring the crowd and vehicles from the Dagdusheth Ganpati temple. Because it is Sunday, there was a heavy crowd to take darshan. We appeal to people to take darshan online and avoid crowding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sunday-crowds-outside-dagdusheth-ganpati-temple-send-covid-norms-for-a-toss-101631463563307.html
12-09-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata woman, minor son murdered; cousins held||Six days after a 47-year-old homemaker and her minor son were stabbed to death inside their home in the southern outskirts of Kolkata, the detective department of the city police on Sunday arrested two cousin brothers of the woman, police said. Sushmita Mondal was killed inside her apartment at Parnashree in the Behala area of Kolkata on the afternoon of September 6 because she refused to lend money to the main accused and her aunt’s son Sanjay Das, 44, said Murlidhar Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime). Das was accompanied by his brother Sandip, 32, said Sharma. Sanjay Das was picked up by the police on Saturday and interrogated all night. “We arrested him around 2 pm after he confessed to the killings. Sandip was held around 4 pm from India Exchange Place in central Kolkata,” said Sharma. Both the accused live at Maheshtala in South 24 Parganas district. While Sanjay Das is associated with a cable television business, his brother is a driver. Mondal’s throat was slit and she was stabbed multiple times as well in her bedroom. Her son, Tamajit, 13, was attending virtual classes from the adjoining room. The boy was stabbed when he came to the bedroom and saw his mother being murdered, Sharma added. “Since Mondal was fond of jewellery from a very young age, Sanjay Das thought she must be having a lot of ornaments at home. He admitted during interrogation that he needed money for the marriage of his son from his first wife. He had a lot of debt and called up Mondal a few months ago to ask for ₹5,000. She said she did not have any money. The family of the deceased was more affluent than that of Das,” said Sharma. The crime initially baffled the police because the woman never opened the main door for strangers. Since she used to check every visitor through the eye hole, the police were sure that the killers were known to the family. The crime took place after 12.30 pm on September 6. The neighbours got suspicious when Tamajit’s private tutor, who came after 5 pm, found nobody responding when he rang the bell and even tried to call Mondal on her mobile phone. The woman’s husband, Tapan Mondal, a loan recovery agent with a private bank, was questioned several times as his phone was found to have been switched off for around two hours when the crime took place. He was let off as the police could not find any evidence against him. Even the woman’s parents said they did not suspect their son-in-law. To evade suspicion, the accused men visited Tapan Mondal and expressed their condolence, said a police officer associated with the probe.The postmortem examination reports suggested that the stab wounds were not inflicted by a professional killer, said a police officer. The knife could not be recovered at the scene of the crime or in the vicinity of the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-woman-minor-son-murdered-cousins-held-101631463503815.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC survey finds all fully vaccinated patients recovered after Covid infection||An analysis of the 158 fully vaccinated citizens by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in south Mumbai revealed that 60% or 95 citizens were infected with Covid-19, 90 days after getting their second dose. However, only five vaccinated citizens had to be hospitalised due to complications and most importantly all of them had recovered. BMC found zero causality in its analysis conducted for August month.It was conducted by the D ward to understand the ground situation. The ward covers areas like Malabar Hill, Grant Road, Chowpatty, Altamount Road, Peddar Road and Tardeo.According to the analysis, a total of 460 cases of Covid-19 were reported in the ‘D’ ward last month. Of them, 158 citizens had taken both doses. The data revealed that 95 citizens or 60% cases where individuals had taken their vaccine more than 90 days ago. It further added that all citizens recovered and none had to go through major complications except five who required hospitalization. However, they had also recovered.Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner of the BMC’s D ward said, “I conducted the analysis only to gauge the situation in my ward. Overall, the analysis has revealed that vaccination helps and also in my ward there has been a trend of self-testing. Many citizens after relaxations, are travelling and are later getting self-tested. This in a way helps early tracing, treating and also limits the spread.”In the city, as of Saturday, a total of 10,479,458 vaccine doses have been administered and 3,068,742 or three million citizens have been fully vaccinated. The highest number of vaccinated citizens with at least one dose are in the 18 to 45 years of the age group which has 4,886,197 administered at least one dose.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of state Covid-19 task force said, “The analysis is clear that vaccination helps, hence, I would once again appeal to citizens to get vaccinated. However, we need to understand that all vaccines are currently given emergency use approval, and in the coming months we will get improvised versions of vaccines to fight Covid-19. In fact, they are already in the making as we talk.”Dr Madhav Sathe, former microbiology professor at Nair Hospital said, “None of the vaccines is 100% effective, take any vaccine. But whether person who has taken both doses, will suffer from infection or not will depend on many factors such as the person’s professional risk, if person has Co-morbid conditions, person’s age and if person is taking any drugs that suppress immunity.”Dr Sathe added, “However, it is clear that none got infected with severe Covid-19 and very few required hospitalisations and there was zero mortality. This was possible only due to vaccination. Also, another major factor is following Covid-19 protocols post-vaccination.”Meanwhile, on Sunday the city reported 357 cases followed by seven deaths. This took the case tally to 735,055 and toll to 16,022. The city’s recovery rate is 96% with 711,341 recoveries and the mortality rate is 2.17%. There are 5,244 active cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-survey-finds-all-fully-vaccinated-patients-recovered-after-covid-infection-101631462962882.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||Biology, chemistry in NEET moderate to easy, say students in Mumbai||Nearly 16 lakh students from around the country appeared for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) for undergraduate medical and dental courses on Sunday. Most students found the biology and chemistry sections moderate to easy, while many complained of the difficulty level in the physics section.Once again, Maharashtra made up for the highest number of applicants, with 2.2 lakh registered candidates from the state. While the majority of students found the exam process smooth sailing, few students from the city had much to complain about and have approached the National Testing Agency (NTA) about these errors.“At our centre, the authorities never checked our admit cards, which means the NTA now has no confirmation that we appeared for the exam altogether. We’ve asked the NTA to look into this matter,” said a student. In another case, a handful of students in one classroom at another centre in the city were shocked when the optical marking recognition (OMR) sheet was separated from the answer booklet by the invigilator.“The NTA rules mention that the OMR sheet has to be attached with the answer booklet, how did the invigilator not know this? Without the answer booklet the answer sheet might get discredited from assessment,” said Ruiee Kapoor, parent and activist. Many parents too have approached the NTA and are hoping for clarity from them soon.This is the first time since its inception that the exam pattern for NEET-UG has been changed.Until 2020, the NEET-UG paper pattern consisted of 180 objective type questions from physics, chemistry and biology (botany and zoology) to be answered on a specially designed sheet using a ballpoint pen only. Each correct answer gives students four marks, and each wrong answer deducts one mark. According to NTA, the new paper pattern will now comprise two sections under each subject.Section A will consist of 35 questions that students have to attempt compulsorily, and section B will consist of 15 questions from which the candidate can choose to attempt any 10 questions. “Since students have to choose and attempt only 10 out of the 15 questions, the utilisation of time will remain the same, thus clarifying that the total time given for the exam remains the same this year as well,” clarified the NTA response.Some students also complained about the optional questions in the chemistry section, not from the NCERT syllabus. “Overall, this year’s paper is tougher than the previous year, which is going to make scoring difficult for students. The overall cutoffs will drop this time,” said Vinay Kumar, managing director and chief executive officer, Rao Academy, a city-based coaching institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/biology-chemistry-in-neet-moderate-to-easy-say-students-in-mumbai-101631462722925.html
12-09-2021||Pune||Woman dies by suicide within 6 months of wedding in Pune||PUNE: The Pune police on Saturday booked a man in case of death by suicide of his newly-wed wife within six months of their wedding. The deceased was a 32-year-old woman who had married the 30-year-old accused on March 24. The two started living together after the wedding at an expensive locality area of Aundh. The incident took place on September 9, according to the police. “He runs a business and she was a housewife. This was their first marriage, as far as we know,” said assistant inspector Sandip Pawar of Chatuhshrungi police station. A complaint was lodged by the deceased woman’s 59-year-old mother, living in Aundh. The complainant alleged that the accused used to suspect her daughter of extra marital relation and verbally abused her. Due to their bickering, the woman decided to take the drastic step in their current house. A case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chatuhshrungi police station. Help is a call away... Aasra Contact: 9820466726 Email: aasrahelpline@yahoo.com Timings: 24x7 Languages: English, Hindi Connecting NGO Contact: 9922004305, 9922001122 Email: distressmailsconnecting@gmail.com Timings: 12pm - 8pm; All days Languages: English, Hindi, Marathi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-dies-by-suicide-within-6-months-of-wedding-in-pune-101631462422173.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||Railways finishes work to prevent flooding at Masjid station in Mumbai||In a bid to stop the flooding of railway tracks during monsoon at Masjid Bunder railway station, Central Railway (CR) on Sunday completed laying of 1,000-mm diameter reinforced concrete (RCC) pipes by micro-tunnelling across the railway tracks.A pipe is laid by micro-tunnelling that would run across railway tracks at Masjid Bunder railway station to stop rain water from flooding the tracks. The railway tracks at the station are at a lower level than ground which leads to accumulation of water during heavy rainfall along with high tide.The work on the connection of RCC pipes with Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) pipelines is going on. Once connected, the storm water will be passed through this newly laid RCC pipe, thus preventing waterlogging, officials said.The work was started after conducting a survey to identify where to fix the level of pipe, construction of receiving pit, aligning and setting up of micro-tunnelling boring machine and casting and testing 1,000-mm diameter RCC pipes.“Micro-tunnelling is a proven technology which widely adopted and recently tried, tested and executed at Sandhurst Road railway station area. The railway portion of micro-tunnelling work at Masjid Bunder station has been completed in a very short period,” said Anil Kumar Lahoti, general manager, CR.“A similar kind of micro-tunnelling work has been successfully completed at Sandhurst road station and between Dadar and Parel in monsoon this year in collaboration with civic authorities,” said a senior CR official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cr-finishes-work-to-prevent-waterlogging-at-masjid-bunder-in-mumbai-101631462362968.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC allows PMC Bank to intervene in Rakesh Wadhawan’s bail plea||The Bombay high court (HC) recently permitted the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank to intervene and oppose the bail application of Rakesh Wadhawan, Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) promoter who is accused of allegedly defrauding the bank in a multi-crore money laundering case. Wadhawan has filed the plea on medical grounds. The court also directed Arthur Road jail authorities to furnish medical papers and opinions of expert doctors on Wadhawan’s health condition after it was informed that the accused was referred for cardiac and other treatment at KEM Hospital as the same was not possible at the prison hospital. The single-judge bench of justice Bharati Dangre, while hearing the bail application of Wadhawan through senior advocate Aabad Ponda, was informed that the chief medical officer of Arthur Road jail had submitted a medical report of Wadhawan. The report stated that on September 1 Wadhawan was referred to KEM Hospital for cardiac and other multi-organ medical treatment and that he would be required to be admitted to the hospital again.The court observed that the report was not accompanied with necessary medical papers and opinions expressed by doctors when Wadhawan was examined. Following this, additional public prosecutor Prajakta Shinde sought time to bring on record all relevant medical papers, which the court allowed.Wadhawan, who is named as an accused by the economic offences wing (EOW) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) for his alleged role in the PMC Bank fraud, had earlier sought temporary bail in view of Covid-19, but the same was rejected by the special court. The court had observed that the allegations against Wadhawan were serious and he had caused losses worth crores to the bank, hence temporary bail could not be granted. Thereafter, the counsel for PMC Bank, the complainant in the fraud case, through advocate Aamir Malik sought permission to intervene and oppose Wadhawan’s bail application.“Considering that the intervention is sought by the complainant, an opportunity of hearing is accorded. The intervenor is at liberty to advance the submissions during the hearing of the bail applications. Interim applications stand allowed,” noted justice Dangre and posted further hearing to September 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-allows-pmc-bank-to-intervene-in-rakesh-wadhawan-s-bail-plea-101631460322531.html
12-09-2021||Other||Police officer killed in suspected terrorist attack in Srinagar||A police officer was killed after suspected terrorists opened fire on him in Srinagar’s old city area on Sunday, officials said.Probationary sub-inspector (SI) Arshid Ahmad was fired upon by terrorists from behind at Khanyar injuring him critically, officials said.Ahmad was rushed to Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), Soura, where he was operated upon. “He succumbed to his injuries,” said medical superintendent of SKIMS, Dr Farooq Jan.Ahmad was a resident of Kupwara in north Kashmir and was posted at Khanyar police station.A CCTV footage went viral on social media and showed a lone attacker carrying a small weapon who opened fire on Ahmad a few times from behind from a very close range. He immediately ran away from the spot while some passerby could be seen picking up the injured cop.Director-General of Police, Dilbag Singh, called the incident tragic. “We have lost a young and brave officer who was just at the threshold of his service. He was learning the nuances of policing. He was deputed to a hospital for a check-up of an accused and while he was coming back, he was shot. He was evacuated to a hospital and unfortunately, he succumbed,” Singh said.The perpetrators of the crime involved in this case have been identified and they will be brought to justice, the DGP added. “Every life lost is a cause of concern for us whether police, security forces or a civilian. Those involved in such cases have been brought to justice and in this case too our investigators are looking into it and soon it will be taken care of,” he said.“I strongly condemn brutal killing of our braveheart Police Officer Arshad Ashraf Mir by terrorists. This is a handiwork of enemies of humanity & peace. His supreme sacrifice won’t go in vain, terrorists will be punished for the act. Heartfelt condolences to the martyr’s family,” Jammu and Kashmir’s lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, said. On August 3, a police officer and a civilian were injured in a suspected terrorist attack in the same area. The terrorists had opened fire on a police’s Rakshak vehicle parked at Sheraz Chowk in Khanyar area of Old City and injured a constable.On August 7, a policeman was killed in a terrorist attack in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, some 70 kilometres from the summer capital, Srinagar.On June 22, Inspector Pervaiz Ahmad, who worked with the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) wing of the police, was killed after terrorists opened fire on him at Nowgam near his home in Srinagar outskirts.On June 17, an off-duty Jammu and Kashmir policeman was shot dead near his house in the Old City’s Saidapora area.Political leaders were quick to condemn the attack on Sunday.The National Conference termed the attack “a dastardly act of senseless violence”.“Sorry to hear about the death in the line of duty of Sub Inspector Arshid Mir of J&K Police in a dastardly attack in the heart of Srinagar city. A young life with so much promise, another grieving family. May Allah grant Arshid place in Jannat,” National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah said in a tweet.People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti also expressed her condolences.“Saddened to hear about the death of J&K Police Sub-Inspector Arshid Ahmed killed by militants at Khanyar today. May his soul rest in peace & condolences to his family,” she said.Peoples Conference leader Sajad Lone said, “SI Arshid Ahmed martyred. May Allah grant him Jannat. The terrorists have yet again made an addition to the army of orphans.”City mayor Junaid Mattu also expressed his condolences, “Deeply saddened by the death of Sub Inspector Arshid Mir of @JmuKmrPolice who laid down his life in the line of duty in a cowardly attack by terrorists in Khanyar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-officer-killed-in-suspected-terrorist-attack-in-srinagar-101631459844347.html
12-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 833 new Covid cases, 10 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 833 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths in 24 hours on Sunday. This took the progressive count to 1.12 million of which 1.09 million have recovered, 19,698 deaths and 13,018 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 23,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 500 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 351,479 and with seven more deaths reported the death toll went up to 6,736. Pune city reported 207 new cases which took the progressive count to 514,225 and with two more deaths reported the death toll went up to 9,122. PCMC reported 126 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 264,280 and with one more death reported the toll stood at 3,491. Vaccine count Pune saw 23,857 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Sunday and totally 9,109,698 vaccines have been administered in total, including 6,521,293 first dose and 2,588,405 are second dose. A total of 214 sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 74 are government and 140 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-833-new-covid-cases-10-deaths-101631459602829.html
12-09-2021||Other||Punjab govt, Centre conspiring to abolish cooperative societies: SAD||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday said the BJP-led Central government and the Capt Amarinder Singh government in Punjab were conspiring to abolish cooperative societies in the state to ruin farmers. SAD Kisan Wing president Sikander Singh Maluka said it was shocking that instead of strengthening the cooperative structure, the state government was working to weaken it. “The decision of the state government to reduce DAP fertiliser share to farmers through societies from 80% to 50% is a clear indication that the Congress government is implementing the agenda of the BJP, even as the cooperative societies are the backbone of the farming community,” Maluka said, adding, “The short supply is related to the reduction in the ₹8,000 per tonne subsidy denied to manufacturers.” He added that due to the reduction in manufacturing of fertilisers from 5.5 lakh tonne to 1.25 lakh tonne, lower supply is available in the market. He said marginal farmers were the most affected as they were not in a capacity to procure fertilisers from the market. “The decision of the state government is nothing, but implementation of the BJP’s agenda to create an atmosphere to hand over agriculture sector to corporates and other private players,” Maluka claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-govt-centre-conspiring-to-abolish-cooperative-societies-sad-101631459482490.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder pays tributes to Saragarhi martyrs on battle’s 124th anniversary||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday paid tributes to the martyrs of Saragarhi battle on its 124th anniversary. After virtually paying obeisance in Gurudwara Saragarhi as part of the state-level martyrdom day function, the CM in his address recalled the valour of the 22 soldiers of the 36th Sikh who laid down their lives fighting nearly 10,000 Afghans on September 12, 1897, near Samana ridge (now in Pakistan). The chief minister said that it is also a matter of pride that statue of Havaldar Ishar Singh who led the Sikh soldiers is being unveiled in Wolverhampton (UK). Ferozepur (Urban) MLA Parminder Singh Pinki demanded that a langar hall be constructed, to which the chief minister responded by asking the deputy commissioner to send a proposal. The MLA also appealed to the Prime Minister to extend ₹11-crore assistance for the upkeep of the Saragarhi Gurdwara. Sports and youth affairs minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi also paid tributes to the martyrs. Chairman of Saragarhi memorial management committee and deputy GOC-cum-station commander Brigadier V Mohanty said the UNESCO had included Saragarhi amongst the eight greatest battles ever fought in the world. He also mentioned that the detailed project report regarding the war memorial of Saragarhi was ready. CM to lay foundation stone of research centre, college today Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will on Monday lay the foundation stone of a regional research centre of Punjab Agricultural University at Balowal village in Balachaur sub-division of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district and a government college at Mukhliana village in Chabbewal assembly constituency of Hoshiarpur district. The chief minister will also distribute cheques to beneficiaries of the debt-waiver scheme. Balachaur MLA Darshan Singh Mangupur said a long pending demand for an advanced educational institute in the area was being fulfilled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-amarinder-pays-tributes-to-saragarhi-martyrs-on-battle-s-124th-anniversary-101631458947234.html
12-09-2021||Other||Disease hits shrimp in Malwa, dashing farmers’ hopes of 3rd good season in a row||Bathinda With shrimp farming proving remunerative over the past two years, Jagmohan Singh of Fazilka’s Arniwala village hoped for a third good season in a row this year. However, the outbreak of White Fecal Disease (WFD) in his 3-acre pond of shrimp dashed his hopes. From estimates of ₹40 lakh turnover, Jagmohan finally ended up short of even recovering his investment of ₹16 lakh. With shrimps showing symptoms of retarded growth rate due to WFD, a condition caused by a parasite, he had to harvest his pond in August, much before the scheduled harvesting period of September-October.“I saw an opportunity in shrimp farming in 2019 and prepared my saline and water-logging prone land, for aquaculture. Encouraged by my past experiences, this time I expanded shrimp culture to 3 acre. The shrimp, however, contracted WFD, suffered indigestion and started losing weight drastically, not suited for the market at all,” he said.Farmers in Muktsar, Bathinda, Fazilka and Mansa districts are reporting similar experiences this year. In affected shrimp farms, WFS is evident with whitish fecal strings floating on to the pond surface.Experts at Ludhiana-based Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) attribute the widespread infestation to poor seed quality and gaps is safety protocol. They say the infection may spread from one farm to another through birds, unsanitised equipment or persons accessing ponds. Farmers say they had purchased shrimp seeds through middlemen and have sought the Punjab government’s intervention in providing reliable seeds to overcome losses.Dr Meera D Ansal, dean, department of the Aquaculture College of Fisheries at GADVASU, said, “WFD is a common problem, but it is for the first time that farmers here have this problem on such a large scale. Shrimp is highly remunerative, but it is also high-risk crop. Farmers must follow protocol that Coastal Aquaculture Authority, a national agency, had prepared.” Progressive farmers like Lakhwinder Singh from Muktsar’s Ratta Khera village said farmers reared profit in 2020, but this year his crop in 8-acre farm has been almost fully destroyed. Punjab’ southern districts have almost 1.5 lakh hectare affected with high salinity levels and experts say this unproductive land can be converted into economically viable farms through aquaculture.US and China are main importers of Indian shrimp and firms from coastal states of south India buy the crop at the farm-gate in Punjab. An experienced aquaculturist Harminder Singh from Mansa said, “Bio-safety is key to a good shrimp harvest. Farmers must ensure that entire pond area is protected against birds or stray animals and only sanitised persons enter their farm. These should work in a cooperative mode to source shrimp seeds directly from certified hatcheries in Andhra Pradesh and other places and get it tested at the GADVASU laboratory.”GADVASU’s fisheries resource management expert Prabhjeet Singh said shrimp was prone to infections and farmers should avoid overcrowding in ponds, and harvest it in a 120-day cycle. In 2017, Punjab laid emphasis on shrimp farming with the result coming in 2019, with a production of 800 tonne; last year, production dipped to 600 tonne due to lower availability of seeds, with Covid-19 restrictions in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/disease-hits-shrimp-in-malwa-dashing-farmers-hopes-of-3rd-good-season-in-a-row-101631458703537.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Will not contest polls under Capt’s leadership, says Amargarh MLA Dhiman||Congress MLA from Amargarh Surjit Singh Dhiman has said that he will not contest the state assembly elections under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh. Dhiman also said the people want state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu to be declared as the party’s chief ministerial face for the upcoming polls. “I had refused to contest polls under the command of the then state Congress president Partap Singh Bajwa in 2017. Now, I have decided not to contest elections under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh in 2022,” said Dhiman. Dhiman who used to criticise his own government on drug menace and debt waiver, along with other poll promises, supported Sidhu as next chief ministerial face of the party. “I have conveyed to higher-ups that people want Sidhu as the CM face of the party and I also personally support this. The Capt era has passed. There is a new beginning,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-will-not-contest-polls-under-capt-s-leadership-says-amargarh-mla-dhiman-101631458522322.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: Mid-year review of your portfolio||With so many investment options available, creating a portfolio is not difficult. But, for your money to grow, you need to be aware of investment trends and factors that affect money growth. It is important to constantly assess and evaluate if the money invested is growing at the pace originally envisaged. However, this entails a continued analysis including a mid-year review of the portfolio. You can perform a mid-year portfolio review in five easy and simple steps. These include: Adopt a long-term approach Ignore quacks that promise you double returns within a month. Building a portfolio with a long-term approach and adopting the same approach while reviewing it is necessary. While recent times may have turned your attention to having an emergency fund or enough money in your savings accounts to meet treatment expenses, investing with the intent to secure your long-term financial future should be the aim. Market movements may take a toll on certain investment options that had seemed lucrative otherwise. Long-term investment options include equity-type investments like stocks and real estate. Understand the market dynamics involved in the working of any and every fiscal instrument. For example, debt instruments provide security but do not beat inflation. Choosing to invest in equities through Systematic Investment Plans (SIPs) ensures regular investment in the market. This will also save you from the hassle of timing the market before entering and exiting it. Hedge risks The extent to which your choice of investments will behave in the long run depends on the quantum of risk associated with them and whether they have been shielded against sudden market movements or unforeseen events like the recent epidemic. A unique way of hedging risks can be through insurance. Similarly, investments must also be insured by securing an emergency fund to meet contingencies. To ensure complete financial security, you must take care to diversify your investments. A well-diversified portfolio contains stocks, mutual fund investments, fixed-income instruments, sovereign gold bonds and a bit of real estate. Financial goals Investments are made keeping financial goals in mind. Depending on your risk appetite and desired earnings in the long run, you can put your money into equities and debt instruments. Besides, you must consider factors including market volatility, changing interest rates and sporadic monetary guidelines by the government while investing your money. For example, a few years back, Unit Linked Insurance Plans (ULIPs) were preferred despite a part of the premium being dedicated to life cover owing to its tax exemption option. However, change of rules allowed exemptions from tax only for ULIPs with yearly premium up to ₹2.5 lakh per annum. This prompted many to shift their investments to mutual funds subject to the same tax slabs. However, in the latter, the entire money was invested in equity or debt without the burden of the added insurance cover. Tax implications Investments, insurance and tax-saving measures are distinct from each other. While reviewing your investment portfolio, check if you have availed of the tax-saving opportunities too such as paying for tax-saving fixed deposit receipts, public provident funds, equity-linked savings schemes, etc. Start checking at the portfolio level and then move on to individual investments to check which earn good returns. While saving on taxes is important, the focus must always be on investments that earn high returns and not choosing those that promise tax benefits but give low returns. While reviewing possible returns, compute the potential tax burden too to calculate the post-tax returns. Change asset class There is nothing fixed about assets. If circumstances indicate the possible need for enough cash in the future, choose investments that can be easily liquidated. Opt for simple money market instruments like accumulating money in savings accounts or parking some amount in fixed or recurring deposits. You can put some money in extremely short-term investment options too. Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-mid-year-review-of-your-portfolio-101631457922339.html
12-09-2021||Dehradun||Congress MLA joins BJP ahead of assembly polls, says impressed by PM Modi||With months left for the next state assembly elections to be held in Uttarakhand next year, Opposition Congress MLA from Purola constituency of Uttarkashi district, Rajkumar, joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in its headquarters in Delhi on Sunday. His joining has come days after independent MLA from Dhanaulti in Tehri Garhwal district Pritam Singh Panwar joined BJP a few days ago in Delhi. Rajkumar, who was earlier an MLA with the BJP from 2007-2012 from Sahaspur constituency of Dehradun district, fought independently from Purola in the 2012 elections and lost. He then joined Congress in the 2017 elections and won from Purola. On Sunday, he joined the BJP in presence of Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, party state president Madan Kaushik and party Rajya Sabha member Anil Baluni. He was welcomed in the party folds by Pradhan by handing him the party membership token before the media. Pradhan while welcoming him to the party, called him a mass leader in Uttarakhand. “A mass leader in the Himalayan state, Rajkumar has support in Dehradun as well as the rural areas of hills. His joining will ensure the party’s win in the upcoming state assembly elections in Uttarakhand,” said Pradhan. Terming him an influential leader in the Scheduled Caste (SC) community, party state head Kaushik said, “Rajkumar is a senior leader who had served the people of Uttarakhand for two terms as an MLA including the present one.” “He has significant influence in the SC community and has always been active on issues related to them. He is so concerned for the community that, despite being an MLA in the Opposition, he has supported our government on steps taken for the welfare of the community in the House. The party will definitely benefit with his inclusion,” said Kaushik, adding “We hope he will strengthen the party by working within the framework.” CM Dhami, while hailing Rajkumar’s contribution as a leader said, “He has always raised the voice of the oppressed and poor. He has been working for the poor across the state.” “A few days ago, Panwar joined the BJP and now Rajkumar. It is due to the charismatic leadership of PM Narendra Modi. Rajkumar’s inclusion will help BJP work for the ignored section of the society in a much better way,” said Dhami. Rajkumar, while addressing the media during the joining event, said he joined the BJP because he was “greatly influenced by PM Modi.” “I was influenced by the kind of development works are being done by the BJP government under PM Modi, especially the Char Dham all-weather road which has changed the face of Uttarakhand. Also, it is also providing free ration to crores of poor across the country amid the Covid-19 pandemic which left a great impact on me about the public welfare works being done by BJP in the country. These all made me join the party,” he said. On the occasion, he also attacked his previous party Congress for “not doing enough for the SC community.” “The major difference between the BJP and the Congress which I can see is the fact that the former has worked towards making SC community self-dependent but Congress always made them disabled by making them rely on subsidies,” said Rajkumar. Earlier, a BJP insider said that Rajkumar was supposed to join the party in a formal event on Saturday but couldn’t after he had put a condition before the party leadership. “He was demanding a ticket from Rajpur road constituency of Dehradun from where Khajan Das is party MLA. The party was a little hesitant in accepting it because it feared angering the party workers in the area by doing so. But it seems the demand has been met,” said the leader on condition of anonymity. “It is good that weaker links are leaving party before polls,” Congress state president Ganesh Godiyal said. Reacting to the development, Godiyal claimed that it “won’t affect” the party as it is going to win the 2022 polls. “It is in fact a good thing that the weaker links are leaving the party before the polls. Rajkumar was aware of his weakening political status in his constituency and was wary of it. Hence, in order to save himself, he switched sides before the polls,” said Godiyal. He also said that he tried contacting Rajkumar before his joining but failed. “I had earlier got to know about his probable joining from the media reports after which I tried to contact him to know the reason but failed. He must have sensed his situation for some reasons leading to his defection,” said Godiyal. The Opposition state head also categorically denied that any other party MLA is also in talks with BJP to switch sides. “I can say with full confidence that apart from Rajkumar, no other MLA is in touch with the BJP. They are all working for the party to win the 2022 polls along with the hard work of our party workers on the ground,” said Godiyal. Meanwhile, amid the fresh political development, a senior Congress leader has claimed that two BJP sitting MLAs, one each from Haridwar and Dehradun, are in touch with Congress and are willing to switch sides. “The one from Haridwar is ready to join the party but on a guaranteed ticket for the 2022 elections while the other one from Dehradun is the one who had defected to the BJP in 2017 and is currently disgruntled with the BJP leadership,” said the leader. He added, “Congress right now is not in a hurry to accept them in the party fearing political repercussions in the organisation. It is possible that both are sensing that they won’t be given tickets by the BJP in 2022 and are hence trying to switch sides. And if that happens, then BJP will be in a position to say that Congress accepted those leaders who were rejected by them. It will be then a political self-goal for us ahead of the elections. We have enough strong candidates of our own in both those constituencies.” When enquired, party state head Godiyal didn’t deny the reports and said, “I have already said that some BJP MLAs are in touch with us to join the party but we will go head after proper analysis and c||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/congress-mla-joins-bjp-ahead-of-assembly-polls-says-impressed-by-pm-modi-101631457324109.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Asha workers await Covid-19 incentives since April, to protest on Sept 24||Over 1.50 lakh Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) workers will be going on a strike from September 24. Despite the assurance of ₹1,000 incentive from the Central government for testing and tracing Covid-19 patients, Asha workers still await the remuneration since April 2021.Since the announcement of the pandemic in March 2020, Asha workers have been doing door-to-door surveys of infected Covid-19 patients for contact tracing of closed contacts. They also visit villagers to maintain data of children with malnutrition and health updates of pregnant women. This often makes them vulnerable to contracting Covid on the field, as claimed by the Asha workers. Already 45 Asha workers have lost their lives to the novel coronavirus in Maharashtra, since its outbreak.Though the pandemic curve has flattened in the state, a few districts like Pune, Aurangabad and Sangli are still recording a higher positivity rate than the state’s average which stands at 3.1%. Despite this, the central government has stopped playing them the Covid-19 incentives of ₹1,000.“It is the responsibility of the Asha workers to track the close contacts of the infected patients. Also, daily, they have to maintain the health updates of malnourished children, pregnant women and lactating mothers. These expose the workers to contracting Covid-19 cases. Despite this, they aren’t getting their Covid-19 incentives,” said MA Patil from Maharashtra Rajya Asha Gatpravatak Karamchari Kruti Samiti. “Although doctors from private setups get lakhs for their services,” he added.The Asha workers get an honorarium amount between ₹4,000 to ₹8,500 depending on their experience.“These workers are risking their lives for such less honorarium amount. Also, we didn’t get the hiked payment of ₹2,000 from April 2021 onward. No one cares for the foot soldiers who are risking their lives amid the pandemic,” said Patil.In response to the allegations, state-wide Asha workers have decided to go on a strike on September 24.“The state government had recently declared to pay them ₹3,000 addition but so far, it hasn’t been implemented. This is unethical,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-asha-workers-await-covid-19-incentives-since-april-to-protest-on-sept-24-101631456662112.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||SIT to handle probe into Sakinaka rape and murder case||Investigations into the brutal rape and murder of a 32-year-old woman in Sakinaka were on Sunday transferred to a special investigation team (SIT). The SIT consists of 11 officers, including a woman assistant commissioner of police who heads the team, officials said. The case would be tried in a fast-track court according to Hemant Nagrale, commissioner of Mumbai Police. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had announced that the case will be tried in a fast-track court. Pressure had been mounting from various quarters, including from the opposition, to ensure that strictest action is taken in the case and the accused is tried and convicted at the earliest. The police, however, did not disclose the need to set up the SIT. The woman who was raped and brutalised with an iron rod in Mumbai died while undergoing treatment at a hospital early on Saturday, police said. According to the police, the control room received a phone call at 3.20am on Friday, informing them about an injured couple in Sakinaka. On reaching the spot, the police found a woman, who was bleeding profusely, inside a parked tempo. Police arrested a 45-year-old pavement dweller in connection with the crime on Friday itself after he was spotted exiting the tempo in CCTV footage, officials familiar with the matter said. He was remanded in police custody till September 21. He was booked under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape), 323 (assault) and 34 (common intention). The police said they were yet to ascertain the motive behind the crime as the victim had succumbed to her injuries on Saturday morning and her statement could not be recorded. The police had rushed the woman to Rajawadi Hospital in the same tempo. At the hospital, the woman was admitted into the intensive care unit, where she battled for life for almost 33 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sit-to-handle-probe-in-sakinaka-rape-murder-case-101631456422106.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||8-year-old boy dies, Rajpura firecracker store blast toll reaches two||The death toll in Rajpura firecracker store blast reached two after 8-year-old Gurpreet Singh succumbed to his injuries on Saturday late night. He was the brother of Manpreet Kaur (13), who had died on the spot. Gurpreet was admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, with serious injuries on Saturday and breathed his last late at night. The high-intensity blast had occurred at an illegal firecracker store in Rajpura’s Sant Nagar, demolishing the building into rubble and leaving several houses in the vicinity with cracks on the walls. Meanwhile, police are yet to take any criminal action against the owner of the house as the raw material used for manufacturing firecrackers was stacked illegally. Rajpura SHO Gurpartap Singh said a team has been constituted to carry out investigations into the matter. “The case will be registered once the inquiry is done. The statements have been recorded,” he said. Past incidents December 18, 2017 A Rajpura resident, Sanjay Kumar, was killed when a truck loaded with firecrackers exploded at Sorgir Basti in Mirch Mandi area. November 12, 2017 Two workers were killed and seven injured in a furnace blast at Sirhind in Fatehgarh sahib district. November 16, 2017 A 26-year-old man was killed in a blast at a mustard oil manufacturing unit in Patiala. September 19, 2017 Seven people were killed when a godown used for storing firecrackers caught fire at Sular Gharat in Dirba sub-division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/8yearold-boy-dies-rajpura-firecracker-store-blast-toll-reaches-two-101631455162571.html
12-09-2021||Other||8 years after it was mooted, Centre says no SAARC hospital in Amritsar in the works||Amritsar The Union ministry of external affairs (MEA) has said, in response to a plea filed under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, that no proposal to build a ₹1,800 crore SAARC super-specialty hospital in Amritsar is under consideration. The project was conceived at the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) conference held at Lahore in 2013. After HT had highlighted the forgotten project in May this year, social worker Naresh Johar had sought information from the Union health ministry under RTI. The ministry referred this plea to the MEA, which has replied, “As per information with this division, no such proposal is under consideration of the government within the SAARC framework.”Amritsar was chosen for this hospital in view of its location, its international airport, hotel industry and religious tourism. It was also decided that renowned medicos from SAARC countries will offer their services at this hospital. The project, now, is dead, even as the Punjab government and SAARC officials had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) eight years ago. Since then, the state government has failed to follow it up. “The Central government is responsible for the failure of this project, and the state government has not pursued this up. This will have been a milestone in the development of medical tourism in the holy city. All city MLAs, including Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, are from the ruling party in Punjab. They failed to ensure the establishment of this already sanctioned project,” Johar added. In 2016, Amritsar Vikas Manch, a city-based NGO, had raised the issue with the then Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan through an RTI. The ministry stated that the matter was under the consideration of the Punjab government, but state government officials feigned ignorance.A tentative site for the SAARC hospital was chosen on the premises of an abandoned community health centre building in Verka locality; the state government is yet to allot a site. The proposed site for the hospital is situated in Amritsar East assembly segment that Sidhu represents. When his wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu represented this segment, she said the file was on the table of the then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/8-years-after-it-was-mooted-centre-says-no-saarc-hospital-in-amritsar-in-the-works-101631453121817.html
12-09-2021||Delhi||'No traffic zone', new food joint timings: All you need to know about Delhi's revamped Chandni Chowk||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday inaugurated the revamped Chandni Chowk market and announced new timings for food joints the street is famous for. Speaking at the inauguration event, Kejriwal said that the street food joints will be allowed till midnight in a bid to transform the market into a major tourist hub.“It has already become an important tourist place. I came to know that people come here to roam till 12 am,” the Delhi chief minister said. "Street food joints will be allowed to open for 3-4 more hours till 12 am so that people can come here in the night and enjoy. Lots of street food joints will be opened after closure of the market," he announced.Kejriwal told a gathering near Fountain Chowk that Chandni Chowk used to have cracked roads, traffic jams and loose wires but has now become beautiful and aesthetically appealing."We have beautified almost 1.4 km stretch of the Chandni Chowk market and made it extremely beautiful. Traffic on the stretch was improved, dangling wires were made underground, CCTVs were installed under the redevelopment project,” he said.The main stretch between Chandani Chowk and the Red Fort has been improved, including pedestrian-friendly corridors. It has been made aesthetically appealing with the help of red granite stone, decorative lights and plants and street furniture, reported PTI. Motorised vehicles won’t be allowed on the stretch between 9am-9pm since it has been made a “no traffic zone.”The project witnessed several delays due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The redevelopment project was approved in August 2018 and was scheduled to be completed in March 2020 but, according to PWD officials, the pandemic forced the delay. The deadline was further pushed to December 2020 and then to April 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-traffic-zone-new-food-joint-timings-all-you-need-to-know-about-delhi-s-revamped-chandni-chowk-101631448630623.html
12-09-2021||Bangalore||Nipah outbreak: Karnataka to keep close eye on arrivals from Kerala||The Karnataka government said on Sunday individuals coming from Kerala will be kept under surveillance as the double whammy of coronavirus and Nipah continues to keep the neighbouring state on its toes. Surveillance has also been intensified in districts bordering Kerala, a senior official said.“We have already issued a detailed advisory on precautions to be taken (against Nipah virus). Advanced surveillance measures already in place in all border districts. People coming from Kerala will be under surveillance,” Karnataka health commissioner KV Trilok Chandra was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On September 7, the Karnataka government had directed administrations of districts bordering Kerala to strengthen surveillance and preparedness after the first confirmed case of Nipah virus was reported in the state.Officials were asked to monitor arrivals from Kerala for any symptoms like fever, altered mental status, severe weakness, headache, respiratory distress, cough, vomiting, muscle pain, convulsion and diarrhea -- all signs of a Nipah virus infection.Also Read: 68 primary contacts free of Nipah virus as 7 more samples turn negative: Kerala health minister Veena George“Regarding Nipah virus, I have given directions to the health secretary and experts. I will get a report on its behaviour in Kerala and its impact on us by this evening, following which necessary action will be taken,” chief minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters in Bengaluru on September 10.Nipah virus is a zoonotic virus like SARS-COV2 and can be transmitted from one person to another. Kerala has so far reported 68 cases of the virus. On Saturday, a team from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, collected samples from fruit-eating bats to find the source of the Nipah Virus in Kozhikode, Kerala, where a 12-year old boy succumbed to the virus earlier this week.The neighbouring state of Tamil Nadu is also on alert and a special ward to treat Nipah virus patients has been set up at the state-run Rajaji hospital in Madurai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/nipah-outbreak-karnataka-to-keep-close-eye-on-arrivals-from-kerala-101631448391532.html
12-09-2021||Other||BJP MP Varun Gandhi writes to Yogi to increase sugarcane prices, subsidize diesel||Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh, Varun Gandhi, has written to chief minister Yogi Adityanath seeking more remuneration for sugarcane crop, subsidy in diesel and electricity prices and doubling of money given to farmers under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana.In the two-page letter to Adityanath, the Pilibhit MP listed out all the problems and demands of the farmers and also suggested solutions for the same.Gandhi urged Adityanath to increase the sugarcane selling price to ₹400 per quintal that currently stands at ₹315 per quintal in Uttar Pradesh.“Farmers should be given an additional bonus of ₹200 per quintal above the minimum support price (MSP) of wheat and paddy,” Gandhi said in the letter.While the UP government has claimed to have cleared almost 84% of dues to about 4.5 million sugar cane farmers of the state, Gandhi has pointed out that some dues remain unpaid.The Yogi Adityanath government claims to have paid ₹1.42 lakh crore to sugarcane farmers in the past four years. Sugarcane is mainly grown in western UP, which is the hotbed of the UP farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three farm laws.Referring to the farming community’s alleged economic distress, the BJP MP pitched for a ₹200 per quintal bonus for farmers who grow wheat and rice apart from giving them seeds at cheaper rates and at least ₹20 per litre subsidy in diesel prices.He also demanded the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme to be doubled to ₹12,000 per annum for farmers with the state government contributing ₹6,000 from its funds.This is not the first time when Gandhi has raised issues related to the farmers. On September 5, when a large number of farmers gathered for the Muzaffarnagar Mahapanchayat, which was organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha against the three farm laws, Gandhi said the government should re-engage with them to reach common ground as they are “our own flesh and blood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-mp-varun-gandhi-writes-to-yogi-to-increase-sugarcane-prices-subsidize-diesel-101631447542708.html
12-09-2021||Pune||Curtain call: The moment all my world was a stage||The play ‘The Kite Runner’ was around the corner. It was set to open on August 31, 2019, at the Jamshed Bhabha Theatre of the National Centre of Performing Arts at Nariman Point, Mumbai. We had our grand rehearsal at the venue for a few days before the actual show, so we were all accustomed to that venue. The play was shaping up nicely. I was acting in it and the director, Akarsh Khurrana, had considered me to be a good fit for the role of the protagonist – Amir. While I was happy to be a part of it, it was also daunting as the protagonist was also the narrator of the play and, without exaggeration, had more than fifty per cent of the total dialogues. That was not all. The play also boasted a stellar cast which included veterans like Akash Khurrana and Kumud Mishra. While it was already a task to memorise so many lines, there was additional pressure to perform with such seasoned actors. Of course, the previous line will be followed by a cliché of how supportive they were, but I can’t help it, because they really were! There were multiple locations in the play, ranging from Amir’s sprawling house in Kabul, his favourite spot with his friend Hassan on top of a hill, the streets of Kabul, an empty oil tanker, a flea market in San Francisco, their home in America, and different locations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. When I read it, I had no idea how the director and the set designer were planning to pull it off. They made a permanent set structure which resembled large rocks and then used smaller, portable set elements to turn them into something else. A large cloth with an Arabic design was also hung on both sides, from the top. It added a certain aesthetic to the overall visual. So a large rock became the hill in Kabul, it was also a terrace café on the streets on Kabul. It became a part of the beach on San Francisco just by adding the sound of waves and sea gulls. A smaller rock became a stall in the flea market when some items were kept on it. It was the same rock that was also a bed when Akash sir slept on it with his robe on. And it just worked. Because the director made us believe that a set element served a particular purpose. And since we believed in it, the audience believed in it too. It also depicted the ruins Kabul was in, in the latter half of the play. Light design by Quasar Thakore Padamsee was another highlight. It would have been easy for any other light designer to make use of multiple colour shades to highlight the serious situations in the play. But Quasar followed the subtlety in the script and with the use of soft, dim, yellow and amber lights he set a visual mood. There were a few scenes which had a bit of humour and romance and the lights were a little brighter then. I couldn’t experience the visuals myself, of course, but I could imagine what it must have looked like. And the audience reactions after the show confirmed that. It was the first play of mine which was so heavily publicised. It was one of the plays curated for ‘Aadyam’, a theatre initiative by the Birla Group. Every year, five full length plays are produced and funded by ‘Aadyam’ and they organise nine shows at venues in Mumbai and New Delhi. Billboards were put up all over Mumbai! Articles were being written. And this just amped up the nervousness. On the day of our first show I remember travelling to the venue in a cab, not looking anywhere else. I couldn’t get myself to look at the multiple messages from friends wishing me good luck. A few of them were on their way from Pune just for the show. All shows had been sold out the moment tickets went online and I had hoped against hope that my friends and family wouldn’t get tickets. They still managed to get them and I had no choice now but to perform in front of them. Just before the third bell, there was a small red light in the wings. I kept looking at that, trying to focus. Akarsh had decided to keep the curtain open from the beginning, making the audience familiar with the set as soon as they entered. The third bell rang and I entered the stage. I started my lines on the music cue and I don’t remember much of what happened for two hours after that. I suppose it went well, because I remember being hugged by my director, friends, family, and a few strangers too. I remember shaking Mr. Birla’s hand. (He came for two more shows after that, one in Delhi. So I can safely say that he liked it.) The next shows were a breeze too, with similar reactions. The shows of this production were on hold till we got the schedule of the huge cast in order and then the pandemic struck, making the possibility of future shows bleaker. While I would love for more and more people to see this, I cannot emphasise enough the wonders it has done to my confidence as an actor and as a person. It will remain one of the most important plays of my life. Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-the-moment-all-my-world-was-a-stage-101631447481592.html
12-09-2021||Pune||Your space: Reopening of schools with fully vaccinated staff||Even as all teaching and non-teaching staff of civic schools are fully vaccinated, the vax count at private schools in the city is a poor 50 per cent. With authorities planning to reopen schools, readers suggest steps that should be taken to ensure all staff at private schools are fully vaccinated Reopen schools only for fully vaccinated staff Public schools lead their private counterparts in terms of Covid-19 inoculation among teaching and non-teaching staff members, data from Pune district administration shows. There are 56,189 intended beneficiaries from the public and private schools which includes teaching and non-teaching staff members. In public schools, there are 22,125 teachers and 6,476 non-teaching staff members who have been identified by the administration for vaccination. In private schools, there are 22,406 teachers and 5,181 non-teaching staff members who are being targeted for fast-track vaccination. However, vaccination is moving at a slow pace and schools must not be allowed to reopen as it can prove dangerous for kids. Dr Sameer Rajvanshi Govt took decision on an impulse Parent groups have been actively opposing the idea of physical classes, where Covid-19 numbers are still being recorded. Even if schools divide their batches into smaller groups and spread them across different classrooms, how will the teacher manage to teach all students? Before announcing a blanket decision, the state government should first try pilot batches and understand how physical schools could pose difficulties to schools as well as students. Who will be responsible if one or more students contract the virus? The state government has taken the decision on an impulse without even discussing the same with school-heads. Manoj Salunke With vax count low, do not resume offline school in hurry As the state is poised to take a decision in the next few days on reopening schools in the state, the government has stressed vaccinating teachers and non-teaching staff must be prioritised among other things. Bachchu Kadu, Maharashtra minister of state for school education, has said that the decision on reopening schools would be taken in the next few days. Schools have restarted in other states of the country and should be resumed in the state as well. But the decision will have to be taken carefully considering the fact that Maharashtra has the highest number of active cases after Kerala. Physical classes in schools were shut in Maharashtra in March 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the state. Schools in rural areas were allowed to resume physical classes for Class 8 to 12 students on July 12, but only in areas where Covid-19 cases are minimal. The rate of vaccination is very slow, so there should not be any hurry in reopening of the school. Manohar Kulkarni Reopen schools under Covid norms The health task force has discussed the plan with the state school education department officials to reopen schools in the state and wants to ensure schools are fully prepared and physical classes will not lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases. We also want the schools to be reopened but with certain precautions as we are concerned about their health. Children are definitely suffering from mental health issues and nutrition and thus schools should be reopened but in a safe environment. Currently vaccination of teachers and non-teaching staff is going on so the schools must reopen from next June. The task force has recommended that teaching and non-teaching staff of schools should be vaccinated and there must be proper seating arrangements in classes and one bench should be reserved for one student only. If possible, schools with online teaching infrastructure can simultaneously hold physical as well as online classes. Students can attend in-person classes by rotation. Classes must be sanitised and there must be a monitoring system in place in all schools. The school staff should also be trained to deal in case of a medical emergency Ranjana Girase Reopen schools after parents’ consent Schools should divide students into two batches and they should be called for physical classes on alternate days. Sports activities, which require close contact, should be avoided. Schools can also be started in a staggered manner by allowing some classes now and increasing them later based on the situation and if in case any Covid case is reported they can be stopped immediately. Dr Bakul Parekh, a member of the paediatric task force, said vehicles ferrying schoolchildren should not have closed windows and they should have sufficient ventilation. The government has suggested the school administration hold parent-teacher meetings before reopening schools. At these meetings, parents should be apprised about precautions schools will be taking for the safety of students. Kamal Dhore Many teachers got the jab as frontline workers It would take more than a few months to get all teachers and non-teaching staff vaccinated. The central government had set September 5 as the deadline to get teachers and non-teaching staff vaccinated, but that has not happened. A sizable number of teachers in the city has already gained from the priority vaccination in the frontline workers’ category during the initial roll-out of the immunisation programme. Teachers were deployed for contact tracing work and other field duties along with health workers to contain the spread of the virus. Hence, most have got their first dose under the frontline workers category. So, we don’t see there is any further problem in reopening of schools. Anita Dixit||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-reopening-of-schools-with-fully-vaccinated-staff-101631446581508.html
12-09-2021||Other||Mishap at Chhattisgarh power plant kills 3 labourers||Three labourers died and two others were injured in a mishap inside a power plant in Raigarh district on Sunday, officials said.Police said that the two injured were rushed to a government hospital and their condition is stable.“The incident took place inside the company premises of Sky Alloys Power and Private Limited under Kharsia police station limits at around 12.15 pm,” said Superintendent of police, Raigarh, Abhishek Meena.Police said that an iron-made tank, filled with fly ash, fell on five labourers who were engaged in the welding work inside the plant. Three of them died on the spot.“Three labourers, Munilal Ram (40), Basant Yadav (30) and Yadram Sarthi (25) died on the spot while Shiv Jaiswal and Baccha Prasad sustained injures,” the SP said, adding that the bodies were sent for postmortem.Police said that they have registered a case under section 174 Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and have started investigating the case.“Other sections will be added after the inquiry of incident,” Meena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mishap-at-chhattisgarh-power-plant-kills-3-labourers-101631445981652.html
12-09-2021||Bangalore||Cong in talks with JD(S) over coalition in Kalaburagi civic body||Congress leader and former Karnataka minister Sharan Prakash Patil on Sunday said the party is in talks with JD(S) to stitch a coalition in Kalaburagi municipal corporation.The minister said while a Congress councillor would hold the position of the mayor, a JD(S) leader would get the deputy mayor seat.“There is going to be an alliance with JD(S) in the Kalaburagi Corporation elections. Congress and JD(S) will hold the positions of mayor & deputy mayor. We are in talks with JD(S),” Patil was quoted as saying my news agency ANI.The Congress secured the municipal corporation in Kalaburgi, held earlier this month, by winning 27 out of 55 wards to emerge as the single-largest party. The BJP got 23 seats to retain its second position, followed by four seats by JDS and one by an independent candidate.Elections to three north Karnataka civic bodies were held on September 3, in which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won the Belagavi while the Congress secured the municipal corporation in Kalaburgi, leaving a hung house in Hubbali-Dharwad.As many as 1,100 candidates were in the fray from 195 wards in Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Kalaburagi as the municipakl corporations went to the polls on Friday.The BJP won 35 of the 58 wards in Belagavi, while the independent candidates got 12 seats, pushing Congress to the third position with 10 seats. The AIMIM could manage its foot-hold in only one seat.The civic body elections in these North Karnataka towns assumed significance for conducting the polls for the first time after chief minister Basavaraj Bommai took over the reins of the BJP government in the state from BS Yediyurappa in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/cong-in-talks-with-jd-s-over-coalition-in-kalaburagi-civic-body-101631441073720.html
12-09-2021||Patna||Bihar’s Purnia district set to become a bibliophile’s haven||Bihar’s Purnia, once seen as a backward and illiterate area, is all set to become a bibliophile’s haven with a library in almost every panchayat of the district, resulting in a collection of over 100,000 donated books.Out of 230 panchayats in Purnia district, 190 panchayats have their own libraries and the district administration has launched a ‘Kitab Daan Rath’ (a book donation vehicle) to collect books donated by patrons not only to open libraries in the remaining 40 panchayats but also to keep reading habits, especially amongst the youth, alive.“So far we have received over one hundred thousand books through donations and have set up 190 panchayat libraries, each of them with at least 500 books,” Purnia district magistrate (DM) Rahul Kumar said, adding, “We have launched a ‘Kitab Daan Rath’ to collect books from people to set up libraries in the remaining 40 panchayats of the district.”Kumar, a bibliophile, remembers how the libraries helped him and his friends shape their career. “Libraries, small or big, create a difference in one’s life” he claimed. “If our villages are equipped with libraries, students from rural areas need not go to the big cities like Delhi or Patna to pursue their career,” DM said.Narrating the story behind setting up panchayat libraries in the district, Purnia DM said he realised during his many visit to schools in rural areas about two years ago that something needed to be done to nurture rural talents and therefore, “I talked to the intellectuals in this regard and decided to set up rural libraries, and on January 25 2020, a book donation campaign was launched,” he said.On January 25 this year, the first panchayat library with 1000 books was set up at Paroa panchayat in Krityanand Nagar block and now 190 panchayats have their own libraries, the DM said. “We need at least 20,000 books for the remaining 40 panchayats and hence, whoever wants to donate they can do so in the office of DM or DEO (district education officer) or BEO (block education office) or they can contact us on the mobile numbers: 8544411773, 8544411774 and 8544411776 and the Rath will visit them to receive the books at their door.”Purnia DEO Shyam Babu Ram while expressing his satisfaction over the enthusiasm among the people for the libraries at panchayat-level, claimed, “This has started bringing about a change in rural areas with children as well as books lovers visiting libraries.” “We are also thinking of issuing a directive to every government school falling under respective panchayats to take their children to the library at least once a week so that reading habits may be cultivated in them.”Purnia has two enriched libraries with rare collections of hundreds of books--one is the collector’s library and the other one is the district library. Besides, there are at least 12 private libraries in the district. “We are preparing for competitive examinations so that we can take jobs at the earliest,” Amit Kumar Mandal, who passed the intermediate examination this year, said “Our first priority is to get a government job and till yesterday it seemed to be impossible in the village, but ever since the library has started functioning, we have become hopeful about our career.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-purnia-district-set-to-become-a-bibliophile-s-haven-101631441540884.html
12-09-2021||Bhopal||Neemuch incident: MP govt announces financial support for tribal man Kanhaiya Lal Bhil’s family||The family of 45-year-old Kanhaiya Lal Bhil will receive support from the government, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said in a statement on Sunday. His son will receive the government’s support to continue his education and his brothers will receive monetary compensation of Rs.2 lakh each and aided in the construction of their homes, Chouhan said.“After Kanhaiya Lal Bhil's death in Neemuch during an unfortunate incident, we've decided to support the victim's son in his education and in other expenses. We'll also help 2 brothers of the victim to build their houses and will give ₹2 lakh each to them,” the chief minister told reporters on Sunday.Bhil, a tribal man from Madhya Pradesh’s Neemuch district, was allegedly thrashed by eight people, who tied him to the back of a vehicle with a nylon rope and dragged him for some distance on August 26. He later succumbed to his injuries during treatment on August 28. The matter came to light after a video of the barbaric incident was widely shared on social media.Sooraj Kumar Verma, superintendent of police, Neemuch, said Bhil, who was a resident of Banda village, was involved in a minor road accident with a milkman named Chitarmal Gurjar. Bhil had gone looking for his wife, who he alleged had eloped with her brother-in-law, with his friend Govind Bhil. They were on the lookout for vehicles coming from his village. Bhil was thrown off balance after he picked up a stone and collided with Gurjar’s bike, causing him to spill the milk he was carrying. Gurjar lost his cool and called up his friends who roughed up Bhil and tied him to the back of a truck.After the video of the incident sparked backlash on social media all eight accused were charged under sections 302 (Punishment for murder) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code and the SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act. Six individuals, including Gurjar were also arrested, and search was on for the remaining accused.The state administration also undertook a demolition drive against some of the accused. SP Suraj Verma and district collector Mayank Agarwal reached the village of the accused and oversaw the demolition of their properties, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/neemuch-incident-mp-govt-announces-financial-support-for-tribal-man-kanhaiya-lal-bhil-s-family-101631440733267.html
12-09-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh announces mega Covid-19 vaccination drive again, this time on PM Modi’s birthday||Madhya Pradesh government announced a mega vaccination drive against Covid-19 in the state, days after a similar drive was conducted earlier for two days on August 25 and 26. This time, the state government has announced the event as part of its celebrations on September 17, to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday.The directorate of state health services announced the vaccination drive on Twitter, calling it a “vaccination festival.” It also invited the public to get vaccinated in order to protect themselves from the coronavirus.The state government had set itself a target of inoculating 100% of its population with at least one dose of the vaccine by September 30. Earlier on September 9, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan met with state health minister Prabhuram Choudhary and discussed the measures to achieve this target, he had tweeted. Further, he also said that he spoke with Union minister of health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya, who had assured sufficient Covid-19 vaccine supply for MP. “This supply will help in making the Vaccination Maha Abhiyan a success, being conducted on the occasion of the birthday of the successful Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji on September 17,” Chouhan had said.Also read | Madhya Pradesh to get NaMo garden in each block to celebrate PM’s birthdayEarlier on August 25, a two-day vaccination drive named “Vaccination Maha Abhiyan 2” was conducted in MP, during which more than four million vaccine doses were administered in the state. While 2,420,374 doses were administered on the first day, as many as 1,649,751 doses were administered on the second day, according to a news report by ANI. First and second doses of the vaccine were delivered on the first day while only second doses were given during the second day of the drive. Before this drive too, Chouhan had demanded 1.1 million additional vaccine doses from the Union government.With 452,560 vaccine doses administered till 6pm on Saturday, the overall doses administered in the state reached 51,373,554, according to a medical bulletin. Indore with over 3.9 million doses leads the list of districts with the maximum number of vaccines administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-announces-mega-covid-19-vaccination-drive-again-this-time-on-pm-modi-s-birthday-101631436433910.html
12-09-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal re-elected national convenor in AAP’s national council meet||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was on Sunday re-elected the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national convenor, the top post in the party. Pankaj Gupta was re-elected party secretary and Rajya Sabha member N D Gupta, treasurer, said a senior party functionary privy to the developments.The party held its national council’s annual meeting on Saturday, when a 34-member executive council was elected. Sunday, it held the first meeting of the newly-elected executive council. Both meetings were held through a video conference facility.The decision comes at a time when the party is expanding its wings beyond the national capital and preparing for assembly elections in six states – Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Goa and Gujarat – in the next two years. Delhi also goes to the municipal polls next year with the three civic bodies in the city currently ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Earlier this year, the AAP won 27 seats in the municipal polls in Gujarat’s Surat. It continues to be the ruling party in Delhi, having won 62 out of 70 assembly constituencies in the February 2020 assembly polls. It is also the principal opposition party in Punjab.In January this year, the party held its previous national council meeting, which was delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. In that meeting, it passed resolutions extending tenures for the posts of national convenor and secretary from three years to five years, and removed a provision which prohibited re-election of the same person in these posts for more than two consecutive terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-re-elected-national-convener-in-aap-s-national-council-meet-101631434640148.html
12-09-2021||Patna||Bihar governor flagged SSB cycle rally to mark India’s 75 years of independence||Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan on Saturday flagged off a cycle rally from the Raj Bhawan in Patna to commemorate India’s 75 years of independence as part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav programme. 15 jawans of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) will ride through various states covering 1,250 km before the cycle rally culminates at Rajghat, New Delhi on October 2. The SSB team led by assistant commandant Pawandip Singh will travel to various places related to India’s freedom movement. At the flagging off ceremony, Chouhan said the cycle rally showed the spirit of security forces’ love for the nation. The SSB guard Bihar’s international boundary with Nepal and Chauhan said it was also playing a crucial role in building spirit of nationalism and community development via village-level coordination meetings, civic action programme, vocational skill development, organising study tours, distribution of farming equipment, study materials, medical camp in the villages in border areas. Rajesh Chandra highlighted the importance of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav event and SSB’s achievements, and ongoing work in the bordering areas of Indo-Nepal and Indo-Bhutan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-governor-flagged-ssb-cycle-rally-to-mark-india-s-75-years-of-independence-101631432359823.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||Sakinaka rape case: NCW slams Mumbai Police chief ‘can’t be everywhere’ remark||Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, who said the force cannot be present at every crime location after the death of the woman raped in Sakinaka sparked outrage, has been criticised by the National Commission of Women (NCW). “The statement is extremely unfortunate. Police can't run away from their responsibility,” Chandramukhi Devi, an NCW member, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Mumbai Police chief was asked how could the crime take place when the force is has increased patrolling during the festival season in the city. “The police reached the spot within 10 minutes. It can't be present at every crime location. They will reach only after getting the information. Police did their best," he said.The 32-year-old woman, who was raped and assaulted with an iron rod in Sakinaka on Friday, died while undergoing treatment at a hospital early on Saturday, police said. Police arrested a 45-year-old pavement dweller in connection with the crime on Friday after he was spotted in CCTV footage exiting an auto-rickshaw, officials familiar with the matter said. He has been booked for murder and rape among other charges and remanded to police custody till September 21.Also read | Police have failed: NCW says after woman raped in Mumbai’s Sakinaka diesMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray calling the Sakinaka rape a “blot on humanity”. “The rape and subsequent death of a woman in the Sakinaka area is an act of disgrace to humanity and the perpetrator will be severely punished. In this regard, I have also spoken to the home minister of the state. The trial in the case will be held on a fast track and the victim will get justice,” he said in a statement.The National Commission for Women said on Saturday it has taken suo moto cognisance of the crime and will start a probe into the rape of the woman in the Sakinaka area of Mumbai. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said that the commission will also extend help to the victim's family. “It’s sad to know that the victim of #mumbai brutal rape has lost the battle. Police has failed to arrest the accuseds. @NCWIndia has taken up suo motu and would like to urge @CPMumbaiPolice to immediately arrresr all the culprits and extend all the assistance to family,” Sharma also tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sakinaka-rape-case-ncw-slams-mumbai-police-chief-can-t-be-everywhere-remark-101631427013870.html
12-09-2021||Jaipur||2 Rajasthan govt officials arrested, phones of 2 senior IAS officers seized||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Saturday arrested two officials of Rajasthan Skill and Livelihood Development Corporation (RSLDC) for allegedly taking a bribe of ₹5 lakh. The ACB has also seized mobile phones of RSLDC chairman Niraj K Pawan and MD Pradeep Gawande, both Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers.The director general of police (DGP), ACB, BL Soni said that Ashok Sangwan, scheme coordinator, and Rahul Kumar Garg, manager, were caught red-handed while taking a bribe of ₹5 lakh from the complainant to clear pending bills, totalling ₹1.5 crore.The bribe was sought in exchange for an offer to clear payment to the firm for work under the skill development scheme, refund of the security amount deposited, and for removing the firm from the black list, DGP Soni said.Soni said after a verification of the complaint, the ACB laid a trap and arrested both the accused. The ACB has also seized nine chambers in the RSLDC including that of Niraj K Pawan, and it took mobile phones belonging to IAS officers Pawan and Gawande in their possession for examination since they are also under investigation. In May 2016, Neeraj K Pawan, a 2003-batch IAS officer, was arrested by the ACB for his alleged involvement in a corruption case in the health department. Additional director general, ACB, Dinesh MN said search was being conducted at the residence of the accused and a case will be registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/2-rajasthan-govt-officials-arrested-phones-of-2-senior-ias-officers-seized-101631427439144.html
12-09-2021||Other||Chirag’s heart warms up with PM Modi’s message on Paswan’s death anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi late Saturday evening spoke to Member Of Parliament (MP) from Jamui and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan on his father and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s first death anniversary. The PM also sent him a long message expressing his respect for senior Paswan’s contributions to politics and it came at a time when Chirag was locked in an internal feud with his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras for Ram Vilas Paswan’s legacy by retaining control of the party he had founded.Describing late Ram Vilas Paswan as a “great son of the nation, Bihar’s pride and a strong voice for social justice”, PM said Paswan’s life can teach a lot to young aspiring politicians.“For the youth who want to go into politics or serve the nation through politics, Ram Vilas Paswan’s life can teach them a lot. Despite reaching the top of politics, he always remained connected with his workers. He always relied on communication and cordiality and that was the reason he maintained good relations with all leaders, irrespective of political parties, and maintained a ubiquitous smile on his face. He was a man of the masses,” Modi’s message said.Chirag posted the letter on his Twitter handle and wrote that it gave him and his family strength. “You have epitomised my father’s entire life in your words to honour his contributions to the society and demonstrated your love for him. May the affection and blessings always remain like this,” he wrote.The exchange is significant because of speculations that Chirag’s faction of the LJP could consider joining hands with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) ahead of the by polls for two seats in Bihar, both of which were earlier with the JD-U, the ruling party Chirag aimed to oust from power in 2020 assembly elections but failed. Chirag has been isolated within the NDA after his uncle split the party faulting his election strategy to attack NDA constituent JD-U, which led to LJP winning just one seat and spoiling JD-U’s chances of victory on multiple seats due to suspected division of votes. Ally Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) alleged role in Chirag’s sidelining in the LJP had also led to perception of tensions between the two. However, the PM’s message seemed to have warmed up Chirag’s heart.“He will always have his own place in the history of independent India and how he reached the pinnacle from a modest background and remained firmly attached to his roots. Whenever he met me, he always talked about his experience about the welfare of deprived sections. He stepped into politics in the 1960s, when the political scenario in the country was completely different and there was predominately just one ideology in the country. Yet, he chose a different path for him and surprised everyone by winning the Lok Sabha election in 1977,” the PM said, describing Paswan’s first death anniversary as an emotional day for him since he not only remembered him as a close friend but also felt the void he had left in Indian politics.The PM wrote that Paswan always tried to give positive direction to whatever responsibilities he shouldered as Union minister of railways, telecom, chemical and fertilisers and other departments in his long political life. “In the six years as a minister in the NDA government, he took many effective steps in the field of consumer rights and public distribution system,” PM added.On Saturday evening, former Bihar deputy chief minister and Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi also demanded that a statue of Ram Vilas Paswan should be installed in Patna in view of his enormous contributions to Bihar’s development and national politics. “There should be a state function on his birth anniversary. He always struggled for the cause of Dalits,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chirags-heart-warms-up-with-pm-modi-s-message-on-paswan-s-death-anniversary-101631425519114.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||Slab collapse from 4-storey building in Thane injures three||On early Sunday morning around 6 am, a loosened slab made up of cement and concrete fell from the 3rd floor of a four-storey building at Khatri Apartment, located at Rabodi in the western part of Maharashtra’s Thane district, trapping three residents, who were hospitalised after they were rescued by a regional disaster management team, officials said. According to the Regional Disaster Management Cell, they received a call around 6.10 am, informing them about the collapse of the slab. A team from RDMC and the fire brigade soon reached the site.“No casualty has been reported, our teams have rescued the three personas trapped inside. Rameez Shaikh, 32, was shifted to Sanjeevani hospital, Arman Tamboli, 14, was shifted to lifeline hospital along with Goss Tamboli, 38. As a precautionary measure, the entire C-wing of the apartment was emptied with the residents temporarily shifted toKhandeshi masjid, Rabodi. The condition of the building is dilapidated, furtherinvestigation is going on. “a senior officer from RDMC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/slab-collapse-from-4-storey-building-in-thane-injures-three-101631420898604.html
12-09-2021||Delhi||Rain to continue till morning in Delhi after record downpour, says IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy rainfall in Delhi will continue till Sunday morning as the low-pressure area over east Rajasthan and another forming over the Bay of Bengal are likely to intensify further. IMD senior scientist RK Jenamani said Delhi will receive a fresh bout of rain from September 17. "Heavy rainfall in Delhi will continue till tomorrow morning. It will cover Delhi-NCR, Punjab and Rajasthan. Systems over east Rajasthan and another forming over the Bay of Bengal are likely to intensify further. Delhi will receive a fresh spell of rain from September 17-18," Jenamani said according to news agency ANI.He said that the national capital received the highest 24-hour rainfall this year in 121 years. "It has received 390 mm rainfall in September—the highest in 77 years, after 417mm in September 1944. Delhi has recorded 1139mm rainfall in four months, which is highest in 46 years, below 1155mm in 1975,” the IMD scientist said.Also read | Monsoon likely to withdraw late this year, Met predicts; more rain in storeRecord heavy rain lashed many parts of Delhi on Saturday, making it the wettest monsoon season in 46 years. It caused extensive waterlogging that affected operations at the Delhi airport, disrupted traffic on key roads and left passengers trapped inside vehicles in flooded underpasses. At least seven houses were damaged and a wall at a Metro station collapsed in the Capital after the downpour.Also read | Arrival area of Delhi airport’s T3 floods, over 100 flights delayedAs many as 380 complaints related to waterlogging were received by authorities in Delhi on Saturday after the national capital was pounded by the rain, officials said. Incidents of tree uprooting incidents were also reported in several areas across the city.The Delhi Police said underpasses at Azadpur, Dwarka Link Road, Rani Khera and Pul Prahladpur were closed for traffic and vehicles diverted. They said Moti Bagh crossing, Malviya Nagar, Dwarka Link Road, Dhaula Kuan, Sardar Patel Marg, Uttam Nagar intersection, GT Karnal Road, Mukarba Chowk, Pragati Maidan and Hauz Khas (Outer Ring Road), were among the stretches worst affected on Saturday.Also read | Intense showers, long dry spells: An exceptional monsoon for DelhiSenior fire department officials on Saturday said that the control room received three calls reporting people trapped in vehicles that were stuck on waterlogged roads or underpasses across Delhi. They said the department rescued at least 59 people, trapped in four vehicles.The weather department said Delhi recorded 117.9mm rainfall from 5:30am to 2.30pm on Saturday. IMD said on Saturday that a highly unusual monsoon season this year has yielded 1,100mm of rainfall in Delhi so far, the highest in 46 years, and almost double the precipitation recorded last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-to-continue-till-morning-in-delhi-after-record-downpour-says-imd-101631408132181.html
12-09-2021||Patna||'Declare birth or death anniversaries of ex-Union ministers as state events'||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav urged Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday to declare either the birth or death anniversaries of former Union ministers Dr Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and Ram Vilas Paswan as state functions.“Wrote a letter to the Hon’ble Chief Minister, Bihar regarding the demand of declaring the birth anniversary or death anniversary of former Union Minister Late Dr Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and Late Ram Vilas Paswan as a state function in the state,” Yadav said in a Twitter.The letter is being seen as a move by the Yadav scion to send across a message that his party still holds Singh as one of its tall leaders, despite their strained ties.Tejashwi’s letter also comes after his meeting with LJP leader and Paswan’s son, Chirag Paswan, to invite him for an event on September 12, to mark his father’s first death anniversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/declare-birth-or-death-anniversaries-of-ex-union-ministers-as-state-events-101631397707245.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana resident booked for running fake matrimonial bureau||A gang is duping people on the pretext of finding a suitable matrimonial match for them or their family members. The gang zeroes in on targets through advertisements published in newspapers. One Lalit Kumar of Deep Nagar and his unidentified women accomplices have been booked on the complaint of Darshan Kumar of Haibowal. The complainant said, “I was looking for a suitable match for my son Sahil Garg and had published an advertisement in the newspaper. Later, I received a call from a woman who claimed to be running a marriage bureau. She said they could aid the search provided I paid ₹2,100 as registration fee. I transferred the amount, after which the accused stopped answering my calls.” The accused had also duped a woman Satinder Kaur of Sirhind of ₹3,000 on the same pretext. Sub-inspector Avtar Singh, said the accused had procured the phone numbers used to commit the fraud and the bank accounts where money was transferred using fake documents.“They would dupe people of around ₹2,000 - ₹4,000 as they knew that few would approach the police over such a petty sum,” he said. A case has been registered under Sections 420 (cheating) , 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery on purpose of cheating ) and 471 (use fraudulent document as genuine) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-resident-booked-for-running-fake-matrimonial-bureau-101631397910128.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC tightens noose around property tax defaulters, evaders||Tightening the noose around property tax defaulters and evaders, the municipal corporation has launched a door-to-door survey in areas falling under Zone C.Those who have failed to pay the tax or have tried to evade it by filing under wrong categories are now on the civic body’s radar. In the first phase, authorities will cover around 3,000 properties around Shimlapuri, Gill Road and Kanganwal Road. The labour quarters on Kanganwal Road and in adjoining areas will also be surveyed. Authorities suspect that a large number of property owners in the Shimlapuri area have not paid their property tax since 2013-14, while many shopkeepers on Gill Road have categorised their commercial properties as industrial units as one has to pay 10 times more under the former bracket. 20% penalty for defaulters, 100% for evadersDefaulters will be slapped with a 20% penalty and 18% annual interest on the pending amount, while evaders will have to pay 100% penalty for filing under the wrong category. Municipal corporation superintendent Vivek Verma said, “So far, we have served notices to 70 defaulter for recovery of dues. Owners of labour quarters have to pay 7.5% of the annual rent collection as property tax, whether it is being paid or not will also be checked during the survey. If the notices are ignored, the buildings will be sealed.” Sept 30 last date to avail rebate With September 30 being the last date for availing a 10% rebate on submission of property tax, suvidha kendras and Zonal Offices will remain open on Saturday and last Sunday of the month. The offices will also remain open on September 18, 25 and 26. There are approximately 2.25 lakh taxable properties in the city and around 1.5 lakh property owners are yet to pay tax for the current financial year 2021-22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-tightens-noose-around-property-tax-defaulters-evaders-101631397489803.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||NGOs protest amid rain in Ludhiana, say shift dairy units rather than setting up ETPs||Demanding that dairy units be moved out of municipal corporation limits to check pollution of the Buddha Nullah and the Sutlej river, members of civil society organisations and NGOs staged a protest near the Tajpur road dairy complex in the pouring rain on Saturday. This was the third protest under the ‘Freedom From Pollution’ movement. The protesters, under the banner of the Public Action Committee (PAC), asked why crores were being spent on establishing effluent treatment plants (ETPs) for treating dairy waste, when the MC has to shift the dairy units sooner or later.PAC member Col CM Lakhanpal said, “A significant amount of pollutants entering the nullah are from dairy units. As per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) guidelines, no dairy unit is allowed to operate within city limits. Secondly, dairy farms cannot be located in flood prone areas and cannot be within 500m of a river. The dairy complexes on Tajpur Road and Haibowal are in violation of these norms. The government will have to shift these units out of the city limits.” Jaskirat Singh of the Naroa Punjab Manch said, “Senior officials working on the project to clean the nullah have clearly said that the problem cannot be resolved until dairy units are shifted. The government had also agreed to shift the units, but now ETPs are being established on the site under the ₹650-crore project to clean the nullah. If the government has to ultimately shift the units, then why is public money being wasted?” Dr Amandeep Bains of RBS Roots said no environmental scientist had been involved in the project to clean the nullah, which indicates the authorities’ sincerity.Kuldeep Singh Khaira of Vigilant Citizens Forum said, “The government seems to be taking decisions based on political calculations rather than for the welfare of the city. Instead of solving the problem, it is complicating things by taking contradictory decisions such as shifting dairies and building ETPs at the same time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngos-protest-amid-rain-in-ludhiana-say-shift-dairy-units-rather-than-setting-up-etps-101631397252983.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||Woman raped, brutalised in Mumbai succumbs||A 32-year-old woman who was raped and brutalised with an iron rod in Mumbai died while undergoing treatment at a hospital in the wee hours of Saturday, police said.According to Mumbai deputy commissioner Maheshwar Reddy, the police control room received a phone call at 3.20am on Friday, informing them about an injured couple in the city’s Sakinaka area. On reaching the spot, the police found a woman, who was bleeding profusely, inside a parked tempo.“The police officers drove the tempo [in which the woman was found] and rushed her to the Rajawadi Hospital,” Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said.Police arrested a 45-year-old pavement dweller in connection with the crime on Friday itself, after he was spotted exiting the tempo in CCTV footage, officials familiar with the matter said. He was remanded to police custody till September 21. He has been booked under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape), 323 (assault) and 34 (common intention).Police said they were yet to ascertain the motive behind the crime.“As the victim was unconscious, her statement could not be recorded. Therefore, police are as yet clueless about what exactly happened. But it will be ascertained during the investigation, Nagrale said.The crime bore resemblance to the December 16, 2012 Delhi gang rape case, in which a woman was assaulted and brutalized in a moving bus. She died about two weeks later in a hospital in Singapore where she was taken for emergency treatment. The incident outraged the entire nation and triggered street protests and candlelight vigils across the country, eventually leading to tougher punishment for crimes against women.Six suspects were arrested for the crime, one of whom was alleged to have committed suicide in jail. Another, a juvenile, was convicted of rape and murder and given the maximum sentence of three years imprisonment in a reform facility under the Juvenile Justice Act. The other four were hanged to death in March, 2020.Calling the Sakinaka incident, a “blot on humanity”, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said in a statement: “The rape and subsequent death of a woman in the Sakinaka area is an act of disgrace to humanity and the perpetrator will be severely punished. In this regard, I have also spoken to the home minister of the state. The trial in the case will be held on a fast track and the victim will get justice,” he said in a statement.Leader of Opposition in the state Devendra Fadnavis demanded capital punishment for the guilty. “I know that awarding a sentence is in the hands of the judiciary. But I feel the culprit in the Sakinaka rape should be hanged to death,” the BJP leader said.Fadnavis also questioned the state government over what he called an increase in crimes against women. “If we look at the record of a month, the cases of rapes and gang rapes are increasing in the state, the state government need to take action now,” he added.When asked as to how the crime occurred while there was heavy police bandobast due to the Ganesh Chaturthi festival, Nagrale responded stating that it was not possible to be present everywhere at all times. He however claimed that as soon as the crime was reported a police team reached the spot within ten minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-raped-brutalised-in-mumbai-succumbs-101631391179444.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rain brings down mercury in Ludhiana||Rainfall brought much-needed respite from the scorching heat on Saturday. The district is likely to receive light to moderate rainfall in the coming days as well. Punjab Agricultural University’s (PAU’s) department of climate change and agricultural meteorology recorded 22.2mm rainfall. The city’s maximum temperature dropped to 28°C from 31°C on Friday, while the minimum temperature dropped to 24°C from the previous day’s 26.6°C.PAU department of climate change and agricultural meteorology head Prabhjot Kaur Sidhu said the rainfall was caused due to another active phase of monsoon. Waterlogging issues pop up again As always, city roads were inundated with water after the showers. Residents had a tough time commuting at Gill Road, Ferozepur Road, and the underpass near Lodhi Club among other areas. The accumulated rainwater had drained out by the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-brings-down-mercury-in-ludhiana-101631396770251.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man sedated, tossed into canal, 3 held||Three men were arrested for sedating a man and throwing him into the canal on Friday. The accused, Inderjit Singh, Akashdeep Singh, and Mandeep Singh, are residents of Sohiyan village. They had a rivalry with the victim, Tajinder Singh of Sudhar village, who said that the accused had invited him to a party and laced his drinks with sedatives. “I was taken to Mandeep’s house on motorcycle, when we reached there I was offered a cold drink. However, when I declined, they forcefully made me drink the spiked drink and threw me into the canal. I managed to swim to the shore, but the accused strangled me and pushed me into the canal again.” The complainant said, “Inderjit was a drug addict and he suspected that I had told his parents about his habit, which is why he attempted to murder me.” A case has been registered under Sections 307 (murder bid) and 34 (acts done by several people) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-sedated-tossed-into-canal-3-held-101631396409839.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Finally, Ludhiana fire department gets new tenders, gadget upgrade||After a long wait, the under-equipped fire department in the industrial hub has been contemporised and stocked with hi-tech gadgets and four new fire tenders, which will help minimise destruction and streamline rescue operations. The modernised fire brigade now has thermal imaging cameras, life detectors, inflatable lighting towers, battery operated cutters, and aluminium fire safety suits among other hi-tech gadgets in its arsenal.On Saturday, Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu dedicated the advanced firefighting and rescue equipment purchased under the Smart City Mission to the fire brigade at its headquarters near the railway station. The Congress leaders said that four mini-fire tenders with water and foam tanks, which had been purchased for ₹88.64 lakh, had been provided to the fire brigade to douse flames in narrow streets in the Old City areas.  To improve the chances of survival for those buried under debris during a blaze, three life detectors worth ₹66.02 lakh have been provided to the fire department, Ashu said, adding that the ₹69.5 lakh combi tools will also help save time and improve efficiency during rescue operations. The tools can cut through iron and steel rods easily. Five thermal imaging cameras, which cost ₹41.79 lakh, will help to firefighters see through smoke and monitor the spread of fire. Besides, five aluminium firefighting suits worth ₹51 lakh have also been purchased for firemen so that they may safely enter burning buildings and douse the flames from inside.  Five portable inflatable emergency lights have also been bought for ₹11.74 lakh, said Ashu, while adding that the lights are based on a petrol engine system. Lights are required during a fire incident as the power supply of the area is snapped after a fire breaks out. Ashu said, “More equipment will be purchased for the department. We are actively monitoring smart city projects and our ranking has improved from the 54 to 37 in terms of projects proposed and completed under the mission.” The local bodies department has also provided two bullet motorcycles equipped with water mist extinguishers for quick response. Shortage of firefighters Meanwhile, the fire brigade officials say they are understaffed and have asked the state government and municipal corporation to fill the vacant posts and sanction more posts for fire fighters in the industrial hub. A firefighter, requesting anonymity, they were facing an acute staff shortage. “Against 15 sanctioned posts of sub-fire officers, only five posts have been filled, and there is only one permanent fire station officer (FSO) against five sanctioned posts. Similarly, the department only has nine permanent firefighters against 86 sanctioned posts, while 50 have been deployed on contractual basis.” The permanent posts have not been filled in over two decades. Making do with limited resources Firefighters have been facing a tough time dousing flames without proper fire safety equipment. The resourceful firefighters have been making do with what they had. They have been using a dampened cloth to cover their faces while entering smoke-filled buildings and have used headlights for illumination during rescue operations at night. Fire safety suits were not available at all, which endangered due to which made the team vulnerable to burns. The fire brigade does not have a hydraulic ladder, a proposal for which was made around 15 years ago. After 16 people, including nine firefighters died in the ‘plastic factory tragedy’ in 2017, the fire fighters had demanded that the ladder be made available. MC officials said that a hydraulic ladder is also being purchased under the smart city mission. They have also demanded more fire stations in the industrial hub.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/finally-ludhiana-fire-department-gets-new-tenders-gadget-upgrade-101631395990436.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||20-year-old woman raped by live-in partner’s relative, friends in Ludhiana||A man has been booked for asking his brother-in-law and friends to rape his live-in partner on Saturday. When the victim resisted, she was beaten up. The victim had been living in the same house as the accused’s wife and kids for the last eight months. The accused has been identified as Rohit of Dhandhra Enclave, and his accomplices are yet to be identified.The woman said that Rohit’s brother-in-law who had come from Delhi had raped her a week ago and two of his friends had raped her one month ago. An FIR has been registered under Sections 376 (rape) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/20yearold-woman-raped-by-live-in-partner-s-relative-friends-in-ludhiana-101631395209560.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Panchkula achieves zero-case milestone again||For the fourth time this month, Panchkula reported no Covid-19 case on Saturday. It earlier achieved the same feat on three days in a row, from September 2 to 4.Chandigarh and Mohali logged four and two infections, respectively, bringing down tricity’s daily tally from eight to six in the past 24 hours. On Friday, the tricity saw the cases dropping to single digit after a gap of three days..Also, no new casualty was recorded in the tricity for the second consecutive day.Chandigarh has confirmed three fatalities this month, while no death has been recorded in Panchkula and Mohali.Those found infected in Chandigarh on Saturday are residents of Sectors 7 and 8, and Manimajra, and in Mohali, one each case surfaced in Kharar and Mohali.The active cases came down from 89 to 88, with 45 patients still infected in Mohali, another 28 in Chandigarh and 15 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has recorded 65,149 positive cases so far, with 64,305 recoveries and 816 deaths. In Mohali, 68,663 people have contracted the infection. Among them, 67,558 have been cured, but 1,060 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,701 includes 30,309 recoveries and 377 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-panchkula-achieves-zero-case-milestone-again-101631394491783.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: JE suspended for clicking pictures of Estate Office documents||A junior engineer of Chandigarh administration has been suspended for clicking photos of confidential documents.As per the suspension order, Navdeep, deputed in the Building Branch of the Estate Office, intentionally entered the establishment section of chief engineer-cum-special secretary (engineering) on September 8 during lunch break and clicked photos of some confidential files using his mobile phone. The incident was captured on CCTV cameras and he was also caught red-handed by an official of the establishment section. Officials said this was grave misconduct under the Punjab Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rules, 1970, applicable to employees of Chandigarh administration. Therefore, Navdeep was suspended with immediate effect and sent to the department headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-je-suspended-for-clicking-pictures-of-estate-office-documents-101631394490687.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Nursing student crushed under speeding tipper in Ludhiana||A 20-year-old student was mowed down by a speeding tipper truck near Samrala Chowk on Friday evening. The victim, Mallika Chaddha of Farid Nagar, was riding a two-wheeler. After the incident, the truck driver fled, leaving his vehicle on the road. The Division Number 3 police have lodged an FIR against the unidentified driver and have seized the truck also.The victim’s father, Arun Chaddha, said his daughter was pursuing BSc (nursing) at Mohandai Oswal Hospital and was returning home when the incident took place. Assistant sub-inspector Nirmal Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR had been under Sections 279 (rash driving) ,and 304A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nursing-student-crushed-under-speeding-tipper-in-ludhiana-101631394489515.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Robbery at Chandigarh’s Sector 27: One of three accused lands in police net||Sector 27 robbery: Police have arrested another man involved in the broad daylight robbery in Sector 27 where a model-cum-actor was held captive at knifepoint on September 7. The accused, Sunil, alias Sunny, alias Bihari, was one of the three robbers and had left with the victim’s debit card to withdraw money from an ATM, police said.  ₹1,000 in cash and the victim’s Apple AirPods have been recovered from him. “Sunil was arrested from near the Sector-43 bus stand. He kept moving around the city after the robbery. He was planning to escape to Nepal to avoid arrest,” said Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police (SP, City), Chandigarh. This is the second arrest in the case after an auto-rickshaw driver, Prem, alias Motu, was caught on Friday. He had stood guard outside the house with his vehicle, while the robbers, Arjun, alias Nepali, the mastermind; Arjun Kumar and Sunil, went upstairs to rob the victim.Prem was produced before a court on Saturday and sent to judicial custody after the court declined police’s request for his remand. The court pulled up the police for seeking his custody despite already making recoveries from him. Sunil will be produced in court on Sunday.In his disclosure, Sunil told the police that after they walked into the woman’s house, he snatched her debit card and Arjun threatened her to reveal the PIN. He also picked up the victim’s AirPods and left for an ATM with Prem in the latter’s auto-rickshaw. They withdrew ₹20,000 from an ATM in Sector 30 and split the amount among themselves. Police said meanwhile, the other two robbers continued to search the victim’s house for valuables. Finding an opportunity, the victim grabbed the ₹6 lakh kept in a room and locked herself in the bathroom. But she handed over the cash to Nepali after he cut open the bathroom’s mesh window. Police said after withdrawing the money, Sunil returned to the victim’s house, but his accomplices had already fled. Her debit card and ₹10,000 of the amount withdrawn from the ATM was recovered from Prem following his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/robbery-at-chandigarh-s-sector-27-one-of-three-accused-lands-in-police-net-101631394430959.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Cop, home guard held for siphoning off ₹1 crore||A Chandigarh Police personnel and a home guard volunteer have been arrested in the ₹1.1 crore salary scam that had rocked the police department in 2019. The cop, Balwinder Singh, a junior assistant with the UT Police, was the in-charge of the salary branch back then, with Surjit Singh, a home guard volunteer, also posted there. “ ₹1.1 crore were siphoned off by the two accused and transferred to the accounts of various police personnel. An audit pointed out 161 such accounts that received extra salary through fraudulent means,” said superintendent of police (SP, Crime) Manoj Kumar Meena.“The surplus amount has been recovered and more arrests are likely,” the police official added. Anonymous complaint exposed scam It was an anonymous complaint that blew the lid off of the scam. The complaint spurred the checking of salaries of the police personnel for December 2019 and excess deposits were discovered in 35 such accounts. Following the revelation, a case was registered under Sections 420, 468, 471 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 13(1)(b) & 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act on February 25, 2020.The crime branch constituted a special investigation team (SIT), and a special audit for 2015 to 2020 was conducted by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) on the request of the police department. The audit was completed and submitted around 10 days back, pointing out excess payments amounting to ₹1.1 crore. The two accused were nabbed on Saturday and produced before a court. Balwinder was remanded to three-day custody and Surjit to one day. Modus operandi Investigation revealed that Balwinder Kumar, the then in-charge of the A4 Branch, dealt with the salaries of constables and head constables of Chandigarh Police. Surjit Singh was attached with the branch as an assistant. The accused would deposit excess salary in the accounts of police personnel under fake entries of conveyance and food allowances, among others. After depositing the amount, Surjit would act as the conduit to recover most of it from the account holder through a prior understanding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-cop-home-guard-held-for-siphoning-off-1-crore-101631394429764.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Hit-and-run mishaps snuff out two lives in Mohali||Two hit-and-run accidents claimed the lives of an auto-rickshaw driver and a motorcyclist in Mohali over the past 24 hours. Ramandeep Singh, 36, of Kartapur village, Mullanpur, was killed after a speeding Toyota Innova rammed into his auto-rickshaw near the air force station in Mullanpur.The mishap was witnessed by the victim’s brother Gurvinder Singh, who was waiting for him. He told the police that the impact of the collision, that took place around 1am on Saturday, caused the three-wheeler to overturn.Ramandeep was taken to PGIMER, Chandigarh, with serious injuries, but was declared brought dead. In another case, 37-year-old Harpreet Singh of Tiwana village, Dera Bassi, died after being dragged by a car that hit his motorcycle at Janetpura village, Dera Bassi.His brother, Atinderpal Singh, complained to the police that they were both riding different motorcycles towards their village around 3.30pm on Friday.On the way, a car hit his brother’s bike and dragged it for around 50 metres before driving off.An injured Harpreet was rushed to the Dera Bassi civil hospital where he died during treatment. Separate cases have been registered against the unidentified drivers under Sections 304A, 279 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code at the Mullanpur and Dera Bassi police stations. The bodies were handed over to the respective families after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hitandrun-mishaps-snuff-out-two-lives-in-mohali-101631394369631.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | The mysterious, elegant water shrew||Most of us have had unpleasant encounters with the house shrew or ‘chhuchhundar’ / ‘gheece’ as it is known in the vernacular. The creature creeps into rooms after dusk and steals along the sides of the walls, as if trying to muster enough courage to venture into the middle but never managing to do so. It secretes a musky odour from its glands, which is repugnant to human nostrils. Especially so, on cold winter nights when ceiling fans are stilled, and flatulence and shrew odours take long to dissipate.Fact is, the shrew for all its odours and ‘repulsive’ looks rids houses of cockroaches and keeps rats at bay. If most of us are ignorant about the shrew’s role as a pest controller existing right under our noses, its remote cousin species, the elegant water shrew (Nectogale elegans), would but naturally attract the tag of complete mystery! Highly adapted to a life in mountain currents, the very elusive elegant shrew has defied popular human awareness as it is seldom clicked by cameras and very rarely gets trapped in fishing nets. An intrepid field researcher, Aashna Sharma – an alum of Panjab University’s zoology department who has studied fishes at Harike Wildlife sanctuary — stumbled upon the elegant shrew while she was assessing the effect of climate change on the snow trout in the pristine Uttarakhand wilderness. Currently employed as a Senior Research Fellow at the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, Sharma could not believe such a creature existed till her local fisherman enlightened her! “Often, Nature and its creatures are better known by local people who have spent their lives in the neighbouring wilderness. When my fisherman, Suman, told me about the ‘paani ka chooha’, I doubted him. I had never heard of rodents that dwelt in water! But Suman was sure about his observation and asked me to wait, and be patient. He simply said, ‘Niklega fir se’. I waited, staring at the small pool on the Jamak stream, even as Suman nonchalantly enjoyed a cigarette. Suman told me that throughout his life (he was nearly 56 years old then), he had seen this ‘chooha’ just six times! Lo and behold…there it was again. I saw a greyish-black shrew swim past a small boulder, capture a snow trout fingerling, and make its way across the pool to take shelter under another small boulder,” Sharma told this writer.An excited Sharma quickly ascended a nearby mountain peak to secure signals on her cellphone. She Googled for a water rodent. Yes, Suman was right. There were 13 species of water shrews worldwide of which two, the elegant water shrew and Himalayan water shrew, are found in India. Prior to Sharma’s chance sighting in Uttarakhand, previous records showed the elegant occurring only in Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. Sharma went on to co-author a research paper on the elegant shrews’ occurrence in the western Himalayas, which was published in the ‘Journal of Threatened Taxa’.“The elegant shrews are aptly named. The way they swim and vanish in a glimpse is astoundingly beautiful and elegant. Unlike other water shrews, they have a fin-like tail with fringed hair to enhance mobility and navigation across a water channel. Of the 13 species of water shrews, the elegant shrew is the only one to possess webbed feet with flaps of skin folds connecting their digits, just like ducks. Highly adapted to aquatic habitats, the elegant shrew employs an efficient strategy of swimming upstream against the current, capturing prey and then drifting downstream with the same current. On the other hand, the Himalayan shrew is a good diver but cannot stay in water for such long stretches, and does not capture prey and then drift downstream. It swims about in the same area for some time before moving towards the shore, where it spends part of its time. The elegant shrew uses the shore only to reach its burrow in the banks as its preferred mode of mobility is water streams. It has a limited capacity to forage and spend time on land,” added Sharma. Eager to catch an elegant water shrew specimen for further studies, Sharma set up rodent traps along the banks as she was unable to detect their secretive burrows. “I did this for a week and monitored those traps morning and evening. But not one fell for the traps. I guess they are cleverer than we humans are! After all, they have existed on Earth before we came in!’’ said Sharma.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-the-mysterious-elegant-water-shrew-101631393470963.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Random Forays | Writers must overcome blocks and inertia||Am writing this on the road and wondering whether physical speed breakers and potholes are as impactful towards the degeneration of a vehicle as those of the mind are to a human being’s journey.Obstacles created by moods and mind-made “dangals” are perhaps a writer’s greatest foes too. Anyone who is truly comfortable with a language and blessed with a certain amount of imagination can be a writer, in my view. The harder part is to actually get down to writing as a regular activity and also to conjure up something meaningfully palatable to the reader.Many talented and even accomplished writers hesitate and dither for years before publishing anything. I have, of late, been advocating to many friends the need for them to take the plunge and sit down at their keyboards for six months with regularity. A book will then surely emerge from their efforts at dabbling into creative writing. The “writer’s block” is actually a figment of our imagination, in my opinion. The author who coined this term was clearly suffering from it himself else he would have come up with something less insipid! Perhaps “writer’s lethargy” or “writer’s inertia” may be a more apt description of what we go through when we just don’t feel like writing anything.Ruskin Bond was in his element when my family called on him some years ago at his cute little Mussoorie cottage. He spoke about how he really felt in the groove at certain times and not so much on other occasions when he sat down to write. But he did add that he felt extremely grumpy on the day when he had written nothing at all.For young and aspirational writers, I think there is an insightful message embedded in his words. Whether one feels like it or not, it is a great idea to write consistently in order to produce something of substance. On some days one may not be in the flow and that tingling excitement of trying to write something stupendous may be missing. But one can always edit and improve such uninspired writings on another day. That’s the way it truly works.Lata Mangeshkar or Sachin Tendulkar, peerless maestros of their arts, obviously had their off days. But they doubtlessly went about their tasks diligently none the less. And the overall results were joys to behold.I know a writer from Punjab who wakes up frightfully early, at 4 am, every single day to write, come what may. And of course there must be occasions when the heart is just not into it but that does not dissuade the prolific writer from delivering time after time.One of the ways to look at this philosophy is to compare the drudgery of writing when one does not feel like it, with an athlete or musician who practices endlessly before a top performance. Authors cannot expect to churn out magnificent masterpieces every day. They must go through the toil of writing, editing and reviewing repeatedly. As Ernest Hemingway said, “There is nothing to writing. All you do is sit down at a typewriter and bleed.”.All in all, when one is determined to write, one can do so on all days. And when the mind’s tide is favourable one can make hay and write better. It is a bit like trying to hit a double century when the going is good for a batsman, and somehow cobbling up a fifty on other days.Purdue University’s Online Writing Laboratory advises writers who face the block to try beginning in the middle, if they are not feeling inspired enough to pen down an inspiring opening to their work, for instance. By changing the approach, by altering the plan, by being flexible to the extent that one can indulge in some editing on the day when writing seems to be a chore, an author can finally come up trumps.The written word is not popular these days, such are our hype-energy times. If more people were to spend time reading and writing, the whole world would calm down. Perhaps!I do agree that outstanding writers are a rare commodity, but why aren’t the hundreds of good ones spending more time with the world of words? Our world needs them!vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-writers-must-overcome-blocks-and-inertia-101631393050356.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Six more slums included in Basera scheme in Punjab||The Punjab government has approved proprietary rights to six more slums in Ferozepur, Jalandhar, Mansa, Patiala and Ludhiana districts under its flagship ‘Basera’ programme. The approval was granted at the fifth meeting of the steering committee under the Basera scheme, chaired by chief secretary Vini Mahajan in Chandigarh. With this, as many as 8,141 households located at 46 slum sites in different districts of the state have got the proprietary rights of houses.Reviewing the progress of the scheme, the chief secretary ordered a monthly review of the ‘house-for-houseless’ scheme to further expedite the process of granting proprietary rights to the slum dwellers and enable them to own their homes at the earliest.She also directed all the deputy commissioners to work proactively for seamless execution of this scheme.Punjab was the first state in the country to launch a scheme for granting proprietary rights to the slum dwellers occupying government land in urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-more-slums-included-in-basera-scheme-in-punjab-101631392509080.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police recruitment: Amarinder asks DGP to crack down on fraudsters||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday directed the director general of police (DGP) to intensify the crackdown on leak of examination papers and copying after six persons were arrested for their suspected involvement in cheating during the written test held for sub-inspectors’ posts on August 22.The directives come ahead of the written exams for head constables (investigation cadre) to be conducted from September 12 to 19 wherein 75,544 applicants will appear for 787 vacancies. It will be followed by exams for constables (district and armed cadres), slated on September 25-26, in which a whopping 4,70,775 candidates having applied for 4,358 vacancies. The CM asked DGP Dinkar Gupta to further up security measures at the examination centres in view of reported attempts by fraudsters to sabotage the examination process.Jammers and other electronic gadgets are being installed at all exam centres to prevent internet or bluetooth connectivity, said Gupta. The DGP said any promises of jobs through unfair means, incentives were totally false and one may dial 181 helpline in such case. Central Recruitment Board for Constables chairperson Gurpreet Kaur Deo said strict protocols have been laid down for securing the areas outside the exam centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-recruitment-amarinder-asks-dgp-to-crack-down-on-fraudsters-101631392269045.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Centre asks Punjab rural development department to probe misuse of funds by employee in Moga||The Union ministry of panchayati raj has directed the Punjab rural development and panchayat department to conduct a probe into alleged misappropriation of funds by its official who is posted in the office of the Moga additional deputy commissioner (development). A Punjab and Haryana High Court lawyer has alleged that the official installed interlocking tiles on a private pathway at Salina village from department funds. The deputy secretary of the central ministry directed the financial commissioner of state department to submit an action taken report in two weeks after a probe. The lawyer, HS Hundal, said, “An official forced the panchayat to install interlocking tiles on the private pathway. It was found that Sumit Kumar, IT manager posted at the ADC’s office directed the panchayat to do this. The pathway leads to a memorial of his ancestors.” “I have already apprised the ADC (development) about the misuse of funds,” he added ADC (development) Subash Chander, said, “I am aware of the matter and the head office summoned the IT manager in this regard. But I am yet to receive anything in written.” Sumit Kumar said, “I have not received any written communication in this regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-asks-punjab-rural-development-department-to-probe-misuse-of-funds-by-employee-in-moga-101631391969108.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | A diplomatic reprimand||Recently, an ill-informed utterance by a school teacher-turned-activist-turned-adviser to a freshly appointed state political party chief invited widespread ire. The acrimonious statement on the status of Jammu and Kashmir has now resulted in his ouster from the job. A similar faux pass took place while we were attending a staff course at the Defence Services Staff College(DSSC), Wellington, in 1993-94. The salubrious weather at the Nilgiris and an audience of the so-called creamy layer of the armed forces, not just ours but world over, attracted numerous guest speakers and delegations to address the wise-owl (crest of the DSSC, Wellington) gathering. A team of the prestigious United States Command And General Staff College (CGSC) was also in town to deliver a presentation and talk to students and faculty. The arrival of the DSSC Commandant Lt Gen BS Nalwa was announced and the packed auditorium was in rapt attention to the potential words of wisdom from the high-profile CGSC team . After mandatory introductions , the American team leader flashed the opening slide to commence his presentation. A map of India came up on the slide, which evinced least attention , being our own and sacrosanct. Immediately, we saw the Commandant signal the head of training team(HOTT). After a whispered exchange, Gen Nalwa left the auditorium. The HOTT went up the dais and after a quick word with the US team leader, announced an early tea break due to an impromptu commitment of the Commandant. Tea breaks hold special significance during the guest talks. The famous bakery at the staff college bakes out choicest cakes, pastries, patties and buns, these coupled with the sumptuous samosas and mouth watering jalebis from the bania canteen make it more enticing than the talks at times. Thus, it was a welcome break. However, we did not have the foggiest as to why the God-send break had been declared prematurely. The audience re-assembled after the 20 minute treat. After settling down, Gen Nalwa addressed the team leader, “Colonel general, my apologies for the unscheduled delay, please commence your presentation.” The map of India flashed again and the talk progressed thereafter. After the talk the guest speakers left and the rest were asked to remain seated. The HOTT came on the stage and said, “Lady (for we really had one lady, Mahua Pal from the Defence audit accounts service as one of the course students)and gentlemen, to some of you it must have seemed like an abrupt and strange disruption. Well, the map flashed by CGSC team at the beginning of the talk showed Jammu and Kashmir as part of the Pakistan- Occupied Kashmir(POK). The Commandant noticed it in a flash, and assumed that it was a draftsman’s mistake. The team was politely asked to amend the map before proceeding with the talk. Thus, the delay”. To end the day on a lighter note as was customary during most guest lectures , he asked an open question as to what one-liner could best describe the situation? The ever alert Major Kumar, popularly called keen Kumar by fellow students, shot his hand up in a jiffy. “Sir, it may be appropriately termed, ‘A diplomatic reprimand!’” he quipped. He was of course spot on. avnishrms59@gmail.com (The writer is a Chandigarh-based freelance contributor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-a-diplomatic-reprimand-101631391672148.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Drug racket being run from 2 Punjab jails busted, 5 held with 1.5 kg heroin in Amritsar||With the arrest of five persons, the Amritsar city police claimed to have busted a module operating a high-profile network of heroin smuggling in Punjab from the Faridkot and Amritsar jails.  ₹7.80 lakh in drug money, 1.5 kg heroin, two pistols of .32 bore and a Hyundai i-20 car were recovered from the accused identified as Harbhej Singh, alias Jawanda (22), Sunil Masih (21), Lovepreet Singh, alias Happy (26), Jugal Kishor (30) and Vishal from different villages in Amritsar district, the police said. Two electronic scales for weighing heroin were also seized from the suspects. The police said the five men were working at the behest of two jailed criminals —Narinder Singh, alias Nindi and Rajinder Singh, alias Ganja who are lodged in the Faridkot and Amritsar jails. The arrested accused have already sent ₹20 lakh from the heroin proceeds. “A team of the crime investigation agency (CIA) intercepted a vehicle at a checkpoint at the Vallah bypass after getting a tip-off. Harbhej, Lovepreet, Jugal and Vishal are already facing several criminal cases, including that of murder, attempt to murder and drug peddling. They are linked to Nindi and Ganja,” said Amritsar police commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal during a press conference. A case was registered under the sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the Arms Act against the accused at the Makboolpura police station. Deputy commissioner of police (investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said Nindi has been into drug smuggling for a long time. “Both Nindi and Ganja will be brought on production warrant to find out where the heroin was being smuggled from.”Another police official said, “The arrested men were supplying the heroin at ₹25 lakh per kg. We are also working to nab those whom they were supplying the contraband.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-racket-being-run-from-2-punjab-jails-busted-5-held-with-1-5-kg-heroin-in-amritsar-101631391669564.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||BJP, Youth Congress workers clash in Ludhiana, 14 injured||Workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Youth Congress entered into a violent clash in Ludhiana city on Saturday after a protest against the central government over rising inflation, leaving at least 14 persons injured. The clash involving the use of sticks, exchange of fists and pelting of stones took place outside the saffron party’s office near Clock Tower. The police used mild force to disperse the workers of both parties. A heavy police force was deployed in the area to avoid further clashes.Of those taken to hospital for treatment, 10 were from the saffron party while four belonged to the Youth Congress, officials said. The incident took place when Youth Congress workers led by their district president Yogesh Handa staged a protest outside the BJP office against rise in prices of essential commodities. Since they were planning to put a lock on the BJP office, the volunteers belonging to the saffron party started gathering there. The protesters broke through the barricades put up by the police to reach the BJP office, entering into a scuffle with the rival activists.Later, the BJP workers staged a protest, accusing their Youth Congress counterparts of assault and indulging in hooliganism.The clash occurred two days after the BJP workers put a lock on the gate of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust, alleging a land scam. Later in the evening, the police lodged an FIR under section 160 (committing affray) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified persons.BJP state president Ashwani Sharma, who was in the city to attend a function, visited the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) to meet the injured party workers. “The Congress leadership is frustrated as our party has unearthed a land scam. State food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and other Congress leaders wanted to grab government land through a fake auction that was cancelled after the scam came to the fore.”It was the Congress workers who started pelting of stones at the BJP workers, he alleged. “There is no law and order in Punjab and the Congress leaders are trying to suppress the voice of people. As many as 10 of our party workers suffered severe injuries in the clash. Navin Saini, a party worker, suffered injuries on his eye and he may lose his vision. Our mandal president Yashpal Sharma also sustained head injury,” Sharma added.He demanded action against the Congress workers, saying they should be booked on charges of attempt to murder on the BJP workers. “We will start a protest if no action is taken,” he warned. Parminder Mehta, a Congress leader, alleged the BJP workers threw stones at their volunteers from the office building when the latter staging a protest. Additional deputy commissioner of police (city 1) Pragya Jain said the police have lodged an FIR against unidentified men for the clash. “We are trying to identify the accused and will later name them in the FIR,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-youth-congress-workers-clash-in-ludhiana-14-injured-101631391370928.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout | Long live the anthem writer of women’s movement||Think of feminist activist Kamla Bhasin and you will immediately recall the peppy folk number ‘Kut kut bajra main kothe utte paani haan,’ which was made popular by the musical sisters, Prakash Kaur and Surinder Kaur, and was a crowd favourite at Punjabi weddings of yore. The song, which is about crows that make a mess of the beaten grain drying on the terraces and querulous husbands, was rewritten by Bhasin as a siren call for women to break all shackles and build a new world: “Todh todh ke bandhanon ko dekho behane aati hai…Ayengi zulm mitaeingi…Yeh to naya zamana laayengi!”Bhasin, who emerged as one of the most charismatic and prominent leaders of the women’s movement in India and other south Asian countries in the 1970s, always held that feminism is not a war between men and women but a war between ideologies: “One that elevates men and gives them power, and the other, that advocates for equality!” she has said. Her achievements as a social scientist, author, a developmental professional and south Asia coordinator of the One Billion Rising Of Women are many. She has worked with underprivileged women from tribal and working classes with a strong belief in feminist theory and community action. Active with Jagori Women’s Resource Centre and other women’s groups in neighbouring countries, she resigned from her job with the United Nations as the south Asian coordinator of the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) in 2002, and founded Sangat, which reaches out to women in communities with low literacy rates, with songs, plays and other non-literary methods.A phenomenal and innovative organiser, it was a standing ovation for Bhasin as she delivered her lecture at the Beijing Women’s Conference in 1995. Her substantial oeuvre includes Feminism and Its Relevance in South Asia, Borders and Boundaries: Women in India’s Partition and Understanding Gender.Knowing Midnight’s daughterShe refers to herself as the ‘midnight generation’, born as she was in 1946, a year before the Partition. Her father was a doctor and she was the fourth of six siblings. She was born in Shahidanwaali village in Gujrat district of Punjab, now in Pakistan. Her ties across the barbed wire remained strong and it was she who brought the ‘Azadi’ chant to India, which was not a Kashmir invention chanted by Kanhayia at Jawaharlal Nehru University but a creation of Pakistani feminists in their protest against patriarchy. Bhasin recalls, “ I had learnt the slogan ‘Meri behane maange Azaadi’ from Pakistani feminists and later improvised the words. The words would change many times depending on what we were protesting against, discrimination on the basis of caste, injustice to tribals or violence against women.” An early memory of dancing and chanting to the catchy beat of the “Azaadi” number dates back to 1991, at the Women’s Studies Conference in Kolkata’s Jadavpur University. A vibrant and charismatic Bhasin, in her early forties, chanted it with a little drum in hand and women surrounded her, throwing their fists in the air. My five-year-old daughter, who had accompanied me there once, caught on the song and chanted it throughout her childhood.Trials and tribulations Kamla grew up in Rajasthan and pursued her graduation and postgraduation there. Later, she won a fellowship to study ‘sociology of development’ at the University of Münster in West Germany and returned to work at the Seva Mandir in Rajasthan where she met her husband, the late Baljit Malik. The first setback was when their child Chotu, just a year old then, reacted to a vaccine and was mentally and physically disabled for life. The second blow and the most painful came many decades later after their daughter Meeto died by suicide. She was pursuing her doctorate on the ‘Synchronic Secular Traditions of Pre-Independence Punjab’ at the Oxford University. Yet, Kamla moved on instituting scholarships in her name and doing the work she was committed towards.Song sung trueNow as the hero, for that is what she was to women in struggle, is battling against an advanced stage of liver cancer. She writes to friends on her timeline page on how weak she has become but that does not stop her from doing a 45-minute session with young women inspiring them to struggle and sing one of her many songs like: ‘Poochhenge ham khoob sawal, aa gayi chetna’ (We will ask many questions for now we have awareness) which her feminist comrades had asked her to write in the early 1980s. In spite of her frailty, she has the same zest and sparkle of songs sung true in celebration of life, struggle and even fatality. Cheers! Kamla, you never fail to inspire!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-long-live-the-anthem-writer-of-women-s-movement-101631391310222.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rain throws life out of gear in Rohtak||Rain threw normal life out of gear in Rohtak and other parts of the region as the roads became waterlogged and traffic was disrupted on Delhi-Rohtak, Rohtak-Sonepat and other routes. Many passengers were trapped in vehicles on flooded roads. Students and people were seen wading through water and submerged vehicles were seen near Maharshi Dayanand University. Traffic policemen were seen struggling as vehicles were stranded. As per the meteorological department, Chandigarh, Rohtak recorded 33.8mm rainfall, Narnaul 26 mm and Bhiwani 4.2mm . The weather department has predicted light to moderate rainfall at many places on Sunday and light to moderate rainfall at a few places in the state from September 13 to 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-throws-life-out-of-gear-in-rohtak-101631391188937.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Woman attendant alleges rape by Class-4 employee at Kurukshetra govt hospital||A 20-year-old woman attendant was allegedly raped by a Class-4 employee at Kurukshetra’s Lok Nayak Jai Parkash Government Hospital on Friday night. The accused, Dharmvir, is a contractual employee at the female ward and he allegedly raped the woman in the toilet. Other attendants saw the incident and alerted the hospital staff. The accused managed to flee. He has been terminated from the employment of the hospital and has been booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code. Medical superintendent Dr Sara Aggarwal said the ward attendant had been appointed through an outsourcing firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-attendant-alleges-rape-by-class-4-employee-at-kurukshetra-govt-hospital-101631390768821.html
12-09-2021||Other||21-year-old murdered over old enmity in Yamunanagar||A 21-year-old youth was hacked to death by a group of men, when he was preparing for Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in Yamunanagar on Friday night. Police said that the victim, Surya, was attacked by a group of 15-20 men, who had arrived on their two-wheelers near Guru Gobind Singh Institute and started hitting him with glass bottles, hockey sticks and other weapons. He was taken to a hospital from where he was referred to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, where he succumbed to his injuries, police said. His elder brother, Shivali said Surya had already lodged an assault case against a few of the attackers, due to which they had attacked him. A murder case was lodged against at least nine men at Yamunanagar city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/21yearold-murdered-over-old-enmity-in-yamunanagar-101631390529182.html
12-09-2021||Other||Pak national’s spying case: Ambala court upholds acquittal order||The court of additional sessions judge, Ambala, Sanjay Sandhir on Thursday upheld the lower court’s acquittal of a Pakistani national who was accused of spying for Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).As per the order made available on Saturday, the court pronounced the dismissal order filed by the state and observed that the findings of the trial court cannot be reversed merely because any other view is possible, if such a finding is based on evidence.While issuing the order, the court referred to observations made by the Supreme Court in Kallu alias Masih vs. State of Madhya Pradesh (supra), and said, “….an order of acquittal cannot be interfered by the appellate court, if the judgment of the trial court is based on evidence and the view taken by the trial court is reasonable. The appellate court in an appeal against the judgment of acquittal though is entitled to re-appreciate the evidence and come to an independent conclusion but the same should not be done as a matter of routine…”His counsel, SK Maken said, “The appellant court has also directed Ali Murtaza not to leave the country during the state’s appeal time to the Punjab and Haryana high court.”Murtaza, a software engineer, was acquitted of the charges framed against him under Official Secrets and Foreigners Acts by the court of chief judicial magistrate Amberdeep Singh on July 7. The court, while extending benefit of doubt in favour of him, had said the accused has been able to establish his innocence by producing his location history as recorded on Google Timeline Map. The prosecution has said he was arrested near the Ambala Cantt bus stand by the police on August 14, 2019, post the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A in Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, while the defence had argued that he was arrested from Cantt railway station from his berth of Golden Temple Mail when he was travelling from Mumbai to Amritsar, to exit through Atari for Karachi, his hometown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pak-national-s-spying-case-ambala-court-upholds-acquittal-order-101631390288863.html
12-09-2021||Other||Farmers’ protests sponsored by Cong with eye on Punjab polls: Vij||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Saturday said the ongoing farmers’ protests are sponsored by the Congress party with a motive to gain political mileage in the upcoming Punjab assembly elections. “There was no condemnation by Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, on the Moga incident (where cops had canecharged farmers during SAD leader Sukhbir Badal’s rally). Their (Congress’) only motive is to keep it going actively till Punjab assembly elections,” he told the reporters. The Haryana home minister also expressed satisfaction over the peaceful conclusion of Karnal protests after the government accepted most of the demands of farmers. The minister stated that “talks can resolve all issues”. He said this during his weekly janata darbar (public hearing) at PWD rest house in Ambala Cantt which was held almost after a month due to his illness.The minister has also asked the IGs, CPs and SPs of the state to submit an action-taken report (ATR) on the complaints forwarded by him within 15 days and a copy of it to the complainant too. During the public hearing, he said he has forwarded five cases related to harassment by cops, to the Haryana State Police Complaints Authority for action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-protests-sponsored-by-cong-with-eye-on-punjab-polls-vij-101631390109334.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||One-year-old kidnapped boy rescued in Mohali, two arrested||Nearly three weeks after a tea vendor’s one-year-old son was kidnapped from Mohali’s Sector 82, the toddler was rescued with the arrest of two Uttar Pradesh natives.The accused were identified as Mangal Kumar and Shyam, both hailing from Unnao, Uttar Pradesh. Police have also recovered the motorcycle used in the crime. According to police, Mangal, a labourer, had kidnapped the boy to assuage his sister, who was upset over birthing only daughters. The child’s father had complained to the police that the duo visited his stall on the pretext of drinking tea on August 24 and kidnapped his son, who was playing nearby.Following the complaint, police got the accused’s sketches prepared and pasted these in public places. On September 7, police got information regarding the presence of the accused in a house in Kumbra village.When police raided the house, they found the child in Mangal’s arms. The parents were called and they identified the boy as their son. Mangal was arrested on the spot and on his disclosure, Shyam, who works as an AC repair mechanic, was also nabbed. Both are facing a case under Sections 360, 363 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oneyearold-kidnapped-boy-rescued-in-mohali-two-arrested-101631389935358.html
12-09-2021||Delhi||Intense 3-hour rain spell brings Delhi to a grinding halt yet again||Traffic slowed to a crawl, several commuters were stranded on the roads, power lines were shut, at least seven houses were damaged, and a wall at a Metro station collapsed, as the national capital struggled to deal with an intense spell of rain yet again on Saturday.In what was a rerun of most of the city’s rainy days during the monsoon this year, a sharp three-hour spell of rain spared few parts of the Capital, leaving homes, shops, marketplaces, and commuters to deal with the aftermath of the shower over the rest of the day.Delhi traffic police said that Saturday’s rain resulted in several arterial stretches getting inundated, and underpasses were hit hardest, with many shut throughout the day, exacerbating snarls throughout the city.Also Read| Monsoon likely to withdraw late this year, Met predicts; more rain in storeThe police said underpasses at Azadpur, Dwarka Link Road, Rani Khera and Pul Prahladpur were closed for traffic and vehicles diverted.“Most of the rain was in the morning, but its impact was seen on the roads through the day. Many roads and underpasses had to be barricaded and diversions put in place till the water levels in many areas came to safe levels,” said a senior traffic police official.Moti Bagh crossing, Malviya Nagar, Dwarka Link Road, Dhaula Kuan, Sardar Patel Marg, Uttam Nagar intersection, GT Karnal Road, Mukarba Chowk, Pragati Maidan and Hauz Khas (Outer Ring Road), were among the stretches worst affected on Saturday, said police officers.Senior fire department officials on Saturday said that the control room received three calls reporting people trapped in vehicles that were stuck on waterlogged roads or underpasses.The department rescued at least 59 people, trapped in four separate vehicles, officials said.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that around 11.30am, a private bus, carrying 40 passengers, was stuck in the waterlogged Palam Flyover underpass. Passengers were later rescued by two fire tenders and DFS teams.A tempo and a truck were also trapped at Mundka underpass.At least seven house collapses were reported from Jama Masjid, Chandni Chowk, Sadar Bazar, Nabi Karim, Burari, Rohini and Mayur Vihar Phase 3 said the fire chief.South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) officials said that a majority of the complaints received on Saturday were from individuals and resident groups reporting water inside their houses or in complexes.“Of the 35 complaints of waterlogging we received till Saturday afternoon, 27 were regarding individual houses or residential societies getting flooded,” a senior SDMC official said.In many areas, residents said the power supply was shut off for several hours, till water was pumped out of the complexes.Discom teams were on high alert to take care of exigencies due to the rain, and even put preventive shutdowns in place in a few areas, officials said. These included parts of Hastsal, Aya Nagar, Uttam Nagar, Bijwasan, Johri Farm, Mahaveer Nagar, Seelampur, Chandi Mahal, Model Town, Vijay Nagar, Mukherjee Nagar, Azadpur Mandi and Peeragarh.Resident groups said the city’s situation during sharp spells of rain highlighted the apathy of the city’s civic agencies.“IIT-Delhi submitted its final report on the city’s Drainage Master Plan in 2018. Why has the implementation process not started even after three years? This could have saved the residents from these regular waterlogging woes,” said BS Vohra, president of Federation of East Delhi RWAs.The rain also led to a portion of a wall at Dwarka Metro station on the Blue Line collapsing.Also Read| Gurugram rain leaves roads waterlogged, commuters stranded“The said Metro gate was closed and regular passenger movement resumed from other gates. No one was hurt,” a senior Delhi Metro official said.State Public Works Department officials said the roads were blocked due to the rainfall, but efforts were made to pump out the water as soon as possible. However, they said this took longer than usual due to the continuous rainfall.Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.Experts stressed that with the climate crisis causing increased episodes of intense rain spells, the city’s authorities need to redraw their plans to tackle flash floods and urban flooding.“Understandably, when it rains over 100mm in a matter of two or three hours, there will be instances of urban flooding. These are impacts of climate change and these episodes will only increase in the future, so we need to prepare,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/intense-3-hour-rain-spell-brings-delhi-to-a-grinding-halt-yet-again-101631388559566.html
12-09-2021||Other||UG admissions: Cut-off in Haryana’s top two govt colleges goes past 100%||The department of higher education, Haryana, announced its cut-off list for admission to undergraduate courses on Saturday. Government College, Hisar, which tops in terms of students’ preference, has fixed its cut-off at 102.2% for non-medical students, 102% in medical and 105.2% in commerce. Rohtak’s Neki Ram Sharma (NRS) government college, which comes second in terms of students’ preference, has fixed its non-medical cut-off at 102%, medical 100.4% and commerce 104.2%. At Government College, Faridabad, the cut-off for non-medical students stood at 94.6%, medical 95% and BCom was 100.2%. Dayanand College in Hisar recorded 97.8% cut-off for non-medical students, 89.4% in medical and 103.2% in commerce. Dronacharya government college (DGC), Gurugram, fixed its cut-off for non-medical at 96.2%, 93.8% in medical and 97.6% in commerce. The higher education department had not uploaded the cut-off list for BA students at the time of filing of the report. As per the higher education department’s portal, as many as 1.96 lakh students have applied to undergraduate courses in 329 colleges across the state. Of these, 23,879 students preferred Hisar’s government college as their first choice followed by Rohtak’s NRS with 21,871 applicants, Faridabad’s government college with 14,757 applicants, Dayanand College in Hisar was chosen by 14,479 students and 13,860 students preferred Dronacharya government college (DGC) at Gurugram. Of the applicants, as many as 1.03 lakh (52.67 %) students are male; 93,131 students (47.33%) are female and six are transgender. Of all the applicants, 95.28% students are state’s natives while 4.72% applicants are from other states.Experts said the first cut-off to undergraduate courses has crossed 100% in various disciplines as more than 13,000 Class-12 Haryana board students secured marks in the bracket of 95-99% and 49,233 in 90-94% this time.“Students hailing from rural areas get extra weightage of 5%, besides getting marks for NCC and NSS. The second cut-off will also not come down much,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ug-admissions-cut-off-in-haryana-s-top-two-govt-colleges-goes-past-100-101631389868771.html
12-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh’s first toy train via Dudhwa likely to start its run soon||Uttar Pradesh’s first toy train that would ferry tourists on the Mailani-Nanpara route via the Dudhwa National Park is expected to hit the track on World Tourism Day falling on September 27.With the trial run having been completed, North Eastern Railway (NER) is now chalking out a suitable timetable for the train. NER has said the fare would be similar to that of AC chair cars.“We are done with the trial run of the plush Vistadome coaches on the meter gauge rail track connecting Mailani to Nanpara. The trial run was successful,” said Monica Agnihotri, divisional railway manager (DRM), Lucknow Division, NER, who carried out the inspection on the route.DRM also inspected passenger amenities and technical aspects at the stations including Mailani, Paliya Kala, Dudhwa Station and others that were found up to the mark.While some senior NER officials said the train was expected to get going on September 27, NER is yet to confirm the date officially.“We are working on the timetable of the train. We are also giving a thought as to whether Vistadome coaches should be run as an independent train or should be attached to some other train. The fare of the train would be as per AC chair car,” said Pankaj Singh, chief public relations officer (CPRO), NER.“As of now, we have received a set of two Vistadome coaches that were brought all the way from the Mhow Coaching Depot and are stationed at the Mailani Junction. These special coaches are meant to ply on the Mailani-Nanpara route via the Dudhwa forest reserve,” added Singh.“Initially, the train would be equipped with two Vistadome coaches, each having a seating capacity of 60 passengers. The coaches have the capacity to run at 180kmph but would be operated at a much lower speed. The seats can rotate up to 180 degrees. The coaches are equipped with Wi-Fi connectivity, pantry, modular toilets, LED destination board, multi-tier luggage racks, CCTV cameras and other appliances likes microwave, coffee maker, refrigerator, bottle cooler etc,” officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-s-first-toy-train-via-dudhwa-likely-to-start-its-run-soon-101631389688784.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||MC field staff to report work progress daily: Chandigarh MC commissioner||Municipal commissioner Anindita Mitra on Saturday directed all officers and officials of the civic body to submit their work progress along with photographs everyday through a Google Form. Mitra said that this is to ensure 100% compliance of assignments given to the field staff. She added that this will not only help in record keeping, but also become an important tool for submitting assignments and eliciting response from staffers. She said that the form is simple to fill and necessary directions have been issued to officials concerned to impart necessary training to their subordinate staff. She further said that after filling the form, their progress will automatically be saved as a draft. Senior officers can check the field reports and assignments on their phones immediately after submission. The commissioner further said that necessary directions have been issued to all officers to fill this form during every field/site inspection/visit. She said that the field staff and concerned officers will have to upload “before” and “after” photographs of work done in the progress form.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mc-field-staff-to-report-work-progress-daily-chandigarh-mccommissioner-101631389629423.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s new lokayukta administered oath of office||Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatraya on Saturday administered the oath of office to former Punjab and Haryana high court judge, Haripal Verma as Lokayukta. Justice Verma succeeds Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal, who recently completed his five-year term as Lokayukta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-new-lokayukta-administered-oath-of-office-101631389390823.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Centralised courses at Chandigarh colleges: Give consent for third counselling from Sept 14 to 16||Candidates must give their consent for the third counselling of centralised courses of city colleges from September 14 till 1pm on September 16. This is for candidates who have already applied on the DHE portal.As per details released by the higher education department, the list of vacant seats will be put up on the DHE website on September 14. The link for the Google forms, through which they can give their consent, will also be put up on the website by 2pm on September 14. The second counselling was held from September 8 to 10. Merit list out on September 17The merit list (course wise, pool wise and category wise) will be displayed at the DHE portal as well as college website on September 17, after which the admission will be made by the respective colleges on September 18, with the late fee as per Panjab University (PU) schedule.Also, the department has also said that no fresh application will be entertained till further notice. “We will review after September 18 whether to invite fresh applications depending on the number of vacant seats,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centralised-courses-at-chandigarh-colleges-give-consent-for-third-counselling-from-sept-14-to-16-101631389211890.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana governor asks govt to resolve farmers’ issue at earliest||Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Saturday said he wanted the central and state governments to make efforts to resolve the farmers’ issue at the earliest. Speaking to journalists, he said the solution to any problem is dialogue. The process of dialogue should be continuous as it is the only way to conclude this issue, the governor said. He said he has the zeal to work for the welfare of migrant labourers, which included ensuring minimum wages, housing, welfare schemes and policies, health and education etc. The governor .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-governor-asks-govt-to-resolve-farmers-issue-at-earliest-101631389030475.html
12-09-2021||Other||2 more arrested in Haryana constable paper leak case||The crime investigation agency (CIA) of Kaithal police have arrested two more people for their involvement in the constable paper leak case.As per the police, the accused have been identified as Ved Prakash of Ritoli of Rohtak district and Pradeep Kumar of Hisar.They were carrying an award of ₹50,000 each, the police said. Kaithal superintendent of police (SP) Lokender Singh said the main accused Raj Kumar had sold copies of the answer keys and question paper to Prakash, who later sold it to the aspirants. The other accused Pradeep had attended a meeting of the main accused Narender at a private hotel in Hisar on August 4.As per the police, 36 people have been arrested, of which two are employees of a Jammu-based private examination agency which had been given the contract to prepare question papers for the written exams of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-more-arrested-in-haryana-constable-paper-leak-case-101631388548686.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||255 cases disposed off during e- lok adalat at Punjab and Haryana HC||As many as 255 cases were disposed of during the e-national lok adalat held at Punjab and Haryana high court on Saturday.A spokesman said that 10 benches of the court had been constituted and dealt with 665 cases, out of which 255 were disposed off. The spokesman added that e-lok adalats may even continue in the post-pandemic period, such as the upcoming bi-monthly lok adalat, that may preferably be organised through the virtual mode if physical hearing is not possible. At the new district courts complex in Sector 43, 15 benches headed by serving judicial officers were constituted and 7,515 cases were disposed off. This include 21 criminal compoundable cases, involving an amount of ₹29,020, 770; cases under Section 138 of NI Act, involving an amount of Rs.8,20,80,467; five cases of bank recovery, involving amount of Rs.16,94,490, and 32 motor accident claim cases, involving an amount of Rs.2,90,55,500.In Mohali, the lok adalat was held in physical and virtual modes, and 86,204 cases were taken up before 378 benches. People were also told about the toll free number 1968 for any kind of legal assistance available to all those who require it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/255-cases-disposed-off-during-e-lok-adalat-at-punjab-and-haryana-hc-101631388312158.html
12-09-2021||Other||Poll violence victim Ritu Singh of SP joins Cong||Lucknow: Ritu Singh, a candidate for block pramukh’s post in the recently concluded panchayat elections in Lakhimpur Kheri joined the Congress in the presence of Congress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra here on Saturday. Ritu Singh owed allegiance to Samajwadi Party in the panchayat polls. In pictures that the party released here, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is seen interacting with Ritu Singh and her family members at Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) headquarters. To recall, attempts to disrobe Ritu Singh and her supporter had drawn the attention of the people as well as media during the panchayat elections. UPCC secretary Abhishek Singh Patel said Ritu Singh along with her husband Dharam Vir Singh and other family members met Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and joined the party at the UPCC headquarters. Patel said Ritu Singh was a victim of violence in the panchayat elections and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had visited Lakhimpur Kheri to meet her. He said Ritu Singh had joined the Congress to work for the people of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/poll-violence-victim-ritu-singh-of-sp-joins-cong-101631388193265.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women, Ludhiana holds faculty development programme on computing skills||Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women, Gujarkhan Campus, Model Town, conducted ‘Spark your basic computing skills’, a week-long faculty development programme (FDP), for its teaching and non-teaching staff.Under the aegis of IQAC, the department of computer science and applications conducted the FDP under the guidance of Daisy Wadhwa, head of the department.Harpreet Kaur, assistant professor, conducted the sessions. The FDP included sessions on basic computer usage, email management, spreadsheet handling, and Google Form creation.A total of 39 participants, who attended the FDP, were awarded certificates on the concluding day.During the valedictory session, principal Maneeta Kahlon said that learning is a lifelong process and it is important for educators to stay updated with the latest in the world of technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guru-nanak-khalsa-college-for-women-ludhiana-holds-faculty-development-programme-on-computing-skills-101631388188761.html
12-09-2021||Lucknow||JP Nadda launches BJP booth campaign in Uttar Pradesh||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda on Saturday virtually launched the party’s booth vijay abhiyan (victory at the booths campaign) in Uttar Pradesh (UP), telling the booth level cadres that victory was certain in the 2022 assembly election.The BJP said the campaign would be carried out in all the 1,63,000 booths across the state. The party would also appoint panna pramukhs (heads of the pages on voters’ list at the booth level).Claiming that the Yogi Adityanath government brought about a complete transformation in Uttar Pradesh, Nadda said it set new benchmarks of development in the state. “Under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the leadership of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the Uttar Pradesh government has launched various pro-poor initiatives. When other political parties and their leaders were indoors, our cadres were out helping the poor and had taken up corona-free booth campaign too,” Nadda said.He said PM Modi has emerged as a globally famous top leader in a survey conducted by an international agency. He also referred to a few pre-poll surveys suggesting the BJP would win the UP assembly election due early next year. The launch of the booth vijay campaign came a week ahead of the completion of the four-and-a-half years (54 months) of the Yogi Adityanath government. The party plans to hold booth-level programmes at all the 27,700 shakti kendras across the state on September 19. The cluster of booths are referred to as shakti kendras by the BJP. In these programmes, the party has decided to highlight the achievements of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and the Yogi Adityanath government in the state at the booth level. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and UP BJP general secretary (organization) Sunil Bansal have spoken of the massive mass contact programme that the party intends to roll out in UP. On September 20, all BJP lawmakers would be in their constituencies to talk about their initiatives as well as those taken by the party. Subsequently, on September 26, the party cadres would carry a booklet of achievements of the Modi and Yogi governments. On Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary on October 2, the party would launch a cleanliness campaign across the state. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma and other ministers, party functionaries were also present during the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jpnadda-launches-bjp-booth-campaign-in-uttar-pradesh-101631388128626.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||One year of farm laws: SAD to hold march in Delhi on Sept 17||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has decided to observe September 17 as Black Day on completion of one year of enactment of the three contentious farm laws. SAD spokesperson Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema said party workers along with farmers will hold a protest march from Delhi’s Gurdwara Rakabganj to the Parliament, demanding repeal of the three laws. The decision was taken in a meeting of party MLAs, district presidents, halqa sewadars, legislators and members of the core committee presided over by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. Cheema appealed to everyone to participate in the march, which will be preceded by an ardaas at the historic gurdwara in Delhi.Sunam man booked for extortion A man has been booked for posing as an assistant sub-inspector and trying to extort money from a pickup driver after threatening to issue a speeding challan in Sunam. Victim Pardeep Kumar of Sirsa was travelling from coming from Ludhiana when the incident happened. The accused has been identified as Gurdeep Singh of Chhajli village in Sunam. 925 cases resolved at Barnala lok adalat As many as 925 cases were disposed of and claims worth ₹5.17 crore settled during the National Lok Adalat in Barnala on Saturday. In all, eight benches were constituted to take up 1,260 cases for speedy disposal through compromise. Virinder Aggarwal, chairman, District Legal Services Authority, said the next lok adalat will be held on December 11. CT Group felicitates 187 teachers The Shahpur campus of CT Group of Institutions honoured 187 school and college teachers from across Punjab at a ceremony on Saturday. The teachers were chosen for the award on the basis of a survey of students. Group chairman Charanjit Singh Channi, along with campus director and other officials, was present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-year-of-farm-laws-sad-to-hold-march-in-delhi-on-sept-17-101631387829536.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Row over prime land’s sale in Ludhiana: Local bodies department directs LIT to refix reserve price||After cancelling the auction of the 3.79 acres of prime land in Model Town Extension amid allegations of multi-crore land scam levelled by opposition parties, the local bodies department has directed the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) to get the reserve price of the said land refixed by the district level price and rate fixation committee.The local bodies department on Saturday released an official order regarding the cancellation of the auction. It stated that LIT should first decide whether it wants to sell the chunk of land (vacant plot) or establish shop-cum-offices (SCOs) at the site and then auction those. The reserve price should then be decided by the price and rate fixation committee.The LIT authorities have also been directed to refund around ₹14 crore, which was submitted by the highest bidder during the auction held on August 16, which was cancelled later.Earlier on Friday, local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra stated that the auction was cancelled as there were discrepancies in the statements issued by LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam and deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma regarding the reserve price of the land. The decision has not been taken due to allegations of any scam but to clear the facts, he added.The opposition parties had been targeting the Congress cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and LIT over the alleged auction of the said land at a throwaway price. The trust had auctioned off 3.79 acres (16,344 square yards) of prime land for around ₹98.38 crore, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had alleged, claiming that the land was worth approximately ₹350 crore. The controversy had erupted after DC Sharma denied fixing the reserve price ( ₹91.86 crores) of the land, while the chairman stated that the price was fixed by a panel led by DC. On Friday, Ashu had also recommended the cancellation of the auction to the state government.Approval for auction of 22 other propertiesMeanwhile, the local bodies department has approved the proceedings of 22 other properties along with the chunk of land in Model Town Extension, that was auctioned by LIT on August 16. Further, it has been stated that the decision to fix the residential and commercial reserve prices in Gian Singh Rarewala Market at ₹34,000 and ₹46,900 should be taken as per the rules fixed by the department in the past. The decision regarding the reserve price of the LIT complex at Rani Hansi road will be intimated later.Despite attempts made to reach LIT chairman, he was not available for comments.BJP, SAD seeks FIR against the chairmanThe opposition parties including, BJP and SAD, have sought an FIR against the LIT chairman and others involved, stating that the scam has been proved by the department’s decision to cancel the auction.BJP leader Bikram Sidhu said, “There were anomalies in fixing the reserve price and the e-auction process. With the local bodies department cancelling the auction, the scam has been proved. An FIR should be lodged against the chairman and others involved in the nexus.” SAD district president Ranjit Dhillon reiterated the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/row-over-prime-land-s-sale-in-ludhiana-local-bodies-department-directs-lit-to-refix-reserve-price-101631387468691.html
12-09-2021||Patna||Bihar launches pilot project to digitise health records, issue health card||Bihar has taken the first step to digitise health records of its people and issue them health card. It has roped in a Pune-based firm for a pilot project to provide preventive health check-up to the residents of Kalyanbigha in Nalanda, chief minister Nitish Kumar’s home district, and to create their electronic medical record, said health officials. The initiative, as part of the national digital health mission, aims to enable people to access digitally their medical records, synced to their health card, after the system has been put in place. The pilot project of eHealthSystems Technologies LLP, initiated on September 1, will provide a set of essential diagnostic services free of cost to all the residents, using the mobile laboratory units and fully automatic laboratory units, said Dr Ambarish Darak, director of eHealthSystems. “We will conduct investigations on 76 parameters, including blood serum, urine and ECG tests, and talk to people to know about their medical case history. The digital health records will be stored on a cloud server system and can be accessed on eHealthSystem mobile application for the mobile users, on a personal health card to non-mobile users and through wrist-band for children,” he added. Subsequently, it can also be integrated with the hospital management information system to access data stored on the central server. The pilot project proposes to offer a central dashboard for the district and health authorities to facilitate better healthcare outcome, said Dr Darak. Besides benefiting patients, who will not be required to carry their previous test reports, doctors’ summary or narrate their medical case history in case of emergency, it will help the government in early tracking and treatment of disease. At the same time, it will help create a database, which the government can use for analytics, identifying disease prevalence, tracking chronic diseases, etc., Dr Darak added. Additionally, in case of emergency, the resident can click the ‘help’ button and immediately send GPS location to five pre-added emergency contacts in the mobile app. They can alternatively, call the local police or ambulance during an emergency. Women can use emergency ‘help’ button in case of any attack or emergency. The mobile app for the eHealthSystem products can be downloaded from Google Play store. “We have already got the permission to execute the project in all 30 districts of Odisha. We hope to complete our pilot project at Kalyanbigha this month itself and showcase our work to the health department so that we can replicate it in all 38 districts of Bihar,” said Dr Darak. Nalanda civil surgeon Dr Sunil Kumar said, “We have completed taking samples and digitising records of 1,000 out of the target group population of 10,000. We target those coming to our district hospital, sub-divisional hospital, referral hospitals and selected primary health centres. Patients are given unique identification number and their health status with medical records will be uploaded on a server for easy accessibility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-launches-pilot-project-to-digitise-health-records-issue-health-card-101631387108618.html
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana:16,968 cases disposed of in National Lok Adalat||As many as 16,968 cases were disposed of on the spot during the National Lok Adalat organised here by the District Legal Services Authority on Saturday at the District Judicial Complex under the leadership of DLSA chairman and district and session judge Munish Singal.Divulging the details, DLSA secretary Prabhjot Singh Kaleka said that the compensation worth ₹102.03 crore was settled during the Lok Adalats.He said that during this National Lok Adalat, 31 benches at district and six in sub-divisional levels were constituted for pending criminal compoundable cases in courts including, traffic challans, banks, and others.Singh said that a total of 24,143 cases were listed for hearing before these benches, out of which 16,968 were solved on the spot.He added that Lok Adalats are instrumental in saving people’s time and money, besides promoting harmony among the litigants.Litigants get major relief in cheque bounce cases During the Lok Adalat, special focus was laid on settlement of the long pending cheque bounce cases. A total of six local courts settled cheque bounce cases on Saturday. On August 17, District and Sessions Judge, Munish Singal in a meeting organised by district legal services, Ludhiana , issued directions to identify maximum pending cases of 138 NI Act (penal provision that deals with the punishment of dishonour of cheque) so that they could be decided in the national Lok adalat. The court of Tarun Preet Singh, civil judge (junior division) settled the cheque bounce litigation in Capital First vs Dhandi Sales case. The parties entered into an agreement in the court pertaining to the cheque bounce case of ₹1.92 crore. The same court further settled another cheque bounce case including a quantum of ₹96.25 Lakh. Meanwhile, one Sanjiv Kumar who was earlier awarded a sentence of two years in a cheque bounce case got a major relief after his case was settled in the court of Munish Singal, district and session judge. According to the officials, Kumar was punished after his cheques worth ₹3 lakh had bounced but his case was settled in the aforesaid court after he paid ₹3.45 lakh to the litigant along with interest. The court of Vijay Kumar, additional district and session judge awarded compensation of ₹35 lakh in Kavita Manocha vs Shambhu Kumar Mishra accident case. The insurance company agreed to pay the aforesaid amount to the victim. Other than this, hundreds of labourers got relief from the court against their employers. According to the officials, over ₹33.5 lakh compensation was awarded to the labourers in 205 cases by the court of Sanjiv Joshi, additional district and session judge. The officials from district legal services authority said that the cases decided in Lok Adalat can’t be challenged and disputes are permanently settled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana16968-cases-disposed-of-in-national-lok-adalat-101631386989819.html
12-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Camp organised to register street vendors with FSSAI||The municipal corporation (MC) and district health department organised an awareness cum registration camp under the ‘Eat right’ and ‘Eat smart’ challenge launched by the union government, wherein 120 street vendors were encouraged to register with the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). The camp was organised at MC Zone A office on Saturday.All the eligible vendors got themselves registered with the food safety regulator.The health department officials also apprised the vendors of the sanitary and hygiene practices, recycling food waste, healthy habits, etc. They also told them about the importance of FSSAI registration and licensing.District health officer (DHO) Rajesh Garg said, “It is important to register the vendors so that they can be made aware of the hygiene practices and sell quality food items. More camps will be organised in association with the MC in the coming days.”MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal stated that a meeting was also held between MC, health department, and NGOs on Friday, wherein the decision was taken to organise camps to reach out to the street vendors. Also, discussions were held to encourage cycling under the ‘Cycle for Change’ challenge launched by the union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianacamp-organised-to-register-street-vendors-with-fssai-101631386508361.html
12-09-2021||Other||IIIT-A convocation: ‘Keep farmers, workers at centre of your business strategies’||Renowned cardiac surgeon Padma Bhushan Dr Devi Shetty on Saturday said electronic medical records will make healthcare safer, accessible and affordable. He, however, added that unfortunately nearly 80% hospitals on the planet did not have electronic medical records.Addressing the 16th e-convocation of Indian Institute of Information Technology, Allahabad (IIIT-A) as the chief guest, he said, “We want all hospitals to have the smartest electronic medical record at a price that they can afford to pay and are working in this regard.”“This is what you need to do also either by producing or delivering essentials of life to everyone at a price that they can afford to pay by building digital tools,” he said to the passing out students in his virtual address.In all, 465 students were awarded different degrees via online mode during the ceremony that saw a handful of IIIT-A officials gracing the stage in the institute’s auditorium and the guests as well as students attending the ceremony virtually. Besides, the institute also awarded 23 medals to meritorious students at the convocation during which 29 research scholars were awarded PhD degrees.In his address, Dr Shetty, who is also chairman, Narayana Hrudayalaya, said stock market valuation is not real India. “Real India still depends on agricultural economy which has not changed since independence. Nearly half of our country’s population still depends on rain and price of that they grow. Unfortunately, farming is a business in which many will end up in bankruptcy. It is just a matter of time,” he said.“Agricultural income still depends on rain and when there is no rain there is no crop, no money while when there is too much rain again there is no crop and no money. Interestingly, when there is adequate rain there is bumper crop, still no money since what the farmer has grown has no market value. Your business strategy, if it includes the farmers, migrant labourers and working-class people, can make you enter the blue ocean of business where there is no competition”, he added.“When you are inspired by some great purpose, some extraordinary project, all your thoughts break their bonds – your mind transcends limitations, your consciousness expands in every direction and you find yourself in a new, great and wonderful world. Dormant forces, faculties and talents become alive and you discover yourself to be the greater person by far than you ever dreamed”, Dr Shetty said. Prof P Nagabhushan, director and officiating chairman of Board of Governors (BoG) , IIIT-A, in his address said during the Covid period, the institution suffered its share of setbacks.“Yet that did not deter us. The institute has remained active with its research,” he said citing development of a rapid diagnostic kit for the detection of corona virus besides autonomously propelled catalytic magnetic nanobots designed for degradation of toxic industrial dyes in water bodies by institute scientists.“Despite Covid disruption, our students have excelled in hackathons and other coding competitions. I feel happy to also share that Sneha Mishra received the prestigious ADOBE Women in Technology Fellowship 2021 and Kathar Sampada Manoj bagged Grace Hopper Celebration Fellowship 2021,” he said.During the ceremony, Sahil Goyal was awarded the Chairman’s Gold Medal for 2021 for his outstanding academic performance. As many as 144 BTech (IT) and 80 BTech (electronic communication engineering) students were awarded their degrees along with 241 students who were awarded postgraduate courses degrees, including MTech, MBA and PhD. Prof T Lahari, dean (academics), prof Vijayshri Tiwari, registrar, Manish Goswami, associate dean (exams) and prof Neetesh Purohit also spoke on the occasion.
12-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Discussion on ‘Future of exports in Punjab’ held||The Union Bank of India, in association with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), organised a session on export for the Punjab industry on Saturday evening.The seminar was organised to create awareness about the scope of export in the upcoming future.Chander Mohan Minocha, chief general manager of the international banking department, shared the bank’s vision for export.Jagmohan Singh, field general manager, Chandigarh Zone, shared his views on the potential of Punjab while understanding the needs and challenges of the exporters and presided over the panel discussion on ‘Future of Exports in Punjab’ at Radisson Blu Hotel.Ashpreet Singh Sahni, chairman, Ludhiana Zone (CII), shared his views on challenges and opportunities available to exporters.Ashwani Kumar, regional chairman, FIEO, expressed that with the right approach and right investment there are tremendous opportunities available to exporters. He added that if they maintain the quality of their products, no country can refuse to import them.AGM Rajesh Pillia gave a presentation on union export schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-discussion-on-future-of-exports-in-punjab-held-101631386148433.html
12-09-2021||Other||Lord Ganesha idols in smaller, eco-friendly avatar in puja pandals this year||Idol-makers opted for eco-friendly, small and more creative Ganesha idols this year. After more than one and a half years of pandemic threat, devotees too showed interest in buying small and eco-friendly idols which are not harmful for environment. On Friday, the Ganesh idols were installed at homes and puja pandals for performing Ganesh Pujan. Till late night, Ganesh idols were being taken from Murtikala centre to their different destinations by devotees.“I made sixty eco-friendly Ganesha idols of different sizes on order. Due to Covid threat, small Ganesh idols are in huge demand instead of usual big ones. These small idols are easy to carry and don’t require many people, said an artist from Kolkata Gautam Pal.“The eco-friendly idols are manufactured using stubble and mud from river Ganga. The colours used on idols are made of geru, khadia, turmeric and yellow soil. Such idols are not harmful and do not affect the environment after immersion,” he added.Puja Samitis, too, are avoiding large Ganesha idol this year. The idols were taken to puja pandals amid chanting of Ganpati Bappa Morya for ten-day Ganesh Mahotsav. The Bhardwajeshwar Murtikala centre remained abuzz with devotees till late on Friday night. People from across the district reached there for buying Ganesha idols.“The Ganesha idols were also taken to Nirankar ashram Kydganj, Handia Baba Temple, Malakraj, Dhumanganj, Karelabagh, Beli and other places for installation,” said a person from Murtikala centre.Another artiste Tapas Pal said although the immersion of idols in rivers and ponds was prohibited, focus had been laid on manufacturing of eco-friendly idols so that they do not harm environment under any circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lord-ganesha-idols-in-smaller-eco-friendly-avatar-in-puja-pandals-this-year-101631385789777.html
12-09-2021||Other||BCM Arya students shine in badminton tourney||Students of BCM Arya bagged 13 gold, 13 silver, and nine bronze medals in the Ludhiana District Badminton Tournament held at Guru Nanak Stadium, Shastri Hall, Ludhiana on Thursday. Arunima Pal of Class 11 humanities won six golds, Tanmay Tomar got one gold and two silver, Milan Malhotra got two silver, Yogeshwar Narang bagged two bronze, Akshat Maithani bagged one gold, two silver, and one bronze, Anshita Batra got one gold and one silver, Prabhleen Kaur won one silver and one bronze, Alish Pathania got one bronze, Anupama got one gold and one bronze, Saanvi Nautiyal got two gold and three bronze, Aditya Sharma got one gold and one silver, Raghav Bhatia got one silver and one bronze, and Naman Narang of Class 8 got two bronze, respectively. All of them got selected to participate in the state-level tournament to be held soon.Grandparents’ Day celebrated at BCM Kindergarten, Basant Avenue BCM Kindergarten, Basant Avenue, Dugri, Ludhiana, organised a refinement programme to celebrate Grandparents’ Day virtually. They were told that grandparents are the pillars of the family. Teachers also performed enactment by playing the roles of both grandparents and grandchildren. Grandparents also shared their views and gave some important tips from their life experiences.Children express love and gratitude towards grandparentsBCM Kindergarten, Chandigarh Road, Ludhiana, celebrated Grandparents Day. Tiny tots of UKG Wing showcased their love and affection towards their grandparents by preparing gratitude cards and those of LKG took part in an ‘Artsy crafty: Grandparents’. Nursery kids exhibited the paper model of grandparents.Students get training in first aidGMT Public School, Ludhiana, organised a first aid campaign on the campus. Participants highlighted various life-saving techniques. Monika Arya and Harminder Kaur (house in-charge) displayed different steps to treat a patient in an emergency before getting normal medical aid. Students participated in all activities and gained information regarding basic first aid and emergency management. Britannica Teachers Training Workshop organisedSacred Soul Convent Senior Secondary School, Dugri, Dhandra Road, Ludhiana, organised Britannica Teachers Training Workshop. All the teachers participated in this workshop. Baishali Ganguly explained in detail the innovative teaching technology and said that we can make children more creative by using these techniques in our everyday classroom. Atam Public School celebrates Samvastsari ParvaAtam Public Senior Secondary School, Ludhiana, celebrated Samvastsari Parva. Students of Classes 11 and 12 sang a bhajan. English teacher Maanvi Jain delivered a speech. The principal exhorted all not only to preach but practice forgiveness. She pleaded for forgiveness from all the students, their parents, and the staff members. Indus World School felicitatedIndus World School, Ludhiana, was announced the winner of the best eco-friendly school in Punjab award during the annual ceremony of the FAP State Awards Competition at Chandigarh University. The federation allocates these awards every year to honour the excellence of private schools in Punjab. The prestigious award was conferred upon, recognizing the measures taken by the school authorities to promote the eco-friendly environment and the impact it had.Sri Aurobindo College holds national webinarSri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management,Ludhiana, organised a national webinar on the topic ‘Winning the game of life’ under its ‘Shape the mind programme’, in collaboration with the department of youth welfare, Panjab University, Chandigarh, and Science of Spirituality. The event was organised under the guidance of Nirmal Jaura, director, youth welfare, PU, Chandigarh. Baldev Raj Hira, outreach coordinator, Science of Spirituality, made arrangements for the event. RK Arora, officiating principal and head of the department of commerce, Government College for Girls, Cheeka, Kaithal, Haryana, was the resource person. His address was followed by a virtual meditation session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bcm-arya-students-shine-in-badminton-tourney-101631385551878.html
12-09-2021||Other||Implementation of liquor, meat ban in Mathura begins||Agra/Lucknow After Mathura city was declared a pilgrimage centre by chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath on Friday, the administrative machinery swung into action the same day to implement ban on sale of meat and liquor. Most of the meat shops as well as restaurants serving non vegetarian food were closed down by Saturday, while a list of liquor vends to be closed or relocated was being prepared. “Excise and animal husbandry departments, Food and Drug Administration, district administration, police and the municipal corporation will work towards the implementation of liquor and meat sale ban in the area (22 municipal wards of Mathura),” said a senior government officer in Lucknow. “The government has announced Mathura as teeth sthal (pilgrimage centre). Villages like Nandgaon and Barsana were already teerth sthals and now the area has been enlarged. Once our department gets the notification, we will begin rolling out the ban. The department will relocate the existing licensed liquor shops. They have paid the license fee etc, so they will be relocated outside the teerth sthal limits “, said Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, additional chief secretary, excise department, Government of UP. On Friday, the Yogi Adityanath government declared an area of 10 sq km around the birthplace of Lord Krishna in Mathura-Vrindavan as a ‘teerth sthal’ (pilgrimage site). Sale of liquor and meat was banned in this area comprising 22 wards of the Mathura Nagar Nigam. “The Mathura Nagar Nigam had forwarded the proposal to declare 22 wards as teerth sthal and it was accepted. Various government bodies will now ensure implementation of the ban because shops and vends selling meat and liquor will either be closed or relocated. Mainly the district excise department and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will ensure compliance with the ban,” said Anunay Jha, municipal commissioner of Mathura. Dr. Gauri Shankar, the designated officer for Food and Drug Administration said that action against meat shops and restaurants serving non vegetarian food had begun on Friday night. “There are 18 such registered outlets within these 22 wards of Mathura Nagar Nigam. The action began on Friday night and most of the meat shops and restaurants selling non vegetarian food were closed by Saturday. The remaining are in the process of being closed,” said Dr Gauri Shankar. “However, in compliance with the alternative suggested by the chief minister, we have offered rehabilitation of those owning these outlets. In case they plan to switch over to another business, like milk or grocery, we will issue license for that at the earliest,” he added. “A list is being prepared of liquor vends falling in the 22 wards of Mathura Nagar Nigam and this will be forwarded to the excise commissioner in Lucknow. Owners of these vends will have the option to re-locate away from the teerth sthal area or look for other alternatives,” informed sources in the office of the district magistrate in Mathura. Welcoming the decision, social activist and founder chairperson of ‘Kanak Dhara’ foundation, Dr Laxmi Gautam demanded full compliance with the chief minister’s order. Seven other spots in Mathura, linked to the life of Lord Krishna and his beloved Radha, were already declared pilgrimage sites by the Yogi regime in the past. These include Vrindavan, Gokul, Barsana, Nandgaon, Goverdhan, Baldev and Radhakund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/implementation-of-liquor-meat-ban-in-mathura-begins-101631385248607.html
12-09-2021||Delhi||Intense showers, long dry spells: An exceptional monsoon for Delhi||According to the Regional Meteorological Centre, New Delhi, the Capital’s Safdarjung station recorded 94.7 mm rainfall in the 24 hours up to 8:30 AM on 11 September. To put this in perspective, this is 8.6% of the total rainfall of 1100 mm received by the city-state till Saturday morning.The gridded dataset of the India Meteorological Department shows the rain in Delhi at 672 mm till Friday morning; the corresponding figure for Safdarjung is 1005.3 mm. The difference is because the gridded dataset is based on interpolation of rainfall from multiple stations that have operated consistently over the years to generate the area average of rainfall in a grid. There are two such grids in Delhi, data from which are averaged to generate average rainfall.And here is where it starts to get interesting.The 672 mm is, in absolute terms, the 20th highest rainfall in the Capital in the past 120 years in the June 1- September 10 period.Of this 672mm, 391.1mm or 58.2% was classified “heavy” or “extreme” rainfall. This share is the fifth highest since 1901. The other four years are 1912, 1933, 1975, and 1978. In other words, Delhi has seen the most patchily intense monsoon rains in 43 years in 2021.How patchily intense?The maximum LPA (long period average) or expected rainfall for any day up to September 10 in Delhi is 11.87 mm. Of the 102 days of the monsoon up to 8:30 AM on September 10, on 18 days, rain in excess of 11.87 mm fell in the Capital. On nine of these days, rain in excess of 32.60 mm fell. In contrast to this, there was no rainfall on 44 days.This combination of extremely dry and extremely wet days in 2021 is exceptional compared to historical averages. In the 1961-2010 period, it took 7.54 days on average for 50% of the monsoon rainfall up to September 10 to fall in Delhi. In 2011-2020 decade, it took 8 days on average, while in 2021, this mark was reached in just 6 days. Similarly, 99% of the monsoon rainfall up to September 10 fell in 43.14 days on average in 1961-2010, in 43.3 days in 2011-2020, but in just 35 days in 2021.The heavy rains of Friday-Saturday (which will reflect in the gridded dataset 24 hours later) will skew these proportions even more. The reason HT used the gridded dataset is because it’s the only way to perform a long-term analysis of monsoon trends in Delhi. To return to the 2021 monsoon’s patchy intensity in Delhi, it’s interesting to note that the long-term trend in rainfall in the Capital — to the extent that it can be measured in the gridded dataset which only gives data for 24-hour intervals — is that the share of high and extreme intensity rainfall (more than 35.5 mm in a day in a grid) and its share in total rainfall has actually been declining in Delhi. IMD measures deviations in rainfall for any interval by comparing it with the average rainfall for that interval in the 1961-2010 period or the Long Period Average (LPA). Average “heavy” and “extreme” intensity monsoon rainfall was 82 mm in the 2011-2020 decade in Delhi compared to the LPA of 234 mm. Its share in total rainfall in the decade was 19% compared to the LPA of 36%. This year, the numbers (as mentioned above) were 391.1 mm and 58.2%To be sure, does not necessarily mean that rainfall in Delhi became less intense in the 2011-2020 decade. If the increase in intensity of rainfall in Delhi was such that it fell in fewer hours than before, it would not be measured by the gridded dataset. This is because this data is collated only for 24-hour rainfall.But 2021 is an outlier even in terms of the 24-hour metric. By the end of the monsoon season on September 30, it will likely be even more so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/intense-showers-long-dry-spells-why-2021-has-been-an-exceptional-monsoon-for-delhi-101631384588161.html
12-09-2021||Delhi||Arrival area of Delhi airport’s T3 floods, over 100 flights delayed||The intense rain on Saturday left Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport in complete disarray, flooding the arrival area in Terminal 3 as well as the apron (where aircraft are parked), even as over 100 flights were delayed and five diverted.Videos from the airport recorded by fliers did the rounds on social media throughout the day, as officials said rainwater leaked into Terminal 3 from at least four spots on the roof. Officials of the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) — the airport operator — attributed the waterlogging inside the terminal to “a steep gradient” between Terminal 3 and National Highway 48 adjoining it.Jai, a flyer at the airport who goes by a single name, said his morning flight to Mumbai was delayed by two hours due to the weather. “I booked an early morning flight so that I could attend a meeting in the afternoon, but the delay disrupted my day completely,” he said. Of the five flights that were diverted, four were landed in Jaipur and the other landed in Ahmedabad, said airport officials. Three IndiGo flights —to Lucknow, Indore and Hyderabad — were also cancelled. A DIAL spokesperson said, “Delhi has been witnessing record-breaking rain since last evening. This morning [Saturday], due to sudden extremely intense downpour, the forecourt of Terminal 3 of Delhi Airport saw some waterlogging, which was cleared within a few minutes.” “Due to a steep gradient, the entire area between NH-48 and Terminal 3 acts as a catchment and drains water towards the terminal. This water is eventually carried by the city’s underground drainage system from Terminal 3 to Najafgarh drain,” said the official. The airport’s forecourt flooded in October 2019 as well after an intense spell of rain.Spokespersons, however, maintained that no passengers missed their flight due to the waterlogged forecourt. Officials, who asked not to be named, said the drainage system from T3 to Najafgarh drain needs to be widened. “Several discussions in this matter have already taken place. We hope it will be widened soon,” the official added. The roads leading to the airport and the Aerocity area were severely waterlogged too. An underpass leading to the airport was heavily waterlogged too, leading the traffic police to divert the traffic from there. State Public Works Department officials confirmed that the underpass leading to the airport was waterlogged, because of which the traffic there was diverted onto the other roads. “Traffic jams were reported from other stretches too. We managed to clear out the water at the underpass within an hour, but traffic had to be stopped there for longer due to excessive rainfall,” said the official.During the day, passengers shared pictures of the apron area too which showed waterlogging there as well. An airport staffer said that they cleared up the area within half an hour. The bad weather also affected flight operations at the airport, with airlines like IndiGo, SpiceJet requesting passengers to track their flight status before leaving for the airport. SpiceJet tweeted, “#WeatherUpdate: Due to bad weather in Delhi (DEL), all departures/arrivals and their consequential flights may get affected. Passengers are requested to keep a check on their flight status.” The other airlines made similar posts on the Twitter handles to alert the passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arrival-area-of-delhi-airport-s-t3-floods-over-100-flights-delayed-101631384408258.html
12-09-2021||Lucknow||Ahead of Uttar Pradesh assembly election, Priyanka tells Congress workers to work round the clock||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has asked party workers to work round the clock and assured them that the party organisation will play an important role in the selection of candidates for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly election.Priyanka gave this assurance to the party workers at meetings with them at the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) headquarters in Lucknow over the past two days (Friday and Saturday). A large number of aspirants for Congress tickets have made a bid to meet her and put up their request for a ticket to leaders close to them.Although the Pradesh Election Committee (PEC) has approved a list of candidates for about 40 seats, the final decision on the issue has been left to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.The Congress has asked ticket aspirants to submit their applications at the UPCC headquarters or with the party units in the districts from September 11 to 25. The party has decided to finalise party tickets well in advance this time and PEC is scheduled to meet on October 5.“District Congress Committees and City Congress Committees have been asked to send recommendations about potential candidates for the remaining seats in a given format. PEC is scheduled to meet again on October 5, 2021 to discuss more recommendations,” said a senior leader.Priyanka on Saturday held a separate meeting with all the eight UPCC vice- presidents. As most of these vice-presidents are likely to be fielded as candidates in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly election, the party is looking to make alternative arrangements. She also completed a review of the party’s organisation structure set-up at various levels in the remaining four of eight zones on Saturday. She had completed a review of four zones on Friday.The Congress general secretary pointed out to some office bearers of districts the need for an improvement, though she appeared satisfied with the work of a large number of district and city party units.“Priyanka Gandhi Vadra got feedback from office bearers about the functioning of party’s 831 blocks, 2614 wards and 8134 nyay panchayats in the past two days. She pointed out to some office bearers that the party has not received good reports about them. She has asked the partymen to work round the clock, bring about improvement and reach out to people with policies and programmes,” said another party leader.Priyanka is scheduled to leave for Rae Bareli, the Lok Sabha seat of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, after winding up her Lucknow tour on Sunday. She is scheduled to review preparations for the 2022 assembly election there. Besides interacting with the office bearers of the district and city party units, she is set to meet party chiefs of blocks, nyay panchayats and wards. She will have another round of interactions with former legislators and party candidates who contested the 2017 assembly election. She may also visit Amethi though a programme in this connection is yet to be worked out.“It’s good to know that the Congress is launching a good campaign and plans statewide yatras to reach out to the people. The party should go to the people with a positive approach. The Congress should have started such campaigns right from the time when the BJP came to power in 2017. Such campaigns should be a regular feature and not launched only at the time of elections,” said professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.Congress may appoint four working presidents in Uttar PradeshThe Congress is contemplating a move to appoint four working presidents to oversee the party organisation ahead of the 2022 assembly election in Uttar Pradesh.Although senior Congress leaders refuse to confirm any such move, those aware of the development said the party may appoint the working presidents to oversee the organisation during the election as senior leaders, including UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu, and some vice-presidents would contest the polls.According to a party leader, Priyanka said at a meeting late on Saturday evening that the party would like to have “jitau (winnable)” and “tikau (stable)” candidates who can lead the party for the next 20 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-assembly-election-priyanka-tells-congress-workers-to-work-round-the-clock-101631384049192.html
12-09-2021||Delhi||Work to better society, not for posts: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged party workers to work for the betterment of society without aspiring for any posts, as the party reconstituted its national executive to elect 34 members, including prominent leaders from Uttarakhand, Goa and Karnataka, among others, through online voting.Addressing party workers during AAP’s 10th national council meeting, Kejriwal said the AAP has come to change the politics of “power through money and money through power”.The national executive includes new faces like Col (retired) Ajay Kothiyal, AAP’s CM face for the Uttarakhand elections; Venzy Viegas of AAP’s Goa unit; Prithvi Reddy, AAP’s Karnataka president, in addition to current members like Kejriwal; deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia; Delhi cabinet ministers except Kailash Gahlot; and MLAs Raghav Chadha and Atishi.AAP is focusing on poll-bound Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat as part of its plan for national expansion.“I want to make it clear to everyone, when you join the AAP, do not come here with the expectation of getting any position or getting a ticket for the elections. We have to work for the society and the country with complete dedication and honesty. We all have to work in our own areas to the best of our abilities. In this party, you should only be at peace when you are satisfied with your work, not because you have reached some position. Your work should be of such quality that the position comes to you and you don’t have to go after seeking that position,” Kejriwal said.“There are so many people in our party whom we approached ourselves, and asked them to take a position or a ticket. One should not be greedy. Being greedy cannot result in service and sacrifice. When someone takes something by crook, they remain crooks throughout their life. One must leave such desires and ambition, this won’t get anyone anything,” he said.Kejriwal also invoked freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and BR Ambedkar in his address: “Shahid-e-azam Bhagat Singh and Baba Saheb Ambedkar are two supreme ideals of our party. Each of our volunteers should be ready to make sacrifices like them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/work-to-better-society-not-for-postskejriwal-101631383028017.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||Thane: 9-year-old kidnapped boy found, 4 arrested||Thane local police and crime branch officers on Saturday arrested four persons for kidnapping a 9-year-old boy. The boy from Ambernath was allegedly kidnapped by his father’s former business partner who demanded a ransom ₹40 lakh from the family. The victim’s father, who had started the vada pav stall, couldn’t arrange the money and informed police about the same. The boy, a resident of Green City, Shivaji Nagar of Ambernath, went missing on the evening of September 8, after he went for tuition and did not return. An officer from Ambernath police station said, “The four accused — Amjad Khan, Chotu Singh, Yogendra Singh, Sunil Lad — who knew the victim’s family for the past few years, befriended the boy and used to lure him with chocolates and played cricket with him. On the evening of September 8, they kidnapped him and kept him at two different places in Kalyan’s Mohane village. Later the accused called his father for ransom for ₹40 lakh.” Five teams of the crime branch and local police officers were formed to search the accused. Deputy police commissioner, L Patil said, “Our teams searched all CCTV footage and found out people who were frequently seen around the area and connected to boy in the past few days. With all the efforts by the team, we were able to trace the boy on Saturday afternoon at Mohane village. He is completely fine and is handed over to his family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-9-year-old-kidnapped-boy-found-4-arrested-101631381229022.html
12-09-2021||Noida||Maharashtra CM: Sakinaka rape, murder case to be tried in fast-track court||While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has attacked the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over the death of the Sakinaka rape and murder victim, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has announced that the case will be tried in a fast-track court. “This is a blot on humanity. I have asked home minister Dilip Walse Patil and Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale to expedite the probe,” the CM said. He added that the state will ensure that the perpetrator gets the strictest punishment. Thackeray held a high-level meeting with police and home department officials on Saturday evening over the incident. He has directed the home department to appoint a special public prosecutor and file the charge sheet in one month. “The department should build a strong case by collecting forensic and electronic proofs related to the case without leaving any weak link behind. The charge sheet should be filed in one month to ensure that the justice is ensured in stipulated time,” he said.The CM has also directed the police to identify hotspots that are potential threats to women and beef up patrolling at these spots by appointing Nirbhaya squads in each of the police stations as well as ramp up the CCTV networks in the city. “CCTV network plays an important role in investigations of such cases. The home department should take steps to install cameras in rest of the areas in the city. The police should keep a close watch on history sheeters with a background in such cases. They must constitute a Nirbhaya squad with lady police constables in each of the police stations. The squads should keep 24X7 vigilance at spots with potential activities of crimes against women. Patrolling at spots with high footfall of women should be increased after identifying such spots,” CM directed the officials. Thackeray said steps should be taken to maintain the identity of Mumbai as a safe city. Meanwhile, stating that the law-and-order situation has paralysed, the BJP has questioned the delay in the enactment of the proposed Shakti law and the appointment of the chairperson for women’s commission. Leader of Opposition and former CM Devendra Fadnavis has attacked the government and said cases of rapes and gang rapes have increased in the state over the past one month. He said the government should think over it seriously. “CM should speak to the chief justice of Bombay high court for the designated fast-track court to try the case. The perpetrator should be hanged at the earliest,” he said. Fadnavis added that there is unrest among top-level police officers owing to the “out-of-turn appointments” of a few officers by political bosses. “A few Indian Police Service (IPS) officers spoke to me over the recent reshuffle in the force, in which junior officers were being appointed to key posts by downgrading the posts to accommodate them. This has created unrest among the officers who have been left out. It [Mumbai Police] is a disciplined force and such type of indiscipline gives anti-social elements a reason to take undue advantage,” he said. BJP vice-president Chitra Wagh has criticised the state government for its failure to appoint the chairperson to head the Maharashtra State Commission for Women (MSCW) and enacting the Shakti Act. “The government will soon complete two years in the office, but it has not been able to appoint a person to head MSCW. The ministers in the government start politicising the issue by raising questions over Delhi and Hathras cases. They should first look at the state of law and order in Maharashtra. The government hasn’t been able to enact the Shakti law that proposed stricter punishment in atrocities against women,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/maharashtra-cm-sakinaka-rape-murder-case-to-be-tried-in-fast-track-court-101631378707568.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||Supreme Court directs Maharashtra election commission to take call on local body polls||The Supreme Court, in a ruling two days ago, has directed the State Election Commission (SEC) to take a call on the local body election at its level and added that the state government cannot decide on the conduct of the local body election. It earlier stated that the absence of the political quota to Other Backward Classes (OBC) in local body elections cannot be the grounds for the postponement of the elections. While hearing a case related to due local body elections and bypolls to the seats fallen vacant in five district council after the quota was quashed, the Apex court said the the decision over the elections should be taken by the State Election Commission. Pointing at the notification issued by the state government on August 11, banning the campaigning of the elections, the SC said the government cannot constrict the court decision related to the OBC quota on March 4. “The SC verdict further clarified that the state government has no right to decide on the conduct of the elections to the local bodies, and the power are with the SEC. The SEC should decide on the dates for election by considering the Covid-19 situation in the state,” said an official from Mantralaya. The elections to more than five municipal corporations, two district councils, over 100 municipal councils and nagar panchayats and bypolls to dozens of seats in five district councils are due since the past few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-directs-maharashtra-election-commission-to-take-call-on-local-body-polls-101631378587760.html
12-09-2021||Mumbai||Centre recommends final notification of ESZ around Bor Tiger Reserve||The Union environment ministry has recommended the final notification of the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of 678 square kilometres (sqkm) around Bor Tiger Reserve (BTR) in Maharashtra’s Wardha district. The decision was made in the 47th meeting of the the ministry’s expert committee on ESZ held on August 17, the minutes of which were published on September 8, following the publication of a draft notification by the ministry on February 5 this year.The final declaration of the ESZ, meant to act as a buffer zone to ease development pressures around the protected area, has been pending for several years. The Maharashtra government had first notified a buffer zone of 678.15 sqkm as a protected area under Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 via a notification dated December 4, 2015, for Bor Wildlife Sanctuary, New Bor and Extended New Bor forests which together make up 138 sqkms of tiger habitat. Now, with the Centre’s nod, the government of Maharashtra will have to prepare a Zonal Master Plan and Tourism Master Plan within a period of two years from the notification being published in the official gazette, which is expected to happen within the month. The environment ministry has also constituted an 11-member ESZ monitoring committee which will regulate non-forestry activities in the ESZ area around Bor, as per the schedule of controlled activities mentioned in the Environment Protection Act.The minimum width of the finally notified ESZ will be 0.5 km, and 26.5 km at its widest point. The ESZ will straddle forest divisions in Nagpur and Wardha divisions, and will consist of 355 sqkms of protected forest land and 322 sqkms of non-forest area across five villages in Nagpur and two in Wardha.Initially a wildlife sanctuary, Bor was declared as a tiger reserve in 2014, and is the smallest such protected area in the country with a population of four tigers in 2014. In 2020, the estimated population of tigers in Bor stood at six. In all, BTR has so far recorded 30 species of mammals, 26 species of reptiles and several other amphibian species. It also supports important endangered or vulnerable wildlife including leopards, sloth bears, wild dogs, four horned-antelopes and sambar deer, in addition to about 160 species of resident and migratory waterfowl.Kishor Rithe, director of the Satpuda Foundation and member of state wildlife board, said, “It usually does not take this long for the Centre to notify an ESZ after the state government, but in the case of Bor, there are actually three different protected areas which have had their own separate issues with notification and resettlement of affected populations. That’s one reason for the lag. Frequent changes in official positions have also slowed down the bureaucratic process.”Rithe, who has served on state-level committees to delineate critical tiger habitat and buffer area around BTR pursuant to the Tiger Conservation Plan, said Bor is a critical habitat for tigers in eastern Maharashtra, serving as a corridor between larger tiger reserves such as Pench and Tadoba-Andhari. “As far as the Zonal Master Plan is concerned, the forest department has so far been reluctant to draw up the plans for any protected area in Maharashtra. It involves a lot of coordination between various departments, like irrigation and agriculture departments. It’s been conveyed to us that the task may be outsourced to a third-party agency, but there aren’t any organisations with the requisite expertise. At the moment, there are no such master plans for any protected area in Maharashtra. Worryingly, there are no good examples from anywhere else in the country for the forest department or third-party agency to refer to,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-recommends-final-notification-of-esz-around-bor-tiger-reserve-101631378467737.html
12-09-2021||Pune||Pune police, RTO crackdown on errant rickshaw drivers: 3,000 violations in 3 days||PUNE In a joint action by the Pune police and the Regional transport office (RTO), 3,000 violations by autorickshaw drivers were recorded in the city, the police said on Saturday. The action against rickshaw drivers came after two cases of child sexual assault by autorickshaw drivers were exposed this past week. In one case registered at Wanowrie police station, a teenage girl was kidnapped from the railway station and subjected to sexual assault by at least 13 men within a span of three days. A total of 14 men are in police custody in the case.In light of the Wanowrie case, the Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta promised of strict implementation of existing rules on all modes of passenger transport without singling out autorickshaw drivers. However, in the recent action, rickshaw drivers were the focus of all actions.“We started the drive three days ago. On the first day, traffic police took 740 actions and RTO officials, 177. On the second day (Friday), traffic police had 1,237 cases and RTO officials had 224 actions. On the third day, the number of actions is ___,” said Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Pune police. The action includes violators of set rules for rickshaw drivers - uniform and buckle number not displayed, riding without permit, no passenger vehicle registration, traffic rule violations, and use of vehicle beyond scrap lifespan, among others, according to DCP Shrirame.“The number of violating rickshaw drivers had become a menace. There are good-intentioned rickshaw drivers who form unions and work. Their name is getting dragged through the mud because of the wrong-doers. So there were rickshaw mandal members who actually encouraged us to take action against some of these problematic drivers,” said Ajit Shinde, Regional transport officer, Pune.The RTO officials have seized hundreds of autorickshaws compounding a number of violations stacked against the vehicles. The vehicles were handed over to the Bundgarden traffic police division officials.“We have stacked them in a parking lot and they will remain there until further orders,” said police inspector Ajit Dalvi of Bund Garden traffic division.The rickshaw drivers will have to brace themselves for stricter actions as the issue of child sexual assault cases has piqued the interest of Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister of Maharashtra, Dilip Walse-Patil, home minister of the state, and several opposition members including former CM Devendra Fadnavis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-rto-crackdown-on-errant-rickshaw-drivers-3-000-violations-in-3-days-101631377446962.html
12-09-2021||Pune||PCB to seal business outlets with no licence from Sept 15||PUNE The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) on Saturday announced that it would seal shops and business establishments that do not have the mandatory trade license, starting September 15. PCB CEO Amit Kumar believes there are 700 such establishments operating without licences. Kumar said, “We have decided to act against violators and their establishments will be sealed until further notice. Current business being done by them is in violation of the law,” he said. “We have already issued notices to some violators and they haven’t responded till date. We are going to seal their outlets as per the provisions of the Cantonment Act 2006,” Kumar said. The PCB charges between ₹800 and ₹3,000 per licence. Applicants have to apply through the board website and submit necessary documents online. The licence will be given on completion of the procedure and an applicant does not need to visit the Cantonment office physically. It is mandatory for the applicant to submit a fire safety and hygiene certificate while applying for the licence. “Fire safety and hygiene certificates are very important as the safety of citizens is our top concern. In the event of a major fire or food poisoning, the board will not be responsible,” said an official of the health department, speaking anonymously. As per the Cantonment Act 2006, the board can also charge fines of Rs50,000. Traders, who have trade licences before 2006, do not have to apply, barring certain exceptions, states the Cantonment Act, 2006. “Till date only 20 applications have been approved and sanctioned. Our decision is final and sealing will take place if they don’t have the valid trade licence. This license is mandatory for eateries, restaurants, grocery shops, pharmacies and other business establishments. Under the Cantonment Act, the board is empowered to serve a notice if a particular shop or restaurant is in an unhygienic condition. The board has already shortlisted such establishments and sent notices three months ago,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcb-to-seal-business-outlets-with-no-licence-from-sept-15-101631376366900.html
12-09-2021||Pune||Maha well stocked with Remdesivir, but more Tocilizumab needed||PUNE The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA), at the state level and in Pune, on Saturday reiterated that there is enough stock of Remdesivir, however, Tocilizumab is currently in short supply.Both these medications are widely prescribed by doctors for the treatment of Covid-19 and anticipating a possible third wave of Covid infections the FDA is taking stock of drug supply.As of September 8 the state has 432,470 doses of Remdesivir and 751 doses of Tocilizumab, both injections.The state also has 8,791,511 doses of Favipiravir, an antiviral used to treat mild to moderate symptoms. Tocilizumab is used to treat severe symptoms. As for Amphoterecin injections, the state has 38,904 doses of Amphotericin B (plain injection); 5,742 doses of Amphotericin B (liposomal injection); 24,887 doses of Amphoterecin B (emulsion injection) and 6,180 doses of Amphoterecin (lipid complex injection). As per the state health department the state also has 7,78,554 large PPE Kits, 4,27,400 medium-sized PPE Kits, 6,025,541 N95 masks and 144 million triple-layered masks.A state official speaking anonymously said, “As of now, we cannot say that there is a shortage of Tocilizumab, as there is not much demand for it. However, it is not as much as we would want it to be. Since it is completely controlled by the central government and is imported, the central government distributes it to the state as per requirement and demand. As far as Remdesivir does, we have sufficient stock of the drug.” S V Pratapwar, assistant commissioner, FDA Pune said, “As of now we have about 330,000 doses of Remdesivir for the district which is enough. As far as Tocilizumab goes, we have a shortage of the drug. In the past few days a private hospital asked for it and we could not get it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maha-well-stocked-with-remdesivir-but-more-tocilizumab-needed-101631375706845.html
12-09-2021||Other||Farmers call off Karnal protest after govt agrees to main demands||The impasse between Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and Haryana government ended on Saturday morning with the government agreeing to accept most of the demands following three rounds of talks.Both sides agreed on a month-long probe by a former high court judge and IAS officer Ayush Sinha - who was facing criticism for his controversial “crack their (farmers) heads’’ remark - will proceed on leave during this period.The farmer leaders have announced to lift the indefinite protest from outside Karnal’s mini-secretariat.“A judicial inquiry of the incident (lathi-charge) at the Bastara toll plaza on August 28 will be conducted by a retired high court judge and the judge will submit the report in one month. During the investigation, IAS officer Ayush Sinha will remain on leave,” said additional chief secretary to Haryana government, Devender Singh in a joint conference along with farmer leaders on Saturday.He said that the government has also agreed to give two government jobs on DC rate, against sanction posts to the next kin of the farmer Shushil Kajal, who, according to the farmers, died due to lathi-charge. However, there was no MLR or postmortem report to prove their claims.During the two rounds of meetings with Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, the farmer leaders were adamant about the registration of FIR and the suspension of the IAS officer.But on Friday evening, during the third meeting with ACS Devender Singh, the farmers agreed to a judicial probe to investigate the role of the IAS officer in the lathi-charge.“We had taken a legal opinion and found that judicial enquiry is a better option than the registration of FIR. And the FIR will be registered later if he was found guilty in the investigation,” said Charuni, who also addressed the joint press conference.However, there was no official confirmation on the financial assistance to the victims of the lathi-charge.Soon after the joint conference, farmers leader Gurnam Singh Charuni announced to end the protest but said that the farmers will continue to protest programmes of BJP-JJP leaders until the protest against three farm laws goes on at Delhi borders.High drama unfolded in chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s constituency of Karnal on August 28 after around 10 farmers allegedly sustained injuries in the lathi-charge at Bastara poll plaza.The farmers had gathered to protest a meeting of the ruling BJP in Karnal. The administration claimed that the police had to restore to lathi-charge as some farmers had blocked the NH 44.Later, a video of then Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha went viral on social media in which he was seen directing the cops to hit farmers and “crack their heads” if they crossed barricades installed near the venue of the BJP’s meeting scheduled at a private hotel.Later, the government the IAS officer was shifted to Chandigarh as the controversy blew up. The agitated farmers called a Mahapanchayat at Gharuanda grain market on August 30 and decided to gherao the Karnal mini-secretariat indefinitely if the government did not accept their demands including FIR and suspension of the IAS officer and compensation to injured farmers.Thousands of farmers from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh gathered at Mahapanchayat called by senior SKM leaders on September 7. The farmers took out a 5-km protest march and laid siege of the main entrance of Karnal’s mini-secretariat despite the deployment of around 40 companies of police and paramilitary forces in Karnal.Timeline of eventsAugust 28: Police restored to lathi-charge on farmers who were protesting a meeting of Haryana BJP leaders including chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar at Karnal.August 30: Farmers held a meeting at Gharaunda grain market and gave a week’s ultimatum to the Haryana government for action against the SDM and compensation of injured farmers.September 6: Karnal DC invited farmer leaders for talks but the talks remained inconclusiveSeptember 7: Farmers called another Mahapanchayat at Karnal grain market and later laid siege of mini-secretariat indefinitely.September 8: Administration called farmers for another meeting but talks failed again.September 10: Farmers and government representatives led by ACS Devender Singh held a meeting and farmers agreed to lift the blockade following assurance on their most of demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-call-off-karnal-protest-after-govt-agrees-to-main-demands-101631361546581.html
