14-09-2021||Mumbai||How Mumbai’s Dharavi contained Covid outbreak||On a night in the early days of the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, when paranoia about the spread of the virus was high, misinformation rampant, and a strict nation-wide lockdown at its peak, a handful of labourers housed in a dim-lit shed in Kurla’s commercial area built 30 beds from scratch, pulling off a feat overnight that allowed Dharavi to assemble its first quarantine centre for patients – at Ruparel College in Dadar. This 30-bed quarantine centre was an example of the collective effort on part of the civic administration at G-North ward in Dharavi, and of the people, to tackle the spread of Covid-19 in their area. It soon expanded to a 100-bed quarantine centre, around the start of the concept of large-scale institutional quarantine as one of the means to tackle the spread of Covid-19 in Dharavi. It became part of the ‘Dharavi Model’ that has been adopted world-wide as an effective way of ‘breaking the chain’ to curb the spread of the infection. Dharavi – India’s largest slum, characterised by a very high population density, small homes, and inherent reliance on community toilets and street food – had become a Covid-19 hotspot during the first wave of the pandemic in April and May 2020. From there, timely administrative intervention and discipline of its residents has created the Dharavi model. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward, who has been at the helm of these efforts has now documented Dharavi’s battle against the infection, with other anecdotes such as this one. Dighavkar has written about his experience as the ward officer in-charge of the area, the challenges of quarantine and social distancing in a slum pocket that houses 653,000 people in less than 2sqkm, and about how he came up with the “Dharavi model”, in a book titled “The Dharavi Model: How Asia’s largest slum defeated Covid-19”. The book was launched on Tuesday at the hands of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Thackeray, in his foreword to the book, said, “In the middle of the studies and speculations about the impending waves, the success of the Dharavi model has been a beacon of hope, not only for the state of Maharashtra, but also for the world.” In a chapter titled ‘Needle in a hay stack’, Dighavkar sums up challenges encountered right from the start of the outbreak, Dighavkar quotes Sandeep, a resident of the slum, saying: “Dharavi is not just a slum. It is a well-knit joint family where everyone knows everyone by name, we know what happens in each other’s lives, we don’t keep our doors shut. There is always someone walking in and out. You can imagine if any kind of stoppage comes in the community, what will it lead to in the end?”“Using community toilets and consuming street food are an integral part of life for these residents,” said Dighavkar. “Contact tracing proves to be challenging.”The book also documents statistics that the G/North ward meticulously maintained to understand and curb the spread of the virus. Dharavi was mapped into 13 high-intensity zones. A daily dashboard of area-wise outbreak of cases in Dharavi was maintained. BMC provided door-to-door food packets to residents in these quarantine centres, so they would not be tempted to leave their homes for supplies, and conducted large-scale testing through door-to-door campaigns and fever clinics. Even before the first case was detected in Dharavi on April 1, 2020, the civic administration had begun to compile lists of all residents of the area with recent travel history outside the country, and call them daily to check for symptoms.The book has recorded accounts of front-line workers and law enforcement officers, and heart breaking stories from residents who lost family members to the infection. “During the pandemic, people complained of boredom sitting in their homes. While people were tired of resting and being at home, we were longing for some rest and to be at home,” Dighavkar said. While Dharavi and its people have been better equipped to handle the second wave with the Dharavi Model, they are now facing challenges around vaccination of its population. Dighavkar said, “The rate of vaccination was seen to be high in higher income groups, while slums and chawl dwellers were still hesitant. It was, and is of much importance to spread awareness and increase a demand for vaccination in this group. In spite of the efforts and measures, a large gap is yet to be bridged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-mumbai-s-dharavi-contained-covid-outbreak-101631644118097.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||Two men arrested for killing brother in Delhi’s Rohini||The police, on Tuesday, arrested two men for the murder of their brother, whose body was found stuffed in a gunny bag in an isolated area in Rohini the previous day.On Monday, police had registered a case and begun investigating the death of the man whose body bore visible injury marks and was discovered near Mange Ram Park in Rohini’s Sector 23.The arrested men, Vipin, 28, and Raju, 21, (identified by their first names only) told the police that they had assaulted their brother Rajesh,34, on the night of September 9 because they disapproved of his drinking habit and the derogatory remarks he directed at Raju and his wife, who left the house upset. Despite Rajesh’s injuries, his brothers did not admit him to a hospital and he succumbed to his injuries three days later on September 12, said deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal.“The two brothers panicked, and fearing arrest, they stuffed Rajesh’s body in a gunny bag and dumped it near Mange Ram Park, which is about three kilometers away from their home. We are interrogating the two to check if other family members were involved. The two brothers claim that they carried the body on their shoulders,” said DCP Tayal.Police said that Rajesh worked as a labourer while his brothers sell scraps to make a livelihood. Rajesh is survived by his wife and two children. His wife left him six months ago because of his drinking habit and abusive behaviour, his brothers said. “When we identified Rajesh’s body and went to his house, the family claimed that he was missing. But they had not filed a missing complaint. It’s because of that we suspected the family members’ role and interrogated them. The two brothers confessed to the crime and we arrested them,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-men-arrested-for-killing-brother-in-delhi-s-rohini-101631644116821.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 3,530 new Covid cases, 52 deaths||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 3,530 new Covid-19 cases with 52 deaths. The case tally has now reached 6,504,147, while the death toll stands at 138,221.Mumbai recorded 367 cases and five deaths, taking the tally to 735,767 and toll to 16,033. Further, 28,498 citizens were tested in the city. The daily positivity rate is now 1.28%.There are 5,06,048 vaccine doses administered in the state, while 42,974 citizens were vaccinated in the city. The Mumbai civic body has maintained that the period till October 5 is crucial and a spike in the number of cases is expected in the coming days.Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic said, “Citizens need to adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour and exercise maximum caution, especially in this festive season.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-3-530-new-covid-cases-52-deaths-101631643996772.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Sena minister Anil Parab slaps ₹100 cr defamation notice against Somaiya, seeks written apology||Shiv Sena minister Anil Parab slapped a defamation notice against BJP leader Kirit Somaiya over allegations made against the minister. Parab in the notice sought a written apology, curb on further allegations and deletion all tweets levelling allegations against the minister. Failing to adhere to these demands, Parab will file a defamations suit worth ₹100 crore, the notice read.Earlier this week, rural development department minister Hasan Mushrif, against whom Somaiya has levelled corruption allegations, too, said he will file a ₹100 crore defamation suit against the BJP leader.Somaiya, over the past few months, has alleged that Parab had allegedly built “illegal” resorts in Dapoli, Ratnagiri. He had also alleged that Parab had built an “unauthorised” office on Mhada land in Bandra east.In the notice to Somaiya through Parab’s lawyer, the minister said that due to “political rivalry, envy and grudge” Somaiya has levelled “defamatory, malicious, and malafide campaign of making and publishing libellous matter”. He said that Somaiya has been involved in making “false and reckless allegations” since May 2021.Parab through the notice asked Somaiya to cease and desist from making defamatory statements, delete all tweets made against him, issue an unconditional written apology, which is to be published in at least two newspapers. If Somaiya does not entertain the demand within 72 hours, Parab will seek damages worth ₹100 crore, the notice stated.Despite attempts, Somaiya was not reachable for comment. HT sent text messages to the BJP leader; there was no response on it at the time the story was being filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-minister-anil-parab-slaps-rs-100-cr-defamation-notice-against-somaiya-seeks-written-apology-101631643940399.html
14-09-2021||Other||Experts: For sustainable development, Delhi-NCR needs a regional economic strategy before a master plan||New Delhi: For sustainable development of Delhi-NCR, many urban development experts feel that there is a need to prepare a regional economic development plan before finalising the master plan.While presenting an analysis of the economic geography study of Delhi-NCR at Connect Karo-2021, World Resources Institute-India (WRI-India) experts also called for identification of economic sectors that will continue to be competitive in the next 10-15 years in the Capital. As per WRI-India’s analysis, rapid growth has happened in NCR areas such as Faridabad, Hapur, Greater Noida, Manesar etc, in the last decade.Hindustan Times is the media partner of the event. Noting that Delhi-NCR generates about 8% of the country’s GDP, with automobile, metal, textile, footwear, rubber and plastic, electric equipment industries, wholesale trade, etc, being the significant industries or economic sectors, Madhav Pai, executive director of WRI India Ross Centre for Sustainable Cities, said, “There has been a negative growth in employment in Delhi between the 5th and 6th economic Census.”With the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) finalising the Master Plan of Delhi-2041 and the National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB) preparing the draft Regional Plan-2041, experts said an economic strategy should be planned first before fixing the master plans, which are largely land use plans.“Identify top economic sectors, understand the demography, impact of climate change, and develop a regional economic concept plan. We could identify strategic projects, mostly infrastructure projects such as RRTS, which have regional implications. And then identify places or locations for which we prepare a development plan. The land use of these areas can be changed accordingly in the master plans. This approach should be used while planning for any metropolitan area,” said Pai.Sameer Sharma, chief secretary of Andhra Pradesh and former director-general and CEO of Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs, said there is an emergence of edge cities around metropolitan areas and pointed out the need for an economic development plan. “The US has a very strong planning system. The Indian system operates differently at the ground level. We make perfect master plans, but only 20-30% gets implemented... we have to do a lot of retrofitting (to address the ground level issues),” said Sharma.To promote economic activities in Delhi, Sharma said that redevelopment has to be planned properly. He cited the case of Mayapuri industrial area where permissions are being given to banquet halls. “There are banquet halls coming up in the area without any parking facility. A better model could be to make it like Bandra Kurla Complex. Mayapuri can be an IT hub or any hub, even a banquet hub. But a proper plan should be prepared for it,” he said.Sharma said that projects like redevelopment of seven government residential colonies where commercial and residential development is planned, will bring in jobs.Rana Hasan, director of Asian Development Bank, said that disharmony between master planning and what happens at the grassroot level is largely due to rigidity in land use management. He said that there is a need to relook at land use management and regulation.Abhijeet Samanta, deputy director at NCRPB, and Bidisha Ganguly, chief economist at Confederation of Indian Industry, said that since 2006, manufacturing industries are gradually moving out of Delhi, mainly due to environmental reasons.Ganguly said that housing is one of the important factors that needs to be planned for in cities: “There is a need for affordable housing, including rental, for workers... The quality of life of people is important and planning should incorporate this aspect.”WRI India said that promoting digital economy, creative industries, IT industry, fashion, tourism etc will help boost the economy, adding that manufacturing industries should be promoted in the peripheral areas.Samanta said that NCRPB’s draft regional plan-2041 has addressed issues of economic development in the region.In another session, urban planners discussed the need to adopt strategic spatial planning which envisions the city’s future while formulating strategic projects and decisions to help leapfrog over current and potential challenges faced by the city.Delhi’s urban development minister Satyender Jain, in a pre-recorded message, said, “Delivering strategic projects that trigger urban transformation is critical for Delhi to meet the current and future challenges. We see strategic projects and planning as key to shape cities into more resilient and equitable spaces for all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/experts-for-sustainable-development-delhi-ncr-needs-a-regional-economic-strategy-before-a-master-plan-101631642976833.html
14-09-2021||Gurugram||Dust control cell to be formed ahead of winter pollution spike||On the directions of the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM), the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) will set up a dust control and management cell by the next month to keep a check on air pollution levels in winter, officials said on Tuesday.Along with setting up the cell, the agencies concerned will also be monitoring complaints regarding air pollution across all social media platforms. S Narayanan, member secretary of HSPCB, said, “In Gurugram, the main issues are dust pollution due to construction and demolition activities, transport, vehicular pollution and burning of solid waste. So, these will be our main focus issues. To manage this, the CAQM has directed us to constitute a dust control and management cell in individual operational departments by October. Along with this, we will address all social media complaints and grievances which will be made through grievance cell.” The official said that talks are underway with the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority to use their grievance cell for addressing complaints regarding air pollution. A complaint cell will also be set up at the regional offices of the HSPCB. In January this year, the CAQM, in its second meeting, had reviewed the problem of road dust, a major source of pollutants contributing significantly to particulate matter (PM) 2.5 and PM 10. In a letter to all NCR states, it had said, “Controlling dust pollution has been a major challenge and needs much more focused attention in NCR.” The commission had stated that dust control and management cells must be set up with the specific task of monitoring and implementation of dust control measures. Some dust control measures include mechanical cleaning and sweeping of roads and water sprinkling to reduce dust pollution.In the first week of October, the CAQM will hold another meeting with districts from multiple states located in the National Capital Region to review the situation. Pollution levels in Gurugram are usually higher in winter due to smog accumulation. Cool air gets trapped due to cold weather conditions, which leads to an increase in daily pollution levels. Incidents of crop residue burning in neighbouring districts add to the high pollution levels in the National Capital Region, with vehicular pollution, bursting of crackers during the festive season and open burning of waste listed as major causes. Last year, the district administration compiled a list of the most polluted roads in the city that comprises Sohna Road, Golf Course Road, Golf Course Extension Road, stretch from Hero Honda Chowk to Basai, Dwarka Expressway, stretch from Sector 10 Chowk to Ghadoli village, Mini Secretariat and Vikas Sadan parking, the vehicle training ground near Leisure Valley Park, Huda City Centre in Sector 29, internal roads between sectors 58 and 67, Genpact Chowk, internal roads from sectors 83 to 93 and roads in Udyog Vihar. “The CAQM has also directed us to control fire at the landfills and open fires. The power department has also been asked to give uninterrupted power supply as no exemptions will be given to different units that are dependent on diesel gensets for electricity, in the absence of power connections. These steps must help us control air pollution in a better manner this year,” Narayanan said. Several housing complexes and condominiums across Gurugram and Faridabad districts are reliant on diesel generator sets for electricity due to the absence of power connections from state agencies and also for power backup. Besides, industries are also reliant on diesel-powered backup systems to ensure continuous production. However, a blanket ban on diesel generator sets was implemented from 2020 in the city. For other parts of the state, the HSPCB has also identified red districts where maximum crop residue burning has been noticed. This includes districts of Fatehabad, Karnal, Jind, Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Ambala, among others. In these districts, officials said that there will be a special focus on controlling crop residue burning through regular patrolling, issuing challans to offenders and filing cases against repeat offenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dust-control-cell-to-be-formed-ahead-of-winter-pollution-spike-101631641658308.html
14-09-2021||Gurugram||Key roads to be repaired by GMDA, work to start from November||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will start repairing four key roads from November, officials said on Tuesday, after a decision in this regard was taken during the core planning committee meeting held last week.Repair work will be carried out on the outer road of Sector 114, and the master road of sectors 62/65, 58/61 and 59/60. Along with this, a 200-metre service road will be constructed for the sectors 59/61 road. Around four kilometres of roads will be repaired in this project across all locations, officials said. “We are focussing on special repair of these roads, which primarily includes laying a layer of bitumen and gravels to strengthen the road. We will also focus on ensuring proper lighting on these roads and construction of footpaths. With monsoon, potholes have also increased on these stretches which can lead to accidents, so those will also be repaired to ensure smooth movement of traffic,” Suresh Kumar Chahal, the joint chief executive officer of GMDA, said. During the meeting last week, officials said that no treatment, except for patchwork, has taken place in the past eight years on the master roads of sectors 62/65, 58/61 and 59/60. These roads run parallel to the Golf Course Extension Road and provide access to residential areas. Officials said that the issue of repairing the outer road of Sector 114 was raised during a chief minister’s grievance meeting and that the project will be sent for approval. Chahal said that tests were conducted recently to understand the load-bearing capacity of these roads, which were found to be satisfactory; after which the decision for special repair was taken. “We have to ascertain if the roads are strong from inside to ensure that cave-ins do not take place. Incidents of road cave-ins have been reported in the past, but this time, the roads were found to be okay. Before starting the repair work, we are also seeking suggestions from public on how the repair work can be carried out or suggestions for new technologies. These can be submitted till the 23rd of this month on our website,” Chahal said. After the suggestions are submitted, the projects will get administration approval, following which the tendering process will start. With all the formalities pending, work on the ground is likely to start from November, said officials.Chahal said that the infrastructure-I department of the GMDA will be working alongside the urban environment division as green belts will be identified and developed on these stretches, adding to the beautification of these roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/key-roads-to-be-repaired-by-gmda-work-to-start-from-november-101631641656813.html
14-09-2021||Gurugram||Ward 34 polls: Waterlogging, pending MCG takeover and civic issues take centre stage||Residents of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s (MCG) Ward 34, who are set to elect their councillor next month, said that civic issues, pending transfer of two townships, waterlogging, poor condition of amenities are the issues that the next office-bearer must resolve on priority.Members of residents’ welfare associations said that while major issues regarding the ward were addressed over the past four years, a few more issues were in the process of being addressed before the demise of the incumbent. Delay in the takeover of colonies by the MCG was a major concern, residents said.“The MCG takeover of the two colonies was announced way back in 2016. Five other colonies, four of which were added in 2017, were transferred to the MCG in 2019. However, the transfer of DLF Phases 1 and 2 is still pending. We want the new councillor to expedite the process as we also want to avail of optimum civic services offered by the MCG,” Gaurav Singh, a resident of DLF Phase 1, said.Dhruv Bansal, the spokesperson for DLF Qutub Enclave RWA, which looks after DLF Phase-1, said, “We want the new councillor to be well versed with localised issues and be approachable. He or she needs to expedite the ongoing transfer of DLF Phases 1 and 2 from the developer to the MCG, which the former councillor had also been regularly taking up with the authorities concerned,” said Bansal.The polls to elect the MCG Ward 34 councillor will be held on October 3. The post has been vacant since May 30 following the death of the incumbent, RS Rathee, an independent candidate, due to Covid-19.The ward includes upscale areas of DLF Phases 1 and 2 townships, Silver Oaks Apartment in DLF Phase-1, Oakwood Estate in DLF Phase-2; Beverly Park 1 and 2, Heritage City and Essel Towers on the Mall Mile; Belvedere Towers in Cyber City; The Ivy apartments in Sector 28 and The Magnolias in Sector 42.During the 2017 MCG elections, the ward had 23,402 eligible voters. According to MCG officials, the ward now has around 29,000 eligible voters, with a total population of 100,000-125,000.In February 2016, the Haryana government had announced the transfer of maintenance of DLF Phases 1 and 2 from the developer to the MCG. Five years later, the transfer is still pending as the developer opted to fix the deficiencies instead of paying monetary compensation.Naveen Kumar, a member of DLF Phase-2 RWA, said that the erratic power supply is a major issue that has to be resolved on priority.“Rathee addressed a large number of issues in the area and had just started working towards taking up the matter of power cuts and irregular power bills before his untimely demise. We want the councillor to take up this matter with the power distribution company and provide relief to thousands of residents,” he said.Residents living along the Mall Mile said that localised waterlogging is a recurrent problem that needs to be fixed. Manish Sinha, a resident of Essel Towers in Sector 28 said that this monsoon, the entrance to the condominium was blocked due to heavy rainwater accumulation.“Our condominium is at a disadvantage as it is located in a low-lying area and on a slope, compared to the main carriageway of the Mall Mile. Due to this, rainwater from nearby areas accumulates outside the colony gate. Residents cannot enter or exit the colony until the motor pumps drain out rainwater. I want the new councillor to take up this matter on priority and resolve it at the earliest,” said Sinha.Residents in Cyber City pointed to the poor condition of service roads as their major concern. “The service road from Cyber City to MG Road is in pathetic condition, especially in the stretch falling opposite Sikanderpur village. It is pothole-ridden and needs immediate fixing, as it is accessed hundreds of commuters on a daily basis,” Swaroop Pillarisetti, a resident of Belvedere Towers, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ward-34-polls-waterlogging-pending-mcg-takeover-and-civic-issues-take-centre-stage-101631641598353.html
14-09-2021||Gurugram||Fire: Welding shop gutted in Sector 13||A welding shop in Sector 13 of Rajiv Nagar was gutted on Tuesday morning. No injuries were reported in the incident.According to the fire department officials, the fire broke out when one of the workers was using a welding machine. “Objects in the shop caught fire from the sparks emitted by the welding machine. Two fire tenders from Bhim Nagar were sent to the spot. The blaze was doused within 15 minutes. However, the entire shop was gutted,” Sunil Adlakha, fire safety officer (FSO), Gurugram fire department, said.Adlakha said that the Bhim Nagar fire brigade received a call about the incident at 10.55am.“One fire tender was dispatched as soon as the call was received. Due to heavy smoke in the area, another fire tender from the Bhim Nagar fire brigade was sent 15 minutes later. However, only one was required for the dousing operations,” Adlakha said.The unnamed shop is located in a local market. It had two rooms for the workers to operate in and it shared a boundary with another shop on its right side, while a narrow path to its left led to residential buildings and commercial shops.Adlakha said that the fire was contained by the firemen and it did not spread to adjoining buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fire-welding-shop-gutted-in-sector-13-101631641596727.html
14-09-2021||Other||Yogi reply to Rahul tweet: If bulldozing criminals is hatred, it will continue||Lucknow: Strongly reacting to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s remarks against him, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on that if bulldozing criminals and terrorists meant hatred, he would continue to do so. To note, Rahul Gandhi had said in a tweet: “Jo nafrat kare, vah yogi kaisa” (What kind of yogi is one who hates). Yogi in his tweet quoted a ‘Ramcharitmanas’ verse to make his point about how his government was acting against criminals and mafia and would continue this. Opening with the ‘Ramcharitmanas’ verse “jaaki rahi bhavna jaisi, prabhu murat dekhi tin taisi” (In whichever way one chooses to perceive the Lord, in that very form the Lord appears to him) Yogi’s tweet further said “If bulldozing the criminals and extremists is hatred, then yes! It will continue.” An official press statement later said Yogi’s tweet, giving a befitting reply to Rahul Gandhi, was receiving an overwhelming support on social media. It said Rahul must read the harmonious history of Gorakshapeeth before commenting on Yogi and added that pursuing a divisive policy was the tradition of the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-reply-to-rahul-tweet-if-bulldozing-criminals-is-hatred-it-will-continue-101631641477189.html
14-09-2021||Other||‘Mamata Didi has honoured people of Barak Valley’: Sushmita Dev on RS nomination||“All India Trinamool Congress Party and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee have honoured the people of Barak Valley part of Assam by nominating me as Rajya Sabha candidate from West Bengal,” said Sushmita Dev, former MP from Silchar and daughter of former Union minister Santosh Mohan Dev. She will be the first Rajya Sabha MP from Bengali speaking Barak Valley part of Assam since Karnendu Bhattacharjee was elected as Rajya Sabha MP from the Congress party almost a decade back. Talking to Hindustan Times, Sushmita Dev said, “I did not expect such a big reward from Mamta Banerjee and her party just after joining them. It indicates that Mamata Banerjee wants to extend a strong leadership beyond West Bengal. Our party is looking forward to strengthening the women leadership and by nominating me as the Rajya Sabha candidate from West Bengal, the party has proven that it is possible. I am the first woman from North East India to get such an honour.”The youngest daughter of former Union minister Santosh Mohan Dev and former MP from Silchar Sushmita Dev’s name has been nominated as Trinamool Congress Party’s candidate for the upcoming Rajya Sabha election. The party officially announced the decision on Tuesday afternoon.She said she was informed over the phone on Tuesday evening from the party’s headquarter about her candidature. “I could not believe what I have heard over the phone until I saw the tweet from the party’s official Twitter handle. It is an honour and a responsibility as well. I have to work at the grassroots level in Assam and Tripura as the TMC party’s cadre. I am in Tripura right now and will be visiting my home in three days. I hope people of my native land are happy.”Sushmita Dev left Congress Party on August 16 this year and joined Trinamool Congress later. More than 500 Congress party workers followed in her footsteps and joined the TMC within 15 days. Her parents were lifelong Congress workers. But she claimed that she did not compromise her father’s ideology by joining TMC. Congress leaders in Assam, especially in the Barak Valley, however, criticized her heavily and call her iterator. Answering to question regarding the Congress party’s criticism she said, “I have joined Trinamool Congress party to save their future. Because the Congress party has compromised its ideology and lost relevance amongst the commons. On the other side, BJP never cares about the pride of Barak Valley. I don’t like to sound narrow, but in Assam, we need a person who can speak for the Bengali speaking population. I had to take a stand because so many people were looking at me. Now after getting such an honour, I can definitely tell my supporters that our decision was not wrong.”Karnendu Bhattacharjee’s term as Rajya Sabha MP ended in 2008. He was nominated twice. Apart from him, Kamalendu Bhattacharjee also served as a Rajya Sabha MP in the early 2000’s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mamata-didi-has-honoured-people-of-barak-valley-sushmita-dev-on-rs-nomination-101631641298017.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Air force blew the lid off spying racket||The spying racket came to the force after Pakistani intelligence operatives contacted some Indian Air Force officials through calls and messages on WhatsApp to extract information. The air force officials became suspicious and a close scrutiny led them to the espionage trail. Police had arrested factory worker Jaswinder Singh, 22, of Uchi Daud Village in Maloud, as the number was registered in his name. According to the police, a Pakistani agent contacted Jaswinder on Facebook, posing as Jasleen Brar from Bathinda, and honeytrapped him using pictures of a woman. Jaswinder started chatting and gave access of his WhatsApp to the agent, who later used the number to join WhatsApp groups of defence personnel namely ‘Western cmd mutual posting’ and ‘MES information update’. The police are going to summon the administrators of the WhatsApp groups to know how they added an outsider’s number in the groups and who had asked them to add the numbers. The police have also found conversation of the Pakistani agent with seven defence personnel, who also can be summoned to join the investigation. Jaswinder was sent to five-day police remand by a local court on Tuesday. Sub-inspector Yashpal Sharma, in-charge at CIA 3, the police are questioning the accused to find his links.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/air-force-blew-the-lid-off-spying-racket-101631640816717.html
14-09-2021||Lucknow||UP: Energy minister warns UPPCL against unnecessary load shedding||Energy minister Shrikant Sharma on Tuesday warned officials against resorting to unnecessary load shedding and ensure a steady supply of electricity to the consumers. “There is no paucity of electricity in the state, and consumers must not face unnecessary rostering,” Sharma said while presiding over a meeting. He said engineers must do patrolling to identify faults and take corrective measures. “Do inform people and their representatives when load shedding is unavoidable,” Sharma said. The minister further asked officials to ensure there was no power cut in villages between sunset and sunrise. He said UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) managing director should monitor supply position every day. The minister also asked the officials to make a plan to provide power connections to people in undeveloped colonies in a smooth manner under the ‘Sugam Yojana’. He said officials should make use of social media to reach out to consumers and resolve their grievances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/upenergy-minister-warns-uppcl-against-unnecessary-load-shedding-101631640696683.html
14-09-2021||Other||PM cautions against anti-development regimes||Aligarh Comparing the Yogi-Adityanath government with the previous regimes in Uttar Pradesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday cautioned against ‘anti -development’ governments. Speaking in Lodha (Aligarh) after laying the foundation stone for Raja Mahendra Pratap state university, Modi lauded the transformation brought about by Yogi Adityanath as UP chief minister. “Prior to 2017, the development schemes aimed at uplift of the poor were obstructed by those in power, despite repeated letters by the central government. Law and order was at its worst and girls were afraid of moving out of the house. Parents remained worried till the girls returned home,” said Modi in his well -crafted speech of 40 minutes, “All changed with chief minister Yogi Adityanath assuming office and all mafia and goons calling the shots were placed behind the bars. The poor are now getting their complaints heard and are respected in the Yogi regime,” said the PM. The Prime Minister on Tuesday laid the foundation stone of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh State University and also saw the models of the university as well as the Aligarh node of Uttar Pradesh defence industrial corridor. Modi said that Aligarh, popular till now for its locks, would also be known for defence equipment. “Till now, Aligarh was known for protecting houses with its locks but now its defence equipment will defend the borders of the nation,” he said. “New avenues are coming up and now the local industrialists and MSME units will get a special benefit. There will be new encouragement for the MSMEs,” he said. UP governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath were also present at the event held in Lodha village of Aligarh district. The district is home to former chief minister and governor of Rajasthan Kalyan Singh and the Prime Minister did not forget to mention him. “Kalyan Singh would have been very happy on this occasion when a defence corridor and state university in name of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh are coming up in his home district,” he said. The university is being set up in over 92 acres of lland in Lodha and Musepur Kareem Jarouli villages of Aligarh’s Kol tehsil. It will provide affiliation to about 400 colleges of the Aligarh division. The establishment of a defence industrial corridor in Uttar Pradesh was announced by the Prime Minister while inaugurating the Uttar Pradesh Investors Summit in Lucknow on February 21, 2018. A total of 6 nodes - Aligarh, Agra, Kanpur, Chitrakoot, Jhansi and Lucknow - have been planned in the defence industrial corridor. In the Aligarh node, the land has been allotted to 19 firms, which will invest ₹1245 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pm-cautions-against-anti-development-regimes-101631640277137.html
14-09-2021||Lucknow||No fresh Covid-19 case in 60 districts of UP||As many as 32 districts of the state did not have any active Covid-19 cases, the state government said on Tuesday. In a statement, the government said that in the last 24 hours as many as 60 districts did not report any fresh Covid-19 case while the total number of active cases in the state stood at 181. “In the testing done in the last 24 hours, a total of 33 tested positive. The daily positivity rate in UP is 0.01% and the overall recovery rate is 98.7%”, the statement said. About Covid-19 vaccination, the statement said that till Monday in total 8.86 crore doses of the vaccine had been administered in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-fresh-covid-19-case-in-60-districts-of-up-101631639916675.html
14-09-2021||Other||Vindhyachal corridor: HC dismisses PIL against razing of small temples||The Allahabad high court has refused to entertain a public interest litigation (PIL) petition seeking a stay on demolition of small temples within the campus of Maa Vindhyavasini Devi Temple, Vindhyachal, Mirzapur falling within the under-construction temple corridor.The bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice AK Ojha on Monday (September 13) dismissed the PIL petition filed by one Arun Pathak of Mirzapur. The petition was filed seeking a direction to the state government and concerned authorities not to damage/demolish certain temples within the campus of Maa Vindhyavasini Devi Temple, Vindhyachal.The court said the PIL petition filed earlier was also dismissed by the court on 30 March 2007 saying the PIL against the private temple was not maintainable. On this basis, the court dismissed the petition as not admissible.State government counsel informed the court that in 2006 too, a PIL petition was filed seeking similar directions by which restraining demolition of small temples inside the temple campus and the PIL was dismissed on March 30, 2007 while observing that the temples on Maa Vindhyavasini Devi Temple premises were private temples and thereby public interest litigation would not be maintainable.State counsel apprised the court about the previous order and the temple project and pleaded that the PIL petition was not maintainable. The petitioner’s plea was that all the small temples were being demolished under the temple project and that it should be stopped.The court after hearing concerned parties dismissed the petition while observing, “We find that earlier a writ petition bearing No. 49433 of 2006 was dismissed by the judgment dated 30th March, 2007 holding the temple in the premises of Maa Vindhyawasini Devi Temple to be a private temple and thereby public interest litigation would not be maintainable.” “In view of the above, we do not find reason to entertain the public interest litigation in regard to the affairs of the private temple,” said the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vindhyachal-corridor-hc-dismisses-pil-against-razing-of-small-temples-101631639796952.html
14-09-2021||Lucknow||Tiranga Yatra: Sisodia invokes Lord Ram in UP’s Ayodhya||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and deputy chief minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia on Tuesday led the party’s Tiranga Yatra from Gulab Bari in Ayodhya which culminated in a public meeting at Gandhi Park where Sisodia administered an oath to party workers to follow ideals of Lord Ram in politics. Before arrival of Manish Sisodia and Sanjay Singh, AAP’s incharge of Uttar Pradesh, party workers in large numbers holding Tri-colour had assembled at Gulab Bari. AAP workers from several parts of the state had reached Ayodhya to take part in the event. Sisodia and Singh, seated on an open mini-truck, led the yatra. Sabhajeet Singh, state president of the party, was also present on the occasion. Most of party workers were on foot. The yatra traversed through busy crossings of the city, including Reed Ganj, Gudri Bazar, Niyawan and Rikabganj. Addressing party workers, Sisodia said his party would double the income of Uttar Pradesh’s farmers and ensure education for every child and health services for all in the state. The Delhi deputy CM also administered an oath to party workers to follow principles of Lord Ram. “It was a well -managed yatra. Against expectation, large number of AAP workers had assembled for the event,” said Shailesh Maurya, a local of Ayodhya. AAP is planning to contest forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh which are due in February –March next year.Alleging that the BJP government had failed on all front in Uttar Pradesh, Sisodia claimed that only the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi was being run on the ideals of Lor Ram.“The AAP government in Delhi is the only government in the country that is following principles of Lord Ram,” said Sisodia while talking to media persons. Attacking the UP government, he said: “In the last four-and-a-half years the BJP government has failed on all fronts. Crime rate is spiralling and the government has failed to provide jobs to youths.”He alleged that both education system and health services were in a bad state in Uttar Pradesh. Sisodia also accused the BJP of misappropriating fund collected through donation for construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. On his party’s “Tiranga Yatra”, AAP leader said: “It began from Agra. Thereafter, it went to Noida. Today, we are in Ayodhya to take out Tiranga Yatra. The main purpose of this yatra is to ensure quality education for all and providing safe atmosphere for women.” On his party’s plan to contest forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, he said: “The AAP will contest on its own in Uttar Pradesh without entering into alliance with any party.” The AAP recently said it planned to name 100 candidates for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections due early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tiranga-yatra-sisodia-invokes-lord-ram-in-up-s-ayodhya-101631639377327.html
14-09-2021||Lucknow||Railways deploys robots to ensure ‘100% disinfection’ of train coaches||The Northern Railways (NR) has deployed highly-germicidal ultraviolet rays based UVC robots to disinfect train coaches in most effective manner, said railway officials.“This unique technique ensures 100% disinfection in the compartment area and so far this is the most effective solution to ensure proper hygiene. In the entire process there is no involvement of humans. It’s purely remote-controlled robots that flawlessly perform the task using ultraviolet rays,” said Deepak Kumar, chief public relation officer (CPRO), Northern Railways (NR). He said the technique was first introduced in Lucknow Shatabdi Special in July and the results were unbelievable. Now plans are afoot to introduce the same in other trains as well. Kumar said the bot is capable of disinfecting the entire train compartment, including the most narrowest areas that are far from human reach, automatically. “This technology utilizes a robotic device with autonomous wings installed with UVC lights for 100% disinfection. The device is operated with the help of wireless remote control for the safety of the operator and the surroundings,” he said. He further said the technology not only destroys the nucleus of the Coronavirus, rendering it unable to replicate but is also eco friendly. “Lab tests by the government certified lab have shown that 99.99% bacteria, viruses and germs were killed after disinfection by the UVC robots,” he added. General manager NR Ashutosh Gangal said the UVC technology has been adopted after rigorous testing and trials. “This is approved and tested by the Indian Council of Medical Research, CSIO and Tanuvas Study Centre, Government of India and is already being used by Air India Express for cabin disinfection and hospitals for a couple of decades,” he said. He further said the UVC technology was safe and user-friendly. The movement of the machine on the washing line was also very easy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/railways-deploys-robots-to-ensure-100-disinfection-of-train-coaches-101631639256556.html
14-09-2021||Other||UP ATS busts ISI module, arrests three||The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of Uttar Pradesh police busted a module of Pakistan’s intelligence agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and arrested three people for their alleged links with ISI following raids in four districts of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, officials said. Those arrested were planning a major terror attack in the state, police officials claimed.Confirming the development, additional director general (law and order), UP, Prashant Kumar said, “We have busted an ISI-sponsored module and arrested three of its members. The arrests were made after raids in four districts of UP, including Lucknow, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj. A live improvised explosive device (IED) was also recovered in Prayagraj which was defused with the help of the bomb squad. Further questioning and investigation in the matter is under way.”Those arrested were identified as Mohammed Amir Javed, 31, of Bakshi Ka Talab (BKT) area of Lucknow, Zeeshan Qamar, 28, of Kareli in Prayagraj and Lala alias Moolchand Srivastav of Unchahar in Rae Bareli. The accused were arrested with support from local police.According to police officials, Zeeshan visited Pakistan via Muscat in April this year. He was trained at a farmhouse of Thatta area of Pakistan in use of weapon and making IEDs by trainers of the Pakistani Army. The training was of 15 days after which Zeeshan returned to Muscat and came back to India.The ATS officials reached Wasiabad locality of Prayagraj on Tuesday morning where they questioned the Imam of a local mosque . Other teams carried out raids at other places in Kareli area from where they arrested Zeeshan Qamar. Another team reached Dandi in Naini area in the evening. Vicinity of a house was cordoned off and barricading was installed before a search operation was launched there. Locals were not allowed entry to the area till late in the evening.Meanwhile kin of the one arrested from Kareli area denied having any knowledge about the reasons for his detention. Kin of Zeeshan claimed that he was in a travel business and had recently started an online date business.In a similar action, ATS in July this year had arrested one Meenhaz Ahmed, 32, resident of Zehta Barawan Kala on the Dubagga bypass road under Kakori police station limits and Maseerudeen alias Musheer, 50, of Mohbillapur locality on Sitapur Road under Madiaon police limits in Lucknow. They were accused of being members of local module prepared under Al-Qaeda Indian Subcontinent (AQIS) organisation.ATS officials said the arrested ones’ handler was one Umar Halmandi, a known Al-Qaeda operative who runs terror activities from his hideout on the Pakistan-Afghanistan border. UP ATS had then seized two semi-prepared IED-based pressure cooker bombs and explosive materials, as well as a pistol, during a search at a house-cum-workshop in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-ats-busts-isi-module-arrests-three-101631638836693.html
14-09-2021||Indore||Over 1,000 children in Indore district suffer from acute malnutrition: Report||Over 1,000 children in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district are suffering from acute malnutrition, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday, quoting district and health officials.Indore district collector Manish Singh said the administration has recorded 1,115 such cases, so far."There are 1,115 such children. We will bring them out of malnutrition in three months and take steps to prevent this trend in future," Singh said.The district administration informed the officials held a series of meetings to address the issue, and considering options to shift the children suffering from grade 3 or 4 malnutrition to Nutritional Rehabilitation Centre.ALSO READ | Fortified rice not enough to tackle malnutrition: ExpertsIndore chief medical officer BS Setya informed that the cases of child malnutrition are more prevalent in rural areas of the district.“Children of Grade 3 or 4 malnutrition can be shifted to Nutritional Rehabilitation Centre. Malnutrition is generally more in rural areas. It will be brought under control,” Setya was quoted as saying by ANI.The Nutrition Rehabilitation Center is a health facility where children with severe acute malnutrition are admitted and managed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/over-1-000-children-in-indore-district-suffer-from-acute-malnutrition-report-101631637142142.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM doing electioneering in guise of government events: AAP||The AAP on Tuesday said that chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh was holding election programmes under the guise of government events in defiance of the farmer unions’ directive. Addressing a press conference here, AAP national executive member and MLA Aman Arora appealed to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to tighten the screws on the Congress or reconsider their orders to political parties to not hold rallies and allow other parties to also organise their political programmes. “The CM’s programme was a clear violation of conditions fixed in the meeting held by the kisan morcha with political parties,” he claimed. Arora also termed the chief minister’s statement asking the farmers to protest in Delhi as irresponsible. Appoints 18 segment in-charges The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday released a list of 18 constituency in-charges, taking the total to 65. Harjot Singh Bains has been made in-charge for Anandpur Sahib assembly segment, Kulwant Singh Sidhu for Atam Nagar, Santosh Kataria for Balachaur, Amandeep Singh (Goldy) Musafir for Balluana and Rupinder Singh Happy for Bassi Pathana, according to the list signed by AAP state president Bhagwant Mann and Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh. Jagroop Singh Gill has been made constituency in-charge for Bathinda Urban, Ranjit Singh Rana for Bholath, Shamsher Singh for Dina Nagar, Ranveer Singh Bhullar for Ferozepur Urban, Ashu Bangar for Ferozepur Rural, Surinder Singh Sodhi for Jalandhar Cantt, Manju Rana for Kapurthala, Tarunpreet Singh Sondh for Khanna, Dr Mohammad Jameel Ur Rehman for Malerkotla, Prof Gurdhian Singh Multani for Mukerian, Lalit Mohan (Ballu) Pathak for Nawanshahr, Jagroop Singh Sekhwan for Qadian and Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal for Tarn Taran. Demand for 15-day assembly session Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and leader of opposition (LOP) Harpal Singh Cheema on Tuesday asked the Punjab government to convene a session of the state assembly immediately. In a statement here, Cheema said that issues related to the farmers, labourers, traders, employees and the unemployed needed to be discussed in detail as the monsoon session would be the last session of the present government. “In a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) held before the commencement of the special session on September 3, speaker Rana KP Singh had assured that the session will be reconvened in 15 to 20 days to discuss all pending issues,” he said. Reiterating his demand for a 15-day session, the AAP leader said two days should be set aside for discussion on issues related to the farming community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-doing-electioneering-in-guise-of-government-events-aap-101631638176462.html
14-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi lauds Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh’s contribution to modern education||AGRA UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath lauded Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh’s contribution towards modern education and said his role as a freedom fighter, academician and social reformist could not be forgotten. He also showered praise on the New Education Policy introduced by the central government. “Inauguration of the state university in Aligarh after Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh’s name and review of defence corridor by PM on such an auspicious day (Radha Ashtami) is a welcome coincidence,” said the chief minister addressing a gathering to mark the foundation laying of the state university in Aligarh.“While the world was grappling with Covid-19 pandemic, the prime minister kept human lives on top priority. To help the poor, different packages including that of free ration was introduced,” he said. “The PM inaugurated the Investors Summit in Lucknow, which is now bearing fruits. Investment of more than ₹3 lakh crore has been made and 1.61 crore youth have gained from the opportunities created,” he emphasised. “UP is progressing in the direction of growth and benefits of schemes are derived by all beneficiaries. The PM’s message of ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas and sabka vishwas had been the key to success,” he added. “From 2007 to 2017, payments of ₹95,000 crore only were made to sugarcane farmers. But ₹1,45,000 crore has been paid to them since 2017. Sugar mills were run during Corona period and we aim to double the income of farmers by 2022 and are sure to achieve it,” said the CM. “Eight new universities are proposed in Uttar Pradesh. These include varsities in Saharanpur, Prayagraj, Lucknow and a sports university in Meerut after the name of Major Dhyan Chand,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-lauds-raja-mahendra-pratap-singh-s-contribution-to-modern-education-101631637696592.html
14-09-2021||Other||PMC to go easy on hawkers till Diwali, but anti-encroachment drive will continue||PUNE In a meeting held on Tuesday between the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Pathari Vyavasayik Panchayat, a union representing hawkers in the city, the PMC has assured the union that no action will be taken against hawkers until the Diwali.However, action will continue against illegal structures under the PMC’s ongoing anti-encroachment drive.“They (hawkers union) have various demands regarding relocation of hawkers and repair works of a few public places which is going on step by step. We will continue taking action on illegal structures,” said Madhav Jagtap, deputy municipal commissioner, Encroachment and Illegal Construction Removal Department, PMC.“PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar has assured us that no action will be taken against street hawkers till the festive season of Diwali. On Pune-Satara road in Balajinagar, hawkers will be allowed to put their carts between 7am to 10pm. Hawkers will be also allowed to put their carts on Singhad road until their relocation takes place,” said Balasaheb More, general secretary of the Pathari Vyavasayik Panchayat.PMC has also assured the hawker’s union body that tenders for repair works of the subway near Pune station will be processed soon and the work of putting up street lights on Hadapsar BRTS route will start soon.“According to the Protection of livelihood and regulation of street vending Act – 2014, a shop of a street hawker can not be sealed and they should be warned first, or fined. PMC anti-encroachment department should take note of it,” added More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-go-easy-on-hawkers-till-diwali-but-anti-encroachment-drive-will-continue-101631637635804.html
14-09-2021||Other||BJP to reveal names of NCP-Cong leaders occupying amenity spaces||PUNE The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) are at loggerheads again, over the issue of leasing out of amenity spaces in the city.The BJP alleges that several Congress-NCP leaders have occupied these spaces illegally. BJP state unit president Chandrakant Patil, while accusing NCP and Congress leaders of “capturing; the amenity spaces said the BJP will announce a list in next two days revealing names of these leaders. Patil said, “As the municipal corporation is facing financial problems, the BJP took this policy decision to rent out amenity spaces for which the tendering process would be transparent.” NCP city unit president Prashant Jagtap, during a press conference on Tuesday, invited Patil to declare the list. Jagtap said, “The ruling BJP wants to rent out the amenity spaces in the interest of builders. Most amenity spaces are in Kothrud, an assembly seat represented by Patil. Instead of making them available for citizens, the BJP state unit president is supporting this decision. These open spaces are the lungs of the city.” Jagtap added, “PMC has Rs2,200 crore in deposits. If PMC break someof its fixed deposits, it will able to develop all these amenities to be useful to citizens.” Initially NCP has opposed the leasing of amenity spaces, after Ajit Pawar held a meeting with local office bearers to clear the air after news of the NCP supporting a changed proposal went out.Some activists have already challenged it in the High Court. The proposal is currently with the general body awaiting final approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-to-reveal-names-of-ncp-cong-leaders-occupying-amenity-spaces-101631637277829.html
14-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 706 new Covid cases, 6 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 706 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths in 24 hours on Tuesday. This took the progressive count to 1.13 million of which 1.09 million have recovered, 19,704 deaths and 13,101 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 72,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 372 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 352,169 and the death toll went up to 6,738 as two more deaths were added. Pune city reported 185 new cases which took the progressive count to 514,540 and the death toll went up to 9126. PCMC reported 149 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 264,537 and the toll stood at 3,491. Vaccine count Pune also saw 72,910 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday and totally 9,236,641. Of which 6,587,180 are first doses and 2,649,461 second doses. A total of 645 sites saw vaccination of which 412 were government centres and 233 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-706-new-covid-cases-6-deaths-101631637277257.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Vidhan Sabha panel bats for direct seeding to replenish groundwater||A special Vidhan Sabha committee has suggested the need to adopt the direct seeded rice (DSR) technology, increase in area under cotton, micro-irrigation, water metering, demand and supply audit and make water resources ministry deal with all water-related issues to replenish groundwater level in the state. The recommendations have been made by the special committee led by MLA and former minister Rana Gurjit Singh, which submitted its report to assembly speaker Rana KP Singh here on Tuesday. Harpartap Singh Ajnala, Gurpratap Singh Wadala, Hardev Singh Laddi, Raj Kumar Chabbewal and Gurmeet Singh Hayer (MLAs) were members of the committee. Rana Gurjit said that Punjab needed to make alternative arrangements to recharge groundwater and change cropping pattern by giving a strong push to DSR technology and diversification to tackle the fall in water level in the state. “The state requires about 62 billion cubic metre water annually, drawing most of it from underground resources and recharges only a fraction of it, leading to fall of 70cm per year in sub-soil water,” he said, stressing the urgency of the matter. The committee head said there was a time when 7.5 lakh hectare of land was under cotton but this came down to 3 lakh hectare. “We need to make efforts to increase the area under cotton back to the same level because the crop consumes 50% less water as compared to paddy. Water availability should be ensured during the sowing season in that area,” he said. The committee has incorporated the suggestions by experts of the water resources department and Israel-based firm Mekorot which is advising the state government on checking the depleting groundwater table and replenishing it. The committee was assisted by principal secretary, water resources, Sarvjit Singh and his team. Rana KP Singh said the report would be sent to the state government through proper channel for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vidhan-sabha-panel-bats-for-direct-seeding-to-replenish-groundwater-101631637276740.html
14-09-2021||Lucknow||HC stays Kafeel’s second suspension order||PRAYAGRAJ The Allahabad high court stayed the suspension order against Dr Kafeel Khan, a paediatrician, for his alleged involvement in forcefully treating patients at the Bahraich district hospital and criticising policies of the government. This was the second time Kafeel was suspended by the state government, while he was already under suspension following the August 2017 tragedy at Gorakhpur’s BRD Medical College, where 60 children had died due to shortage of oxygen. Justice Saral Srivastava directed to conclude inquiry against the petitioner within a period of one month. The court further directed that the petitioner shall co-operate in inquiry and in case the petitioner does not co-operate, disciplinary authority may proceed to conclude the inquiry ex parte. While directing to list this case on November 11, 2021, the court directed that when the matter is next listed, the respondents shall inform the court about the outcome of the inquiry.Dr Kafeel, by means of present writ petition, assailed the suspension order dated July 31, 2019 on the ground that the suspension order had been passed on July 31, 2019 and more than two years have passed and the inquiry had not been concluded. It was further contended that since the petitioner was already a suspended employee, therefore, there was no purpose of passing a second suspension order. However, the state government’s counsel submitted that inquiry report against the petitioner had been submitted on August 27, 2021, copy of which was sent to the petitioner on August 28, 2021, asking the petitioner to submit objection against the report. “Considering the submissions advanced by the parties, matter requires consideration,” the court said. The court passed this order on September 9, which came into public domain on September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hc-stays-kafeel-s-second-suspension-order-101631637037460.html
14-09-2021||Other||Farmers protest against Barnala sarpanch for joining BJP||Barnala A day after Chananwal village sarpanch, Buta Singh, and three panchayat members, along with others, joined the BJP in Chandigarh on Monday, irked farmers and village residents, in their hundreds, protested against him at the village gurdwara. Amid deployment of heavy police force, they raised slogans against the sarpanch and the saffron party. The protesters included members of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU Kadian) and BKU (Rajewal). Gurjant Singh, a former sarpanch, said residents felt humiliated as the sarpanch had back-stabbed farmers, and hurt their agitation. “We are farmers first and then village residents. Buta Singh and his associates have joined the same party, which passed the three black laws, and against which a stir has been on for nine months,” he added.The protesters also resolved that Buta Singh be ex-communicated and also appealed to the Gram Sabha to remove him from the post. “Over 600 farmers have sacrificed their lives in the farm protest at the borders of Delhi for months. Following a call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), people are boycotting BJP in villages, but Buta has joined the same party. He has no sympathy with the farmer agitation and instead of any regret, he refused to join today’s assembly,” the resolution reads. BKU (Kadian) leader Dalvir Singh said farmer unions and locals had decided to boycott Buta and others who had joined the saffron party. Sarpanch Buta did not respond to repeated calls on his mobile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-protest-against-barnala-sarpanch-for-joining-bjp-101631636976418.html
14-09-2021||Other||Private agency to contain spread of stray pigs in city||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has appointed a private agency, Farmer’s Choice, to help contain the spread of stray pigs in the city.The PMC will pay the agency Rs1425 per stray pig apprehended, not exceeding a total overall amount of Rs90 lakh. The agency will catch the stray pigs and tag them, with a decision on these going to the abattoir or not with the PMC.The issue of stray pigs has been around for at least two years now with several localities complaining about the nuisance. “Considering this, the PMC decided to appoint a private agency,” said standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane.The PMC’s standing committee has also approved the provision of water tankers to Phursungi.Rasane said, “As underground water is polluted due to the garbage depot in the area, the PMC will provide water through tankers to Phursungi, and 11 other merged villages, as needed.”50% of tax fines waived, if... The standing committee on Tuesday took a decision to waive 50 per cent of fines for property tax defaulters, if the fines are paid immediately, and in one day.The Lok Adalat has held 500 property owners guilty of not paying taxes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/private-agency-to-contain-spread-of-stray-pigs-in-city-101631636915827.html
14-09-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand high schools, colleges to reopen; relaxation for religious gatherings. Check details||Schools in Jharkhand will remain closed for students below Class 6, health minister Banna Gupta announced new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) guidelines on Tuesday as the state continues to report fewer fresh infections. Gupta said that the schools for students above class 6 will function from 8am to 12pm while the colleges will reopen and function as usual, reported news agency ANI.The Jharkhand minister also announced new guidelines for religious gathering in the wake of upcoming festivals. He said that a maximum of 100 devotees will be allowed at big religious places every hour, while small religious places will be allowed to have not more than 50% devotees at any given time of their total capacity. All restaurants and shops will be allowed to open on Sundays.“Prohibition on 'darshan' in pandals during Durga Puja will continue but Puja will be allowed; distribution of 'prasad' will not be done. Idols will be allowed to be a maximum 5 feet tall,” he added.On Monday, Jharkhand reported six new Covid-19 cases and no death. Five of the six new infections were reported from Ranchi while one case from East Singhbhum. The total Covid tally now stands at around 3.5 lakh (3,48,079), including 117 active cases, according to the government’s Covid-19 dashboard. The Covid-related death toll now stands at 5,133 with a mortality rate of 1.47 per cent.The state has relaxed many Covid-related curbs over a period of time, including restrictions on government and private offices, cinema halls, multiplexes, bars and restaurants, and banquet and community halls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-high-schools-colleges-to-reopen-relaxation-for-religious-gatherings-check-details-101631636143742.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Tattoo helps cops identify dismembered body found in Navi Mumbai||Two days after the dismembered body parts of a man were found dumped in a drain in Navi Mumbai, APMC police have identified the victim with a tattoo on his arm. The police sources said they have zeroed in on the accused and have detained three persons, including a family member of the victim. while one has been arrested. The dismembered body of a man was found on Sunday in a plastic bag. One of the arms had a tattoo with the name ‘Ravindra’ and the face of Hanuman. “With the help of the tattoo, we found out about a missing person’s complaint registered with Koparkhairane police last week and identified the deceased,” a police officer from APMC police station said. The deceased was later identified as Ravi Mandotiya, 30, whose missing complaint was registered by his wife. Mandotiya worked in the housekeeping department of a private firm. With the detention of three people, the torso of the deceased was found from Shilphata. According to police source, prima facie, the murder is suspected to have happened out of an extramarital affair issue. “He suspected his wife had an affair with a man and harassed her, following which, the man along with his friend killed the deceased. Role of his wife is being investigated,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tattoo-helps-cops-identify-dismembered-body-found-in-navi-mumbai-101631636737923.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbaiites miss Bandra Fair for second year in a row||The steps of the Mount Mary Church in Bandra wear a deserted look as the Bandra Fair was cancelled for the second year in a row.Bandra Fair, a week-long festival to celebrate the birth of Mother Mary in September, is believed to be at least 350 years old. The annual fest draws crowds from across the country of all religions to the Basilica of Our Lady of the Mount. This year, the Novena fell between September 3 and 11. The fair would have coincided with the Feast and Octave (September 12 to 19). Like last year, the church is holding masses online. “We are holding masses online, which are relayed on our social media channels. We see many devotees stop outside the church gate and offer prayers,” said rector Bishop John Rodrigues. Every year pilgrims flock to offer prayers for the sick and the aged at the church that was built in 1904. Stalls are set up by locals along the steps of the church to sell candles of different shapes, including human limbs and body parts. The devotees light candles seeking relief from any ailments in their bodies.Even as masses are held online, Mumbaiites miss the fair sorely. “The Mount Mary fair is a 300-year-old tradition that has brought all communities together each year,” said Anil Joseph, 48, who has lived in Bandra since his childhood. “We miss the fair terribly. But safety is important during the pandemic and the life of people has to be given priority. Even Mother Mary would want that. We should all get vaccinated and hope that we get to enjoy the fair next year,” said Joseph, who is also the chairperson of the Perry Road Residents Association.Apart from candles, locals also set up sweetmeat shops, food stalls and entertainment hubs along the road outside the church. While the stalls on the steps of the church are under the jurisdiction of the church, pitches outside the church are administered by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). “Last month the BMC informed that it won’t be allotting pitches for stalls owing to the pandemic. We, too, have not allotted any slots for stalls this year in the interest of the safety of devotees,” said Rodrigues.Ashish Shelar, BJP MLA from Bandra, said, “While the government has allowed the opening up of restaurants and gyms, it has not allowed any religious activities. We could have held the fair albeit with restrictions.” He further said the government must incentivise those individuals, whose businesses have been lost because the fair was cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiites-miss-bandra-fair-for-second-year-in-a-row-101631636557659.html
14-09-2021||Other||Ganesh festival: Mixed response to PMC tanks for fifth-day immersion||PUNE The fifth day of the Ganesh festival on Tuesday saw immersion of idols from households, both Ganpati and Gauri. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) made the necessary arrangements for immersion by providing tanks across the city.Mobile tanks on the backs of trucks were available in all areas of the city with ward offices as the point of contact. The PMC and the Pune police have appealed to citizens to avoid crowding this year in the light of the Covid pandemic. The water tanks are a push to ensure that the festival remains eco-friendly and immersion of idols does not pollute water bodies.While most Ganpati idols made their way to the PMC tanks, a random check by HT still found a sizeable number of idols being immersed in rivers across the city. “As the pandemic is on, we decided only two people from our family will do the immersion. We have immersed our Ganpati at the PMC centre. The arrangements were good, but the number of such centres needs to be increased as we had to walk 2-km from our house to get here,” said Sanket Khaladkar, a resident from Narayan peth.Another citizen Manish Janardhan said, “PMC cannot force or make it compulsory to immerse idols only in their tanks. We did the immersion in a river. There are many people who want to do immersion the traditional way.”Meanwhile, riverside roads were closed for vehicles as water was released from the Khadakwasla dam on Monday night. As a result, access to the rivers was difficult for many seeking to immerse idols there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ganesh-festival-mixed-response-to-pmc-tanks-for-fifth-day-immersion-101631636495863.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||High court seeks Punjab response on pleas raising dispute over SC certificates||Chandigarh The high court has sought response from Punjab government on pleas challenging its decision of validating Scheduled Caste certificate issued to some Rai Sikh community members prior to 2007 even as the caste then fell in the Backward Class category. The plea filed by three persons argues that state government notified on July 15, 2021, that SC certificates obtained by Rai Sikhs prior to August 30, 2007, are also valid. Taking note of this, departmental proceedings initiated have either been dropped or are to be dropped against those who obtained these certificates and got jobs or admission in educational courses on the basis of those certificates. The court was told that prior to August 2007, the Rai Sikh caste was included in the Backward Class category, and was notified as SC only on this date. A substantial number of Rai Sikhs obtained jobs in the state and were facing departmental inquiries for procurement and use of false SC certificates, the court was told, adding that the July communication now intends to close all pending disciplinary proceedings against them. The court was told that the July 15, 2021, communication cannot make valid the SC certificates obtained prior to August 2007. The response has been sought by December 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-seeks-punjab-response-on-pleas-raising-dispute-over-sc-certificates-101631636198716.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports less than 400 single-day Covid-19 infections for 4th straight day, active caseload stands at 4,696||With 367 single-day Covid-19 cases, Mumbai reported less than 400 infections on Tuesday for the fourth consecutive day, according to the latest data. So far, 735,767 cases have been reported from the city. Also, with five more fatalities, the death toll in the city touched 16,033, the data also showed. Previously on Monday, the city reported 345 new cases, preceded by 357 cases on Sunday and 361 cases on Saturday.According to a bulletin by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) 4,696 active cases of the disease are currently present in the city. Also, with 28,498 Covid-19 tests done in the past 24 hours, the cumulative number of samples tested so far went up to 9,769,953 in the city.The number of recoveries remained above the number of new infections as 408 people recovered from their illness. With this, the total recoveries reached 712,570 and the recovery rate of Mumbai stood at 97%, the BMC data also showed.Also read | Maharashtra registered lowest single-day Covid count in over 7 monthsFollowing a series of restrictions in the city in view of the festive season, the number of daily new infections have remained around the 350-mark for the past four days. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had repeatedly requested political parties to avoid events where large crowds gathered even as the state witnessed a slight uptick in the number of cases. He had also stressed that his government does not want a situation where lockdown-like restrictions would be reimposed.Emphasising that the lives of people were more important than festivals, Thackeray, earlier on September 6, said, “We can celebrate festivals later. Let us prioritise the lives and health of our citizens. The situation can go out of hand in view of the spike in daily cases,” news agency PTI reported.Meanwhile, the state of Maharashtra witnessed a significant jump in its daily caseload with 3,530 new cases after reporting 2,740 infections earlier on Monday. The state’s death toll reached 138,221 after 52 more people succumbed to their illness, the government’s data showed. The total confirmed infections reported from the state reached 6,504,147.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-less-than-400-single-day-covid-19-infections-for-4th-straight-day-active-caseload-stands-at-4696-101631635904204.html
14-09-2021||Other||Another son rise in Kairon dynasty||Tarn Taran With the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) sounding the assembly poll bugle with its announcement of candidates on over half of the seats, there is an interesting trend emerging in some of these constituencies. With four-time MLA and former SAD minister, Adesh Partap Singh Kairon, again, asked to contest from Patti, his 33-year-old son, Dilsher Partap Singh Kairon, an entrepreneur, is reaching the town on Wednesday to campaign for him. The local party workers are also ready to welcome him. Dilsher, the elder of Kairon’s two sons, will play the role of a youth leader in the constituency which Congress MLA Harminder Singh Gill, who had defeated Kairon by 8,000-odd votes in 2017, represents in the assembly. Before this defeat, Kairon, son-in-law of SAD patriarch Prakash Singh Badal, had represented the constituency four times in a row. Kairon’s right-hand man and his political adviser, Gurmukh Singh Ghulla Blehar, said, “Dilsher will lead our youth brigade into the assembly polls. He is coming to Patti on Wednesday and we welcome him. He will not only support his father to win the seat, but also remain present for locals.” He added, “To date, I have been leading the youth brigade in Patti. From tomorrow, Dilsher will do this. He has studied in the most prominent universities of America and England. We need his vision in these elections.”Dilsher did his Bachelors in economics from Yale university of America and an MBA from Cambridge University in England. In March, Kairon had held back-to-back political gatherings in Khemkaran constituency, the home turf of senior SAD leader Virsa Singh Valtoha. During these gatherings, Kairon had announced that ‘one of my family’s member’ would fight the assembly election from Khemkaran, a statement that had infuriated Valtoha. At a rally here in April, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has snubbed Kairon, saying that Valtoha would be the party candidate from Khemkaran. Since then, Kairon has not organised any political event in Khemkaran, but his supporters continue to claim that his wife Bibi Parneet Kaur Kairon would fight the elections ticket from here on a SAD ticket. “Bibi Kairon will fight elections from Khemkaran. Valtoha is our rival and the Kairon family will not budge from its decision,” Ghulla maintained, even on Tuesday. The SAD, however, has named Valtoha as Khemkaran candidate in the list released on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-son-rise-in-kairon-dynasty-101631635717899.html
14-09-2021||Other||Results of Covavax phase two trial expected in 10 days: docs||PUNE The Covavax Covid-19 vaccine is currently in phase two of an ongoing trial to test is safety when administered to minors between the ages of 12-18 years.Dr Avinash Badvekar, principal investigator at KEM hospital and Research Centre in Vadu, where the trials are taking place, said, “A total of 17 minors have got the vaccine so far. A total of 100 minors will participate in phase two of the on-going safety trials. The data of the safety tests is being collected and will be declared by the sponsor in a week or 10 days. Meanwhile, we will administer the second dose to candidates three weeks after the first dose.” The sponsor, in this case, is the Serum Institute of India.Apart from the KEM Hospital and Research Centre in Vadu, the Bharati Vidyapeeth Hospital has also been selected as a site for the Covavax trials.Covavax, also known as Novavax, is being developed by US firm, Novavax Inc. It will be mass produced by the Pune- based SII, mainly for the paediatric age group, i.e. below 18 years of age. Earlier, Dr Badvekar had said that once the vaccine is found safe for this age group, the trial would move to a younger population in two more phases, 12-6 years and 6-2 years of age. Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy director of Bharati Vidyapeeth Hospital said, “We do not have any confirmed date on when phase three trials would begin. Once the safety results are out we will begin phase three. This should probably happen in the next 15 days, however, the final date will be declared in collaboration with the sponsor.” The standard protocol for any new vaccine is to test it for safety (phase two) among a few hundred participants and then, phase three, which tests the vaccine for its efficacy against the said virus. The phase three trials are conducted among at least 1,000 volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/results-of-covavax-phase-two-trial-expected-in-10-days-docs-101631635235787.html
14-09-2021||Patna||Bid to enforce NRC on the sly in Kishanganj: Owaisi||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday slammed a move by the Kishanganj district magistrate (DM) to identify suspected foreign nationals in pursuance a Patna High Court order, saying it was wrong to pinpoint any particular area and looked like an attempt to implement national citizenship register (NRC) through back door.“I am disappointed. I expected the state government to give clarity on the matter before the court. The government should take it seriously and not get swayed by the RSS agenda,” he told reporters in Patna.In 2020 Bihar polls, AIMIM had won five assembly seats in Seemanchal region, of which Kishanganj is a part.Owaisi said his party would take a call on contesting in the two seats going to by-elections in Bihar later this year.He also took on UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the latter’s “abba Jaan” remark and said it was a desperate attempt to resurrect his government’s falling image by polarising votes, but it would not work.“Had he worked, he would not be required to take recourse of ‘abba Jaan’ at the time of election. The bitter truth in UP is that Muslims have the lowest literacy rate and the highest dropout rate, while merely 10% of the central fund allocated for minority welfare could be spent. UP has the highest number of children with malnutrition. As Yogi does not want debate on them, he is trying to polarise,” he said.On the number of seats AIMIM would contest in UP and the charge against him that he was trying to polarise votes, Owaisi said the number was not final, but his party would certainly contest with all seriousness and that Muslims were no more ready to be taken for granted as vote bank.“We are preparing to contest 100 seats in UP. So far there is no tie-up. We can go alone also. We will fight to win. Those who point fingers at us for helping any party should explain what happened in the Lok Sabha election when AIMIM was not in the fray. In Bihar, we fought 19 assembly seats and won five. We are expanding to ensure that the Muslims get their deserved rights, which has not happened,” he said.On whether tainted faces Mukhtar Ansari and Aateek Ahmad could be fielded by AIMIM, Owaisi said why the same question was not being put to the BJP, Samajwadi Party and others. “How many tainted leaders are in JD-U? It should be an issue for all the political parties. Unless proven guilty, if a person can legally contest election, what is the problem?. We would like to field Ansari, though we have not talked to him,” he said.The AIMIM chief also dared the Narendra Modi government to declare Taliban a terrorist organisation.“If the government has courage, it should put Taliban in the list of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. I have been reiterating since 2013 that Taliban’s emergence could be a sign of concern for India, while it might benefit China and Pakistan. But for BJP, all Muslims appear to be Taliban. The Indian government has done strategic blunder by isolating Muslims in the National Register for Citizens (NRC). I always maintained it should not be on religious lines, ” he said, while talking to media persons in Patna.On Bihar BJP MLA Haribhushan Thakur’s statement that he was trying to be the next Jinnah, Owaisi hit back, saying the BJP leader should know who had gone to Jinnah’s tomb. “LK Advani praised him. I always reject Jinnah’s two-nation theory,” he said.BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand later said Owaisi was trying to instigate Muslims in the name of NRC to do his brand of politics, like the Congress and RJD always did. “Nobody can stay in any country without passport and visa, unless one gets political asylum or is treated as refugee. Rest are treated as illegal immigrants and every country requires to prepare their list. The same needs to be done in India as well. What is happening in Seemanchal is a normal police process, as the issue of illegal immigration is no secret in the bordering areas like Kishanganj, Katihar, Araria etc. At present, NRC has not been implemented and Owasi should refrain from deriving political mileage out of it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bid-to-enforce-nrc-on-the-sly-in-kishanganj-owaisi-101631635120567.html
14-09-2021||Patna||RJD set to back SP in UP polls||Unlike other Bihar-based parties, state’s main opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) is in no mood to contest the assembly polls in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh due early next year and would be extending support to the Samajwadi Party (SP) as a part of its strategy to strengthen the opposition unity against the BJP, party insiders said. After several rounds of discussions on whether the party should contest the UP polls next year or not, there is a consensus it should extend support to the SP, which is the main challenger of the BJP in the largest state in the country, they said. Over a month ago, ailing RJD chief Lalu Prasad had called on Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh in New Delhi during which SP president Akhilesh Yadav was also present. The SP patriarch’s grand nephew and former MP Tej Pratap Yadav is married to Lalu’s youngest daughter Raxlaxmi. In 2017 too, RJD had not contested UP polls and supported SP candidates. In 2012 UP assembly polls, RJD contested four seats and forfeited deposit in all four, bagging just.0.04% of the total votes polled. “RJD is working for opposition unity against the BJP. In West Bengal polls, we extended support to the Trinamool Congress and it helped. In UP polls, we are working on similar lines and looking forward to support the Samajwadi Party,” said Bhola Yadav,national general secretary of RJD. Among Bihar-based parties, Janata Dal (United) and Vikashsheel Insaan Party ( VIP), both constituents of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) along with BJP, are keen on contesting the UP polls early next year.Sources said JD(U) poll managers are keen on striking an alliance with BJP and have sent feelers for getting 20 seats . The VIP has announced its plans to contest over 100 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rjd-set-to-back-sp-in-up-polls-101631635119215.html
14-09-2021||Patna||Patna HC asks municipal workers to end strike, tells govt to fulfil demands in 8 weeks||A division bench of Patna high court (HC) led by chief justice Sanjay Karol Tuesday asked agitating sanitation workers of municipal bodies to end their indefinite strike, and directed the state government to fulfil their demands within eight weeks. Sanitation workers of Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) and other civic bodies have been on strike since September 7 in support of their 12-point demands, including regularisation of job, substantial hike in monthly remuneration, introduction of provident fund facility, financial benefits as per the recommendation of 7th pay commission etc. Nearly 40,000 workers across the state were on strike called by Bihar Local Bodies Karmchari Sanyukt Sangharsh Morcha (BLBKSSM), which also asked for removal of anomalies in scales of regular fourth grade employees and discontinuance of fashion to keep outsourced employees. The HC bench, also comprising Justice S Kumar, directed the striking employees to end the strike forthwith. BLBKSSM president Chandra Prakash Singh said that they would take the decision to end the strike after going through the court’s order. “We will maintain the status quo till then,” said Singh. During the hearing, advocate general (AG) Lalit Kishore told the court that the state government would consider the striking employees’ grievances, and an appropriate decision would be taken in the stipulated time frame. He, however, added that outsourcing, if required, was the government’s right and the PMC was free to hire staff on outsourcing as and when necessary. “However, existing employees would not be affected due to outsourcing,” said Kishore. The AG also said that the striking employees, who were ousted from job due to defiance of the order, would be rehired. “However, those facing other penal charges would be dealt with in accordance with the law,” Kishore told the court. Even as the Patna HC had rescheduled the hearing of case of striking employees for Tuesday, principal secretary of urban development department (UDD) on Monday issued a statement saying that there was no impact of the strike on cleanliness drive in more than 70% urban areas. Contrary to the claims of departmental officers, heaps of garbage laid strewn on the roadside and in various lanes and by-lanes. “Officials are misleading the court, as door-to-door collection of household waste has been discontinued for the past couple of weeks,” said Anuj Kumar, a Patna resident. A staff member of the PMC said that around 6,000 tonnes of waste was dumped near the roadside in Patna due to the strike. “Patna usually generates around 800-900 tonnes of waste on a daily basis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-hc-asks-municipal-workers-to-end-strike-tells-govt-to-fulfil-demands-in-8-weeks-101631635117975.html
14-09-2021||Ranchi||Soren’s remark on local languages creates stir, BJP accuses CM of ‘polarisation’||strap: Ex-Cong minister describes statement unconstitutional  The main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday hit out at chief minister Hemant Soren over his remark on regional languages spoken in the state, and non-inclusion of few of them such as Bhojpuri and Magahi in examination syllabus for grade 3 and 4 government jobs under the recently notified employment policy of the state. In a recent interview with the Hindustan Times on Sunday, the Jharkhand chief minister (CM) desribed Bhojpuri and Magahi languages as “imported languages from Bihar”, besides underlining that people, who allegedly raped women during Jharkhand’s separate statehood Jharkhand, “used to abuse in Bhojpuri”. Hitting out at Soren, former minister and BJP legislator Bhanu Pratap Shahi alleged that the CM was trying to create friction and “polarise” the populace on the basis of language. “Earlier, the JMM (CM Soren’s party) tried to polarise on the basis of religion by allotting Namaz room in Vidhan Sabha and including Urdu as a regional language. However, they removed Hindi from the merit list paper in employment policy, and also did not include languages such as Bhojpuri, Magahi and Angika in it. And now, he is terming Bhojpuri as language of rapists. The BJP condemns it. If Bhojpuri and Magahi are not regional languages, has not Urdu come from Pakistan? The CM is now trying to polarise people on grounds of language. This is unconstitutional for a CM to make such a remark,” said Shahi at a press conference called by the BJP at its state headquarters here. The BJP legislator also challenged the Congress and the RJD, the alliance partners in the Hemant Soren government, to make their stand clear on the issue. “There are several legislators from the ruling combine who speak Bhojpuri. Is the CM also terming them rapists? JMM’s Mithilesh Thakur should comment on this issue. Earlier, he had demanded to include Bhojpuri and Magahi in the employment policy. Congress legislator Dipika Pandey Singh also demanded inclusion of these languages. Several other Congress legislators speak Bhojpuri and Magahi. What does the RJD has to say on this?,” said Shahi. Several other BJP leaders, including former CM Raghubar Das and party’s state unit president Deepak Prakash, hit out at the CM for his remark. The ruling JMM, however, defended the CM’s remark. Principal general secretary and party spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya said there was nothing wrong in the remark. “We stand by his statement. A big population in the state speak Urdu, Bengali and Oriya, while very few people speak Bhojpuri and Magahi,” said Bhattacharya.While the Congress was yet to make it’s official stand clear on the issue, senior party leader and former minister KN Tripathi described Soren’s statement unconstitutional. “His statement is unconstitutional and against the dignity of the chief minister’s chair,” said Tripathi, who earlier represented Daltonganj assembly seat that is part of Palamu division, where Bhojpuri and Magahi are predominant local languages. While there is no official data on the number of people who speak regional languages in the state, Bhojpuri, Magahi and Angika are spoken in several districts across the state, especially those bordering Bihar such as Palamu, Garhwa, Latehar, Chatra, Hazaribag, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Giridih, Deoghar, Sahibganj and Godda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/sorens-remark-on-local-languages-creates-stir-bjp-accuses-cm-of-polarisation-101631635116512.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||96 per cent nursing seats remain vacant, BFUHS mulls 2nd entrance test in Punjab||Faridkot After 97% of nursing courses seats remain vacant in the first round of counselling for want of enough qualified candidates, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, has sought permission from the department of medical education and research to conduct another entrance test. During the first round of the counselling last week, BFUHS allotted nursing seats to 244 candidates while 7,481 seats remained vacant in government and private nursing colleges of the state. There are 7,825 BSc nursing and BSc (post-basic) nursing seats in the 103 colleges of the state. In the state, 103 nursing colleges offer 4,970 B.Sc nursing seats, while 88 nursing colleges offer 2,855 B.Sc (post-basic) nursing seats. During the first round of counselling, 89 nursing colleges failed to fill even a single B.Sc nursing seat. Similarly, not a single candidate was found eligible for B.Sc (post-basic) seats in 54 colleges. A total of 190 B.Sc nursing seats were allotted to the eligible candidates in 14 nursing colleges, while 154 B.Sc (post-basic) seats were filled in 34 nursing colleges. In August, BFUHS conducted the entrance tests and 50 marks was the eligibility for admission to B.Sc nursing course and 30 for B.Sc (post-basic) nursing. Only 240 out of 2,596 could score more than 50 marks, while 154 out of 380 candidates scored 30 or more. Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor BFUHS, said, “We have written to the principal secretary of medical education and research, seeking permission to conduct one more entrance test to give another chance to the students as a large number of seats are vacant.” Official sources said the BFUHS may go for an easier question paper in the entrance test to fill the nursing seats. In the recent years, there has been continuous decline in number of candidates interested in pursuing nursing courses, badly affecting the private colleges offering the courses. Box Nursing admissions Seats filled Total Vacant BSc Nursing 190 4,970 4,780 (97%) BSc (post-basic) Nursing 154 2,855 2,701 (95%) Total 344 7,825 7,481 (96%)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/96-per-cent-nursing-seats-remain-vacant-bfuhs-mulls-2nd-entrance-test-in-punjab-101631634876252.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||SAD to resume poll events after farmers’ September 27 Bharat Bandh||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will resume its poll meetings and rallies after September 27, the day Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will observe Bharat Bandh against the three central farm laws. The party will stage a protest outside Parliament in New Delhi on September 17 against the farm laws, which all office-bearers have been asked to attend, SAD’s former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra said. The party has planned another dharna on September 24 outside Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s residence in Patiala against the low compensation paid to the farmers against the land acquired for the national highway passing through many districts in the state. “In the meeting with farmer leaders on September 10, it was conveyed that we will start our political activity after the Bharat Bandh,” said Chandumajra, adding that party cannot stop its political activities for long as the polls are approaching. Party’s core committee is expected to meet on September 28 to decide further course of action. The SAD is already in a poll mode. On Monday, it released a list of 64 candidates for the upcoming polls. In a meeting last week with the representatives of 32 farm bodies, a four member Akali panel had asked farmers to reconsider their appeal for postponing political activity. On September 3, farmers created ruckus at Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal’s rally in Moga, which was part of his mass-contact programme ‘Gal Punjab Di’. The SAD postponed all its public events. “There are suggestions for not forcing political parties to suspend their activities beyond October 15. The SKM is holding a meeting to take a final decision soon,” said Jagmohan Singh general secretary of BKU (Dakounda). Box Why no disruptions at Cong events: Majithia to SKM AMRITSAR Senior Akali Dal leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday asked the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to explain to Punjabis why it was not objecting to political functions being held by the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). He also criticised chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for “insulting” the farmers by asserting that their agitation was running successfully due to support of the Congress party. He was talking to the media after welcoming local Congress and AAP leaders into the SAD fold. Among those who joined the SAD included Congress Kisan Cell vice-chairman Satpal Singh Wadali and AAP state committee member Jasbir Singh Wadali. ‘It is astonishing that chief minister, who had been holed up at his farm house for more than four years, was trying to take credit for the sacrifices of the brave farmers. The truth is that the farmers were betrayed by the Gandhi family,” Majithia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-to-resume-poll-events-after-farmers-september-27-bharat-bandh-101631633856506.html
14-09-2021||Other||Punjab seeks special package from Centre to improve buffalo breed||Chandigarh The Punjab government has sought a special financial package to establish a Centre of Excellence for research and improvement in breed of buffaloes in the state. State animal husbandry minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa has raised his demand during his meeting with Union minister for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying Purshotam Rupala at Krishi Bhawan in New Delhi on Tuesday. Bajwa also sought 100% subsidy for Punjab under the RGM (Rashtriya Gokul Mission) for development and conservation of indigenous bovine breeds, genetic upgrade of bovine population and enhancement of milk production and productivity of bovines. He also demanded 100% funding from the Centre under the Establishment of Veterinary Hospital and Dispensary (ESVHD-MVU) Scheme to purchase 70 Mobile Veterinary Units for Punjab to provide door-to-door emergency services to the livestock farmers. Bajwa also appealed to the union minister to approve and release required funds under the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojna (RKVY) for the project to be submitted to the Centre for the repair and renovation of 100 veterinary hospitals and 100 veterinary dispensaries in the state. Animal husbandry additional chief secretary VK Janjua accompanied the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-seeks-special-package-from-centre-to-improve-buffalo-breed-101631632416169.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||IIT Bombay designs AI-based translation app to help students from linguistic minorities||A professor and his team from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) have launched an artificial intelligence (AI)-based software ecosystem that translates scientific and technical content from English to Hindi and several other Indian languages. This software —Project Udaan — launched at a virtual event on Tuesday, can translate engineering textbooks and learning material in one-sixth the time it would take for a team of domain and linguistic experts to work manually. “The Indian Constitution requires every state and local authority to provide adequate facilities for instruction in the mother tongue at the primary stage of education to children belonging to linguistic minorities,” said professor Ganesh Ramakrishnan, IIT-B chair professor, department of computer science and engineering. “Project Udaan’ will help translate scientific and technical terms into several languages other than English and could help students pursuing courses in engineering and technology,” he said.Project Udaan is a donation-based project with an end-to-end ecosystem that helps in translation. “We have developed a very robust bilingual OCR (optical character recognition) technology and several post-editing tools by which we now have access to digital bilingual dictionaries in a machine-readable format. We are therefore able to use appropriate scientific and technical terms available in Hindi, instead of transliterating the English terms,” added Ramakrishnan. However, Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra, who was not involved with the work, said while the concept is keeping in mind the new National Education Policy (NEP) provisions giving aid to regional languages, the use of the software might be limiting. “There’s hardly been a case where students could not understand scientific terms because of the community they came from. And while it could be of aid for some, what will such students do once they graduate and enter the job market? There’ll be no software helping them there,” said Thampi.Through donations, the IIT-B team aims to translate 500 engineering texts in Hindi in one year and 15 Indian languages in three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-designs-ai-based-translation-app-to-help-students-from-linguistic-minorities-101631632296794.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Assured 30 per cent salary hike, Punjab public transport workers call off strike||The public bus service is set to resume from Wednesday as the contractual and outsourced employees of the state transport undertakings (STUs), including Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), Punjab Roadways and the Punbus, decided to call off their strike on Tuesday. The decision came after a five-member delegation of protesters met state government officials led by Sandeep Sandhu, political adviser to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The bus services remained crippled since September 6 when nearly 8,200 roadways employees went on strike, seeking regular jobs. Resham Singh Gill, state president of Punjab Roadways, Punbus and PRTC contract workers’ union, said, “The government has assured 30% hike in salary for the contractual and outsourced employees, along with 5% annual hike. The notification in this regard will be issued by September 15,” he said. On the demand for regularisation of job, Sandhu assured that a decision will be taken after discussing the issue with chief minister, Gill said. “The government had sought a week’s time but we have asked them to take two weeks to decide on our regularisation demand. If no decision is taken, we will resume our strike from September 29 onwards,” said Harkesh Kumar, state general secretary of the union. Currently, the contractual conductors are being paid ₹9,118 per month, while the drivers get ₹10,200. Kumar said it was a big relief for most of the employees as they were being made to work on meagre salaries for the past 10 years. On their demand for introducing new buses, the government informed the delegation that the process to order a fleet of 850 new buses was in the pipeline. The PRTC has already floated the tenders for purchasing 255 new buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/assured-30-per-cent-salary-hike-punjab-public-transport-workers-call-off-strike-101631629836217.html
14-09-2021||Other||Punjab chief secretary reviews status of infra projects||Chandigarh Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan on Tuesday said that a mega milk processing plant at Bassi Pathana in Fatehgarh Sahib will be opened by the month-end. The chief secretary was chairing a meeting of the Public Investment Management (PIM) committee to review the status of ongoing infrastructure projects. Already, 10 major infrastructure projects worth ₹795.4-crore have been completed. These include a milk processing plant in Bassi Pathana, 100-bed hospital in Fazilka, multi-storey car parking at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, Central Sudhar Ghar in Goindwal Sahib, Government Degree Colleges at Roshanwala in Bhawanigarh and Danewala village in Muktsar and Rahon-Machhiwara-Samrala-Khanna road and flyover on the Ludhiana-Sangrur road. Principal secretary, civil aviation, Tejveer Singh said the cargo complex at international airport in Mohali will be made operational by November 30. The progress on the cargo complex at Amritsar was discussed, and it was decided that the Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion would undertake industry sessions for both Cargo complexes. On the status of the international airport at Halwara, Tejveer said that the construction work of the boundary wall has been completed, while construction work on the interim terminal building and apron will begin shortly. On progress of the Kajauli water works project, principal secretary, housing and urban development, Sarvjit Singh apprised the chief secretary that the construction work of 20 MGD capacity water treatment plant at Sinhpur village was under progress and it will be completed by November 30, following which 6 MGD of water will be made available to the adjoining towns of Kharar and Kurali. He added that letters of intent under the land pooling scheme for Aerotropolis housing project near international airport in Mohali have already been issued to landowners against 650 hectare of land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-chief-secretary-reviews-status-of-infra-projects-101631629237268.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Class 7 student rapes 5-yr-old girl from his neighbourhood near Mumbai||A Class 7 student has allegedly sexually assaulted a five-year-old girl from his neighbourhood in Boisar on Monday. The 11-year-old accused was arrested under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. On Tuesday, the Juvenile Justice Court sent him to judicial remand in the Children’s Remand Home in Bhiwandi. Senior inspector Suresh Kadam of Boisar MIDC police station said the survivor’s parents work at an industrial unit. When she was alone at home, the boy took her to an isolated spot and sexually assaulted her.“The child started to experience abdominal pain, following which her mother took her to a doctor, who found injury marks on her body. On asking her about the injury marks, she revealed the incident. The mother then approached us,” said Kadam. The girl has been admitted in a government hospital at Dahanu. “The survivor has suffered trauma and a woman assistant inspector is investigating the case. We are awaiting her medical report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/class-7-student-rapes-5-yr-old-girl-from-his-neighbourhood-near-mumbai-101631629236030.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||SC seeks Maharashtra’s response on utilizing ₹25 cr for Covid-19 affected children||With Maharashtra reporting the highest number of children who became orphans due to Covid-19, the Supreme Court on Monday directed the state government to come out with an elaborate scheme on how it intends to help such children by utilizing a sum of ₹25 crore lying with the Court since 2016 under the direction of the Court in a medical admission matter.In December 2016, the Supreme Court held a medical college in the state at fault for admitting students in violation of standards prescribed by the then Medical Council of India. The Court had directed the Maharashtra government to deposit ₹20 crore with the Court and recover the same from the defaulting medical college. In that order, the Court said that the amount should be utilized for “issues of juvenile justice”.As the money lying with the Court had now swelled with interest to ₹25 crore, the Court Registry contacted the state government to know what is to be done with the money. The matter was put up before a bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna on Monday.The state government informed the Court that the amount will be utilized to finance a scheme for providing ₹5 lakh compensation for children who lost both parents due to Covid-19. Advocate Sachin Patil for the state said, “In Maharashtra, 593 children lost both parents due to Covid-19. This has been ascertained on a district-wise basis and is so far the highest number to be reported by any state in the country.” In all, he pointed out that 19,129 children lost either or both their parents during the pandemic beginning March 2020.As per the state’s calculation, the amount of ₹25.53 crore lying with the Court would be utilized for financing ₹5 lakh each for the 593 orphans when they shall receive on attaining 21 years. This scheme was announced by the state government on June 17 this year and the money was supposed to be placed in a fixed deposit.The bench said, “We do not intend that you use this amount for distributing the ₹5 lakh financial support. That you otherwise will also do. Why don’t you reverse your policy and provide something more for these children using this amount?”Patil, in the interest of the affected children, told the Court that the state shall present a concrete plan on utilizing the said amount for the welfare of Covid-affected children. The Court granted him three weeks directing the affidavit to be filed by the Women and Child Development Department of the state government.The bench said, “Before we direct disbursal of ₹25.53 crore back to Maharashtra government, let a concrete statement be placed by the state with regard to the manner in which this money is to be utilized by state for children who lost one or both their parents during Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-seeks-maharashtra-s-response-on-utilizing-rs-25-cr-for-covid-19-affected-children-101631628937249.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||PSEB question papers leaked on YouTube for second day in row||Question papers of the ongoing Punjab State Education Board (PSEB) mid-term examination from Classes 6 to 12 were leaked on a YouTube channel for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. However, the board didn’t cancel the examination. In the evening on Tuesday, the YouTube channel also uploaded question papers of exams scheduled for September 16. On Tuesday, the anti-cheating teachers’ front took up the matter and filed a written complaint with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, chief secretary (education) and district education officer (DEO). Sukhdarshan Singh, president of the front, said despite the information shared with the department, no action was taken on Monday following which they filed a written complaint seeking investigation. The mid-term exams are also aimed at preparing the students of classes 3, 5, 8 and 10 for the National Achievement Survey (NAS). Among the question papers leaked on the YouTube channel named Virdi Blog are social studies (Class 8), science (Class 7), mathematics (Class 9) and Punjabi (Class 12). On Monday, questions papers of mathematics (Class 8), Hindi (Class 9) and science and mathematics (Class 10) were leaked on the same YouTube channel. The education department officers are tight lipped over the issue. Fake letter about new question paper A fake letter claiming that a new question paper will be sent through email to the schools 30 minutes before the examination had landed in many schools on Monday. In the letter, the schools were advised to make Xerox copies of the question paper and distribute among the students. After waiting for the new question paper, school authorities contacted the officials concerned and found that no such letter was issued by the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pseb-question-papers-leaked-on-youtube-for-second-day-in-row-101631628696108.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai police stations to have Nirbhaya Squad to bolster women’s safety||Against the backdrop of the Sakinaka rape and murder case, the top brass of the Mumbai police has decided to create a dedicated ‘Nirbahaya Squad’ in every police station to prevent crimes against women, officials said. Directives to this effect were issued by the commissioner of police Hemant Nagrale on Tuesday. The city police came up with the idea a day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray met with the state Director General of Police and Mumbai police commissioner along with other senior police officers at the state police headquarters to review the measures being taken by the police department for the safety and security of women. The women safety squad would be on regular patrolling duty and would constitute a lady sub-inspector, a woman constable, a male constable and a driver. The squads will work to prevent the cases of harassment of girls, women and children. The city police have also initiated a project called ‘Saksham’ in collaboration with an organisation called ‘M Power’. Under this project, survivors of sexual offences and juveniles in conflicts and law would be provided with psychotherapy and counselling for their recovery from post-incident trauma, rehabilitation and psychological counselling. A lady assistant commissioner of police or an inspector level lady officer in each of the five regions would be the nodal officers who would supervise and review the functioning of the Nirbhaya Squads. The squads will also gather intelligence of any wrongdoings in children homes, orphanages, hostels, etc. The squads have also been entrusted with the responsibility of creating awareness about the stricter provisions and harsh sentences prescribed under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, mainly in slum areas that witness a maximum number of POCSO cases in the city. This includes dense slums of Cuffe Parade, Kurla, Antop Hill-Dharavi, Malwani, Bhandup, etc. Such awareness would help cops prevent sexual crimes against minors. To ensure that the squads function as per the expectations, the senior police officers have also announced monthly rewards to the squad for best performance. Officers in ‘Nirbhaya Squads’ have also been instructed to attend parents meetings, seminars organised by schools, colleges and create awareness about the squads as well as the legal rights of women and children. The squad will also be distributing booklets on laws and legal provisions meant for the safety, security and welfare of women. The squads will be given two days of training before they start functioning.A Nirbhaya complaint box will be kept at these places (including schools and colleges) and a record will have to be maintained on action taken after receiving complaints in these boxes.“The Nirbhaya Squads are being formed with an aim to create a safer environment for women and children in the society and also to create fear of law in minds of sexual offenders and deterring them from indulging in crimes,” Mumbai Police said in a statement released on Tuesday.All the police station incharges in Mumbai have been asked to identify areas that are prone to crimes against women and create a list of such hotspots so that a patrolling pattern can be created for regular patrolling of these areas. This would include roads leading to schools, colleges, cinema halls, subways, malls, market areas, gardens, playgrounds, bus stops and railway stations, deserted places, etc.Nirbhaya teams will also create a separate database of all sexual offenders who have a criminal record in the last five years. The squad members will keep a tab on these offenders’ activities to ensure they are not targeting women again after coming out on bail.The squads will be armed with secret pen-cameras for tracking the movements of stalkers. The videos taken by squad members will also become evidence in cases of staking generally registered under sections 354D of IPC, the police’s circular reads.The women cells were already there previously in each of the 95 police stations in Mumbai to look into the investigations of cases of sexual crimes against women and children, but with the new directives issued by the police commissioner, additional dedicated outdoor teams are entrusted with a slew of new duties focussing on prevention of such crimes, creating awareness, tracking habitual offenders, enlighting students and women with knowledge about their legal rights and laws pertaining to sexual offences, identifying victims, reaching out to them, encouraging them to speak out and then counsel them, said a senior police officer. A special training centre will be created for the Nirbhaya Squads in each of the five regions under the supervision of respective additional police commissioners. At these centres, training will be given to the Nirbhaya Squad members pertaining to women safety and for providing counselling to victims of sexual crimes and juveniles caught in conflict with law.The squad officers have also been asked to conduct sessions on self-defence technics, guide students and distribute booklets on laws and legal provisions meant for the safety, security and welfare of women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/every-police-station-in-mumbai-to-have-nirbhaya-squad-to-bolster-women-s-safety-101631628218357.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Malaria cases drop in Mumbai, dengue on rise||In the first 12 days of this month, malaria cases have dropped by 47% compared to the number of cases during the same period last month, according to data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). However, dengue cases have increased in the same period in August and SeptemberBetween August 1 and 12, the city recorded 395 malaria cases, which dropped to 210 in the same period this month. In the corresponding period, dengue cases increased from 61 to 85 in the city. Civic health officers said when monsoon recedes, malaria cases reduce, while dengue cases pick up from September onwards.“It is the pattern of mosquito-borne diseases. Anopheles mosquito that causes malaria breeds extensively in stagnant, dirty water leading to a rise in the number of cases during the peak of monsoon season between June and August. But when the downpour decreases, the Aedes Aegypti mosquito that causes dengue starts breeding. So, post-August, dengue cases become higher,” said Dr Jeetendra Jadhav, medical officer L ward comprising Kurla and Chembur.BMC is screening construction workers for malaria symptoms. Already 446,077 houses have been inspected and 4,108 mosquito breeding grounds have been destroyed.“We have seen a definite resurgence of dengue and malaria in the last two months. Dengue patients are more serious where some of them are coming with very high ferritin (blood protein that contains iron) levels. We have warned patients from taking self-medication for any type of fever. Over the month we have seen dengue and gastroenteritis cases increasing in Mumbai,” Dr Behram Pardiwala, head of internal medicine, Wockhardt Hospital, Mumbai Central.BMC has instructed dispensaries to conduct rapid antigen tests for malaria for all suspected cases. People with fever, chill and cough are being tested for both malaria and Covid-19 as both have similar symptoms.Dr Manjusha Agarwal, senior consultant-internal medicine at Global Hospital, Parel, said, “Water containers, water storage tanks, empty tires, and pots act as dengue breeding sites. Keeping surroundings clean, emptying unnecessary stored water containers is important. Dengue fever can be life-threatening and proper treatment under the supervision of a doctor will avert complications.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malaria-cases-drop-in-mumbai-dengue-on-rise-101631627136307.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||51-year-old man arrested for molesting 7-year-old in Mumbai||The MIDC police on Tuesday arrested a 51-year-old man for allegedly molesting his seven-year-old neighbour several times.According to the MIDC police, a woman approached them late in the evening on Monday alleging that her neighbour had been luring her daughter with money, and molesting her for the past 10 days.The officers said that the man, who is unemployed, stays in the pump room near SEEPZ in Andheri (East). “The accused had been luring the kid with money for chocolate when the girl’s mother would go out to buy vegetables and groceries,” said a police officer from MIDC police station.On Tuesday when the accused called out to the girl, her mother who was at home, suspected foul play and sought help of some neighbours who confronted the man.The accused then confessed to molesting the girl, “The locals caught the man and handed him over to us,” said the officer.The MIDC police have booked the man under relevant sections of the Protection of Children Against Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/51yearold-man-arrested-for-molesting-7-year-old-in-mumbai-101631627015982.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Defence awardees’ monthly allowance hiked by 80 per cent||The Punjab government has increased the monthly allowance of gallantry, distinguished service awardees, their widows and widows of posthumous awardees by 80 per cent. A spokesperson of the defence services welfare department said that out of the total 2,044 winners of gallantry and distinguished awards, the allowance for the winners of the Param Vir Chakra has been increased from existing ₹23,100 to ₹41,580. Similarly, six Ashok Chakra awardees would now get enhanced allowance of ₹33,264 in place of ₹18,480 while 11 Maha Vir Chakra awardees would be now entitled to receive ₹31,601 instead of ₹17,556. Likewise, the monthly allowance of the 24 Kirti Chakra winners has also been increased from ₹13,860 to ₹24,948. The 127 Vir Chakra awardees would now get ₹18,295 from ₹10,164. Similarly, 165 Shaurya Chakra winners would now receive the hiked allowance from ₹6,480 to ₹11,664. Further, Sena/Nao Sena/Vayu Sena Medal (gallantry) awardees totalling 662 would now get an increased amount of ₹5,580 as against ₹3,100, said the spokesperson. The 277 Mentioned in Dispatches (gallantry) awardees would receive ₹2,790 instead of ₹1,550. The two widows of Military Cross awardees would now get ₹20,790 instead of ₹11,550 earlier. Also, the three beneficiaries of Military Medal awardees would be given ₹9,720 in place of the earlier amount of ₹5,400. The three beneficiaries of Indian Distinguished Service Medal (IDSM) awardees would now get ₹2,790 against the earlier ₹1,500. The four Sarvottam Yudh Seva Medal awardees would receive ₹1,386 instead of ₹770. Furthermore, ₹1,260 would be given to the 98 winners of the Param Vishishta Seva Medal against ₹700. The nine awardees decorated with the Uttam Yudh Seva Medal would now receive ₹1,116 instead of earlier allowance of ₹620. Similarly, 171 Ati Vishisht Seva Medal awardees would get ₹972 instead of ₹540. Apart from these, 47 winners of the Yudh Seva Medal would be given ₹846 against ₹470 being paid earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/defence-awardees-monthly-allowance-hiked-by-80-per-cent-101631626955951.html
14-09-2021||Other||Gujarat CM Bhupendra Patel visits flood-hit areas as IMD forecasts more rain||The newly sworn-in chief minister of Gujarat Bhupendra Patel on Tuesday visited some of the flood-affected areas in Jamnagar to take stock of the situation. This comes after he chaired a high-level review meeting on Monday to assess the flood situations in some parts of the Saurashtra region. Besides, he has also been reportedly making an aerial survey of the affected regions. According to reports, Jamnagar and Rajkot districts of Gujarat are worst-hit after heavy rain led to overflowing dams in the state.The chief minister has directed district and municipal authorities to shift people from the low-lying areas, and has also instructed three additional teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to Rajkot, and two teams to Jamnagar. Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopters have also been directed for rescue and relief works.
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Amid Covid pandemic, online gaming addiction among kids a concern, say experts||On August 25, a 16-year-old from Andheri (East) left his house after his father reprimanded him for having spent ₹10 lakh, in a month, from his mother’s bank account for making in-game purchases, while playing PUBG online. The teenager had left a note behind, citing that he will earn and pay back the entire amount to his parents, and till then, he will not return home. Police traced the teenager to Mahakali Caves the next day and reunited him with his parents.On Sunday, a 16-year-old girl consumed rat poison because her younger brother did not allow her to play online games on their father’s mobile phone. The daughter of a rickshaw driver purchased a bottle of rat poison from a nearby medical store, returned home and consumed the poison in front of her younger brother.These are not isolated cases. More and more children, in their teens, are hooked to mobile phones, online games, watching series or gambling. It may appear harmless at first, but it does not take much time to further develop into an addiction, say experts. According to Childline and city psychologists, the age of students being reported with mild as well as severe screen addiction has gone down to six years. Experts said due to online classes, owing to the pandemic, children have suffered psychological problems including screen or online gaming addiction.Dr Anand Nadkarni, a reputed psychologist who has founded the Institute of Psychological Health (IPH) said that before the lockdown, in 2019, they got at least three to four online addiction cases, however, they have now increased to seven or eight in a month.“A teenager who has a low attention span and needs fast-moving objects to keep him occupied, usually are observed playing fast-paced games. If adolescence and raging hormones are combined with dysfunctional family background, this gaming activity can turn into an addiction,” said Nadkarni.In cases, the doctors have observed that several online games develop low patience in kids.“When the kids are noticed to be irritational or impatient, we often get a call to find out whether their kid is an addict,” said Dr Parth Soni from the Alpha Healing Centre, a de-addiction centre. He said in a year they used to have two or three admissions of teens addicted to online gaming, but now they get at least three to four calls in a month for counselling or curious parents to understand the symptoms of screen addiction.Free Fire, Call of Duty, PUBG are some of the violent online games that have impacted a large number of students, leaving child welfare agencies concerned. However, with online education, restricting access to gadgets has become near impossible for parents.“As education and even meeting friends is online, and with less parental supervision, the cases of addiction have gone up, which needs to be addressed,” said a worker at Childline who receive at least eight calls in a month of parents seeking counselling for their kids addicted to online gaming.As the problem increase across the world, The World Health Organisation declared compulsively playing online games as a mental health condition in 2018. Naming it “gaming disorder”, this applies to people who play excessively and till the extent of “sufficient severity to result in significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning and would normally have been evident for at least 12 months.”Dr Harish Shetty, a renowned psychiatrist from Mumbai, said in the last three years many girls and boys have been counselled by him for stealing cards of parents to buy weapons for their online games or upgrade their online games. “A student of fashion designing was upset about a failure, leading to anxiety and online gaming addiction. She stole her parents’ credit card and lost money in a poker game, but kept playing to recover the initial amount,” said Shetty.Doctors said that parents should monitor the screen time of their kids and teach them to choose what their see or play which could increase their attention span and educate them. “Kids should be taught what movies and series to watch, by educating them in film appreciation,” said Renuka Dhamle, city-based psychiatrist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-covid-pandemic-online-gaming-addiction-among-kids-a-concern-say-experts-101631626715814.html
14-09-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Taking sustainability and eco-care on holiday with you||Our world offers beauty, charm and adventure, if only we seek with our eyes open, to paraphrase Jawaharlal Nehru. Heading out to experience the outdoors, meet others, tasting a different cuisine, is becoming a way of emerging from lockdown restrictions, and a change from online calls and work from home. Indeed, travel now is not only about broadening the mind, but also reconnecting with the world and mental health. Much has changed with the climate and ecological crises and the risks of the pandemic, and so there are new mantras for tourism too. It goes without saying that we need to take care that the pursuit of enjoyment and leisure should not increase waste and pollution, cause disturbances or traffic congestion, or worse, destroy natural or cultural heritage that is a common resource. Instead, we need to think about how tourism can contribute to the healing of our minds, economies and ecosystems. A recent conference on sustainable tourism development in Pune, hosted by the BN College of Architecture that brought together entrepreneurs, local government, policy makers, academia and social enterprises had some pointers. Dr Shubhada Kamlapurkar, anchoring the conference management team says that “sustainable tourism requires multiple agencies to work together to set up standards and certification of tourism sites and facilities, and capacity building to strengthen the current systems. For example, it’s essential to have solid waste management, and safe water and sanitation systems to handle tourist influx, and sustainable site management within site carrying capacity, avoiding tourists venturing into fragile biodiversity zones.” As travellers, we need to be respectful to host communities, local customs and traditions, as well as staff and service providers. Privacy is a concern, so it is best to ask before taking photos of other people. Responsible tourism includes reducing waste, avoiding single use plastic, and taking care not to disturb wildlife and natural habitats. We should try to contribute to the local economy by buying local products, paying a fair price, and hiring local guides. Initiatives like the global Blue Flag award for beaches show how tourism can be an impetus for environmental improvement and conservation action. When preparing Ghoghla beach in Diu for meeting the Blue Flag criteria, the local administration had to first remove about 20 trucks of broken glass, plastic waste and other debris. Next, they set up drinking water facilities, sparkling clean toilets and showers, life guards, first aid, and opportunities for nature walks and environment education for the local population and visitors. Meeting the stringent criteria also required setting up excellent waste and sewage management facilities, and regular water quality testing within the bathing zone at the beach. Most interestingly, the beach managers also took up dune conservation by removing invasive exotic plants and protecting local plants. Such dune conservation and environmental management efforts are implemented at all the eight beaches in India that have been awarded the Blue Flag, with support from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and the respective state governments. All tourism activity needs to be transformed into such sustainable forms. Most interesting are initiatives where tourists can themselves support environment conservation efforts. These include clean-ups, plantations, biodiversity documentation such as annual bird counts, monitoring and safeguarding turtle nesting, and ecosystem restoration efforts. Here is hoping for individual responsibility of tourists and collaborative, multi-stakeholder efforts promoted by the government so we can continue to enjoy the beauty and adventure our world offers, not only with reduced ecological footprints but also contributing to sustainability! Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-taking-sustainability-and-eco-care-on-holiday-with-you-101631626596332.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||SKM giving political twist to my appeal for lifting sit-ins unfortunate: Capt Amarinder||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said it was unfortunate that the farmers agitating against the farm Laws had given a political twist to his remarks instead of understanding the misery caused to the people by their protests in the state, which were quite uncalled for, given his government’s continued support to them. Reiterating that the stir was damaging interests of state and its people, Amarinder lamented that despite his government’s unequivocal support to their cause, the farmers had misinterpreted his appeal and had, instead, tried to link it with the upcoming assembly polls in the state, he said. In a written statement, the CM said his government, as well as the people of Punjab, had always stood with the farmers on the issue of the farm laws, and it was sad that they were now suffering due to the continued protests of the farming community across the state. Amarinder, while addressing an event on Monday, had appealed to the farmer unions not to hold protests in Punjab as they were affecting the state’s economy. The CM’s statement drew flak from farmer leaders who attributed the statement to his fear that the farm stir could damage his party’s prospects in the upcoming state polls. The Punjab CM asserted that there was no question of trying to split the farmers of Punjab and Haryana, all of whom were equal victims of the apathy of the BJP-led governments at the Centre and in the neighbouring state. He pointed out that it was not the Adanis or the Ambanis whose interests were being hurt by such protests but the common people of the state, as well as its economy. The Adanis’ assets in Punjab were a miniscule 0.8% of the total, and the presence of the Reliance Group stood at a nominal 0.1%, the chief minister said, adding that the losses caused to these industries due to the farmers’ unrest in the state were too minor to be of any serious concern to them. He said continued protests in Punjab would push industry out of the state and have a severe impact on the economy. The situation was already becoming serious on the grain storage and procurement front due to the agitation, with lifting of the stocks by the FCI and state agencies getting obstructed, he said, adding that the stocks lying in the FCI Adani silio at Moga alone was worth ₹480 crore. “All the movement of wheat stocks from FCI Adani silo, Moga, and FCI silo, Kotkapura, is halted due to the on-going farmers protest, whereas, 1,60,855 MT of wheat stocks of previous crop years stored in the Adani silo, Moga, by FCI needs to be liquidated on priority, as deterioration of these stocks may lead to losses to the Public exchequer”. The CM said that construction of silos awarded by FCI was getting delayed as farmer unions were not allowing JCBs and trucks to enter the construction sites. “What is further likely to damage the state’s interests is reports of silo concessionaires/parties also considering to shut down the projects being set up in Punjab. If things continue in this manner, we will lose out on investment, revenue and employment opportunities,” he warned, adding that this would lead to serious paralysis of the government in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/skm-giving-political-twist-to-my-appeal-for-lifting-sit-ins-unfortunate-capt-amarinder-101631626176635.html
14-09-2021||Lucknow||Before 2017, UP was run by gangsters; things have changed now: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said Uttar Pradesh was run by gangsters and mafias before 2017, but now things have changed under chief minister Yogi Adityanath and such elements are behind the bars.He also said that earlier roadblocks were created in the implementation of welfare schemes meant for the poor, but now there are no such hurdles and the benefits of these schemes are reaching the needy.Modi was addressing a function after laying the foundation stone of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh State University in Aligarh.The university is being established by the state government in the memory and honour of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, the great freedom fighter, educationist and social reformer. It is being set up in a total area of over 92 acres at Lodha village and Musepur Kareem Jarouli village of Aligarh's Kol tehsil.The university will provide affiliation to 395 colleges of the Aligarh division.The prime minister also visited an exhibition on the Aligarh node of the Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor.He said India was earlier seen as an importer of defence equipment, but today it is considered a leading defence exporter."Today not only India, but the world is watching how equipment ranging from modern grenades, rifles, fighter planes, drones and warships, are manufactured in the country itself," he noted.Modi also remembered veteran BJP leader Kalyan Singh and said had he been there on this occasion, he would have appreciated a university coming up in the name of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, in his home district.The Adityanath government's decision to set up the university after the noted Jat figure is being politically seen as part of the ruling BJP's bid to win over the community ahead of the crucial state assembly polls early next year.A section of Jats, who live in sizeable numbers in western Uttar Pradesh, is seen to be aggrieved with the BJP over the farmers issue.Meanwhile, Adityanath and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma briefed Modi about the upcoming university.Governor Anandiben Patel was also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/before-2017-up-was-run-by-gangsters-and-mafias-things-have-changed-now-pm-101631622832976.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Never too late to discover life and your true calling||As a child, I was fed with many idioms because mother would come up with a unique one for every occasion. One such adage that I found intriguing, though couldn’t decipher it completely until recently, was: Life begins at 40. I would wonder how and why? However, during the first Covid-19 lockdown, amid the restrictions and constraints, I discovered its true ethos and consequently the meaning of life. As I readied to ring in my much-awaited 40th birthday this July, I realised that life is certainly not about running to work every day at 9am, waiting to be home by 5pm, being wrapped up in the monotony of the routine or living on terms dictated by society. It is the opposite! There is so much more to life which we do not even attempt to unveil. Life is finding time to sit with yourself, not using work as a form of escapism and following your heart. My newfound love for life became stronger in the past year and a half that we have been playing peekaboo with this seemingly perpetual pandemic. The activities that remained on my bucket list for years became a reality. For instance, I tried my hand at golfing, painted Vincent van Gogh’s Field with Irises, practised yoga, took nature walks, wrote poetry, visited the farm regularly, enrolled for a French course, spent time with my family and, most importantly, experienced little pleasures like having tea with my husband. I realised life is too short to be engulfed in the mundane, so I revamped it by quitting my noble profession of teaching computer science in a college to pursue my passion of being a personality development trainer. Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama’s words guide me: The purpose of our lives is to be happy. My journey hitherto had been a rollercoaster ride as I got married at 22, became a mother at 23 and started working full time at 25 along with continuing my studies. There was no looking back, slowing down or pausing for more than a decade and a half which was spent in proving myself to the world. Nevertheless, as I stepped into my forties, I suddenly started to feel more confident and less bothered about how people perceive me. Thankfully, I welcomingly embrace my flaws and have finally begun to take charge of my life. The sudden awakening in me has made me realise that I have to press the reset button to refill the pending gaps in accordance with Albert Einstein’s statement, If you want to live a happy life, tie it to a goal, not to people or things. Even though my longstanding plans to celebrate my milestone 40th in Goa with my gang of girlfriends went down the drain because of travel restrictions, my plan to live life free and fully will continue forever. I seek solace in the couplet, “Kabhi kisi ko mukammal jahan nahi milta, kahin zameen toh kahin asma nahi milta.” nazam81@gmail.comThe writer is a Hoshiarpur-based personality development trainer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/never-too-late-to-discover-life-and-your-true-calling-101631621736749.html
14-09-2021||Kolkata||Kishore Datta, Bengal’s 4th advocate general since 2011, resigns like the rest||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government appointed senior lawyer Gopal Mukherjee as the state’s top law officer on Tuesday. The move came hours after the government suffered a blow with incumbent Kishore Datta stepping down from the post citing personal reasons.Datta is the fourth advocate general of the state to resign since 2011 when the Trinamool Congress first came to power.Senior Calcutta high court advocate Gopal Mukherjee was appointed as the new AG by Governor Jagdeep Dhankar. An eminent lawyer, Datta was appointed in February 2017 after his predecessor, Jayanta Mitra, stepped down following differences with the government over some important cases. Lakshmi Gupta, the additional AG, also announced his resignation on that day. Appointed by the governor under Article 165 of the Constitution, the AG is the highest law officer of a state. The tenure of appointment is not defined by the Constitution. In a letter sent to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday morning, Datta wrote, “I do hereby tender resignation as advocate general for the state of West Bengal, with immediate effect, owing to personal reasons. Please accept the same. It was a wonderful experience working for the state of West Bengal.” A copy of the letter, which HT has seen, was sent to law minister Moloy Ghatak, who, incidentally, was summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to its Delhi office on Tuesday for questioning in the coal smuggling case. The minister informed the ED that he would not be able to fly to Delhi at such short notice and volunteered to face its officers either in Kolkata or through video conference. “The government was not happy with Datta as it suffered one blow after another at the Calcutta high court in recent months. The biggest blow came on June 18 when the court asked the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to probe the allegations of murder, rape and other crimes reported in the districts after the March-April state polls. Our lawyers could not convince the court that the NHRC report was biased. As a result, the court, on August 19, ordered a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI),” a senior TMC leader told HT on condition of anonymity. “The high court, while hearing a case, recently observed that counsels for the state were often found absent during hearings. This was an embarrassment,” the TMC leader added. Datta avoided the media but members of the high court bar council and state officials said the process to find his successor has started. The TMC government suffered another setback on September 1 when a special CBI court in Kolkata permitted the ED to send summons to ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, TMC legislator Madan Mitra, former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee in the Narada case. The ED has charged them under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. These leaders were arrested by the CBI on May 17 in the Narada case and sent to judicial custody after the high court’s five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal set aside a bail order passed by a special court. The case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after the Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing several high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company. Since 2014, the ED and the CBI are probing the operations of several chit fund companies such as Saradha, Rose Valley and I-Core. Several TMC leaders are named as accused in these cases. Industry minister Partha Chatterjee was questioned by the ED on Monday in the I-Core case. Anindya Mitra was the first AG to resign after TMC came to power in 2011. His successor, Bimal Chatterjee, also resigned citing personal reasons. Jayanta Mitra was appointed towards the end of 2014. Mitra’s resignation created a sensation in 2017 with many eminent lawyers accusing the government of putting legal experts under pressure for political reasons. “Let the government go ahead with its policies. I am grateful to my colleagues and support team for letting me serve the people successfully,” Mitra said after putting in his papers. Manjit Singh, the chief public prosecutor, too, resigned in January 2017. Critics pointed fingers at the government after Datta resigned. “The post of the AG is a Constitutional position. The TMC government is corrupt. It does not want to follow any law. An AG cannot become part of political decisions. Datta at least served for a longer period than his predecessors,” former AG of Tripura and CPI-M Rajya Sabha member Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya told HT. Bhattacharya is representing petitioners against the government in most of the important cases, including Saradha. “We have heard from different sources that Datta was forced to resign. No lawyer, no matter how qualified he may be, can ensure the rulings that the TMC government expects from courts,” said Samik Bhattacharya, chief spokesperson of the Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kishore-datta-bengal-s-4th-advocate-general-since-2011-resigns-like-the-rest-101631621497698.html
14-09-2021||Kolkata||Bomb goes off near Bengal BJP MP’s home day after MHA orders NIA probe||A crude bomb went off near the residence of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Arjun Singh around 9am on Tuesday at Bhatpara in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district. This happened a day after the Union home ministry asked the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to probe the September 8 bomb attack outside the lawmaker’s home. Officers from Bhatpara police station said Tuesday’s bomb was lying near a wall. “Nobody threw the bomb. There was no injury,” an officer said on condition of anonymity. “The repeated attacks have exposed the inefficiency of the police. There is no sign of law and order,” said MP’s son and BJP legislator from Bhatpara, Pawan Singh.Singh, who left the Trinamool Congress (TMC) prior to the 2019 polls, represents the Barrackpore Lok Sabha constituency which has come to be known for killings and political clashes in the last two years. Also Read | BJP objects to Mamata’s nomination from Bhabanipur, cites cases in Assam“Arjun Singh planned Tuesday’s explosion to stay politically relevant. His men are experts in making bombs,” said Partha Bhowmick, the TMC legislator from the district’s Naihati constituency. On September 8, at least three crude bombs were hurled by miscreants outside Singh’s residence. Eyewitnesses told the police that two bombs hit the main gate while a third landed inside the premises. The MP was not at home and no one was injured. He alleged that it was an attempt to kill him and his son. Police arrested two people in this connection. “The real culprits went scot free,” Singh told HT on Monday evening while reacting to the MHA’s decision. He is the BJP’s observer for the Bhawanipore bypolls in Kolkata where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bomb-goes-off-near-bengal-bjp-mp-s-home-day-after-mha-orders-nia-probe-101631618675362.html
14-09-2021||Patna||Bihar planning 93 additional wards to decongest overcrowded prisons||Bihar’s prisons are bulging at the seams due to growing number of inmates and the prison department wants to develop 93 extra wards in 21 jails across the state to deal with the problem, which became even mpronounced during the Covid-19 pandemic with most jails housing more than their capacity. 44 of the 59 prisons in the state currently have more inmates than their capacity, as per official data.The total capacity of prisons in the state is 46,669, while the number of inmates has gone past 62,823 till August 30, as per official data.The number of inmates in prisons at Barh, Bhabua, Sitamarhi, Jamui, Aurangabad, Saran, Sherghati, Madhepura is double their capacity, while it is significantly higher than capacity in Patna, Buxar, Muzaffarpur and Purnea, the data said.Birpur sub-jail is the most crowded in the state with the number of inmates being almost 3.5 times the capacity. Madhepura district jail too has inmates nearly three times the capacity.A senior official said that pendency of cases and bail matters increased due to disruptions caused in functioning of courts due to Covid-19 pandemic, which has contributed to the pressure on jails. This year alone, over 6,000 inmates were added, taking the number of prisoners to 56,424 in April and 61,362, including 2,278 women, in July.In Patna’s Beur Model Prison, the number of inmates has reached 4,233 against the capacity of 2,360, while Buxar Central jail has 1,709 prisoners against the sanctioned capacity of 1,126, and Muzaffarpur Central jail has 3,415 inmates against the sanctioned strength of 2,135. Other Central prisons are also in no better condition. Purnea has 1,853 prisoners against the capacity of 1,198, Motihari has 2,782 inmates against the capacity of 2,503, Gaya has 2,714 against the sanctioned capacity of 2,606 and Bhagalpur has 2,171 against the capacity of 1962.Bhagalpur special Central jail is the only prison with fewer inmates (1,678) than the sanctioned capacity (3,288).Mithilesh Mishra, inspector general (IG) (prisons) said that in view of the growing pressure, the proposal for 93 additional wards in 21 jails, including eight central jails, has been sent to the government. “Once the new wards are ready, the pressure will ease,” he added.Prachi Pallavi, an advocate at the Patna high court, said that the Supreme Court, while dealing with the health crisis in prisons and remand homes due to the pandemic, had in March last year directed for constitution of a High-Powered Committee (HPC) comprising of chairman of the State Legal Services Committee, the principal secretary (home) and the director general (DG) of prison(s), to determine which class of persons could be released on parole or an interim bail for such period as may be thought appropriate. Though Bihar was quick to form the committee for compliance the very next day, the objective of the exercise to release prisoners for decongesting prisons could not be achieved.“As a matter of fact, the state of Bihar has the second highest number of undertrial prisoners as per the report of the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) and there is an urgent need for safety mechanisms in the prisons of Bihar, which requires less crowding as a prerequisite. The best way is to release prisoners who can be released,” Pallavi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-planning-93-additional-wards-to-decongest-overcrowded-prisons-101631618555430.html
14-09-2021||Other||Gujarat extends night curfew in 8 cities till September 25||The Gujarat government on Tuesday extended the night curfew in eight major cities of the state till September 25 to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.The state administration announced restrictions on the movement of people and non-essential vehicles in eight major cities, including Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Gandhinagar, Surat, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Junagadh and Rajkot, between 11pm and 6am from Wednesday till September 25, according a tweet by news agency ANI. The ongoing restriction was to end on Wednesday. The government had eased the night curfew in these cities during Janmashtami and Ganesh Chaturthi festivals.The move comes close on the heels of Gujarat recording 12 cases of Covid-19 infection on Monday from only three districts, and zero reported casualty from the virus. Gujarat's Covid-19  tally stood at 8,25,629 till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gujarat-extends-night-curfew-in-8-cities-till-september-25-101631616458107.html
14-09-2021||Kolkata||BJP’s Priyanka Tibrewal alleges Mamata didn’t disclose pending cases; objects to her nomination for Bhabanipur bypolls||A day after filing her nomination for the Bhabanipur assembly bypolls, Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Priyanka Tibrewal on Tuesday filed an objection against Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nomination for the seat. The saffron party candidate has alleged that Banerjee did not reveal the pending criminal cases against her.A letter written by Tibrewal's election agent Sajal Ghosh to the returning officer of the Bhabanipur assembly constituency also mentioned several news reports carrying information pertaining to the pending criminal cases against Banerjee.Tibrewal, who joined BJP in 2014 and is the West Bengal vice-president of BJP’s youth wing, represented her party in the Calcutta high court during the hearings over the alleged post-poll violence in the state.After filing her nomination on Monday, Tibrewal said that her battle for the Bhabanipur seat will be a “fight against injustice, and also a fight for justice, for the people of West Bengal.”“I would like to tell the people of Bhabanipur that they’ve got a big opportunity. So, they should come forward and make history,” she added.The lawyer began her poll campaign on Sunday by drawing BJP’s symbol – a lotus — on a wall in Bhabanipur locality. On Saturday, she visited the iconic Kalighat Temple in south Kolkata to offer prayers to Goddess Kali, when she stressed her fight is against the members of the ruling dispensation in West Bengal.Notably, Banerjee who delivered a landslide victory of the BJP in Assembly elections this year, has to win from any constituency before November 5 to become a member of the state assembly – a mandate for her to continue in the chief minister’s chair. She was defeated by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes by her former aide Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram. Later, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay vacated his seat from Bhabanipur – where he had won as a TMC candidate, for Banerjee to contest.The Bhabanipur bypolls will be held on September 30, and the counting of votes will take place on October 3 – a week before Durga Puja celebrations.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bhabanipur-bypolls-bjp-s-priyanka-tibrewal-objects-to-mamata-s-nomination-101631615875112.html
14-09-2021||Patna||Owaisi dares Centre to declare Taliban a terrorist outfit||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday dared the Centre to declare Taliban a terrorist organisation even as he said his party was willing to contest 100 seats in Uttar Pradesh.“If the government has courage, it should put Taliban in the schedule of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. I have been saying since 2013 that Taliban’s emergence could be a sign of concern for India, while it might benefit China and Pakistan. But for the Bharatiya Janata party (BJP), all Muslims are Taliban. The Indian government has made a strategic blunder by isolating Muslims in the National Register for Citizens (NRC). I always maintained that it should not be on religious lines, ” he said, while talking to media persons in Patna.Also Read | 2 FIRs against Asaduddin Owaisi a day after public meetReacting to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s ‘abba jaan’ remark, Owaisi said, “Had he worked, he wouldn’t have had to take recourse of ‘abbajaan’ at the time of election. UP Muslims have the lowest literacy rate and the highest dropout rate. UP has the highest number of malnutritioned children. Yogi is only diverting attention from those issues.”“We are preparing to contest 100 seats in UP. So far there is no tie-up. We can go it alone also...Those who point fingers at us for helping any party should explain what happened in the Lok Sabha election when AIMIM was not in the fray. In Bihar, we fought 19 seats and won five. We are expanding to ensure that the Muslims get their deserved rights, which has not happened and is apparent through their poor economic and educational condition,” he said, adding the state unit of the party would take a call on the two seats going to by-elections in Bihar later this year.Owaisi was also critical of a letter from Kishanganj district magistrate for identification of suspected foreign nationals, citing Patna high court. He said it looked like an attempt to implement NRC through the backdoor. “I am disappointed. I expected the state government to give clarity on the matter before the court,” he added.BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said Owaisi was trying to instigate Muslims in the name of NRC for his brand of politics, like the Congress and RJD always did. “Nobody can stay in any country without passport and visa, unless one gets political asylum or is treated as refugee. Rest are treated as illegal immigrants and every country requires to prepare their list. The same needs to be done in India as well. What is happening in Seemanchal is a normal police process, as the issue of illegal immigration is no secret in the bordering areas such as Kishanganj, Katihar, Araria etc. at present, NRC has not been implemented and Owaisi should refrain from deriving political mileage out of it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/owaisi-dares-centre-to-declare-taliban-a-terrorist-outfit-101631616275451.html
14-09-2021||Other||Video of wild bears playing football in Odisha goes viral||Two wild bears kicking a football around and running after it near a patch of forest in Odisha’s Nabarangpur district has gone viral over social media.In the video shot by a youth who was playing with his friends in Sukigaon village under Umerkote block of the district, a mother bear is seen pushing the ball around while her cub watched it from a distance. Nabarangpur DFO Magar Dhanaji Raoso said children were playing football when the two bears suddenly appeared from the forest on Sunday afternoon.“They were frightened and ran away when they saw the bears. Moments later, the boys found that the bears were not interested in chasing them and actually started playing with the football on the ground. They continued kicking and tossing it up with their legs and mouths. After playing for a while, the bears took the football along with them inside the forest,” said Raoso.A local villager, who was present when the bears were playing with the football, said the animals probably ventured out for food. “Though there have been instances of bear attack in Nabarangpur, these two did not turn violent. We were initially scared, but were later amused to see the two bears playing,” said a tribal villager of Sukigaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/video-of-wild-bears-playing-football-in-odisha-goes-viral-101631615675372.html
14-09-2021||Kolkata||No RT-PCR report needed for transit passengers, clarifies Kolkata airport||The Kolkata airport said on Tuesday that passengers whose final destination is not West Bengal need to carry an RT-PCR report. The clarification was given in response to a query from a user who was travelling to Delhi via Kolkata.The Kolkata airport also informed the passengers that as per the state government guidelines, all in bound flight passengers from Bangalore need to produce a negative RT-PRC test report or proof of vaccination."Please note transit passengers whose final destination is not West Bengal and who do need to come out of Airport need not carry COVID test report for Kolkata. For more details please contact the concerned Airline," Kolkata airport said in its tweet.Please note transit passengers whose final destination is not West Bengal and who do need to come out of Airport need not carry COVID test report for Kolkata. For more details please contact the concerned Airline.On Monday, Kolkata and Nadia accounted for three Covid-19 linked fatalities each and North 24 Parganas for two on Monday, according to state government data.West Bengal, meanwhile, recorded 506 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease on Monday, according to government data. The new cases pushed the virus tally to 15,57,414. As many as 15,30,731 people have recovered from the disease thus far, the bulletin said. The discharge rate stands at 98.29 per cent.Ten more persons succumbed to the disease, which took the toll to 18,587.As many as 27,050 samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours (between Sunday and Monday), which took the total number of such clinical examinations to 1,75,05,502, the bulletin said.A health department official quoted by news agency PTI said that 4,15,062 doses were administered in Bengal on Monday. So far, over four crore people have been administered Covid-19 vaccines in the state, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/no-rt-pcr-report-needed-for-transit-passengers-clarifies-kolkata-airport-101631612701562.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||Gopal Rai holds meeting over action plan to check pollution during Delhi winter||Delhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday conducted a meeting of various agencies in the Capital, to set targets for the upcoming winter season when pollution levels in the city spike. Based on individual targets, a holistic winter action plan will be released by the government by September 30, to ensure that pollution sources in Delhi are kept in check in the coming season, Rai said. Addressing a press conference Rai said that each of the departments in the city were assigned tasks to control and manage various pollution sources that tend to aggravate during winters. Representatives from the three corporations (north, south and east), Delhi Pollution Control Committee, environment department, transport department, traffic police, Public Works Department (PWD), Delhi Development Authority, etc attended in the meeting. Also Read | Delhi was hub of student activism. Then came pandemic, a State crackdown“Each agency has been tasked to formulate their own action plan, which needs to be submitted by September 21. Based on these individual plans, a holistic winter action plan will be released by September 30,” Rai said.He added that the environment department will be the nodal agency, which will coordinate with all other agencies to ensure that the assigned tasks are completed within deadlines. Explaining what tasks each agency would have to undertake, Rai said, “The work of controlling garbage burning has been assigned to the municipalities. They will have to come up with a plan to ensure that this garbage reaches the dedicated sites.”Similarly, he said, the Delhi Traffic Police have also been asked to come up with congestion hot spots and also take up the task of repairing traffic signals. “Traffic jams lead to pollution. We have asked the traffic department to make a list of the congestion hot spots and try to come up with solutions to fix them.”Rai also said that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has also sought a meeting with the Union environment minister to discuss the contribution of pollution from neighbouring states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gopal-rai-holds-meeting-over-action-plan-to-check-pollution-during-delhi-winter-101631612975284.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Gujarat CM replaced as govt machinery crumbled in state: Saamana editorial||A day after Bhupendra Patel took charge as chief minister of Gujarat, Shiv Sena asked why the CM was changed overnight if the state was on the path of development and progress. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana said the “bubble” of the Gujarat model of development has burst.Patel, a first time MLA, was chosen to replace Vijay Rupani, then CM, who resigned past Saturday. The state elections are due late 2022. The editorial said that the move to replace the CM was to appease the powerful Patidar community. It added that the change of guard was also done to counter the anti-incumbency against Rupani ahead of 2022 state polls. There was an overall resentment towards the government over Covid-19 management, rising unemployment, and disrupted economy, the editorial said.Also Read | After Sakinaka rape and murder, Thackeray holds urgent meet; Sena says Mumbai is safest“The government machinery has clearly crumbled during Covid where funeral pyres were burning in every village. There was resentment among people that the government was helpless and silently watching the dead being cremated. “Besides that, unemployment has risen in Gujarat and many big businesses have shut shop. Across the state, farmers and the unemployed are angry. Knowing well that this anger would affect the party in the next election, Rupani was replaced with Bhupendra Patel. This is just an eyewash,” it said.BJP spokespersons say they do not respond to Saaamna editorials as a party policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gujarat-cm-replaced-as-govt-machinery-crumbled-in-state-says-saamana-editorial-101631609734941.html
14-09-2021||Noida||Domestic help spikes senior citizen couple's milk; decamps with cash, valuables||A domestic worker allegedly spiked her senior citizen employers' milk and tea in Noida, leaving them unconscious, and decamped with cash and valuables from their house, police said on Monday.The domestic worker had joined the household 12 days ago and the elderly couple had not got her identity verified and did not even have a picture of her, the police said.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Noida) Ranvijay Singh said the incident took Sunday evening at a residence in Sector 27, under Sector 20 police station limits."The elderly man, around 70 years, had asked a boy who washes cars in the neighbourhood to help find a domestic help. The boy had brought in this girl, Laxmi, to the household where started working 12 days ago," Singh said."Last night, she spiked milk and tea of the couple and another girl who worked in the home. After consuming the beverages, all three fell unconscious and the maid escaped with some cash and other valuables," he said."The man who washes cars in the neighbourhood is also missing and it appears that the two have escaped together after planning the robbery," he added.The officer said that after hiring the girl, the elderly couple had not got her identity verified and do not even have any picture of her.However, the police have launched a probe into the matter and are looking for the domestic worker and her suspected accomplice, he added.Legal proceedings are also underway to ascertain the amount of cash and valuables decamped from the house, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/domestic-help-spikes-senior-citizen-couple-s-milk-decamps-with-cash-valuables-101631606238973.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Javed Akhtar’s plaint: Warrant if Kangana doesn’t appear on Sept 20, says court||A metropolitan magistrate court at Andheri on Tuesday adjourned hearing in the defamation case filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar against actor Kangana Ranaut as she failed to appear before the court. It also warned that it will issue an arrest warrant if Ranaut again failed to appear before it on the next date.While Ranaut missed the hearing, Akhtar and his wife Shabana Azmi were present on Tuesday.Kangana’s counsel Rizwan Siddique said the actor was busy promoting her film for the past few days and was now showing Covid symptoms and therefore could not attend the court. The counsel also submitted a medical certificate indicating that the actor was unwell.Also Read | Police arrest 51-year-old for sexually abusing minor in Mumbai’s AndheriHowever, Akhtar’s counsel, advocate Jai Bharadwaj submitted that the actor was trying to delay the proceedings. Pointing out that she had not appeared before the court despite several notices, Bharadwaj moved an application for issuing of non-bailable warrant for arresting the actress, if she failed to appear on the next date.The court accordingly adjourned the matter to September 20, with the warning.Metropolitan magistrate RR Khan had kept the matter on Tuesday for appearance of both the parties and to decide Ranaut’s application for permanent exemption from personal appearance. Akhtar filed the defamation complaint against Ranaut in November 2020, alleging that the actor made some defamatory and baseless comments against him in a television interview to journalist Arnab Goswami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/javed-akhtar-s-plaint-warrant-if-kangana-doesn-t-appear-on-sept-20-says-court-101631608234851.html
14-09-2021||Other||Repeated misbehaviour with tourists to be a non-bailable offence in Rajasthan||Rajasthan assembly passed an amendment bill on Monday by which misbehaviour with tourists becomes a cognizable offence and a non-bailable one if it is repeated. The amendment bill is to add a new section “27-A” in the Rajasthan Tourism Trade (Facilitation and Regulation) Act, 2010 which makes the offence cognizable and bailable. If repeated, it will be a non-bailable offence as per sub-section 4 of Section 13 of the Act.Tourism is a key industry in the state with 1.6million foreign and 45million domestic tourists visiting it annually in pre-Covid times. However, tourists have often flagged misbehaviour by touts and illegal vendors. Also Read | NHRC seeks reports from Centre, 4 states over farmers’ stirMinister of state for tourism Govind Singh Dotasra said the legislation was brought in 2010 to boost tourism business and prevent misbehaviour with tourists. However, it did not spell out whether the offence was bailable or not, hence, requiring an amendment.Tour Operator Association of Rajasthan representative Sanjay Kaushik said, “It is a welcome step and a move towards safe and secure tourism. If tourists are cheated, it not only maligns the state but also the country’s name.” President, Rajasthan Hotel and Restaurant Association, Kuldeep Singh said it is a good step when it comes to misbehaviour with tourist but should not be there for touts. The government should educate and train them instead, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/repeated-misbehaviour-with-tourists-to-be-a-non-bailable-offence-in-rajasthan-101631607694959.html
14-09-2021||Lucknow||UP polls 2022: Expelled Congress leaders question Priyanka Vadra's leadership||Ahead of the Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh, expelled Congress leaders Satyadev Tripathi and Siraj Mehandi on Monday questioned the leadership of party's general secretary and state in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.Former state minister Satyadev Tripathi and former MLC Siraj Mehandi who were expelled from the party by the Uttar Pradesh Congress Disciplinary Committee in 2019 for 'indulging in anti-party activities' said under Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's leadership, the party will suffer the same fate it did in Amethi in the Lok Sabha elections of May 2019."The Congress party does not value its workers. I worked for the party non-stop from 1986 to November 14, 2019, and was expelled without any proper reason. Since then no one has answered any communication from our end. We meet people on the ground and get reports. Party does not value its workers and has no connection with them," said Tripathi.The reaction came after former Union minister Salman Khurshid on Monday said Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will be the face of the party in the state elections.Tripathi said the Congress general secretary, who was the 'face' of her brother Rahul Gandhi's election campaign in Amethi in 2019 was unable to take Congress towards victory because she lost touch with the ground workers of the party."If things continued in the Congress the way they were in 2019, the party will suffer the same fate," he said.Meanwhile, former MLC Siraj Mehandi went a step further and said Congress leadership is 'arrogant' and does not consider party leaders' opinions about party related matters."Congress leadership is keeping an arrogant stance. It is a sad affair that Priyanka Gandhi comes to UP for two days like she is going on a picnic. Nobody wants to meet the workers. When Rajeev Gandhi was Prime Minister, he used to meet at least a thousand people in a day. It is difficult to meet Sonia ji, and by chance, if you meet her, she says meet Rahul. Rahul says to meet Priyanka and Priyanka does not have time to meet people. The biggest problem in Congress today is that high command's touch with the ground workers and does not listen to anyone else," said Mehandi.The former MLC further attacking the Congress state in charge said that she went to Raebareli, which was referred to as the 'family bastion' of Gandhi family, and was not able to take party towards victory in the Zila Parishad election.Talking about Congress rebel Aditi Singh, Mehandi said the issues between her and the party would have been sorted if Priyanka Gandhi paid her a visit and listened to her grievances."Recently Sushmita Dev left Congress. We talked to her and her core issue with the party was that there was no communication with the high command. She is such a senior leader. If she's having problems in communication, imagine the plight of the common workers," he added.Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections are scheduled to take place early next year.In the 2017 Assembly elections, the BJP won a landslide victory winning 312 Assembly seats. The party secured a 39.67 per cent vote share in the elections for 403-member Assembly. Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, BSP won 19 while Congress could manage to win only seven seats. Congress was left red-faced as it failed miserably.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-2022-expelled-congress-leaders-question-priyanka-vadra-s-leadership-101631605149488.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Police arrest 51-year-old for sexually abusing minor in Mumbai's Andheri||Mumbai Police on Tuesday arrested a 51-year-old man for allegedly sexually abusing a minor girl in Mumbai's Andheri East area.According to police, a case has been registered under Section 354 of the IPC and POCSO Act against the accused.Mumbai Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) S. Chaitanya said, "The victim girl and the accused lives nearby and the accused was molesting the girl for a few days. When the victim's mother came to know about this, she came to the police station and complained about it. The police immediately arrested him and started investigating the matter."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-arrest-51-year-old-for-sexually-abusing-minor-in-mumbai-s-andheri-101631604032099.html
14-09-2021||Patna||Shahnawaz Hussain says Congress is sinking boat, welcomes rebels into BJP fold||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Bihar industry minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain said that the Congress party was like a sinking boat while referring to Congress leaders such as Munna Khan joining the BJP in his presence on Monday at Bhabua in Kaimur district.Hussain, who is also a member of saffron party’s central election committee, said no one should remain in a “sinking boat”, rejected by the people of the country for its alleged misdeeds, anti-people policies and corruption.Hussain asked BJP workers to welcome committed leaders into the party fold to strengthen the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in making a mighty and prosperous India.Hussain promised that all the closed industrial units will be revived besides opening of new industries in the state. He added that Kaimur, known for paddy, wheat and vegetable production, had a great potential for agro-based industries and the state government was planning to make the district a hub of rice milling, food processing and ethanol industries.Government’s initiative was likely to create jobs and also encourage entrepreneurship, he said.Earlier in the day, Hussain met with the district administration to review the progress in implementation of industrial schemes, especially those meant for scheduled caste, scheduled tribes, Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and minorities.Responding to Hussain’s claim, All India Congress Committee (AICC) media panelist and member of Bihar legislative assembly Prem Chandra Mishra said that no prominent Congress leader had joined the BJP recently and the BJP leaders were worried about their own future. “The BJP leaders feared about their own future because of the party’s fast deteriorating popularity owing to rising costs and unemployment in the country. Their support base was badly sinking all over India and people were seeing Congress as the only alternative,” Mishra said, adding that Hussain should instead “focus on the worsening industrial scenario in Bihar during the NDA’s 15-year rule".Political analyst Dr Haridwar Pandey said that though people’s confidence in the Congress was low due to internecine bickering, lack of leadership and innovative solutions, it was still the only alternative to the BJP once it came out of the present situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/shahnawaz-hussain-says-congress-is-sinking-boat-welcomes-rebels-into-bjp-fold-101631603674904.html
14-09-2021||Other||Air India cancels Delhi flight after plane hits bird before take-off from Raipur||A Delhi-bound didn’t take off after hitting a bird while ascending on runway at Chhattisgarh’s Swami Vivekanand Airport in Raipur on Tuesday, officials said. Union minister of state for tribal affairs Renuka Singh, who was going to Delhi to attend a meeting of the Union cabinet, was among the passengers. Airport director Rakesh Ranjan Sahay told media that Air India flight AI 469, with 179 passengers, was going to Delhi from Raipur airport when a bird hit the plane at 10.05am following which the take-off was cancelled. Officials said that the passengers were deboarded after the incident. “Later, when the airport staff inspected the runaway, they found dead birds. The airport authorities and Air India staff are inspecting the aircraft and the exact damage is yet to ascertained,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/air-india-cancels-delhi-flight-after-plane-hits-bird-before-take-off-fromraipur-101631603254563.html
14-09-2021||Patna||Jeweller and his brother’s grandson shot dead in Bihar’s Raxaul||A 65-year-old jeweller and his 25-year-old kin were shot dead by armed assailants in Raxaul subdivision of Bihar’s East Champaran district on Monday evening, police said.Jeweller Kapil Dev Prasad Saraf told police in his dying moments at a hospital that he and his brother’s grandson Chand Saraf were attacked by at least three assailants while on the way to their native village Parsauna from Raxaul. The incident occurred near Dibani bridge under Palanawa police outpost, about 15 km from Raxaul at around 8 pm, police said. Chandan Saraf died on the spot.“The armed assailants opened fire at them. Both sustained bullet injuries on their chest,” said a police officer, refusing to be identified.Kapil Dev Prasad Saraf identified two of the three assailants in his dying statement to the police, which was recorded on a video camera. HT has seen a copy of the video. He named Madhu Yadav, a resident of Siswa village in Raxaul subdivision and Dinesh Mahaseth, a Raxaul -based land broker among the assailants.Kapil Saraf’s son was also gunned down by armed assailants in his shop at Raxaul in 2011.Police said the senior Saraf died while being treated at a hospital in Raxaul.“No arrest has been made in this connection as yet, raids are on,” said Chandra Prakash, sub divisional police officer (SDPO), Raxaul. Police were yet to register a case at the time of filing this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jeweller-and-his-brother-s-grandson-shot-dead-in-bihar-s-raxaul-101631601635285.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Father, 3 children charred to death in fire at Chamba village in Himachal||A 26-year-old man and his three children were charred to death when a fire broke out in a house at Karatosh village in the remote Churah sub division of Chamba district early on Tuesday. Chamba superintendent of police S Arul Kumar said the fire broke out at the village, 80km from the district headquarters, around 3am, leaving the four members of the family dead. Also read: Shimla-Pathankot highway blocked due to landslide after rain in HimachalA team of experts from the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory in Dharamshala will be reaching the village by Tuesday evening to ascertain the cause of the fire. According to initial reports, the fire spread fast due to a can of petrol kept in the house. Local residents reported the incident by calling up emergency number 112 The dead were identified as Mohammed Rafi, his two daughters Jaitun, 6, and Julekha, 2, and son Samir, 4. Rafi’s wife Bhura, 26, was seriously injured in the incident and is being treated at the medical college in Chamba. The SP, who rushed to the spot, said a team of firefighters, police and revenue officials reached the village soon after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/father-3-children-charred-to-death-in-fire-at-chamba-village-in-himachal-101631601095895.html
14-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan youth run over by suspected cow smugglers and vigilantes in Alwar||A Rajasthan youth died after being run over by at least two vehicles in Alwar district on Sunday morning following which three suspects were arrested in connection with the case, police said on Monday.Police claimed that the first vehicle, a truck, to run over 17-years old Sabir Khan was being driven by suspected cow smugglers and the second vehicle chasing the truck was being driven by a member of a group of cow vigilantes.The incident occurred in Chupanki police station area at Bhiwadi near Rajasthan-Haryana border. Chupanki police station’s station house officer (SHO) Mukesh Kumar Verma said Sabir Khan was mowed down at around 6.30 am by the speeding vehicles near Khedi villge, following which Sabir’s family registered a case of murder against seven persons. “Three cow vigilantes - Sonu, Harkesh and Narendra, all residents of Haryana, who were residing in Alwar at present, have been arrested while four others are absconding,” Alwar police said, adding that efforts were being made to nab the others. Sabir’s body was handed over to his family after post-mortem. The truck, which was carrying 18 cows, later rammed into a tree in Tauru area of Nuh district in Haryana and those inside the truck were suspected to have fled. Haryana Police were probing the matter related to the cows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-youth-run-over-by-suspected-cow-smugglers-and-vigilantes-in-alwar-101631600014589.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla-Pathankot highway blocked due to landslide after rain in Himachal||Traffic on the Shimla-Pathankot National Highway 205 was blocked after a landslide triggered by rain swept away a stretch of the road near National Law University at Ghandal, 20km from the state capital, on Monday night. No loss of life was reported. Also read: Himachal Covid update: Schools to stay closed till Sept 21Officials of the district disaster management authority said traffic has been diverted through an alternative route via Kalihatti and Nalahatti. Bara-Bhangal cut off, two bridges damaged Bara-Bhangal village in Kangra district was cut off after two footbridges on the trek to the remote hamlet were damaged due to floods triggered by heavy rain. Bara-Bhangal panchayat pradhan Mansa Ram Bhangalia said the trek to the village via Thamsar Pass is blocked due to the damage to the bridges. Bara-Bhangal is accessible from Bir village in Baijnath of Kangra district by a 70-km trek across the 4,665-metre Thamsar Pass. It takes three days to reach the village. Two alternative but treacherous routes are from Naya Gran in Bharmour of Chamba and from Manali by crossing the 4,800-metre high Kalihani Pass. Ration supply hit to remote village The damage to the bridges would affect ration supply to the village. Ration is supplied through the Thamsar Pass trek as it is the easiest route. Supply is not possible from Holi but it can be done from Manali at such times. The residents of the village had to fend for themselves in 2018 when the Thamsar Pass trek was blocked due to multiple landslides. Many villagers had run out of food stock at that time. Manali-Leh highway still closed The strategically important Manali-Leh highway has been closed for traffic since Sunday due to snowfall at Baralacha La. The Lahaul-Spiti district authorities said it may be opened today. The Shimla meteorological centre has forecast rain in Himachal Pradesh till September 17. Moderate rain has been reported in parts of the state since Monday. Solan was the wettest with 44mm of rainfall followed by 23mm in Kalpa and 20mm in Nahan. Shimla received 16mm of rain and Dharamshala 3mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimlapathankot-highway-blocked-due-to-landslide-after-rain-in-himachal-101631599836276.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi has recorded 34 cases of dengue this month; no deaths||Delhi added 34 dengue cases to its tally in the week ending September 11, according to the weekly report released by the municipal corporation. The city has seen 158 cases of dengue this year so far, of which 34 were reported in September and 72 in August, according to the data. There have been no deaths due to the infection. Last year, the city saw 131 cases of the infection in the same duration with a total of 1,072 cases reported over the entire year. There was one death due to the infection last year. The city was reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases during the peak dengue season last year. Also Read | Generally cloudy sky in Delhi today; expect light rainsUnlike Covid-19, dengue is not a notifiable disease in Delhi; meaning it is not mandatory for hospitals and healthcare centres to share details of cases that they might receive. Most of the data collected by the municipal corporation comes from government hospitals and dispensaries. “There were significant challenges last year.Most people with other ailments did not go to the hospital for fear of Covid-19 and the data wasn’t immediately shared even for those who did. This made it difficult to carry out breeding control measures. This year, we have started spraying insecticides and are conducting fogging for adult mosquitoes,” said an official from the municipal corporation, on condition of anonymity. Delhi has also reported 68 cases of malaria and 40 cases of chikungunya so far this year, according to the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-has-recorded-34-cases-of-dengue-this-month-no-deaths-101631598214414.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC sends Lalit D’souza to 10 years in jail for attempt to murder sister||Fourteen years after he fired six bullets at his elder sister over a property dispute, the Bombay high court on Monday convicted Lalit D’souza, son of late hotelier Timothy D’souza, for attempt to murder and sentenced the 51-year-old to ten years imprisonment.The division bench of justice Prasanna Varale and justice NR Borkar also fined him ₹1 lakh, half of which will be paid as compensation to his sister, Lorna. The bench has directed Lalit to surrender in four weeks, failing which a non-bailable warrant will be issued against him.As per the prosecution’s case, Lalit abused and shot at Lorna six times in the early hours of October 28, 2007, when she objected to his friend’s car being parked in her parking slot at a Cuff Parade residential apartments, where the siblings lived together amid strain caused by a property dispute. Lorna received injuries in her chest and hand but survived. Lorna told police that Lalit continued to pull the trigger even after exhausting all the bullets in his gun. The incident had taken place in the parking lot of the building.Lalit was prosecuted for attempted murder but the trial court convicted him only for causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapon and sentenced him to three years imprisonment on February 1, 2012, while giving him bail after the verdict.Lalit then moved HC challenging his conviction, while the state and Lorna filed separate appeals challenging his acquittal on the charge of attempt to murder and pleading for enhancement of his sentence.Lalit told the high court that he shot at Lorna in self defence after she charged at him with an iron rod. He claimed that he was living under fear since Lorna had threatened to get him killed using names of different gangsters. It was also argued on his behalf that the attack was not premeditated and therefore the charge of attempt to murder did not apply.Assistant public prosecutor Geeta Mulekar, however, pointed out that Lalit had acted in cruel manner and the very fact that he fired six bullets at the unarmed victim indicated he wanted to kill her.The court accepted her argument and said, “The accused had fired six gun shots at PW 1 (Lorna) who was unarmed and thus acted in cruel and unusual manner. ...the accused is, thus, not entitled to benefit of exception 4 to Section 300 of the IPC.”HC held that the trial court had “ignored the well settled legal position that determinative factor for constituting offence punishable under section 307 of the IPC (attempt to murder) is intention and not injury.”“Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, we have not the slightest doubt in our minds that the intention of the accused was to kill PW 1,” said the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-sends-lalit-d-souza-to-10-years-in-jail-for-attempt-to-murder-sister-101631588493657.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||Generally cloudy sky in Delhi today; expect light rains||Delhi is likely to see a generally cloudy sky with chances of light rains on Tuesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 25 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 34°C.Also Read | Nizamuddin Markaz case has cross border implications: Centre to Delhi HCThe minimum temperature on Monday was 26.5°C, one notch above normal and the maximum temperature was 33.4°C--normal for this time of the year.Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Tuesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 77. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI was 89, which is also in the satisfactory category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/generally-cloudy-sky-in-delhi-today-expect-light-rains-101631587773626.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||Top court agrees to list Delhi govt’s plea against GNCTD Act||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to consider listing the Delhi government’s petition against the new law for the National Capital Territory (NCT) that gives primacy to the Lieutenant Governor in several executive and legislative matters.“We will list it,” Chief Justice of India NV Ramana told senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for the Delhi government and sought an urgent hearing. The CJI, however, did not specify a date of hearing.Singhvi submitted that the Government of National Capital Territory (Amendment) Act 2021, or GNCTD Act, is contrary to the constitution bench judgement of the Supreme Court.He added, “It is against Article 239A (which deals with the status of Delhi) under the Constitution...the extra power given to the LG has made governance difficult.”The senior counsel also said that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s plea should be listed urgently, as it was cleared by the apex court’s registry on August 19.The Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha passed the GNCTD Amendment Act in March. In March, after the Parliament approved the bill, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had termed it as a “sad day for Indian democracy”.The amended Act has changed four provisions of the National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991. The new law makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to seek the opinion of the LG before taking any executive action in pursuance of decisions by the council of ministers, or any other decision under any law in force in the Capital.Another contentious amendment seeks to invalidate retrospectively rules made by the legislative assembly of Delhi or committees/house panels to consider the matters of “day-to-day administration of the Capital” or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions.The Delhi government, in its petition before the top court, has maintained that the 2021 law is contrary to two judgments by the Supreme Court: a Constitution bench verdict on July 4, 2018 and a two-judge bench decision on February 14, 2019.It has demanded that such provisions should be struck down as being unconstitutional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/top-court-agrees-to-list-delhi-govt-s-plea-against-gnctd-act-101631577703735.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Other bookstore in Aurobindo||It’s a bookshop run by a family. It’s also a bookshop run by a family. Its staffers are very polite, very attentive. Its staffers are also very polite, very attentive. It’s in Aurobindo Market. It’s also in Aurobindo Market. It is very famous. It is not as famous.Such is the tale of these two landmarks—Midland and Vandana. The former has its praise sung over the years. The latter is rarely mentioned.Midland is a must-visit. So is Vandana. Both are tucked next to each other. Both offer discount on their books. Both also have a magazine stall each, stocking the same journals. Midland has two doors, Vandana has only one. But it’s a beautifully old-fashioned sliding glass door through which one enters inside its cosy interiors. This afternoon a grey-haired lady, the owner, is standing behind the counter. “Until recently my husband would also be here,” she says, her voice suddenly overcome with intense feelings. Moti Nankani passed away early this year to Covid. Rekha Nankani turns to gaze towards her husband’s portrait adorned with a white pearl necklace. The frame shares the shelf space with paperbacks by Haruki Murakami, Jhumpa Lahiri, Aravind Adiga and Suketu Mehta. Ms Nankani, 65, admits of struggling through the predictable challenges that independent bookstores like hers are facing in these days of the pandemic. During the lockdown the shop’s business had come to a standstill. “But my staff is very supportive,” she says, introducing shop assistants Nand Kishore, Anil Mishra and Pooran Prakash. These gents have been serving here for more than 10 years, and their friendly nature helps sustain the shop’s bond with its long-time patrons.Ms Nankani graciously admits her neighbour’s widespread popularity. “They have their business. We have ours. They have their faithful customers. We have ours.” Here she pauses, chuckles a bit, saying, “Many young people frequent their bookshop, while we have customers who have been coming to our bookshop for many years.”Commuting daily from her home in Sarvapriya Vihar, Ms Nankani is joined by her son in the evening. The shop was named after her daughter, who lives in the United Kingdom. “My husband set up the bookstore in 1984, the year this market opened… but I started working in it only in 1997, after the children grew up.” She briefly glances at her husband’s portrait. Now a customer shows up, and the place gets busy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-other-bookstore-in-aurobindo-101631576785142.html
14-09-2021||Other||Rabid dog on the loose, Ludhiana MC team on the look out||Two days after a rabid stray dog bit eight people near the cremation ground near Civil Lines, the veterinary wing of the municipal corporation carried out a search operation in Vivek Nagar, Chander Nagar and Kundanpuri area, but to no avail. MC veterinary official Dr HS Dalla said it was suspected that the dog had died, as disease-ridden dogs do not live long. “However, we will continue to search for the canine.” The dog was rescued from Gill Road nearly 10 days ago and was later found to be suffering from rabies. The dog had bitten many people on Gill Road and the surrounding area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rabid-dog-on-the-loose-ludhiana-mc-team-on-the-look-out-101631569772662.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid claims 58-year-old, four test positive in Ludhiana||A day after nine infections were reported in the district, another four people tested positive for the virus on Monday.One more person succumbed to the deadly virus, making it the second casualty due to Covid this month. The 58-year-old claimed by the virus was a resident of Shimlapuri.As many as 87,510 people have tested positive for the virus, of which 2,099 have succumbed.There are 30 active cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-58-year-old-four-test-positive-in-ludhiana-101631569472469.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||5 men booked for painting hoardings of Halwara airport black||Five people were booked for painting hoardings at the Halwara International Airport black on Monday.The accused, Sukhwinder Singh of Halwara and Sukhi of Jagraon, and their three unidentified accomplices have been booked under Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. Sudhar station house officer Jasvir Singh said the accused had also fastened a poster of Kartar Singh Sarabha , a revolutionary who part of India’s freedom struggle, on the board and shared the image on social networking accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-men-booked-for-painting-hoardings-of-halwara-airport-black-101631569112428.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s high-security areas fail to keep vehicle-lifters at bay||As many as 94 vehicle-lifting incidents were reported in the city in the last 15 days, most of which were in high-security areas such as the courts complex and Rakh Bagh.In the courts complex and Rakh Bagh, at least 13 vehicles were stolen in the said period, with police failing to trace the culprits in any of the cases. The new courts complex has offices of police commissioner, deputy commissioner, senior officials of the police, judiciary and district administration. The courts complex also houses a police post and offices of the crime investigation agency (CIA staff).Residences of all police, judicial and district administration officials are situated near Rakh Bagh of Basant Singh Khalsa road (Club Road) due to which cops remain deployed here 24/7. On September 1, a Royal Enfield Bullet motorcycle parked outside the civil surgeon’s office, which is located just opposite the police commissioner’s residence was stolen. It is learnt that police had initiated a special drive to deter vehicle-lifting incidents from Rakh Bagh and even installed closed-circuit television cameras in the area, but to no avail.Other areas in the city where vehicle-lifting cases are rampant include Transport Nagar, Pindi Street, Ferozepur road near Sidhwan Canal and Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.Hero Splendor ‘a favourite’ Between August 28 and September 11, a total of 74 motorcycles were stolen from the city. Of these, 42 were of the Hero Splendor brand. The second favourite of the criminals was the Honda Activa as at least 14 scooters of this brand were stolen. A Maruti Zen car, a three-wheeler and a Mahindra Bolero were also stolen from the city. As per police officials, the wide presence and high resale value of Splendor bikes makes it an easy target.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-high-security-areas-fail-to-keep-vehicle-lifters-at-bay-101631568812356.html
14-09-2021||Other||Assembly polls: SAD announces candidates from 9 Ludhiana constituencies||Putting speculations to bed, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has announced the name of nine candidates for the assembly elections, which are scheduled for next year. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had announced the names of Paramjeet Singh Dhillon and Sharanjit Singh Dhillon while holding rallies in Samrala and Sahnewal, while district party president Ranjit Singh Dhillon will contest polls from the Ludhiana-East constituency. The candidature of Harish Rai Dhanda from Atam Nagar constituency has sent ripples through the political circuits as the constituency is represented by Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief Simarjeet Singh Bains, who is facing rape charges. The complainant is being unequivocally supported by Dhanda, who is a bitter rival of the MLA. Playing the panthic card, the SAD has fielded Gurudwara Dukh Niwaran Sahib president Pritpal Singh Pali. Many names including Youth Akali Dal (YAD) district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha and former LIP leader Vipan Sood Kaka were doing the rounds, but the party preferred Pali over Gosha and Kaka Sood.Former Cabinet minister and senior SAD leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal has been offered the seat from Ludhiana West, which is currently being represented by Congress heavyweight and sitting cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.It was speculated that Kamal Chatly, who had recently left the saffron party to join SAD, would be offered the seat. Chatly had fought against Ashu in the previous election and had even put up his hoardings in the constituency. His supporters in the Sham Nagar Area had also begun campaigning for him. However, SAD banked on the old warhorse, instead of Chatly.Darshan Singh Shivalik, a Dalit leader, has been offered the seat from Gill Constituency. He had lost the last election to bureaucrat-turned-politician Kuldip Singh Vaid.Sitting MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali is SAD’s pick from Dakha constituency. Ayali had defeated chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s confidant Captain Sandeep Sandhu during the 2019 bypolls.Former legislator SR Kaler has been offered a seat from Jagraon. He was defeated by AAP leader Sarabjit Kau Manuke last time. SAD has not announced candidates from Raikot, Ludhiana North and South, Payal and Khanna. Those in the know say leaders from the Bahujan Samaj Party will contest polls from Ludhiana-North and Payal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assembly-polls-sad-announces-candidates-from-9-ludhiana-constituencies-101631568512456.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Milkshake costs Ludhiana accountant dear as robbers drive away with car||An accountant who had stopped for a milkshake on Lodhi Club Road was robbed of cash, gold and his car at gunpoint on Sunday. The victim, Nitin Wadhwani, 45 of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, said, “On September 10, I had gone to Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar for dinner around 8pm. Later, I decided to Lodhi Club Road for a milkshake and was having the beverage in my car when three men forcibly took my car key, held me at gunpoint, took my gold bracelet, gold chain, ring, two mobile phones, debit cards and identification proofs.” “The robbers forced me to sit in the car and asked for directions of my house, so that they could rob it too. Two security guards were deputed at the main gate of my colony, but I did not ask them for help as the accused had held me at gunpoint. When they slowed down, I jumped off and fled. I raised the alarm, following which they drove away,” he said.Significantly, the incident occurred at the same place where four miscreants had robbed a couple of their car on August 25. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 3) Sameer Verma said the accused had forced the victim to yield details about his family members, and cash and gold kept in his house. A case has been registered under Section 379B (theft) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of The Arms Act at the Sarabha Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milkshake-costs-ludhiana-accountant-dear-as-robbers-drive-away-with-car-101631568152520.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bains implicating rape victim, supporters in false cases: SAD||Alleging that the police was favouring Lok Insaaf Party chief Simarjeet Singh Bains, Shiromani Akali Dal leaders on Monday said that the MLA was trying to implicate the woman who had levelled rape charges against him, and her supporters in false cases. Senior advocate Harish Rai Dhanda and Youth Akali Dal (YAD) district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha said, “An attempt to murder case has been registered against the complainant, who has been protesting outside the police commissioner’s office for two months, and Congress worker Gurvinder Singh Prinkle, who has been supporting her, in Ambala.”“Another rape victim, and her son have been booked in a fraud immigration case,” said Dhanda, adding that the director general of police was sheltering Bains. “No matter how many false cases Bains files, we will stand with the victims and not tolerate any harassment,” said Gosha.While Bains was not available for comment, party spokesperson Munish Vinayak said SAD leader Harish Rai Dhanda and Gurdeep Singh Gosha were deliberating dragging Bains into the issues. “Both the leaders are publicity hungry and trying to raise such issues to hog the limelight,” said Vinayak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bains-implicating-rape-victim-supporters-in-false-cases-sad-101631567676012.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||21-year-old BSc student found hanging in Haryana’s Rewari village||Set to get married on November 21, a 21-year-old woman was found hanging from a tree near her house in Rewari’s Bhadawas village on Monday.Police were alerted after neighbours spotted the woman’s family taking her body for cremation. Cops reached the spot and asked them to conduct an autopsy first. According to her family, the woman was a BSc final-year student and her marriage was fixed with her consent, a police spokesman said. The body was handed over to the family following autopsy and inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC were initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/21yearold-bsc-student-found-hanging-in-haryana-s-rewari-village-101631566845113.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab chief minister instigating farmers, says Haryana health minister||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Monday accused Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh of instigating farmers. Criticising his remarks, Vij in a tweet said Amarinder asking farmers to do whatever they want in Haryana or Delhi but not in Punjab was a very irresponsible act. During a function in Hoshiarpur, the Punjab chief minister had said farmers should not spoil the atmosphere of Punjab. Vij said Singh had also said that farmers sitting on dharna at 113 places in Punjab was causing financial loss to Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-chief-minister-instigating-farmers-says-haryana-health-minister-101631566843889.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two more held in Haryana constable paper leak case||The crime investigation agency of Kaithal police has arrested two more men in connection with the constable paper leak case, taking the number of arrests to 39. The two accused, Nihal Singh of Bhiwani district and Ramesh Kumar of Mahendragarh, were carrying a reward of ₹50,000 each on their heads.Investigators said Nihal got the answer keys from the main accused, Narendra of Hisar, and later sold them to the candidates. Ramesh had attended a meeting with Narender at a hotel in Hisar on August 4 to chalk out a plan to contact the aspirants. The accused were produced in court and sent to police remand for further interrogation. The written exam for the recruitment of 5,500 male constables was scheduled on July 7 and 8 but the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) cancelled the exam on August 7, hours after reports of answer key leak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-more-held-in-haryana-constable-paper-leak-case-101631566842842.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal lathicharge: Deceased farmer’s son seeks jobs as per educational qualifications||Karnal farmer Sushil Kajal’s son Sahil Kajal and his wife, Ritu Kajal, have demanded compensatory government jobs as per their educational qualifications.The state government had agreed to give two jobs to the family members of Sushil, who farmers claimed had died due to the police lathicharge on August 28.As per the government’s assurance on September 11, the jobs will be given jobs on DC rates in Karnal within a week.According to Sahil, he is awaiting the results of MA history final-year exams, while his wife, Ritu, is a commerce graduate. Therefore, their jobs should be in line with their educational qualifications.He said if they were offered Group D posts, they will discuss it with the farmer leaders again, adding that they had not receiving any intimation from the administration yet.Sushil’s family owns 1.5 acres of agriculture land in Raipur Jattan village in Karnal’s Gharaunda sub-division. The farmer was allegedly beaten up by police personnel during the lathicharge on farmers on August 28 and he died at his house the same night. He is survived by his mother, wife, son and daughter-in-law.Though neither an autopsy took place nor a medico-legal report was prepared, farmer leaders have claimed that he died due to the lathicharge.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha also organised a protest subsequently, following which the government agreed to give two government jobs to his family members, along with a judicial inquiry into the incident that took place at Karnal’s Bastara toll plaza, around 14km from a private hotel where a BJP meeting was scheduled.Additional chief secretary Devender Singh, who reached Karnal to end the deadlock and farmers’ agitation last week, in a joint conference with farmer leaders had announced to give the two jobs within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnal-lathicharge-deceased-farmer-s-son-seeks-jobs-as-per-educational-qualifications-101631566841758.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana mourns demise of Harmohinder Singh Pahwa, a doyen of cycle industry||The sudden death of 77-year-old Harmohinder Singh Pahwa, a visionary entrepreneur and chairman of Nova Cycles, came as a shock to industry colleagues, locals and the who’s who of the industrial hub, who gathered in large numbers to pay their last respects to the doyen of the Ludhiana industry on Monday. Around 500 people attended Pahwa’s funeral at the Model Town Extension cremation ground in the afternoon. Pahwa had suffered a fatal heart attack at the Satluj Club on Sunday. Club members said he was enjoying a coffee with club members and cracking a joke when he collapsed. He was rushed to the hospital, but could not be revived. He was also chairperson of Avon Bicycle Components Pvt Ltd and VS Auto Pvt Ltd. He is survived by his son Rohit Pahwa and two daughters. Initially, the funeral was scheduled to be held at 11am, but it was rescheduled to 3pm so that Pahwa’s daughter who arrived from London could also pay her respects. She reached Delhi at 10am, and a chartered flight arranged by a Ludhiana-based industrialist flew her to Ludhiana. With a large crowd, replete with prominent personalities from different spheres of life attending the funeral, the traffic police were roped in to make parking arrangements and ensure there was no congestion. An irreparable loss: Business fraternityIndustrialists, big and small, remembered Pahwa as a humble and good-natured man who was always ready to extend a helping hand. Pankaj Munjal, chairman and managing director of Hero Cycles, said, “I have known the Pahwa family for a long time, so feel the pain the same way. May his soul rest in peace,” he said. SS Bhogal of Bhogal Cycles said, “Our family has known each other since the pre-Independence days. After I took over my company in 1972, Pahwa and I became close friends. His death is an irreparable loss to the industry. He was a wonderful human being.” Badish Jindal, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association (FOSPIA) chairman said Pahwa would take the back seat and give others the opportunity to prove themselves. “He never worked for credit. He was a pure gentleman,” he said. Making Ludhiana the Manchester of India Initially, based in Pakistan’s Sialkot, Pahwa’s family migrated to India during the Partition. His father settled down in Patna, while Pahwa studied at YPS Patiala.Later, he assisted his paternal uncle Hans Raj Pahwa, the founder of Avon Cycles in Ludhiana, where he worked as director till 2002. Now, the group has a turnover of ₹60 crore. He was an active member of different committees, associations and groups and was instrumental in bringing new technology and growth to the cycle industry. Besides Punjab, Nova supplies cycles to Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Assam, Jharkhand, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, and Andaman and Nicobar Islands under different welfare schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mourns-demise-of-harmohinder-singh-pahwa-a-doyen-of-cycle-industry-101631566834770.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Excess rain in September leaves Haryana paddy growers anxious||The more than normal rainfall in September has left paddy farmers worried about the impact on the yield at this stage.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Haryana received 113.3mm rain from September 1 to 13 – 124% more than 50.7mm considered normal in the month. More rain has also been forecast till September 16 in most of parts of the state.Farmers, who grew early varieties, are troubled as the crop was ready for harvest, but was now left ridden with higher moisture content.“I am unable to get my five acres of Pusa 1509 harvested because of the bad weather. Even the price is good this year, but the rain in the past couple of days has delayed harvesting by one week,” said Raj Kumar, a farmer in Kurukshetra district.The delay, farmers said, will also hold up sowing of next crops. “Most of the farmers grow early varieties of paddy so that they can vacate the field for vegetables like potato, cauliflower, radish, carrot and peas,” said Harish Kumar, who has rented five acres in Karnal’s Gharaunda area to grow cauliflower.Agriculture experts also maintain that excess rain in September is harmful for paddy, especially for the early varieties. “Most of the crop is at the flowering or milking stage. The rain will not only affect the growth of the grain but also cause lustre loss,” said Dr Narender Goyal of Krishi Vigyan Kendra at Damla, Yamunanagar.Karam Chand, deputy director, Haryana agriculture department, advised farmers to avoid harvesting immediately and wait for the next couple of days.According to figures of the state agriculture department, this year Haryana has reported around 18% decline in the area under paddy cultivation, which has dropped from 15.27 lakh hectares last year to 12.5 lakh hectares this year.The government claims that the fall in the area under paddy is a result of its incentive schemes. But there are also reports that several farmers failed to grow water guzzler paddy due to the long dry spell from June 15 to July 11.The state saw only 58mm rain in scattered places against a normal of 87.4 mm in the first 11 days of July – a 34% shortfall.Even the precipitation in June was 12% deficient, with the state recording 57.8mm showers from June 1 to July 10 against the normal of 86.2mm, according to IMD data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/excess-rain-in-september-leaves-haryana-paddy-growers-anxious-101631566833648.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Police lathicharge on farmers was wrong: Haryana BJP chief||Haryana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Om Prakash Dhankar on Monday said the police lathicharge on the protesting farmers in Karnal on August 28 should not have taken place.“It was wrong,” Dhankar said in a news conference, adding that he had conveyed this to chief minister Khattar and asked to hold an inquiry into the police action. The state BJP chief applauded the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government for tackling the farmers’ agitation with “huge restraint and decorum”, while reiterating that the government was functioning with full restraint and its priority was to ensure Karnal-like incidents didn’t recur.“This decorum must also become the part and parcel of those protesting...Because others also have the right to hold their programmes and this decorum must be maintained by all,” Dhankar said, regretting that the ongoing farmers stir had become “purely a political protest”.The politics, he said, had hijacked the farmers’ agitation, which now had nothing to do with the welfare of the cultivators. He said even though the agitation had moved beyond its real issues, the Union government was still open to dialogue on all outstanding issues. “But they have gone past the agenda of agitation. It has become purely political and least bothered about the welfare of farmers,” Dhankar said. Responding to a question, the BJP chief said it was equally wrong to say the agitation had the backing of all farmers of Haryana. There were, he said, 19 lakh families of cultivators in Haryana and that only one farmers’ organisation was unhappy with the government. One or two odd farmer unions’ agitation cannot be dubbed as the protest of the entire farming community, he said. Asking the opposition Haryana Congress leaders to persuade the Congress government in Punjab to give compensation to farmers and procure crops on the lines of Haryana, Dhankar dared the party to replicate Haryana’s procurement model in Punjab and Rajasthan. He said Haryana will procure bajra at ₹2,250 and asked the Congress to procure it in Rajasthan also. He said it was after four years that Punjab hiked sugarcane price. “Yahan gian dene ko bade chatur ho, vahan daam kayun nahi dete (they are very clever in giving sermons here, but why don’t they give money to the farmers in neighbouring states),” he quipped.BJP plans events to celebrate PM’s 71st birthdayHaryana BJP chief OP Dhankar said the party will launch a 20-day long Sewa Aur Samarpan campaign in the state from September 17, coinciding with the 71th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. During this campaign, concluding on October 7, the BJP plans to hold 71 blood donation camps, seminars on 71 big ticket policies and programmes of the Centre and plantation of 71,000 saplings. The party also plans to greet the prime minister by dispatching 20 lakh letters from people who will pen their views independently about the Union government’s policies they like the most.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-lathicharge-on-farmers-was-wrong-haryana-bjp-chief-101631566832351.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Dial 112 project evoking interest of other states too||Haryana Police’s “Dial 112” initiative is catching the attention of other states as well, as police officials are visiting the state to study the successful implementation of the Emergency Response Support System (ERSS). In this series, Madhya Pradesh ADGP SK Jha on Monday visited Haryana to understand the emergency helpline project. Earlier, a team of Bihar police had also visited here to study the project. Dial 112 is an integrated emergency response system, established to provide emergency services to people in distress anytime and anywhere across Haryana.This round-the-clock system functions from the state emergency response centre (SERC) in Panchkula. The state-of-the-art centre can function at uninterrupted speed even in the absence of power supply for four consecutive days.The SERC has been digitally connected to the police control rooms at district level and suitably located emergency response vehicles. The toll free number in Hindi, English, Punjabi and Haryanvi promises to respond to people in distress within 15-20 minutes. Every call on Dial 112 will be recorded. The data will be completely secure and will not be deleted under any circumstance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-dial-112-project-evoking-interest-of-other-states-too-101631566773388.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Missing 4-year-old child traced within 2 hours in Ludhiana||A missing child was traced and reunited with his parents within two hours in Islamganj on Sunday. Assistant sub-inspector Rajwant Singh was on patrol duty in the Janakpuri main market when a distressed couple told him that their four-year-old son was missing. The child’s father, Manjit Prasad, a labourer, said his son had gone to buy ice cream, but did not return. The missing child was captured purchasing ice-cream on CCTV camera and was found 1km away from his house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/missing-4-year-old-child-traced-within-2-hours-in-ludhiana-101631566412296.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab school board mid-term question papers leaked online||Some of the question papers of the Punjab State Education Board (PSEB) mid-term examination were leaked on a YouTube channel three days before the tests were scheduled to start on Monday. The matter came to light after a complaint in this regard was lodged with secretary (school education) Krishan Kumar and Ludhiana district education officer (DEO) Lakhvir Singh Samra by Sukhdarshan Singh, president of the Anti-Cheating Teachers’ Front, Punjab. However, the multiple-choice question (MCQ)-based tests were held in two shifts on Monday despite the paper leak. The mid-term exams are also aimed at preparing the students of Classes 3, 5, 8 and 10 for the National Achievement Survey (NAS). Among the question papers leaked on the YouTube channel named Virdi Blog are Class 8 mathematics, Class 9 Hindi and Class 10 science and mathematics. In the comment section, the users requested for question papers of various subjects, including Class 12 chemistry, physics and maths. “A teacher in my school received a message from a Class 10 student about the paper leak. He approached us with videos. We were shocked to see the exact question papers on the channel which we received for the exams. We immediately lodged a complaint with the officials of the education department,” said Sukhdarshan Singh who is posted at Government High School, Kot Mangal Singh, in Ludhiana. Another teacher aware of the paper leak termed the criteria of examination a political agenda. “These papers are prepared keeping the National Achievement Survey in mind. Due to pressure from the authorities, all the schools in the state are focusing on getting top spot in the NAS that is scheduled in November. These question papers are objective type unlike the usual descriptive types for the mid-term exams. This is happening to woo the voters ahead of the state polls,” he claimed. Senior officials, including DEO Lakhvir Singh, were unavailable for comments. Sukhdarshan Singh said the department should lodge a police complaint. Teachers said no written order of cancellation of examinations was received by the schools yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-school-board-mid-term-question-papers-leaked-online-101631566173068.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Travel agents dupe former MLA’s son of ₹25 lakh in Ludhiana||Two travel agents have been booked for duping a former MLA’s son of ₹25 lakh on the pretext of sending his son abroad. The accused, Sahibjit Singh of Rajgarh Estate and his wife Gurpreet Kaur, had allegedly promised to send former MLA Prem Mittal’s grandson, Nirvan, to Canada, but did not deliver on it. The complainant, Ashok Mittal of Dugri Phase-1, said the couple had taken ₹25 lakh from him, but neither did they arrange to send his son abroad nor did they refund the money. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Manjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case has been registered under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. The police will arrest the accused soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/travel-agents-dupe-former-mla-s-son-of-25-lakh-in-ludhiana-101631566052183.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Blackbuck deaths at Bathinda zoo due to poisoning caused by bacterial infection, reveals autopsy||An analysis of viscera samples by experts at the Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, have attributed the death of three blackbucks at a mini zoo in Bathinda’s Bir Talab to ‘toxemia’ or poisoning due to bacterial infection. Histopathology of all three has ruled out any external injuries on the young female antelopes that were found dead within a short span of time on August 19. While two were aged 3 and 4 months, the third one was three-year-old. The development, however, has perplexed the wildlife authorities as they are unable to link the cause of poisoning in the deer safari which is closed for visitors since March last year in view of the Covid-19 restrictions.Tests of feed and fodder samples by the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL) has already ruled out any quality deficiency in the food given to zoo animals.Swaran Singh Randhawa, in-charge, Animal Disease Research Centre, College of Veterinary Science, GADVASU, said toxemia is a condition of poisoning by toxins from bacterial infection.“It is difficult to ascertain the source of such infections,” said Randhwa, who was not associated with the autopsy of antelopes.Blackbuck is Punjab’s state animal and is covered under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.Autopsy report says a panel of GADVASU experts studied heart, lungs, spleen, liver and kidney.Experts have not found any symptoms of foot and mouth disease, which is common among cattle, or any factor other than toxemia. The adult antelope was not pregnant.Zoo head and range officer Amarinder Singh said no animal in the safari was reported sick since the deaths of the three antelopes and a constant vigil is being maintained on behaviour of safari inmates.He said experts are being consulted to understand toxic bacterial infection better.Bathinda divisional forest officer Swaran Singh said the mortality due to infection among blackbucks in captivity is rare.“The possibility of the blackbucks accidentally consuming something that was infected within their own ecosystem cannot be ruled out. The water supply network was thoroughly sanitised later on and the fodder supplier was changed. The entire feeding area was also cleaned and nothing suspicious has emerged so far,” he added.In the wake of the blackbuck deaths, forest range officer Pawan Sridhar was removed as in-charge of the zoo. Services of the lone veterinarian, who was hired on ad hoc, were also discontinued with immediate effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/blackbuck-deaths-at-bathinda-zoo-due-to-poisoning-caused-by-bacterial-infection-reveals-autopsy-101631565692241.html
14-09-2021||Other||Two unemployed aspiring teachers jump into Bhakra canal, rescued||Patiala Two ETT qualified unemployed teachers jumped into Bhakra canal near the Passiana village on Monday, alleging that the state government had failed to conduct Punjab State Teacher Eligibility Test (PSTET). The protesters who jumped in were immediately rescued by a team of divers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-unemployed-aspiring-teachers-jump-into-bhakra-canal-rescued-101631565512209.html
14-09-2021||Other||Two held for gold ornament burglary in Maur||Bathinda Police have arrested two men with 520gm gold ornaments on them, which they had burgled from a house in Maur in August. Bathinda range inspector general of police Jaskaran Singh said the accused Natwar Lal and Pawan Kumar were involved in at least 10 criminal cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-held-for-gold-ornament-burglary-in-maur-101631565332189.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu’s letter to Amarinder on farmers’ issues is a publicity stunt: Aam Aadmi Party||Leader of opposition in Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema on Monday said the letter written by state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on the farmers’ issues was a publicity stunt. In a press statement, the Aam Aami Party (AAP) MLA said the Congress leaders, particularly Sidhu, were acting as if they were in the opposition. Sidhu should now stop playing the “letter game” on the problems of the farmers and other issues and work to get them resolved from his government. “The state Congress chief remembered reforms in the agriculture sector such as getting the farmers out of the cropping cycle as the elections approached,” the AAP leader said. Cheema questioned if Sidhu could not come up with any concrete promise or policy from the ruling Congress in his meeting with the farmers’ leaders, then what did he do there. “If the AAP could decide to give support after listening to the views of farmers during the meeting, why couldn’t Sidhu do so?” he asked. Hitting out at chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the AAP leader said he did not fulfill any of his promises to farmers who had to wage a struggle against the state government, like the Union government, on their demands related to sugarcane price and procurement of crops from mandis. “Sidhu gets publicity by writing a letter, but the issues of farmers remain unresolved,” Cheema said, asking the PPCC president to give up drama and play the role of leader of the ruling party. He also said that Amarinder had lost the trust of his MLAs and ministers and should immediately resign from his post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-s-letter-to-amarinder-on-farmers-issues-is-a-publicity-stunt-aam-aadmi-party-101631565032235.html
14-09-2021||Other||20-year-old Bsc student commits suicide||Patiala A 20-year-old student committed suicide by hanging himself with a solar panel at RIMT University, Mandi Gobindgarh, on Monday. He was a Semester-III student of BSc radiology. “We have received a suicide note, where he mentions that no one should be held responsible for this death,” a police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20yearold-bsc-student-commits-suicide-101631564732127.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 37 fresh Covid cases, 3 deaths||Punjab on Tuesday registered 37 fresh cases of Covid-19 with three deaths registered in past 24-hours. The positivity rate of the state was detected at 0.14 % on Wednesday, the media bulletin said. With fresh cases, the state’s total tally on Wednesday reached 6,01,072 cases, with the number of active cases dipping down to 309 in Punjab, the bulletin added. Among fresh cases, the maximum of six cases were detected in Patiala, followed by five in SAS Nagar. With 25 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,84,306, the government said in the bulletin. To date, 16,457 persons have lost their lives due to the virus. A total of 1,39,27,957 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, of which 26,726 were tested on Wednesday. As many as 2,21,340 doses of the vaccine were administered on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sees-37-fresh-covid-cases-3-deaths-101631564672143.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Protests hurting our economy, lift dharnas in Punjab: Amarinder appeals to farmers||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday appealed to the representatives of various farmer unions not to hold protests in Punjab against the three contentious agriculture laws passed by the Centre as they are adversely affecting the state’s economy. After laying the foundation stone of government college at Mukhliana village in Chabbewal constituency which is to come up at ₹13.44 crore, the CM said when the entire state stood like a rock in their favour, the farmers should not hold protests in Punjab as it went against the interests of the state. “The protests going on at 113 places in Punjab impacted its economic development. I hope my request would be accepted by the farmers. These laws have already been rejected in the assembly and replaced by the state government’s farm laws which were sent to the governor for his assent but unfortunately they were not forwarded to the President,” he said.He said these laws had already been rejected in the state assembly and replaced by the state government’s farm laws which were sent to Governor for his accent but unfortunately these had not yet been forwarded to the President of India.Amarinder said that a delegation of various farm leaders met him recently for hike in sugarcane price and it was promptly hiked from Rs. 325 to Rs. 360 per quintal. The Chief Minister also announced to name the upcoming college after the name of Dr. BR Ambedkar. The CM also announced that the entire development works Sri Guru Ravidas ji Memorial at Sri Khuralgarh Sahib would be completed positively before the coming Parkash Utsav of Guru ji.
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Gangsters’ solitary confinement: Prisons department to challenge HC’s ‘illegal’ move order||The Punjab prisons department has decided to challenge high court’s single-judge bench order that termed the confinement of notorious gangsters in newly created ‘dead zone’ at Bathinda Central Jail as illegal. A decision in this regard was taken in a meeting of department officials after holding discussion with the advocate general’s office last week. The prisons department’s move to lodge 42 gangsters, who were drawn from different jails, in the ‘dead zones’ had come after receiving suggestions from the Special Task Force (STF) to check their illegal activities. ‘Dead Zone’ is a new concept introduced by the jails department comprising special cells where there is no signal to operate mobile phones. The zone is guarded by a three-tier security, including the CRPF personnel. The prisons department has also decided to curtail movement of these inmates by increasing their confinement inside the cells to 22 hours as compared to the ordinary inmates who are freed from the cells for nine hours. This move was challenged by seven gangsters and their family members in the Punjab and Haryana high court citing it as ‘quasi-solitary’ confinement in violation of rights guaranteed under Article 21. The court has also suggested some observations on steps that can be taken to lodge these criminals. The gangsters who had challenged the decision include Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, Ramandeep Singh Rammi, Chandan alias Chandu, Kulpreet Singh alias Neeta Deol. The single-judge bench had termed depriving human company for extended hours as ‘quasi confinement’. “The judgment of the Supreme Court that made the basis for the single-judge bench order dates back to 1978. The world has changed and evolved thereafter and so has style of the criminals,” a senior prisons department functionary said. Officials are of the view that the idea behind restricting the freedom of the gangsters inside cells was to make them feel what it means to be inside jails as many of them were found running their rackets from inside jails. During the court hearings, the department even had given an affidavit in the court, citing instances of dangerous/notorious prisoners found operating their illegal activities from the high security zones of the jails already in place. Additional director general of police (ADGP), prisons, Praveen Kumar Sinha, said the department is filing the letter patents appeal (LPA) to challenge the single-bench decision, taking various grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangsters-solitary-confinement-prisons-department-to-challenge-hc-s-illegal-move-order-101631564312244.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Centre to cross-check farmers’ land records before paddy procurement||In a first, the Centre has decided to cross-check land records before the procurement of paddy from next month in a bid to ensure the MSP reaches farmers and not traders, food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said on Monday. Most procuring states, barring Assam and Uttarakhand as well as Jammu and Kashmir, are ready and have also integrated digital land records with the Centre’s nodal procurement agency Food Corporation of India (FCI) for this purpose, he told reporters. Asserting that this new mechanism is in the interest of farmers, Pandey said the crop cultivated by farmers whether in their own land or in rented land will be procured by the government. “It is not necessary for farmers to own the land or not. If farmers have cultivated any land, that will be procured,” he said. The whole idea is to cross-check how much crop has been cultivated in what area and accordingly procure it, he said, adding this is where digital land records integrated centrally with FCI will help during the procurement process. The main objective behind this mechanism is that the government procures the crop from genuine farmers and not from traders. According to the secretary, “most states, including Punjab are in complete readiness.” Every state wants farmers to benefit from the procurement process and not the traders. This mechanism will ensure the minimum support price (MSP) reaches farmers and not traders, he said. Many states like Uttar Pradesh and Odisha had already integrated their land records, while some states had not done and they are doing this year, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-to-cross-check-farmers-land-records-before-paddy-procurement-101631564252284.html
14-09-2021||Other||Three Moga women held for holding fake Covid vaccination camp||Moga Police have arrested three women for allegedly organising a fake Covid-19 vaccination camp in Dharamkot. Police said they were administering multi-vitamins, but were not taking any money from residents. The accused are Manpreet Kaur, of Pandori village, Lovepreet Kaur, of Lohgarh Basti, and Harpreet Kaur, of Mandir village in Moga. Dharamkot DSP Shubeg Singh said, “The women were impersonating ASHA workers and have been booked for cheating.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-moga-women-held-for-holding-fake-covid-vaccination-camp-101631563772117.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Former President Giani Zail Singh’s grandson Inderjeet Singh joins BJP||Late former President of India Giani Zail Singh’s grandson, Inderjeet Singh, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) here on Monday in the presence of Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri.Welcoming him, BJP general secretary and Punjab unit in-charge Dushyant Gautam said this showed that the party holds a special place in the hearts of the people in Punjab. Inderjeet’s induction is in line with saffron party’s carefully-crafted strategy to rope in the Sikh faces ahead of the Punjab assembly polls due early next year.After joining the BJP at its headquarters here, Inderjeet Singh said he has fulfilled his grandfather’s wishes.“The Congress did not behave properly with my grandfather. I campaigned for the BJP during the Madan Lal Khurrana days in Delhi. My grandfather wanted me to join the BJP. He had introduced me to late Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Lal Krishna Advani,” he said.Inderjeet is the lone grandson of Zail Singh. His father and Zail Singh’s son Joginder Singh had unsuccessfully contested on Congress ticket in 1997 from Kotkapura assembly segment. Inderjeet, who is in his fifties, hails from the Ramgarhia Sikh community which comes under the OBC (Other Backward Classes) category. The community has a substantial presence in Doaba and Majha belts of Punjab. Earlier, Hardeep Puri welcomed Inderjeet to the party and said this addition will give strength to the BJP. “Many central government schemes have not been implemented in Punjab and the state government is going through internal rife,” he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-president-giani-zail-singh-s-grandson-inderjeet-singh-joins-bjp-101631563412169.html
14-09-2021||Other||Kin protest police inaction in Amritsar murder over smearing of cake||AMRITSAR The family members of one of the two victims killed in a firing that took place over smearing of cake during a birthday party in an Amritsar hotel last month have alleged police inaction. Vikram Singh and his friend Munish Sharma were killed during a firing allegedly opened by one Money Dhillon on August 18. On Monday, Vikram’s brother Simran Singh and other family members met Amritsar police commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal, seeking arrest of the accused; they also said the murder was pre-planned. The commissioner assured the family that a fair probe was being conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kin-protest-police-inaction-in-amritsar-murder-over-smearing-of-cake-101631563172090.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||JCT Electronics land deal: High court notice to Punjab, CBI on plea seeking probe by central agency||The high court has sought response from Punjab government and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on a plea seeking probe into the sale of JCT Electronics land in Mohali’s Phase 8. The plea has been filed by Sandeep Kumar and Randeep Suri, both ex-directors of Punjab Small Industry and Export Corporation (PSIEC), who were removed in July 2021. The 31-acre land (Plot Number 32 in Phase 8, Mohali) was liquidated from JCT Electronics, allotted to it in 1984. It was auctioned last year and the lone bidder got it for ₹90.56 crore. The plea alleges that the bidder firm is selling small plots on the land for ₹465 crore. Last month, Punjab Lokpal had summoned industries minister Sham Sunder Arora and PSIEC director for October in this controversy, taking cognisance of a complaint. However, the plea in high court does not make Arora a party in the case though alleges ‘interference by politicians’. The plea alleges involvement of top officials and political functionaries “who are trying to use their influence on petitioners, who are whistle blowers and are being harassed and humiliated and threats being extended”. They allege that they were removed as they had complained about the manner this land deal was being dealt with by the corporation. According to the plea, after liquidation proceedings, an e-auction notice was issued in January 21 for sale of 1,50,040 square yards land and building on 3,33,445 square feet at a reserve price of ₹90.5 crore. A firm became the lone bidder and got the plot for ₹90.56 crore allegedly due to political pressure and official liquidator got only ₹45 crore. The decision to approve the deal was taken on March 26, 2020, when the country was under lockdown and a curfew was imposed, claims the plea, adding that in October 2020 in the board meeting of PSIEC, demand for referring the matter to finance department and advocate general were not adhered to and file was put up before the government by giving it a colour of “warranting immediate attention”. In advocate general’s opinion, obtained by the government later, neither officers of Punjab Infotech and PSIEC nor the department of industries performed due diligence in arriving at a valuation, claims the plea, seeking a CBI probe. The matter will now be taken up on October 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jct-electronics-land-deal-high-court-notice-to-punjab-cbi-on-plea-seeking-probe-by-central-agency-101631563055712.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Gujarat heroin seizure: NIA files chargesheet against Punjab drug trafficker||The NIA on Monday filed a supplementary chargesheet before a special court here against a man for his alleged involvement in the Salaya drug seizure case, an official said. The chargesheet was filed against Sukhbir Singh who was arrested by the NIA in August, the official of the premier investigation agency said. The case relates to a criminal conspiracy hatched by an earlier arrested accused, Arshad Sota, in Dubai along with Pakistani nationals for delivering narcotic drugs in Gujarat from Pakistan, the NIA official said. In furtherance of conspiracy, 500 kg of narcotic drugs were delivered in three consignments. The last consignment was in the form of supply of 200 kg heroin, the official said. The NIA took over the investigation from the ATS, Gujarat. Connected offence registered by the STF (Border Range)/Amritsar was also taken up by the NIA. The NIA has already filed two chargesheets against nine arrested accused in August 2020 and May 2021 in this case. The consignment of 200 kg heroin was delivered by earlier arrested accused Razak Adam Sumra, Karim Mohammed Siraj and Sunil Vithal Barmase to Indresh Rambachan Nishad at Gandhidham, the NIA official said. Rambachan then concealed the heroin between the wooden panels in his truck to further deliver it to Sukhbir Singh, an aide of wanted accused Simranjit Singh Sandhu at Amritsar, the official said. The consignment of drugs, which was stored in Sultanwind in Amritsar, was seized by STF/Amritsar, Punjab Police and the accused, including Sukhbir Singh, were arrested, the NIA official said. The case registered by the STF/Amritsar is also being taken over by the NIA and further investigation is continuing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gujarat-heroin-seizure-nia-files-chargesheet-against-punjab-drug-trafficker-101631562932202.html
14-09-2021||Other||Punjabi University issues gag order for registrar, officials||Patiala With Punjabi University making the headlines for all the wrong reasons, the varsity has now advised its deans, heads of the departments and registrar not to speak to the media about matters regarding the varsity. Vice-chancellor Arvind has sent an email in this regard to all key officers advising them to be very careful with the media; the email advises officers not to talk to media and give statements, except through the public relations’ officer of the varsity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabi-university-issues-gag-order-for-registrar-officials-101631562512170.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||SAD releases first list of 64 candidates, Sukhbir Badal to fight from Jalalabad||Taking yet another lead over rival parties, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday announced 64 candidates for the 2022 Punjab assembly polls, trying to striking a balance among the party’s old guards and fresh faces. The party will contest on 97 seats and spare 20 for its alliance partner Bahujan Samaj Party under a pre-poll deal. Party president Sukhbir Singh Badal will again seek people’s mandate from Jalalabad. However, the names of party’s patriarch and five-time chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia, representing Lambi and Majitha constituencies, respectively, are not there in the list. Youth Akal Dal president Parambans Singh Banti Romana will be SAD candidate from Faridkot. Of the 64 names listed on Monday, 22 had already been announced by party president Sukhbir Badal during party’s outreach programme (Gal Punjab Di) launched on August 18 and suspended on September 3 after farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws made attempts to disrupt the Akali poll meetings. According to party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema, winnability is the key criteria and party’s political affairs committee has also looked into a candidate’s personal credentials and stature in the constituency. The party has also got a survey done before finalising candidates. Among the old guards who have got the green signal to take the electoral plunge again in 2022 include Tota Singh (Dharamkot), Janmeja Singh Sekhon (Zira), Daljit Singh Cheema (Ropar), Maheshinder Singh Grewal (Ludhiana West), Sikander Singh Maluka (Rampura Phul), Gulzar Singh Ranike (Attari-SC), and Adaish Partap Singh Kairon (Patti). Kairon was staking claim on Khem Karan seat that went to Virsa Singh Valtoha. Tota Singh’s son Barjinder Singh is a candidate from Moga. Five candidates in the list are those who switched sides to join Akali Dal. They are: Anil Joshi (Amritsar-North) and RK Gupta (Sujanpur) who came from the BJP, and former Congress leaders Jagbir Brar (Jaladhar Cantonment), Hansraj Josan (Fajilka) and Jagmeet Brar (Maur). The party has fielded nine new faces in Kulwant Singh Kanta (Barnala), Talbir Gill (Amritsar South), Sarabjot Singh Saabi (Mukerian), PS Dhillon (Samrala), Charanjeet Brar (Rajpura), Satnam Singh Rahi (Bhadaur), Prem Arora (Mansa), Chandan Grewal (Jalandhar Central) and Pritpal Singh Pali (Ludhiana Central). Of the party’s 14 sitting MLAs, names of eight figure in the list. They are: Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi (Muktsar), NK Sharma (Dera Bassi), Sharanjit Singh Dhillon (Sahnewal), Pawan Tinu (Adampur-SC), Gurpartap Singh Wadala (Nakodar) Sukhwinder Sukhi Banga (SC), Manpreet Singh Ayali (Dakha) and Harinder Pal Singh Chandumajra (Sanour). Other than Badal Senior and Bikram Singh Majithia, Sardoolgarh MLA Dilraj Singh Bhunder is waiting announcement of his candidature. More than half of the names in the list are of those who had lost the 2017 elections. The list has only one woman candidate in Vaninder Kaur Loomba who is a candidate from Shutrana-SC constituency. She, too, had lost the election in 2017. Here’s the complete list:Raj Kumar Gupta – Sujanpur Gurbachan Singh Babehali – Gurdaspur Amarpal Singh Bonny – Ajnala Malkiat Singh AR – Jandiala Anil Joshi – Amritsar North Dr Dalbir Singh Verka – Amritsar West Talbir Singh Gill - Amritsar South Gulzar Singh Ranike – Attari (SC) Harmeet Singh Sandhu – Tarn Taran Virsa Singh Valtoha – Khem Karan AdaishPartap Singh Kairon - Patti Baldev Singh Khaira - Phillaur Gurpartap Singh Wadala - Nakodar Chandan Grewal - Jalandhar Central Jagbir Singh Brar - Jalandhar Cantt Pawan Kumar Tinu - Adampur (SC) Sarabjeet Singh Saabi - Mukerian Sohan Singh Thandal - Chabbewal (SC) Surinder Singh Bhulewal Rathan – Garhshankar Sukhwinder Singh Sukhi - Banga (SC) Daljeet Singh Cheema - Ropar Ranjit Singh Gill – Kharar Jagdeep Singh Cheema - Fatehgarh Sahib Gurpreet Singh Raju Khanna - Amloh Paramjeet Singh Dhillon – Samrala Sharanjit Singh Dhillon – Sahnewal Ranjit Singh Dhillon - Ludhiana East Harish Rai Danda - Atam Nagar Pritpal Singh Pali - Ludhiana Central Maheshinder Singh Grewal - Ludhiana West Darshan Singh Shivalik – Gill (SC) Manpreet Singh Ayali – Dakha SR Kaler – Jagraon (SC) Teerath Singh Mahla - Bhagha Purana Makhan Barjinder Singh - Moga Tota Singh – Dharamkot Janmeja Singh Sekhon – Zira Joginder Singh Jindu - Firozpur Rural Vardev Singh Noni Maan - Guru Har Sahai Sukhbir Singh Badal - Jalalabad Hans Raj Josan - Fazilka Hardeep Singh Dimpy – Gidderbaha Harpreet Singh Kot Bhai - Malout Kanwarjeet Singh Rozy Barkandi – Muktsar Parambans Singh Bunty Romana – Faridkot Mantar Singh Brar - Kotkapura Suba Singh Badal – Jaitu Sikander Singh S Maluka – Rampura Phul Darshan Singh Kotfatta – Bucho Mandi Sarup Singla - Bathinda Urban Prakash Singh Bhatti - Bathinda Rural Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu – Talwandi Sabo Jagmeet Singh Brar - Maur Prem Kumar Arora – Mansa Gulzar Singh Gulzari – Dirba Satnam Singh Rahi – Bhadaur Kulwant Singh Kanta – Barnala Iqbal Singh Jhunda – Amargarh Kabir Dass – Nabha Charanjit Singh Brar - Rajpura NK Sharma – Dera Bassi Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra - Sanour Surjit Singh Rakhra- Samana Vaninder Kaur Loomba – Shutrana||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-releases-first-list-of-64-candidates-sukhbir-badal-to-fight-from-jalalabad-101631562454671.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Steel traders rue spate of robberies, police inaction||Disappointed over a spate of burglaries and police inaction, steel traders in the city reached police commissioner Naunihal Singh’s office on Monday and handed over keys of their shops and godowns to him in protest.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa met the traders and assured them of action. He also told them to increase night patrolling in the area to deter burglaries.Ravinderpal Singh, president of Ludhiana steel and traders association said that the burglars had struck atleast four times in the past one month in his shop and godown. The burglars were captured on CCTV and we have handed over the footage to the police, but to no avail, he said.He added that on Sunday, the burglars had targeted Patel Iron store, but fled without stealing anything after the labourers woke up. They later targeted another iron store in the market, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-steel-traders-rue-spate-of-robberies-police-inaction-101631562272326.html
14-09-2021||Other||Bathinda launches helpline to report drug abuse||Bathinda Police have released a dedicated phone number 75080-18218 for any complaint or assistance related to drug abuse. IGP Jaskaran Singh said on Monday people may share video/photo on WhatsApp or call to share any input related to drug trafficking. The helpline will also respond to medical assistance needed by the substance dependents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bathinda-launches-helpline-to-report-drug-abuse-101631562212199.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Centre releases ₹491 crore to Punjab, Haryana & UP to tackle stubble burning||Funds to the tune of ₹491 crore have been released to three states of Punjab Haryana and Uttar Pradesh ahead of harvesting of kharif crops for tackling the stubble burning issue, agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal said on Monday. A meeting with representatives of Punjab and Haryana governments will be held soon in this regard, he said. Harvesting of paddy, the main kharif crop, will begin from October onwards. The stubble burning in northern India has long been a major cause of air pollution even as the central government has spent ₹2,245.17 crore to address this issue in the last four years. Speaking to reporters, Agarwal said the states have also been asked to allow gram sabhas to open custom hiring centres so that small farmers can have access to machines and equipment used in the management of crop residue. In the 2021-22 financial year, the central government released ₹491 crore funds to Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh for tackling the stubble burning issue. Of that, ₹235 crore has been released to Punjab, ₹141 crore to Haryana and ₹115 crore to Uttar Pradesh, he said. In the last four years, a total of ₹1,050.68 crore has been released to Punjab, ₹640.9 crore to Haryana, ₹489.08 crore to Uttar Pradesh and ₹4.52 crore to Delhi for this purpose. The fund has been released as part of a central scheme on promotion of agri-mechanisation for the management of crop residue in these states. Consequently, about 21,125 custom hiring centres were opened in Punjab and 4,224 centres in Haryana, the secretary said. Besides, a mobile app was launched for the benefit of farmers to ascertain which custom hiring centre was having what kinds of machines and equipment, he said, and added many farmers are taking advantage of these centres. Besides giving subsidies for buying machines and setting up of custom hiring centres, the government is creating awareness among farmers on this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-releases-rs-491-crore-to-punjab-haryana-up-to-tackle-stubble-burning-101631562151966.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Drug racket being operated by Ludhiana central jail inmate busted, two held||A Special Task Force (STF) team arrested two drug peddlers on Monday and recovered 945-gram heroin from their possession. According to STF officials, the drug supply racket was being operated by an inmate lodged in Ludhiana Central Jail.The accused have been identified as Arjan Singh alias Garry, 26, and Manpreet Singh alias Mani, 18, both residents of Mohalla Azad Nagar, Dhuri Lines, Model Town.Based on provided by the STF the jail staff recovered a mobile phone from Gurlal Singh alias Gopi, who is already facing trial in a drug peddling case.Inspector Harbans Singh, in-charge of STF, Ludhiana Range, said the police arrested the duo following a tip-off as they were going towards Dholewal Chowk to supply the consignment. Their motorcycle has also been seized.During questioning, it was revealed that Arjan was arrested in a case of attempt to murder and lodged in Central Jail, where he had come in contact with Gurlal, who has been lodged in jail in the past two years. Arjan Singh was bailed out in June 2021 and started supplying drugs for Gurlal Singh.The Inspector added that Gurlal was using a mobile phone in the jail, from where he used to operate the racket. He added that they will bring Gurlal on a production warrant for questioning.A case under sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of NDPS Act was registered against the accused at STF police station, Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-racket-being-operated-by-ludhiana-central-jail-inmate-busted-two-held-101631561853527.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sector 27 robbery in Chandigarh: Two main accused still at large||The police have no clue about the whereabouts of the main suspects involved in a robbery, committed in broad daylight, in which a model-turned-actor was held captive in her house at knifepoint in Sector 27 on September 7.Six days on, the suspects, Arjun, alias Nepali, and Arjun Kumar, are yet to be arrested. Meanwhile, their accomplice Sunil, alias Bihari, who is presently in five-day police custody, told the police that they had planned to escape to Nepal, but owing to lack of communication their plan could not materialise. Co-accused Prem, alias Motu, who had stood guard outside the house, was also arrested.As per sources, the trio had planned to meet in Delhi after escaping from the city and then go to Nepal. They were to travel separately to avoid being arrested.The trio had entered the house of the 27-year-old model-turned-actor, who works as an interior designer, while she was alone in the house on September 7; the main door had been left open for domestic help.Holding the woman captive at knifepoint, they had taken her ATM card and forced her to give up the PIN number. The woman had saved herself by locking herself in the bathroom and later she had handed over ₹6 lakh cash to the accused after they tried to cut the mesh of the bathroom window.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sector-27-robbery-in-chandigarh-two-main-accused-still-at-large-101631561852089.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Malerkotla man helps Pakistani spy have access to army WhatsApp groups, held||Ludhiana A factory worker from Malerkotla was arrested by Ludhiana police allegedly for working as a conduit of a Pakistani intelligence operative (PIO), purportedly a woman, and facilitating her access to WhatsApp groups of Indian army. The woman spy managed to get access to two WhatsApp groups of army officials and she was in contact with seven personnel, whom she had honey-trapped, police said. The accused has been identified as Jaswinder Singh of Uchi Daud village of Maloud. The accused allegedly gave his three WhatsApp numbers to her for use in lieu of ₹10,000, which he received through ‘Phone Pe’ mobile app. Also audio messages reveal that she was tasking him to go to Jaipur to collect a compact disc (CD), police said. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said they received an input from Air Force intelligence unit in Jodhpur. “It has come to light that Jaswinder was in touch with the PIO who had introduced herself as Jasleen Brar from Bathinda. She was using WhatsApp numbers activated through one-time passwords (OTPs) provided by Jaswinder to honey-trap army personnel. WhatsApp chats have confirmed that she was in contact with seven defence personnel,” said the DCP. “The analysis of WhatsApp chats is being done. The PIO managed to get entry into two WhatsApp groups of defence personnel, namely ‘Western CMD mutual posting’ and ‘MES information update’,” Dhindsa said. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Official Secret Act has been registered at Division 6 police station in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/malerkotla-man-helps-pakistani-spy-have-access-to-army-whatsapp-groups-held-101631561733329.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Placement camp in Ludhiana: 1,409 get jobs||Under the Punjab government’s Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission, the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises, Ludhiana, organised a placement camp at Gulzar Group of Institutes in Khanna on Monday.MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli inaugurated the job fair, while Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh was a special guest on the occasion. A total of 37 companies participated in the placement camp where 1,409 youngsters were recruited. The participating companies included RBI, LIC, Axis Bank, Coca Cola, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, New Era Machines, Andalisis Tokyo Life, Innov, Vast Linkers, Capital Trust, Star Health Insurance, Airtel, Just Dial, Sport king and Flipkart. Kotli said the Punjab Government is collaborating with national and international companies to provide employment to youngsters.Gurkirat Singh, executive director of Gulzar Group, said this job fair has brought the best employment opportunities for the youth of the region. He added that GGI also conducts placement drives on its campus from time to time and arrangements are also made for students of surrounding institutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/placement-camp-in-ludhiana-1-409-get-jobs-101631561677972.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Absent staff, violation of Covid norms found at govt hospitals||Staff missing from duty, violation of Covid guidelines and consumption on liquor on hospital premises were some of the findings during the inspection of healthcare facilities by Chandigarh health secretary Yashpal Garg on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. During his visit to the Manimajra civil hospital, the health secretary observed that most of the medical staffers were not wearing masks while performing their duties. At ESI Hospital, the emergency medical officer was found sleeping. The security officers there complained that they have not received their salaries since February this year. However, at the civil hospitals in sectors 22 and 45, medical officers and healthcare staffers were found attending patients as per the duty roster.The secretary said a warning has been issued to the defaulters and no action has been taken against the staffers who were found absent from their duties or were busy using their mobile phones since this was the first surprise visit by the senior officials. There will be frequent surprise inspections, which will be followed by appropriate actions against the officials found guilty of misconduct or lapses. Meanwhile, during the inspection of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32, Garg observed that two cars were illegally parked in front of the oxygen generation plant in which six men were consuming liquor. “The men were arguing loudly and using abusive language. When asked about their purpose of visit, they said they had come to the hospital just to eat food from the canteen. They seemed to be frequent visitors,” the health secretary said. The secretary also wrote a letter to the Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP) and asked him to take necessary action against the men for trespassing and other undesired activities on the hospital premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-absent-staff-violation-of-covid-norms-found-at-govt-hospitals-101631561313871.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Govt schools struggle to accommodate students during mid-term exams||In the absence of space and adequate infrastructure, a few government schools were seen struggling to accommodate students who turned up to take their mid-term exams on Monday . At these schools, students had to take the exams outdoors while sitting on mats on the floor or on benches. This is the first time that students appeared for exams in the physical mode after schools reopened since they were shut down in view of the pandemic outbreak. There was heavy rush at the schools and some students were also seen without masks. The education department has been pushing schools to ensure maximum enrolment, but adequate infrastructure to manage a large student strength is not available at some of these institutes.Out of 2,188 students enrolled in Classes 3 to 5 at Government Primary School, Giaspura, a total of 2,142 appeared for the exams on Monday. Students there were seen taking the exams on benches outdoors.“We require more rooms as the enrolment is continuously increasing. Though we are getting grants from the education department and also a few renowned private firms, we still need more space,” said Nisha Rani, head teacher of GPS, Giaspura.Meanwhile, the situation was no different in Government High School, Gaispura, where over 70 students were seen taking examinations in a classroom despite exams being held in two shifts. While exams for Classes 8 and 10 were conducted in the first shift, Classes 6,7 and 9 appeared in the second. “Our school has been jam packed after students from nearby private schools took admission here following the Covid outbreak. There is also shortage of staff ,” a teacher at GHS, Gaispura, said. On visiting Punjab Agricultural University primary school, Mangat-1, a few students were seen taking exams sitting on the floor. Heavy rush was also witnessed at PAU Government School, where over 5,000 students are enrolled including 1,560 from Classes from 1 to 5.“Not all the students were attending school as their parents are reluctant to send them. But most of them turned up, leading to heavy rush,” said principal Sanjeev Thapar.Despite numerous efforts, district education officer Lakhvir Singh Samra could not be reached for comments.The district education department had announced on Saturday the datesheet for the exams, which is being conducted for students of Classes 3 to 10 and Class 12.  The mid-term exams are aimed towards preparing students of Classes 3, 5, 8 and 10 for the National Achievement Survey (NAS) and for the annual final exams in March 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-govt-schools-struggle-to-accommodate-students-during-mid-term-exams-101631561312579.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU campus reopens: Departments see bleak response on Day 1||A few departments of Panjab University (PU) that reopened on Monday witnessed a bleak response from students with only a few showing up on the first day.In the first phase, the campus reopened for final-year postgraduate students of physics and chemistry departments and the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) and dental college.At UIPS, as many as 27 final-year students of MPharm attended offline classes on the first day while more than 20 students of MSc (third semester) attended their theory and project work in the department of chemistry. The physics department, however, conducted online classes on Monday as well.Chairperson of the chemistry department, Dr KN Singh, said that around 25-30 students will start attending labs by the end of the week: “The students are applying for hostel accommodation,” the university said.Moreover offline classes for third year BDS (regular batch) also began at PU’s dental college. Examination for the first year BDS students was also conducted on Monday in an physical mode. Dr Hemant Batra, Principal of dental college said that all the students reported/appeared. “Dental College is already functional as per the guidelines of dental council of India (DCI).More students to joinIt is expected that more students will join the departments in the coming days. “More students are in the process of arranging for their travel and accommodation and are expected to join by next week,” the university said in an official communique.Chairperson of the department of physics Dr Rajeev Puri said, “Many students approached for hostel accommodation and opening of laboratories, however, only online classes continued on Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-campus-reopens-departments-see-bleak-response-on-day-1-101631561252037.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hospitality dept ready to implement e-office||Chandigarh administration’s hospitality department will be implementing e-office completely in Guest House 1 and 2 by the next week Training to the hospitality staff to implement e-office was imparted by NIC, Chandigarh on Monday. “Through this environment-friendly initiative, not only has the efficiency increased, but it has also ushered them into more transparency, accountability and time-bound delivery of services,” said a UT spokesperson.As per the SOPs, dak receipts will be centralised at the reception and all such correspondences are to be scanned and converted into e-dak. The reception will forward the e-dak to the officer concerned through e-office module.Mega vax drive in PanchkulaAs many as 12,340 people were vaccinated on the first day of the mega vaccination drive in Panchkula. Camps are being held at 87 places in the district while a mobile van is being used in the far-off areas. Of these, 6,577 people got the first shot and 5,763 were administered the second dose. Now, cheaper lab tests in Mohali  Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday inaugurated radiology and laboratory diagnostic services in Mohali district, which will provide medical tests at 70% lower charges as compared to private laboratories. These ultra-modern centers are being opened in various hospitals through private-public partnership across the state.Elderly farmer attacked in Kaimbwala A 65-year-old farmer was attacked in Kaimbwala village in Chandigarh, the police said on Monday. In his complaint, victim Prem Chand said that on September 12, two boys on an e-rickshaw came and started arguing outside his farm. He shooed them away, but the next say, the duo, Ankit Kumar and Bimlesh, alias Bagula, returned. He alleged that Ankit caught hold of him and Bimlesh attacked him with a pointed weapon. Prem was rushed to GMSH-16. A case was registered.Three women among 8 held for gambling Chandigarh Police have arrested eight people, including three women, for gambling in different parts of the city. Shabnam, 42, Neetu, 35, and Jyoti, 27, were held while gambling in a park in Sector 25. Police recovered ₹46,000 from their possession. Later, they were released on bail. The other accused have been identified as Ramdev, Neel Kamal, Suraj, Sunny and Rajinder Kumar, who were held in two separate cases.14-yr-old girl goes missing A 14-year-old girl has gone missing from her house in Mauli Jagran, Chandigarh. The complaint was lodged by her father, who said she has been missing since September 11. Man held with illicit liquor Chandigarh Police have arrested a 56-year-old man for possessing 12 bottles of countrymade liquor . Identified as Samim Khan of Sector 56, he was caught near the market in Sector 40. He was later granted bail.Exhibition on freedom struggle A three-day exhibition on Haryana’s contribution to the India’s independence movement was inaugurated at the community centre in Ambala City’s Vasant Vihar on Monday. Several postcards and telegrams of the then British officials about the mutiny and independence struggle are on display besides information of rulers from the state who played a role in the movement.Rotary health centre inaugurated  A free charitable health centre was inaugurated by senior Rotarian RK Saboo at Sector 7C gurdwara in Chandigarh on Monday. The centre is a joint venture of Rotary Classic Chandigarh Club and the gurdwara. Club president Dr MP Singh Surgeon said initially, free consultation will be given from 10am to 12pm.Two PU pharmacy professors honouredTwo professors of Panjab University’s University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS), professor Bhupinder Singh Bhoop and professor Om Prakash Katare, have been felicitated with pharma excellence and pharma recognition awards, respectively, by PHARMA LOK. Both the professors have to their credit several publications, books and patents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-hospitality-dept-ready-to-implement-eoffice-101631561192050.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Former PAU professor passes away at 58 following brief illness||Satwant Kaur Gosal, ex-professor of microbiology at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), passed away on Sunday at the age of 58 after a brief illness.She was the wife of Dr SS Gosal, former director of research at PAU and a member of the varsity’s board of management. PAU vice-chancellor Anirudh Tiwari, registrar RS Sidhu, director of research NS Bains, director of extension education JS Mahal and other faculty members and students of PAU also expressed their heartfelt condolences. GS Kocher, head, department of microbiology, said, “Professor Gosal joined as assistant soil microbiologist at the department of soils in 1992. Thereafter, she worked as assistant professor at the department of microbiology in 1995 and was promoted to professor (microbiology) in 2009. In total, Gosal served for over 30 years and had sought voluntary retirement earlier this year.“||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-pau-professor-passes-away-at-58-following-brief-illness-101631560951874.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Kharar: Revenue dept stops land registries at Sunny Enclave||The Mohali revenue department has stopped land registries for new constructions at Sunny Enclave in Kharar for violating pollution norms.Promoted by Bajwa Developers Private Limited, the project has been developed in two parts in Sectors 123 and 125 that have around 3,500 houses and 1,000 commercial units each. The revenue department action came after the Punjab Pollution Control Board found that the developer had not taken environment clearance for both the projects and directed it to stop land registries.Besides this, the revenue department has also stopped land registries in two villages – Hasanpur and Manana, which also fall in Sector 123, Kharar.“The action has been taken under Section 33A of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act 1974, as the developer failed to get environment clearance from the PPCB and violated pollution norms,” said district revenue officer Gurjinder Singh Benipal.The violationsIn a letter to the revenue department, the PPCB stated that the project in Sector 125 is situated on both sides of the Airport Road and the developer has not provided any boundary wall to bifurcate the plotted development projects. The project proponent has installed reserved land of about 0.5064 acres for setting up a sewerage treatment plant (STP), but no construction work has been stated, resultantly, the entire wastewater is treated through the existing STP in the Old Sunny Enclave. As its capacity is not adequate, ultimately wastewater is being discharged into Jyanti Ki Rao drain. Also, the project is spread over more than 50 hectares of land, for which environment clearance is mandatory, the letter said.Sunny Enclave managing director Jarnail Singh Bajwa’s advocate Dinesh Kumar Sharma said: “We have already applied for the clearances, and hopefully, the issue will be sorted out soon.”, he said.In July this year, the revenue department had stopped the land registries of 23 housing colonies. after they defaulted on the regularisation fee to the tune of ₹3 crore. Around 3,000 houses have been constructed in these colonies, which are mostly located in Gazipur, Bhabat, Nabha, Peer Muchala, Kishanpura and Nagla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khararrevenue-dept-stops-land-registries-at-sunny-enclave-101631560832445.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Congress workers join AAP||A number of Chandigarh Congress workers joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday. The leaders who joined the AAP included Chandigarh Pradesh Congress state secretary Yadvinder Mehta, Congress’ social media cell’s district president Ujjval Bhasin, executive member Bharat Bhushan Arora, former president of Chandigarh Mahila Congress Anita Sharma, Youth Congress president from ward number 17 Manandeep Bhardwaj and leaders Kamlesh Chaudhary and Roselyn Kaur. Welcoming the Congress leaders into the party fold, senior AAP leader Jarnail Singh said, “The Chandigarh team is working efficiently and getting strengthened day by day ahead of the MC elections. It will fight the elections and emerge as a strong and organised team.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-congress-workers-join-aap-101631560651932.html
14-09-2021||Other||Fertiliser maker’s warehouse sealed after spurious stock detected||Ludhiana The district unit of the department of agriculture and farmer welfare raided the warehouse of a fertiliser manufacturer in Jagraon on Monday, and seized large quantities of spurious pesticides and fertilisers. The raid was conducted after persistent complaints from farmers in the area. It was the second such raid over the past ten days, when spurious stock has been detected. “The manufacturer was keeping a huge stock of pesticides that he had not authorised to make. The company owner had not sought licences for the pesticides he was making. He did not even seek the agriculture department’s approval for building the warehouse, where he was storing the pesticides,” said Ludhiana chief agriculture officer Narinder Singh Benipal. He added that the samples of pesticides had been sent for testing to the laboratory and the warehouse had been seized. The team included Jagraon agriculture officer, Garjesh Bhargav, Dr Jatinder Singh, Dr Raminder Singh, Dr Jaswany Singh and Dr Shab Ahmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fertiliser-maker-s-warehouse-sealed-after-spurious-stock-detected-101631560472202.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala residents protest over no dues certificate issue||Led by councillor Tony Chaudhary, Ambala residents staged a protest over the difficulty in obtaining no dues certificates for property registration, outside the municipal corporation office on Monday.The issue was also highlighted by several councillors at the MC House meeting last month, and mayor Shakti Rani Sharma heard around 250 such complaints during a Janata Darbar last week. A no dues certificate states that there are no outstanding dues on the property concerned, and protects the buyer while also enabling municipal authorities to maintain updated records.Chaudhary alleged that the MC is intentionally harassing locals in the name of these certificates by raising unnecessary objections. “There are several approved colonies in the MC area which are being shown as unapproved,” he alleged.The main bone of contention is Section 7A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act. Citing its breach, the applications are being denied. “This is an undue objection as the colonies have been approved by the state government in 2014 and the department of town and country planning has no say in this. The breach is valid when a new colony is carved out,” said Chaudhary. Aman Handa, deputy municipal commissioner, denied that there was any issue concerning certificates. “People can apply for it online and the certificate will be issued in 10 working days,” he said. Commenting on the contentious section, he said: “There is no breach. When a colony is approved, all such acts are nullified. To rectify the problem, I’ve written to the higher authorities, which will soon issue a clarification to departments concerned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-residents-protest-over-no-dues-certificate-issue-101631560412061.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Pinjore man held for bank fraud||A resident of Pinjore was arrested for defrauding a bank by taking a loan on the basis of forged documents, the police said on Monday.The complaint was registered by one Sunil Malhotra, the manager of Punjab National Bank (PNB) in Burail village, who alleged that PNB sanctioned cash credit and book debts facility of ₹65 lakh, which was enhanced to ₹75 lakh, to Best Trading Company Proprietorship of accused Harvinder Singh, 53.The company was engaged in the business of trading in papers on June 14, 2013, at MS Enclave Dhakoli in Zirakpur. All the necessary documents were executed on June 14, 2013, at PNB branch in Burail, Sector 45.The repayment of loan was secured at the personal guarantee of Harvinder Singh while the loan was collateral secured by registered mortgage of immovable property, owned by Harvinder Singh, located in Ashok Nagar near Friends Colony, Ludhiana, in favour of the bank.The complainant alleged that after obtaining the loan from the bank, accused Harvinder Singh did not return it and the account was declared NPA on July 28, 2015, for the amount of ₹82 lakh. The accused was booked on July 18, 2017, under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pinjore-man-held-for-bank-fraud-101631560351942.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court acquits Maharashtra CMO accountant of forging travel bills after 25 years||Twenty five years after he was charged for cheating and forging of travel allowance bills in the names of his colleagues, a metropolitan magistrate court on Monday acquitted an accountant working in the chief minister’s office (CMO). The court, observed that the prosecution had “miserably failed” to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. Several personal assistants (PA) and personal secretaries (PS) to the chief minister (CM) had deposed as witnesses, but did not support the prosecution case.The case was registered in 1996 by Sadashiv Bhatkhande, the then joint director in the funds and accounts department of CMO. The accused, Vinayak Damle, used to work as an accountant and prepare all the travel allowance (TA) bills of CM’s personal secretaries.It was alleged that TA bills of ₹62,540 and ₹32,498 of two particular personal secretaries were submitted and shown as received by them. However, both had claimed that they had not received the money and that somebody might have committed a fraud, after which a case was registered.It was alleged after the investigation that the accused had submitted fake travel programme and misappropriated an amount of ₹95,038. The Cuffe Parade police further learnt that the accused had also submitted separate false TA bills of ₹12,326, ₹23,363, ₹82,925, ₹7,480 and ₹24,705 in the name of some other CMO staffers and misappropriated a total amount of ₹3.45 lakh.Damle was charged in 2003 for cheating, forgery and criminal breach of trust. He had pleaded not guilty and requested that he be tried.The counsel for the accused argued that the very basic documentary proof the original documents have not been brought on record by the prosecution, in the absence of which Damle cannot be connected with the alleged crime. According to the counsel, “The prosecution has failed to prove the very fact that the accused was entrusted with the job of sanctioning TA bills. They have also not proved that it was the accused who had prepared false bills and withdrawn the money. The prosecution has not obtained the signature of the accused to verify with the handwriting expert. The prosecution witnesses – CMO staffers – did not support the prosecution.”The court had found that the chief examination of informant had taken place in 2007. In 2010, he had failed to come for cross-examination and later it was informed to the court that the informant had died. The accused had lost his opportunity to cross-examine the informant, that too for no fault of his, after which the court had refused to consider his evidence, as mere chief examination had taken place.Two personal secretaries of the then CM, whose TA bills were allegedly forged by the accused, also appeared before the court as witnesses. However, they did not support the prosecution. They further told the court that there were several clerks who had prepared TA bills, and whatever they had come to know about their bills also been forged, it was through the late informant. The investigating officer also admitted certain lacunas and prejudices in the entire probe. He admitted that the informant had not given him important documents at the time of lodging a first information report (FIR). He also admitted that he had not taken the specimen signature of the accused to match it with the forged bills.Metropolitan magistrate A V Kulkarni of the Esplanade Court observed that there are several lacunas in the entire investigation, which is based upon “hearsay evidence”. The investigation officer even went to the extent of admitting the fact that whatever is his conclusion about the alleged fraud in the instances of the accused is only based upon the information extended by the informant, the magistrate observed.The court further said that another investigating officer had accepted all the probe was carried as per the information given by the informant. He also accepted that every PAs and PSs of CM prepared their TA bills through their assistants.Judge Kulkarni observed in a detailed judgment that none of the witness possessed direct knowledge of the crime. Merely because the alleged misappropriation took place during the span of the service of the accused, it cannot be concluded automatically that the accused was responsible for the alleged preparation of forged bills and misappropriation, the judge observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-acquits-maharashtra-cmo-accountant-of-forging-travel-bills-after-25-years-101631560295025.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mercury jumps six notches in Chandigarh||After rainy weather over the weekend, maximum temperature went up from 28.4 degrees Celsius on Sunday to 34.5 degrees on Monday, one degree above normal, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). While chances for light rain will continue, temperature is likely to stay unchanged. An IMD official said, “Temperature had gone down on Sunday due to cloudy weather and rain throughout the day, but it has jumped back to normal now. Light rain up to 20mm is expected for the next few days but it is unlikely that maximum temperature will fall down this much again.”Minimum temperature also went up from 23.6 degrees on Sunday to 24.6 degrees on Monday. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 35 degrees and 36 degrees while minimum temperature will hover between 25 degrees and 26 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mercury-jumps-six-notches-in-chandigarh-101631560293413.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Seniority list: PU panel for reviewing draft prepared by varsity||A Panjab University (PU) panel on Monday decided to review in the next meeting the draft seniority list prepared by the varsity after it recommended some corrections to be made in it.The draft seniority list was prepared by the varsity’s establishment section. As PU has no such list, the panel was constituted to deliberate on the preparation of the seniority list of the faculty members. The panel is examining the placement of those faculty members on the seniority list who became professors from 2006.“Some technical issues were pointed out in the draft list. The committee will review it before finalising the list in the next meeting,” said a panel member on the condition of anonymity.It is expected that another meeting of the panel will be convened in a few days and the list will be finalised soon. After the approval from the committee, the list will be taken up in the syndicate and senate for the final approval.Purpose of seniority listThe seniority list of PU teachers is significant as the academic posts like dean research and dean university instruction (DUI) are filled on the basis of seniority. Even seniority plays a vital role during the house allotment on PU campus. The list was also tabled in the syndicate meeting earlier, but was not approved by the body after which a committee was formed.The preparation of the seniority list is also one of the long-pending demands of the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA).Meeting on digitisation of official recordsMeanwhile, a meeting of another panel was held on Monday regarding the digitisation of the official records of PU. The digitisation process was initiated a few years ago at the varsity, but was not completed due to some issues.Now, the varsity has again started the process to review the matter. “It was found that there already exists a committee in this regard. Now, it has been decided that the members of the new committee will work with the previous panel,” said a committee member.During the meeting on Monday, it was also decided that past records related to the digitisation project should be sought first to deliberate on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seniority-list-pu-panel-for-reviewing-draft-prepared-by-varsity-101631560112222.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali reports Covid death after 14 days||With a 60-year-old Kharar woman succumbing to Covid-19 on Monday, Mohali district reported a virus-related death after 14 days and for the first time this month. Last, it was on August 30 when a Covid-19 death was reported in Mohali. In Chandigarh, four patients have died this month, while Panchkula has reported no casualty. Meanwhile, the tricity reported 11 new cases on Monday, with six in Chandigarh and five in Mohali. Panchkula recorded no new case for the third day in a row.In Chandigarh, infections were reported from Sectors 15 and 45 besides Manimajra. In Mohali districts, three cases surfaced in Mohali city and two in Dhakoli. The active caseload stands at 88, with 41 patients in Mohali, 32 in Chandigarh and 15 in Panchkula. While recovery rate is above 98% across all three areas, daily positivity rate was recorded below 1%.Chandigarh has reported 65,160 cases, of which 64,311 have been cured and 817 people have died. In Panchkula, 30,701 have tested positive, 30,309 have recovered and 377 have died. In Mohali, 68,670 cases have surfaced, 67,568 have been discharged and 1,061 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-reports-covid-death-after-14-days-101631559991909.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate elections: ‘Got nod from all states, except one’||Panjab University (PU) on Monday told the Punjab and Haryana high court that it had got a nod for holding graduate constituency polls of the varsity senate from all states except Uttarakhand.The court was further told that polls are scheduled to be held on September 26 for which nods from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh and Rajasthan, Delhi have been obtained. Nod from Uttarakhand, where there is just one polling booth, is in process, if not granted, polls will be held as per schedule in other states, the court was told. PU had announced the poll schedule but later deferred the August 18 polls for the graduate constituency in view of non-availability of required polling booths. The registered graduate is the largest constituency with 3.6 lakh voters and 15 members are elected from it in seven states.The information was given during resumed hearing by the bench of justice AG Masih and justice Ashok Kumar Verma on a plea in which the varsity had challenged a March order asking the varsity to hold senate polls in two months. The matter will now be taken up again on October 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-elections-got-nod-from-all-states-except-one-for-graduate-constituency-polls-101631559881863.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: New UT home secretary joins office||Building up specialisation in police force to improve both law and order function and investigation capacities will be the top priority for new Chandigarh home secretary Nitin Kumar Yadav, who joined office on Monday. A 2000-batch Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer of the Haryana cadre, Yadav replaced Arun Kumar Gupta, who was relieved on August 31 after completion of his inter-cadre deputation. “Recruitment has to be pushed through. If we don’t have requisite number of people to man the forces, the efficiency will get affected. The division of work between law and order and investigation would require specialisation and adequate manpower,” said Yadav. Yadav on his first day in office also directed the director, prosecution, to make a robust mechanism for monitoring all the cases and quality of investigation being done. While announcing training workshops for police officials, he said, “The culprits should not go scot free because of faulty investigation. Our approach is quite clear, but it has to be streamlined and expedited.” On the traffic problems in the city, Yadav said, “Resolution of traffic issues through involvement of both police and transport departments will be undertaken comprehensively.”Involving the citizens also will be done on priority basis, he said, adding, “Our effort will be to make the administration citizen-centric. We will expedite the projects already in the pipeline. New projects will be brought up here keeping in mind the heritage and character of the city.” The three-year deputation period of Gupta, a Haryana cadre IAS officer of the 1992 batch, had ended in May, but due to surge in Covid cases, the UT administration had sought extension in his service for three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-new-ut-home-secretary-joins-office-101631559813109.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Decks cleared for walk-in aviary near Sukhna Lake||The decks have been cleared for setting up a walk-in aviary near Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh. “The ministry has given the go ahead for the project, as it doesn’t violate any prescribed rules for such a facility,” said UT adviser Dharam Pal. Earlier, the construction was suspended by the UT forest department on directions of the assistant inspector general (AIG) of forests, Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change. The issue involved whether the aviary is a zoo or not. “The ministry on Monday concluded that the aviary does not come under the purview of a zoo. They accepted our contention that it is not a zoo and it does not have any scheduled species,” said Pal. The ministry’s decision came after the appraisal committee of the central zoo authority under the ministry of environment inspected the site and interacted with UT forest department officials. Earlier, the AIG had intervened after a city-based RTI activist objected to the aviary, claiming it be like a cage for the birds. Animal rights activist and politician Maneka Gandhi had also raised objection to the project.The aviary is coming up at City Forest near Sukhna Lake and will house over 40 rare species of exotic birds. It will have separate enclosures for aquatic and terrestrial birds.  “Apart from free flight, the best possible natural habitat will be provided to the birds for nesting and breeding. It will become a major tourist attraction in the city,” said a forest official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-decks-cleared-for-walk-in-aviary-near-sukhna-lake-101631559631654.html
14-09-2021||Other||Public participation crucial for success of central schemes: Union minister Vaishnaw||As part of Centre’s public outreach programme for Jammu and Kashmir, the Union minister for railways and communications Ashwini Vaishnaw visited Reasi district on Monday. The minister interacted with the members of the women self-help groups and visited the stalls showcasing their products.In his address, Vaishnaw said the Centre was committed to providing basic facilities at the doorstep of the masses. He advised all the officers to work with an objective to ameliorate the hardships of the poor so that a qualitative improvement in their lives can be visible.He said people must avail the benefits of several schemes launched for their welfare, adding that community participation was required for the successful implementation of government programmes.“The central government’s initiative of public outreach in J&K has been rolled out with the objective of bridging the gap between the government and public,” the minister said.He interacted with representatives of the area and gave patient hearing to their demands and issues. Locals requested that all trains entering the UT should be extended up to Katra railway station.While taking note of the depletion of the water resources due to railway projects, the minister said a team of experts will visit Reasi in the coming weeks for a detailed scientific study and necessary measures shall be taken accordingly. Regarding employment in the railways, he assured that possibilities will be explored for maximum employment of the local youth.For ensuring universal internet access, all possible steps are being taken and scientific studies are being carried out for optimal utilisation of the existing telecom infrastructure. He said the Digital India campaign proved a boon for the students during the pandemic-induced lockdown.During his visit to Katra railway station, the minister laid the foundation stone for two new railway platforms, a washing line and other related works. Secretary, IT department, J&K, Amit Sharma and district development commissioner, Reasi, Charandeep Singh, also briefed the minister about the ongoing works in the district.Reasi DDC chairman Saraf Singh Nag, vice-chairperson Sajra Qadir, DDC members and BDC chairpersons, elected PRI representatives, among others, were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/public-participation-crucial-for-success-of-central-schemes-union-minister-vaishnaw-101631559453228.html
14-09-2021||Other||2kg heroin recovered along Pak border in Fazilka village||Moga District police, in a joint operation with the Border Security Force (BSF) foiled Pakistan-based smugglers’ bid to infiltrate into India territory by recovering 2kg heroin across the barbed wire fence near the Zero Line on the India-Pakistan border at the Yodha Bhaini village in Fazilka district, officials claimed on Monday. Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said a team of CIA Baghapurana had a tip-off that a consignment of contraband with 2kg heroin smuggled from Pakistan had been kept at the Zero-Line in Yodha Bhaini village. “The Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) team and the BSF recovered around 2kg of heroin. We are investigating its source, suppliers and also finding out the recipients of this contraband packet,” the SSP added. Inspector Tarlochan Singh, in-charge CIA Baghapurana, said a case has been registered against unidentified persons under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act at the Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2kg-heroin-recovered-along-pak-border-in-fazilka-village-101631559451726.html
14-09-2021||Other||Centre has ‘good dream’ for J&K’s development, says Barla||Union minister of state for minority affairs John Barla on Monday said that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government held a “good dream” for the development of Jammu and Kashmir.The minister, who reached Kupwara this morning for a two-day tour under the Union government’s public outreach programme, said the programme was aimed at understanding people’s basic problems for their timely resolution. Barla addressed a joint meeting of the District Development Council (DDC) members, chairpersons of Block Development Council (BDC), PRIs and the administration.“He assured that the requests, issues and grievances projected by PRIs, deputations and the public have been taken note of and will be put up with the government at Union level as well as with the lieutenant governor,” a government spokesman said.Appreciating the peaceful atmosphere and cooperative attitude of Kupwara’s people, the minister said some vested interests were misleading the rest of the country about the situation in Kashmir. Congratulating the PRIs and administration for successful establishment of the three-tier panchayati raj system, Barla said the system was available to the people of Jammu and Kashmir for the first time since Independence. He said the government was already working on various flagship programmes to develop the socio-economic status of people and a number of new schemes were also in pipeline. “It is also the joint responsibility of the administration and PRIs to boost the developmental tempo of the rural economy,” he added. “The need of the hour is to generate massive awareness regarding all welfare schemes so that the benefits of these schemes could percolate down to the grassroots level,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-has-good-dream-for-j-k-s-development-says-barla-101631559391986.html
14-09-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro to run 10 additional services from Wednesday. Check timings here||Kolkata Metro announced on Monday that it will operate 10 additional services on weekdays from September 15 onwards. With this, as many as 256 daily services will be provided to the commuters instead of the current 246, an official release informed.Of 256, a total of 128 trains will make their return trips. No change, however, has been made to the timings of the first and the last metro train of any given day.The first metro from Dum Dum to Dakshineshwar and vice-versa, and Dum Dum to Kavi Subhash and vice-versa, will depart from the originating stations at 7.30am. The last Kavi Subhash-bound metro will leave from Dakshineshwar at 9.18pm, while the last metro between Dum Dum and Kavi Subhash, and Kavi Subhash and Dakshineshwar will depart at 9.30pm, according to the release.Overall, metro services will remain operational between 7.30am and 10.30pm – including the time taken by the train to reach its destination station. Furthermore, as many as 148 services (74 in the up direction and 74 in the down) will operate between the Kavi Subhash and Dakshineshwar stations. Waiting time between trainsThe official release by the Kolkata Metro Railway informed that during the peak hours, services will run at an interval of five minutes from 9am to 10.30am in the up direction, and from 9am to 10am in the down direction. In the down direction, metro services will operate at an interval of five minutes between 10.30am and 11am. In the evening peak hours, services will run at a five-minute interval between 5pm and 6.30pm in the up direction and 5pm and 6pm in the down direction. “In down direction, metro services will also run at five minute-intervals from 6.30pm to 7pm,” the release read.
14-09-2021||Other||86 fresh Covid cases reported in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 86 fresh coronavirus (Covid-19) cases on Monday.Of these, 78 cases were from Kashmir while the Jammu division saw eight infections. Srinagar witnessed the highest count of 48 cases.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 124 with active positive cases reaching 1,247.Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 604 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 146 and 111 active cases, respectively.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,21,329 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.26%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,26,990 and the death-toll stands at 4,414.The officials said that 45,319 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/86-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-jk-101631559214914.html
14-09-2021||Other||Ultra shot dead in Rajouri, arms recovered||Security forces have shot dead a terrorist in Ghambir Mughlan area of Rajouri district, said officials.“A joint search operation was launched by the Indian Army and the Jammu and Kashmir Police in Gambir Mughlan area. During the search, the hiding terrorists opened fire at the search party which retaliated effectively. During the exchange of fire, an unidentified terrorist was neutralised,” said Rajouri district senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sheema Nabi Qasba.One AK-47 with two magazines, 32 rounds and one grenade were recovered, she added.In this regard, a case FIR number 141/2021 under Sections 307 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Section 13 of the ULA, and Sections 7 and 27 of the Arms Act was registered at Manjakote police station and investigation has been initiated, she said.The search operation is still on, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ultra-shot-dead-in-rajouri-arms-recovered-101631559091810.html
14-09-2021||Noida||5-foot-long cobra rescued from Noida varsity in Uttar Pradesh||A five-foot-long cobra was rescued from the premises of a technical institute in Sector 110 on Monday. The snake, coiled around a 20-foot pole on a football field, was spotted by the staff of the Maharishi University of Information Technology, officials said. Animal rescue and rehabilitation organisation Wildlife SOS rescued the snake and released it back into its natural habitat. “We received a call from the university about the snake at our helpline 9871963535,” said a statement from Wildlife SOS. According to authorities at Wildlife SOS, a two-member rescue team from the NGO’s rapid response unit was immediately dispatched to the spot. The team proceeded with caution to ensure the reptile did not suffer a potentially lethal fall from the pole, they said.“After two gruelling hours, the snake was safely extricated from the pole and transferred into a transportation carrier. Post a medical examination at the NGO’s transit facility, we released the snake back into its natural habitat,” the statement said.According to the forest department, the city houses several micro habitats to support snakes. “During the monsoon, snakes are spotted more frequently because their habitats are often affected due to rain. There are many snakes in the city area due to several habitats that support them. We urge people not to engage with the snakes if they spot any,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastav, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.“Cobra rescue calls, in general, need to be handled wit the utmost caution since cobras are venomous snakes. In this case, we had to be doubly cautious because the snake could have been severely injured if it fell from such a height. Our team is meticulously trained to carry out such precarious rescue operations keeping in mind the safety of the animal as well as the public,” said Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/5footlong-cobra-rescued-from-noida-varsity-in-uttar-pradesh-101631558852843.html
14-09-2021||Other||Gurdas Maan moves HC, seeking anticipatory bail||Chandigarh Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan has approached the Punjab and Haryana high court, seeking anticipatory bail in an alleged case of hurting religious sentiments. On September 8, a Jalandhar court had dismissed his plea for the same. Maan was booked under Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code at Nakodar city police station in Jalandhar on August 26. During a religious fair in Nakodar on August 24, Maan had described Ladi Shah of Dera Baba Murad Shah as a descendant of the third Sikh master, Guru Amar Das. When a social media campaign started against his statement, Maan uploaded a video on social media, offering an apology for his statement. However, an FIR was registered against him. He has argued that no offence under Section 295A of the IPC can be made out against him. It has to be demonstrated that an act has been committed with deliberate and malicious intention, in order to outrage the religious feelings of any class of citizens and such act insults or attempts to insult the religion or the religious beliefs of that class. “In the present case, the FIR prima facie fails to disclose that the essential ingredients of offence, were made out,” his plea states. The plea adds that the trial court judge apparently got ‘influenced by the show of public outcry, generated by some sections through a sustained campaign’. “As a humble Sikh and a sensitive citizen, the petitioner made a widely circulated public apology, as detailed hereinabove. His words ought to be interpreted in the total background of his lifelong devotion to the venerable Sikh Gurus and to the principles of Sikhism,” the plea, which will be taken up later this week, states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurdas-maan-moves-hc-seeking-anticipatory-bail-101631558851710.html
14-09-2021||Other||J&K BJP chief Ravinder Raina condemns young SI’s killing||The Jammu and Kashmir BJP chief Ravinder Raina on Monday strongly condemned the killing of the sub-inspector (SI) Arshad Ahmad Mir by Pakistani terrorists and said “his death will be avenged.”“Coward Pakistani terrorists have yet again bled Kashmir with the blood of a young and dynamic officer Arshad Ahmad Mir. He was shot in the back. The Kashmiri youth was serving in the police force in right earnest. He was a true patriot who fought the Pakistani terrorists,” Raina said.“His sacrifice won’t go in vain and his death will be avenged. Our forces are eliminating these terrorists and that is why they have become desperate. The remaining terrorists will be eliminated and Kashmir will be freed of terrorism once for all,” he added.Meanwhile, activists of Dogra Front and Shiv Sena, under the leadership of their president Ashok Gupta, took out a protest rally in Jammu and burnt Pakistan’s flag. Gupta called the incident tragic.“We have lost a young and brave officer who had just joined services. He was learning the nuances of policing. He was deputed to a hospital for check-up of an accused and while he was coming back, he was shot in the back,” said Gupta.“I strongly condemn the brutal killing of the cop by terrorists. This is the handiwork of enemies of humanity and peace. His supreme sacrifice won’t go in vain,” Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-bjp-chief-ravinder-raina-condemns-young-si-s-killing-101631558792831.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||NGO in Mumbai objects to use of herbicides in Powai lake||A Mumbai-based environment group on Monday wrote to authorities, strongly objecting to the use of herbicides to clear the growth of water hyacinths in Powai lake. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had in August floated a tender for removal of water hyacinths at Ganesh Ghat, Pawarwadi and other areas to make space for immersion activities during Ganesh Chaturthi. “Our preliminary enquiries with locals have revealed that as part of the preparations for immersion of Ganpati idols, the lake boundaries are being cleared to facilitate easy and safe immersion of the idols. BMC is undertaking this exercise. This may be needed considering the safety aspect of the devotees as the lake is a crocodile habitat. However, the point of serious concern here is that instead of manual removal of the water hyacinth, a herbicide has been sprayed on the vegetation,” wrote Stalin D, director of non-governmental organisation Vanashakti, in Monday’s letter. Herbicides typically contain a chemical known as glyphosate, which can pose adverse toxicological effects on flora and fauna, especially in aquatic ecosystems. Depending on the extent of use, it may lead to an increase in the water body’s phosphorus content, which in turn will lead to the proliferation of algae and exacerbate eutrophication. This can reduce the ability of zooplankton to reproduce in turn for other biodiversity to thrive. “This kind of a dangerous chemical should never have been used in a wildlife habitat of a Schedule I protected species (Indian marsh crocodile) under the Indian Wildlife Protection Act (1972). We urge you to immediately direct the stoppage of this practice and take action against those responsible,” wrote Stalin in his letter, addressed to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, BMC and the forest department. Satellite images and ground observations by environmentalists and citizens reveal that the issue of water hyacinths in Powai lake is worsening rapidly, with a large part of the water spread now having been subsumed under the growth of this invasive weed, which thrives in polluted environments – in this case, due to the dumping of raw sewage into Powai lake. Several citizens have previously drawn attention to this development, and called for a comprehensive plan to address the cause of these hyacinths, which are a clear indicator of environmental degradation. However, it has also been cautioned that simply removing these weeds is not enough to restore the health of the lake. “The water hyacinths no doubt reduce the levels of the lake and reduce its boundaries, but at the same time they also remove organic pollutants and heavy metals in the lake. If the hyacinths are removed without tackling the issue of pollution due to discharge of sewage, the move will be counterproductive,” Stalin explained, while also advocating for the area to be handed over to the forest department for safekeeping. “It is most important that the entire area becomes a conservation zone under the custody of the forest department. A joint forestry model may be activated with the help of the forest department, BMC and other stake holders like the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, which abuts a large part of the lake, to conserve the area,” he said. Forest department and MPCB officials as well as Ajay Rathore, chief engineer of BMC’s hydraulic department, did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment on Vanashakti’s letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ngo-in-mumbai-objects-to-use-of-herbicides-in-powai-lake-101631558731637.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Coal price hike: Mohali brick kiln owners to stop production from October 1||The members of the Mohali District Brick Kiln Owners’ Association on Monday announced that owing to coal price hike, they will stop production for two months from October 1 onwards.There are around 100 brick kilns in the district. While addressing mediapersons here on Monday, association president Kuldeep Singh Makkar said, “Around two months back, the coal price was around ₹11,000 per tonne, but now it is nearly ₹22,000 per tonne. We strongly demand that the state government should intervene and take up the matter of controlling hike in coal prices with the central government.”Makkar further said that with the hike in coal prices, the rate of the bricks had gone up to ₹6,500 per thousand, from ₹5,500 per thousand in the last two months. “We are helpless now and have decided to stop the production for two months and in case the issue is not resolved, we will extend the protest.”The members of the association demanded that the government should look into the matter to end the monopoly of big corporations, who were “manipulating coal prices”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coal-price-hike-mohali-brick-kiln-owners-to-stop-production-from-october-1-101631558671656.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||More trouble for Maharashtra government as ZP bypolls in October||Adding more trouble for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, the State Election Commission (SEC) has announced bypolls for six zilla parishads (district councils) — Palghar, Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim, and Nagpur — and 33 other panchayat samitis on the seats vacated following the Supreme Court (SC) order against the political reservation for the Other Backward Classes (OBC) community. The polls will be held on October 5 and the counting will be held the next day.With the decision, SEC has also paved the way for ‘mini-Assembly elections’ to be held early next year. More than 15 municipal corporations (including Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane), 29 of 36 district councils and over 90 municipal councils will go for polls over the next one year. The election to local bodies in such a huge number is considered as the ‘mini assembly polls’.All the political parties in the state have already opposed bypolls until the political reservation of the OBC community is reinstated. Holding elections without reservation for OBCs may create unrest in the community, which might be politically damaging for MVA government.SEC’s announcement comes following SC’s decision on Saturday, in which it had directed the poll body to take a call on the local body elections at its level and added that the state government has no authority to decide when to hold local body elections. Earlier, it had also stated that the absence of the political quota to OBCs in local body elections cannot be the grounds for the postponement of the polls.“Earlier, the bypolls [on the vacated seats] were declared on July 19, but following SC’s decision on July 6 and the state government’s request, it was decided to postpone them. However, on September 9, the Apex court clearly stated the state government’s notification (issued on August 9) imposing curbs owing to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic cannot be applied to the bypolls and ordered us to take the decision on the polls at the earliest,” said UPS Madan, state election commissioner, in a statement released on Monday.While scrapping OBC reservation in local bodies, the Apex court in March had asked the state government to collect empirical data of the community to decide quota. Thus, the community will not get reservation until empirical data is collected.“The bypolls have been declared following SC’s decision. We will discuss it with the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) and will also call an all-party meeting. As it’s SC’s decision, I won’t be able to comment more on it. A potential third wave is likely to hit the state. We, however, still have 15-20 days to hold deliberations and see what can be done. If not, the bypolls will be held as per schedule. All parties have already agreed to field only OBC candidates for the bypolls,” said relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar.“We have formed the backward classes’ commission to collect empirical data. If the Centre would have given the caste-based data, we may not have been in this situation. We have also filed a petition in the Apex court, seeking the caste-based census data from them. The state government will promulgate an ordinance to bring amendment in the legislation to provide reservation to the OBC community, if required,” he said in response to the mini-Assembly polls to be held early next year.In an all-party meeting held on September 3, it was decided that the state government will direct the Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes (MSCBC) to try and collect the empirical data necessary to restore reservation for the OBC community in the next few months. MVA government is also planning to bring an amendment in the legislation to provide reservation to the OBC within the 50% reservation cap mandated by the Apex court. It has filed a writ petition in SC, seeking Socio-Economic Caste Census, 2011, data from the Centre. The next hearing is going to be held on September 23.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has alleged that the Thackeray government did not take the issue seriously. “The MVA government had three months but the issue was not taken seriously which led to this situation. SC has clearly said that the state has to collect empirical data, and caste-based census data has no role to play in it. However, BJP has already decided that if bypolls become imminent, then all the candidates on those seats will be from OBC community only,” said party spokesperson Keshav Upadhye.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-trouble-for-maharashtra-government-as-zp-bypolls-in-october-101631558612842.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||Police avert food delivery agent’s suicide bid||A timely alert to the police by Congress leader Alka Lamba helped save the life of a 42-year-old man, who was allegedly drunk and contemplating ending his life by jumping off a flyover in south Delhi’s Andrews Ganj on Sunday evening.A six-member police team, led by the station house officer (SHO) of the Kolta Mubarakpur police station Vinay Kumar Tyagi, engaged the man in a conversation before overpowering him and bringing him to safety, police said.The Congress leader said she was on the terrace of her house, when she spotted a man climbing on to the railings of the Andrews Ganj flyover and shouting to someone standing below.“I suspected that he may jump off the flyover. I immediately contacted the local station house officer, Vinay Kumar Tyagi. I also sent my security guards to get the man off the flyover. The police acted promptly and saved the man’s life,” said Lamba.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said Lamba informed the police around 6pm and added that the man was rescued within 10 minutes of her call.“The man works as a food delivery agent but was unhappy with his earnings. He consumed liquor with his friend and went to the flyover with the intention of taking his own life,” he added.The man was counselled and later allowed to leave with an acquaintance, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-avert-food-delivery-agent-s-suicide-bid-101631558319649.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||After Sakinaka rape and murder, Thackeray holds urgent meet; Sena says Mumbai is safest||Under fire from the Opposition and various other fronts after the rape and murder of a 32-year-old woman in Sakinaka, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held an urgent meeting of senior officials from the Maharashtra police force and home department at the office of the director general of police in south Mumbai. Thackeray, in slew of directives to the police force, has called for keeping records of people coming from other states, revision in style of working of fast-track courts for speedy implementation of punishment and registering every complaint raised by women.The CM chaired the meeting of the key police officers from the force, including police commissioners of all cities and district heads. It was attended by home minister Dilip Walse Patil, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and additional chief secretary Manu Kumar Srivastava, among others. Thackeray also batted for night shelters for homeless women living on pavements and at railway or bus stations with the help of Central government. He said the state government will raise the need of redesigning the working style of the judicial system to ensure speedy enforcement of conviction orders given by fast-track courts, during a meeting with NITI Aayog officials on Tuesday.The government has also announced that the Shakti Act, modelled on Andhra Pradesh’s Disha Act, for stricter punishment for crimes against women and children, will be reintroduced in the legislature in the forthcoming winter session. The bill, introduced in the legislature in December 2020, has been sent to the joint select committee for further deliberation. Home minister Walse Patil said the report of the committee will be tabled. “We will also deploy senior police officers for follow-up of cases pending in the fast-track court for speedy disposal. Police force should be more vigilant and alert to keep up its formidable reputation,” he said. The minister has also directed the police to register each and every case of women visiting police stations and giving priority to the investigation in these cases. He has also directed the police to file charge sheets at the earliest in the heinous crimes against women and monitor them rigorously for early disposal. Without naming anybody, the CM said everyone should be careful while giving reactions in such cases and introspect about outcome of such reactions. Earlier in the day, the CM met vice-chairman of National Commission for Scheduled Castes, Arun Haldar, and apprised him of the steps taken by the state government after the incident. The CM told the VC of the commission that the state has taken up the responsibility of the education and upbringing of the children of the victim. He said that the family if the victim will be compensated from Manodhairya and atrocities compensation scheme. “After Thackeray directed to appoint a special public prosecutor, leading counsel Raja Thackeray has been appointed to represent the victim,” the statement reads.Mumbai police officers said that 7,000 more CCTVs are being added to the existing network of 5,000 cameras in the city. A delegation of women of Bharatiya Janata Party under the leadership of party’s Mumbai chief Mangalprabhat Lodha met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Monday morning and demanded quick steps to reduce the cases of crime against women. The delegation in its memorandum has stated that the crime cases against women are on the rise and it has resulted in the uncertainty among women. The delegation has demanded for the immediate enactment of the Shakti act proposed by the state government for stricter punishment to the perpetrators in cases against women. The delegation comprised former minister Vidya Thakur, MLAs Manisha Chaudhari, Bharti Lavekar, party leaders Shalaka Salvi, Sheetal Gambhir, Shweta Parulkar has also demanded for strengthening of the CCTV network in Mumbai. Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Monday hit out at the BJP saying the Mumbai case was not Hathras where the Uttar Pradesh government did not accept that it was a rape. The Marathi daily also said that Mumbai is the “safest city” in the world for women. Amid outrage against the brutal crime that bore similarity to the 2012 Delhi gang rape case, the Sena mouthpiece said that Mumbai is the safest city. “The rape and murder of the woman in Sakinaka has shocked one and all. But, Mumbai is the safest city in the world for women and there should be no doubt about it in anyone’s mind,” the editorial said.BJP leaders, following the incident on Friday, slammed the Uddhav Thackeray-led government saying it is not focusing on law and order and on women safety. The mouthpiece also defended Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, who had said that police cannot be at all the crime scenes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-sakinaka-rape-and-murder-thackeray-holds-urgent-meet-sena-says-mumbai-is-safest-101631558311594.html
14-09-2021||Other||3 of family, driver killed in accident on way to immersions in Ambernath||Four people were killed and four others were injured in a collision between two autorickshaws and an SUV in Ambernath on Sunday evening. According to Shivaji Nagar police, six members of the Valecha family from Ulhasnagar had set out to immerse their Ganpati idol in two rickshaws when the mishap occurred around 7.30pm near an open plot belonging to MIDC in Ambernath. “The Valechas, acting on the advice of Kisan Shinde, 24, one of the two rickshaw drivers, were going to immerse their idol in a pond in Kakole village, instead of doing so in one of the civic corporation’s designated spots. They were on their way to Kakole when the SUV, which was being driven by Ninad Yadav, 26, collided with one of the rickshaws head on, after which both the vehicles careened into the second auto rickshaw behind the first one,” senior inspector Madhukar Bhoge said. Locals informed police about the accident. All the occupants of the vehicles were rushed to a nearby hospital. The police said Shinde and his three passengers were declared dead before admission. The other victims are Varsha Valecha, 52; her sister-in-law Aarti, 42; and their nephew Raj, 12. Yadav and his two friends and Aarti’s daughter sustained injuries. “Yadav has been placed under arrest,” said Bhoge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-of-family-driver-killed-in-accident-on-way-to-immersions-in-ambernath-101631558194696.html
14-09-2021||Other||Farmer unions stage protests in Himachal over low apple prices||Up in arms against the state government for failing to protect the interest of apple growers, hundreds of farmers gathered at different locations of the state on a call by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of various farm unions.In spite of the rain, farmers held demonstrations to press their demand for better price for the fruit in the wholesale market. Apples account for around 90% of the state’s horticultural production, and fruit growers are vexed over the low prices and exploitation by commission agents. They are also blaming corporate-run cold stores for fixing low rates for premium apples that sets the benchmark in the market. In Shimla, the manch staged a protest march to the Deputy Commissioner’s office. Accusing the government of exploiting farmers and benefiting corporations, the farmer leaders also criticised the statements by urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj and horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur. Legislators Mohan Lal Brakta and Rakesh Singha also participated in the protests in Rohru and Theogh, respectively. Himachal Kisan Manch convener Harish Chauhan sought the government’s intervention to raise the minimum support price (MSP), stating that the ₹6,000-crore economy was in crisis.The protesters demanded that along with the APMC Act, the government also implement the Market Intervention Scheme on the lines of Kashmir for apples of different grades. The fruit cultivators also sought abolition of various charges being deducted from payments by the commission agents. They submitted a charter of demands through the respective SDMs and tehsildars at the sub-division level. Among their other demands are compensation for the loss caused due to natural calamities and water vagaries, payments according to weight of produce, and restoration of subsidies on fertilisers, seeds, insecticides, fungicides and other cost items. They also sought available of affordable quality items through the department of agriculture and horticulture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmer-unions-stage-protests-in-himachal-over-low-apple-prices-101631558138306.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: 60 more diarrhoea cases surface at Peermuchalla||The Zirakpur municipal council is yet to find the source of water contamination even as around 200 cases of diarrhoea have surfaced at Peermuchalla village in the past two days.“We collected 10 samples from the tubewell and submersible pumps on Monday. The report is awaited,” said MC executive officer Girish Verma. While the water supply from tubewell has been completely stopped, tankers have been stationed for the residents’ daily needs, said Verma, while urging people to boil water before drinking. A day after 138 cases surfaced at the village, 60 more were reported on Monday. Around 40 people are hospitalised.Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali, said: “Medical camps have been set up at the village and medicines distributed to patients. The situation is under control now.” In the past two months, three people died and around 800 were infected due to cholera outbreak in Zirakpur’s Baltana locality and Panchkula’s Abheypur and Budhanpur villages. All these areas are situated in close proximity. Cholera is a bacterial disease causing severe diarrhoea and dehydration, usually spread through contaminated water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-60-more-diarrhoea-cases-surface-at-peermuchalla-101631558133864.html
14-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath says eyes of the world will be on Uttar Pradesh assembly election||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said the eyes of the entire world would be on the 2022 Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly election and asked the BJP media unit to be well prepared to counter misinformation.Yogi Adityanath was addressing the concluding session of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) media workshop at the state headquarters in Lucknow. “We must strengthen the presence on the social media and counter misinformation campaign against us. In the 2022 polls, the eyes of the entire world, not just the country, would be on UP and that’s why the media unit would have to be well prepared,” Yogi Adityanath said. Adityanath took a veiled dig at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and referred to its allegations regarding bungling in the purchase of corona kits. “A Delhi party spread misinformation in UP about the purchases we made, but when we gathered information about the purchases made by the party in Delhi, we found that purchases thrice the price of UP were made there. FIRs were registered in Delhi to expose the culprits,” Yogi Adityanath said. The media workshop assumes significance ahead of the 2022 UP assembly elections. Well-known party spokespersons Sambit Patra and Zafar Islam arrived in Lucknow to impart tips to the party’s media unit in UP. Mentioning how to market the achievements of the government, Yogi Adityanath said, “Work is in progress to start rapid rail between Meerut and Delhi. Once complete, it would reduce the travel time between the two points from 3 hours to just 45 minutes. There would hardly be any assembly constituency in Uttar Pradesh (UP) where works between ₹ 500 crore and ₹1000 crore weren’t sanctioned. We will have to take these works to the masses.”Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal said the party would have to formulate a proper strategy ahead of the assembly elections to counter misinformation. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya referred to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three new farm reform laws. “This is not a farmers’ agitation. It is a poll agitation which is being backed by anti-farmer forces aimed at diverting public attention from the government’s achievements,” Maurya said.National spokespersons Sambit Patra and Zafar Islam stressed on the need for homework before speaking to the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-says-eyes-of-the-entire-world-will-be-on-uttar-pradesh-assembly-election-101631558131566.html
14-09-2021||Noida||Lotus Boulevard assault case: Security agency files complaint with Noida police, alleges inaction||Authorities of the security agency, of which nine employees have been apprehended by the Noida police for allegedly assaulting a resident in a high-rise in Sector 100 on September 8, have filed a police complaint against the homeowner.The incident was reported from Lotus Boulevard society under the jurisdiction of the Sector 39 police. Suresh Kumar Singh, a resident of the society, was allegedly assaulted by nearly a dozen security guards following an argument over a maintenance issue. The entire episode was caught on CCTV and mobile phone cameras and the videos were circulated online.Following this, a case was registered against five named and 15 unnamed persons under sections 147 (rioting), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 39 police station. Singh also named the apartment owners’ association office bearers in his complaint.Also Read | 30 CCTV batteries stolen from Eastern Peripheral Expressway in UP’s GB NagarOn September 9, the police arrested eight security guards while one more was arrested the next day. All the suspects are currently in judicial custody after their bail application was denied, police said.However, the security agency, CISS Bureau, has called for further investigation in the matter as they maintain that it was Singh who first initiated the altercation.“We waited for over two hours today [Monday] at the local police station with our grievance, which the cops have not taken into consideration,” said Sandeep Kumar, regional manager of the security agency.He said the agency filed a complaint with the Sector 39 police station asking for a probe against Singh and his cohorts, and to also take into consideration the statements of the guards who were present at the spot. The society has terminated its contract with the agency and is looking for a replacement while the Noida police have recommended the agency’s licence be revoked.Police officials said that they will look into the allegations made by the agency. “We have received a complaint and will investigate the claims. Any charges will be combined with the initial FIR and due action will be taken against any offender,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1.Meanwhile, the resident has denied any knowledge of a complaint against him. “I am receiving calls from people with vested interests pressurising me to take back the charges. I have not even received my medical reports, let alone any information about the developments in the case. Police need to look into the role of anyone who was involved or was responsible for a minor argument to turn into brutal violence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/lotus-boulevard-assault-case-security-agency-files-complaint-with-noida-police-alleges-inaction-101631558075195.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Draft of Mumbai Climate Action Plan to be showcased at COP26 in Glasgow in November||A draft version of the Mumbai Climate Action Plan (MCAP), to be completed next month by the World Resources Institute (India), will be showcased at the upcoming 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 26) in Glasgow in November. The final plan, a spokesperson of WRI said during an online webinar held Monday, will be completed by the end of the year.The online webinar, which happened to be organised by WRI (India) under the banner of ‘Connect Karo’ also marked the first public address on MCAP by state environment and climate change minister Aaditya Thackeray after the recent public consultations hosted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which ended on September 9. During the webinar, Thackeray delivered a keynote address under the title ‘Towards a Climate Resilient Mumbai’.“We speak about the future being clean, green and electric, but there is no future unless we act on developing climate mitigation and adaption plans today. With MCAP, we are looking at an ambitious plan to restructure the city on the basis of ‘ease of living’. At a national level, there is a lot of talk about ease of doing business, where laws that are now redundant are being done away with, but in Maharashtra we are giving equal emphasis to ease of living also,” Thackeray said.He also highlighted his government’s efforts to protect the Aarey forest and about 9,800 hectares of mangroves, which have been given the status of reserve forest since the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government came to power. “I don’t think any other state government would have the audacity to declare 800 acres a forest in the middle of an extremely urbanised city,” he said.In addition, he also said that the proposed State Council for Climate Change, which was sanctioned by the Maharashtra cabinet earlier this month, will have weekly meetings to set and review climate action targets in the state. “The real challenge is in redefining urbanisation by reimagining what constitutes development. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray believes that development is essential, but we cannot do it at the cost of our forests. That would be counterproductive,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/draft-of-mumbai-climate-action-plan-to-be-showcased-at-cop26-in-glasgow-in-november-101631558013714.html
14-09-2021||Other||Two trekkers found dead near Manimahesh Lake in Chamba||Two trekkers, a man and a woman, were found dead near Kamal Kund, 3km ahead of Manimahesh Lake in Bharmour sub-division of Chamba district, police said on Monday. “The deceased have been identified as Himangi, of Gujarat, and Vinod Kumar, of Ludhiana in Punjab. They were trekkers. Further details are awaited,” said Bharmour deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Abhimanyu Verma. “Prima facie, they died due to lack of oxygen. There was also snowfall and heavy rainfall in the region on Sunday. The exact cause of death will be known only after autopsy,” Verma added. He said some locals, who were returning from ‘prikrama’ of Mount Manimahesh Kailash, spotted them lying in a glacier near Kamal Kund, the glacial lake at the foot of Mount Kailash. Initially, we had information of four people stuck near Kamal Kund. However, only two bodies were found and a search operation is on. “They should have taken the trek from Kugti village,” he said, adding that emergency teams are bringing the bodies to Bharmour. Three fatalities have been reported in the Kamal Kund area in two days. One body was found in the same area on Sunday. The deceased, has been identified as Aman, resident of Mai-Ka-Bag in Chamba. His family has been informed and asked to confirm the identity.People undertaking pilgrimage despite banThe annual Manimahesh Yatra is currently underway in Bharmour region. However, the yatra is being held symbolically due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The pilgrimage will come to an end on Tuesday with the last holy dip.Only a few priests are allowed to perform the ritual and there is a ban on participation of the general public.Bharmour additional magistrate (ADM) Sanjay Kumar Dhiman said despite ban people have been risking their lives by undertaking the yatra.“The trek from Bharmour side is closed and there is police post. However, people take unmanned trek from Kugti village across Jotnu pass. It is not possible to set up check post on that side due to high altitude,” he added.People who want to undertake a ‘parikrama’ use the trek.Manimahesh Yatra is considered one of the toughest pilgrimages as devotees have to ascend 14km through an arduous trek.Before Covid-19, more than three lakh people would undertake the yatra to the Manimahesh Lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-trekkers-found-dead-near-manimahesh-lake-in-chamba-101631557891646.html
14-09-2021||Other||Odisha govt discontinues scheme for Covid-19 orphans, cites dip in virus cases||Four months after the announcement of the scheme of monthly financial support to the Covid-19 orphans, the Naveen Patnaik government on Monday announced its discontinuation from September 15 citing a drop in Covid-19 cases in Odisha.In a letter to all district collectors, the director of the Integrated Child Development scheme, Arvind Agrawal, said any children whose parent(s)/primary bread earner or any other person died due to Covid-19 after September 15 would only be covered under existing Child Protection Scheme of the government and not under Ashirbad. “It is observed that Covid-19 disease has a declining trend in the state for quite some time,” the letter said referring to the declining Test positivity Rate (TPR) as well as deaths in the state due to Covid-19.On Monday, Odisha reported six new deaths, taking the total death toll to 8,104. The TPR over the last few weeks has gone below one and the number of recoveries has gone up to over a million. The recovery percentage of Odisha has risen to 98.5, higher than the national average of 97.45.In June this year, Odisha had announced a new scheme called Ashirbad for the education, health and maintenance of children orphaned due to the pandemic. Under the scheme, they would have ₹2500 deposited into the bank account of their family members every month till they turn 18.As many as 1,773 children lost their parents in Odisha to Covid-19 infections since 1 April 2020, according to a report compiled by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). While 163 kids lost both their parents, 1,610 children lost one of their parents since the outbreak of pandemic in Odisha on 1 April 2000, the NCPCR report said.The commission, in an affidavit filed before the SC last month, said at least 101,032 children in the country lost one or both their parents during the first and the second waves of the Covid-19 pandemic between April 1, 2020, and August 23 this year.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik who announced the scheme had said children who lost their parents or the main earning person of the family on April 1, 2020, or thereafter to Covid-19 will be covered under it. The orphans can be children who have lost both their parents or either one of them. The amount of ₹2500 per month will be deposited in the bank accounts of family members who have taken the responsibility for the orphans. The assistance will continue till the child attains the age of 18 years or till such date if somebody adopts him/her.However, if the orphan stays in a child care institution, a recurring deposit of ₹1000 per month will be made in his or her surviving parent’s account till 18 years of age. If the child has lost either of his parents who was the only earning member, ₹1500 per month will be provided for maintenance. If the surviving parent is the mother, she will also be entitled to a pension under the Madhu Babu Pension scheme of ₹300 a month.These orphans will get treatment under the state government’s Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana, a state government scheme under which medicines, diagnostics, dialysis, chemotherapy, operation, ICU and in-patient admission is all free in government hospitals. Besides, they will be also included as beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA).The children can also continue in the schools in which they were studying before the death of their parents. However, in case the family member taking responsibility for the child stays somewhere else, an arrangement of schooling will be made in that place. If necessary, the government will help in the admission of the children in Adarsh Vidyalaya or Kendriya Vidyalaya.The Ashirbad scheme mirrored several provisions of the PM Cares For Children scheme announced by the Centre in May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-govt-discontinues-scheme-for-covid-19-orphans-cites-dip-in-virus-cases-101631557834170.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||No seats left in some popular Mumbai colleges in 3rd FYJC merit list||Even though the overall cut-offs in city colleges dipped by less than a percentage point across courses, a handful of popular colleges had no seats left to be allotted in the third merit list for first-year junior college (FYJC) courses. Announced on Monday by the office of the deputy director of education (DYDE), NM College in Vile Parle, HR College in Churchgate and RA Podar College in Matunga — all popular colleges for commerce — had no seats left for the third list.“All our seats were allotted in the first two merit lists and very few withdrawals happened. So no seat was left for the third list. We plan to start the orientation for our new FYJC batch this week, and classes will follow too,” said Parag Ajgaonkar, principal of the institute.As per information shared by DYDE office, 39,964 seats were allotted to eligible students in the third round. “Of the 39,964 students allotted seats in the third merit list, 6,916 students have been allotted colleges of their first preference, 7,364 have got seats in the second-preference college and 5,969 students have been placed in colleges of their third preference,” an official statement released by the office of DYDE, Mumbai region, on Monday read. The statement also highlighted that in the third round, 3,152 students were allotted seats in arts stream, 25,539 in the commerce stream and 11,058 in the science stream. Most colleges ended up with higher cut-offs in their third merit list as compared to the second list. “Students get to refill their college preferences after every round. So many with higher marks end up seeking admissions in the following rounds, thereby resulting in higher cut-offs as compared to the previous round,” said Vidyadhar Joshi vice-principal of VG Vaze College, Mulund. While no seats were left for allotment in commerce and science streams in the college, the arts cut-off went up by 2 marks. Similarly, at St Xavier’s College, the arts cut-off went up by over a percentage point, while the science cut-off dipped by less than a percentage point. In Mithibai College, Vile Parle, cut-offs for all the three streams reduced by less than one percentage point.A total of 117,883 FYJC aspirants were allotted seats in the first merit list on August 27. However, nearly 50% students of these aspirants had not confirmed admissions. Similarly, 60,037 students were allocated seats in the second merit list, of which only 21,116 (35.17%) of those confirmed admissions. There are 119,000 seats available in junior colleges.“Not confirming admissions during common admissions is a worry because most colleges will now receive a barrage of individual applications from students aiming for vacant seats as per their preference. We will know the situation in the next couple of days,” said the principal of suburban college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-seats-left-in-some-popular-mumbai-colleges-in-3rd-fyjc-merit-list-101631557831815.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 2,740 new Covid cases, 27 deaths on Monday||Maharashtra on Monday added 2,740 new Covid-19 cases — its lowest single-day cases in 219 days or over seven months. The state also reported 27 deaths in the past 24 hours which is its lowest in 190 days. While the dip in cases is being attributed to a lower number of testing on account of weekend, the state is seeing an overall downward trend. To be sure, the lowest one-day state figure comes on the back the lowest one-day testing figure since March 22. On that day, Maharashtra reported 105,830 tests, with 24,645 new cases at a positivity rate of 23.29%. Monday’s positivity rate was 2.54%.However, a month after suburban train services in Mumbai were opened up for fully vaccinated population, Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) has seen an increase. State health department officials are concerned about the rise but added that a pattern would emerge by early October.Mumbai logged 345 cases on Monday and six fatalities, taking tally to 735,400 and toll to 16,028. The city and its surrounding areas in MMR logged over 22% of the state’s total cases on Monday.The state’s active case count dropped to 49,880, while overall positivity rate stood at 11.59%. In the past 24 hours, Maharashtra tested 108,216 samples for Covid, showing a positivity rate of 2.54%. The overall case tally in the state went up to 6,500,617, and death toll rose to 138,169.The state government reopened train services for people who have taken both their vaccine doses, from Independence Day, completing 30 days on Monday. In the past few days, Mumbai has been clocking between 350 and 400 new Covid cases daily. However, it had reported 500 new cases last week, after a gap of seven weeks.Between August 15 and September 8, Mumbai added 8,274 fresh cases to its tally. However, the health department “omitted” over 15,000 cases from the overall tally due to duplication, of which 5,435 were from Mumbai, the data showed. Since September 8, Mumbai has added 1,504 new cases to its tally. Thane district, which has a vast rural area and five densely populated municipal corporation areas, has added 7,096 new Covid cases between August 15 and September 13. Panvel city has added 1,740 new cases, while Vasai-Virar added around 912 infections during the same period.Thane district has seen a rise in cases. Between July 15 and August 15, the district added 5,861 cases. In the past 30 days, it added 7,096 cases, which is a 21.07% rise.State health department officials said they were monitoring the situation closely in conjunction with the civic bodies in Mumbai and MMR. They said that a pattern can only be ascertained by October first week.“While cases across the state are seeing some gradual dip, cases in Mumbai are stagnant and has also seen occasional spike. The cases were expected to rise a bit given the curbs were relaxed by the state in mid-August. However, it is not a trend. We will know if the curve is taking an upward trajectory by October first week,” a state health department official said.Relaxation in restrictions clubbed with festivals such as Dahi Handi and Ganesh Chaturthi have raised the concerns of local authorities. Officials said that by October 5, which is 14 days or one incubation cycle after Ganpati festival ends, they would know the impact of the increased movement of people. During the two festivals, the cities in MMR saw crowding and poor masking.Meanwhile, a chunk of the state’s tally on Monday came from Pune, Solapur and Satara districts. Collectively, it contributed 35.29% of the total cases on Monday. Pune rural areas added 318 new Covid cases, while Pune city added 130 new cases and Pimpri-Chinchwad 108 fresh infections. Solapur city added six new cases, while the rural areas of the district saw 228 cases. Satara saw 177 new cases in the past 24 hours. Ahmednagar rural areas reported 569 new cases, while Sangli saw 191 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-2-740-new-covid-cases-27-deaths-on-monday-101631557231579.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||North MCD to conduct fresh survey in Sabzi Mandi to identify dangerous buildings||North Delhi Municipal Corporation officials said on Monday that they will launch a fresh survey over the next 48 hours to assess the structural integrity of buildings in the Sabzi Mandi area after a four-storey building collapsed, opposite Robin Cinema, killing two children.Relief and rescue operations continued till Monday evening at the accident site, with fire department and police officials saying that at least three people were feared trapped under the debris.North corporation commissioner Sanjay Goel has ordered an inquiry in the matter. “The buildings department (HQs) has been asked to conduct an inquiry in the matter and submit a report within a week. Further, necessary action against errant officials will be taken after receipt of the report,” said a statement issued by the civic body.Goel has also asked all zonal authorities to depute engineers for re-assessment of the condition of buildings that were already declared dangerous, and to take immediate action as per relevant provisions of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957. “The civic body will also recommend to the government for offering incentives to house owners for retro-fitting of such dangerous buildings and for rehabilitation of occupants of the building till retrofitting work is completed,” he said.North corporation officials said the front portion of the building located on the main road, Old Sabzi Mandi area, collapsed around 11am. They said the building was at least 50 years. They said it was not found dangerous in the pre-monsoon survey carried out by the civic body May-June this year. They added that nine other buildings on the same stretch were marked as dangerous.Overall, during the survey, the north civic body marked 699 properties as dangerous and identified 444 others that needed repairs, said officials. “There are no reports of any unauthorised construction being carried out in the building, and it possibly collapsed because of the old structure. It was not marked as dangerous in the survey conducted earlier this year because it did not have any signs of its structure being weak,” said senior corporation official who asked not to be named. “However, since heavy rains pose a threat to other old structures, it has been decided to carry out to survey of all buildings marked dangerous, again.Those found at imminent risk will be vacated immediately,” the official said.He said notices under section 348 of the DMC Act, 1957, were issued to all buildings identified as dangerous, and residents were asked to vacate the vulnerable portions. Monsoon this year broke a 46-year-old record in Delhi. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the city has received 1136.8mm rain so far, making it the wettest monsoon after 1975 when the season recorded 1155.6 mm rainfall.Local councillor Guddi Devi said the incident took place on a day when the market is closed, otherwise the toll could be higher. “The area has many old structures, some even date back to 1947. The survey is conducted every year, but most times after notices are issued, people either do not take it seriously, or do not cooperate with the civic officials. We will carry out an awareness drive in the area over the next few days,” she said.Experts say identifying dangerous structures requires a technical and scientific survey, and it should be done by an agency dedicated for the job. They also said that people should be made aware about the importance of structural safety of their “These buildings are on nobody’s radar. Factories and small businesses keep mushrooming in these spaces without any checks or structural audits. With building contractors operating with impunity, and house owners not being aware of the requirement of structural safety, many of those living in these structures are at risk. These constructions and private contractors need to be regulated,” said Chetan Vaidya, former director, School of Planning and Architecture.Aditya Sharma, a structural safety consultant for the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) pointed out that the building bye-laws in Delhi, and in most parts of the country, do not have structural drawings of a building as a pre-requisite for sanctioning of building plans. “This lacuna in the bye-laws needs to be fixed. House owners just get the architectural design sanctioned and do not bother about structural stability, as its not a pre-requisite in the bye-laws,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-mcd-to-conduct-fresh-survey-in-sabzi-mandi-to-identify-dangerous-buildings-101631556331970.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||For growth, Hardeep Singh Puri calls for sustainable cities||Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Monday said there was a need to plan for equitable and sustainable cities, as urban areas will drive the country’s economy in the coming years.Puri was speaking at World Resources Institute-India’s Connect Karo-2021 event that will focus on the way forward for making Indian cities “Clean, Green and Just”.In a virtual address to the plenary session, Puri said ‘Atmanirbhar India’ is possible only if Indian cities, which will contribute 70% to national GDP by 2030, are productive. “The best performing cities globally contribute five times more to national GDP than comparable Indian cities. We need to generate a similar density of economic activities from our cities to answer the call by our Prime Minister of becoming a USD 5 trillion economy in the short term and USD 10 trillion economy by 2030,” said Puri, who is also the minister for petroleum and natural gas.For this, there is a need to address urban challenges related to climate, urban planning, housing and transportation, the minister said.“These issues become even more important due to the coronavirus pandemic, as cities faced a huge challenge in containing the spread of the contagious infection due to high population density residing in informal settlements such as slum clusters,” the Union minister said.The minister said the government will launch the Swachh Bharat Mission 2.0, with an outlay of ₹1.41 lakh crore to focus on sludge management, waste water treatment, source segregation of garbage, and reduction in single-use plastics and controlling air pollution by managing construction and demolition waste, and bio-remediation at dump sites.The conference will see over 150 experts discuss rapid urbanisation, its challenges and need for planned development to address issues of climate change. Hindustan Times is the media partner for the conference.Roopa Kudva, managing director, Omidyar Network India (a philanthropic investment firm), said the pandemic has shown that public health, housing, water, etc are all connected issues and there is a need for an integrated planning approach. She said the urban poor were the most impacted by the pandemic.“The virus spreads much faster in crowded slums where they had low access to water and sanitation. We need to plan for cities in an integrated manner…Getting urbanisation right would go a long way in mitigating risks from climate change. Compact, connected and coordinated cities that design public spaces and transportation around pedestrians are more inclusive, productive and resilient,” said Kudva.The housing and urban affairs minister said the central government is taking steps to address the issue such as housing and transportation through its various initiatives.Quoting estimates which state that urban Indian population is bound to rise up to 630 million by 2030, Puri also pointed out that in the past seven-and-a-half years, the government invested over ₹11 lakh crore in urban development. He also pointed out the government’s promptness in identifying issues and addressing them.The minister said the government started a new initiative to meet the housing needs, as Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) reached a point of maturity. “We discovered that there are people who come looking for work to the urban centres… and we immediately moved for a new scheme which is to provide affordable rental housing. I’m delighted to say that this scheme, which started recently, has begun to take off,” said Puri.The minister also stressed on the need to provide cost effective and efficient transportation service, especially the mass transit systems such as Metro, in cities.Speaking about the five-day event that will see over 150 speakers share their views on electric mobility, urban planning, air quality, child-friendly cities, safer streets etc, OP Agarwal, CEO, WRI India, said, “India is one of the fastest growing economies in the world today. Its urban population is projected to multiply to nearly 814 million by 2050. To harness such expansion and drive a sustainable model of growth, it is important that we focus on building cities that are clean, green and just. At Connect Karo, we envision bringing together significant stakeholders to accelerate a climate-forward, nature-based and inclusive urban development.”Jamshyd Godrej, managing director and chairman, Godrej & Boyce, and Chairman WRI India, said, “We are facing a climate emergency today that requires companies, investors, governments and communities alike to transform to a cleaner, low-carbon and socially equitable way of living and doing business. Collaboration is the key to drive such concerted action.”The minister acknowledged the role of civil society members, organisations like WRI India, Omidyar Network etc for working with the government, giving ideas and making cities demonstration hubs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/purineed-plan-for-equitable-and-sustainable-cities-to-drive-growth-101631555972567.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||‘For an inclusive city, women need to be at the centre of policymaking’||To bring about an increase in women participation in the India workforce, there is a need to keep women at the centre of urban planning and policy decisions, said women speakers at the WRI India’s Connect Karo-2021 conference on Monday. They also said more women should be part of the decision-making process in order to better address issues faced by women.The five-day conference will focus on pressing concerns related to climate change, urban planning, and making cities inclusive. Hindustan Times is the media partner of the event.Citing a World Bank report, Jaya, director of integrated urban planning, WRI India, said women participation in India’s workforce has dropped from 30.27% in the 1990s to 20.8% in 2019. “The pandemic has further aggravated the situation, as it has pushed a lot of women, both in the informal and formal sectors, out of work. It (women participation in workforce) is below 20% after Covid,” she said.Unsafe public spaces, lack of efficient public transport, access to jobs, availability of facilities such as toilets etc., continue to be major concerns for women workers, especially in urban areas. To change the present scenario, there is a need for greater participation of women in decision-making, said Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha member Priyanka Chaturvedi.Speaking during the discussion on “women leaders changing conversations in cities”, Chaturvedi said safety is a huge concern for every woman and college/school going girl. “It is the unfortunate truth. Until now, all urban planning has been done from the focus of women not being at the decision-making tables. Their problems have not been addressed — whether it’s regarding toilets, hostels, safe spaces etc.”Referring to crimes against women, especially in public spaces, Chaturvedi said measures have to be taken to prevent such incidents. It is important to not deny women a seat at the decision-making table and that can be done only through reservation for women in corporations, state assembly and Parliament.Karnataka MLA Sowmya Reddy, who is also the general secretary, All India Mahila Congress, Karnataka, too said women should get better representation in decision-making bodies.Cecilia Vaca Jones, executive director, Bernard van Leer Foundation, said there is a need for more women to get involved in designing a city. “It is not just in decision-making roles; we need more women designing the city as well. Therefore, we need more women architects, engineers, planners etc. They should be a part of the ecosystem,” she said.Also, the urban planning process has to keep women at the centre, said Manu Dangi, chief operating officer, Egon Zehnder KCI. She said there is need to explore possibilities of developing workspaces near residential areas as a lot of women quit work on account of the time taken to commute between home and office.She also said there is a significant number of educated women, who left work after marriage as they had to relocate or have children. “There is a need to get this workforce back into the mainstream. During the pandemic, people worked from home. If women are given flexible timings, they too can return to work,” Dangi said.D Thara, joint secretary, Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, said there is a need to look at urban planning of cities again. “The streets will be safer if you have more people, especially women, out in public spaces,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/for-inclusive-city-women-must-be-kept-at-centre-of-planning-and-policy-101631555971386.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||Need a holistic plan for switch to hydrogen-based energy sources: Experts||India needs a holistic plan to develop infrastructure and formulate policies to encourage the use of hydrogen-based energy sources, experts said in the 2021 edition of World Resources Institute’s (WRI) annual flagship event, Connect Karo, which highlights ways to make Indian cities inclusive, sustainable and climate forward.In the session, ‘Hydrogen—a road map for India’, industry experts, researchers and policymakers discussed how hydrogen as a clean fuel can be pushed in India, and a holistic plan can ease various aspects related to its adoption, including production, transportation and research.“With India announcing the Hydrogen Mission in the budget this year, it becomes important that we now come up with a holistic plan in becoming self-reliant. A strong policy and financial support in areas such as technology development, research and scaling up manufacturing capabilities will give India the push it needs in the area of clean fuels,” said OP Agarwal, CEO, WRI (India).Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort in Delhi on Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced his government’s decision to set up the National Hydrogen Mission, with an aim for India to become the new global hub and the exporter of green hydrogen. “Not only will green hydrogen be the basis of green growth through green jobs but it will also set an example for the world towards clean energy transition,” he said.Hydrogen has attracted international attention because it is a clean fuel which when consumed in a fuel cell, produces water as an end product.A report released by WRI during the session on Monday pointed out that India needs to pioneer green hydrogen because renewable energy will enable the country to meet the emission concerns under the Paris Accord as well as help the country achieve self-reliance in energy.The report also highlighted the current high costs in hydrogen production. It said that hydrogen production through electrolysis costs ₹433 per kg, and ₹280 per kg through the biomass microbial method. “...land acquisition and access to resources are still the biggest impediments to green hydrogen in India. Government specific mandates and long-term stable policy are required for building a stable hydrogen economy in India,” said Akshay Bharadwaj, general manager, Acme Solar Holding, which operates a hydrogen plant in Rajasthan.According to the Union ministry of new and renewable energy website, the Centre has been supporting a broad based research development and demonstration programme on hydrogen energy and fuel. With respect to transportation, support to works at Banaras Hindu University, IIT Delhi, and Mahindra & Mahindra has led to development and demonstration of internal combustion engines, two wheelers, three wheelers, and mini buses that run on hydrogen fuel. Two hydrogen refuelling stations have been established, at Indian Oil R&D Centre, Faridabad, and National Institute of Solar Energy, Gurugram, the website said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/need-a-holistic-plan-for-switch-to-hydrogen-based-energy-sources-experts-101631555615501.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board to offer financial assistance for rainwater harvesting system||New Delhi:Water minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) will provide a financial assistance up to ₹50,000 and a rebate of 10% on water bills to those who install rooftop rainwater harvesting (RWH) systems in their homes.“For the installation of RWH systems, the government will provide financial assistance of 50% of the cost, up to a maximum of ₹50,000, along with a 10% rebate on water bills,” said Jain, who is also the chairperson of the DJB. According to a statement issued by the DJB, plots measuring between 100 square metres and 199.99 square metres, will get a financial assistance of 50% of the total cost of the RWH structure or ₹10,000, whichever is lesser. Similarly, ₹20,000 or 50% of the cost of the RWH structure will be given for plots measuring between 200 sq m and 299.99 sq m, and so on.Jain said the DJB will also adopt the Inline Rainwater Harvesting (RWH) system, which is a cost effective model and is being implemented in the tribal-dominated Dungarpur district of Rajasthan. The reason for adopting this model is that it does not require a heavy installation set-up. While conventional RWH system set-up requires ₹75,000 to Rs. 1 lakh, the Inline RWH System can be set up at a cost as little as ₹16,000, he said. “This model uses innovative techniques and is centred on routing the rainwater directly to a bore well, instead of a regular rainwater-harvesting pit. The rainwater gets filtered within the pipe, removing any need for an additional filter system and harvesting pit. The Inline Rainwater Harvesting System comprises a pipe filter installed horizontally in the rainwater pipe. This pipe is then connected to non-functional and defunct bore wells. The filter media of the Inline Rainwater Harvesting System has a Geotextile membrane as cover, at the mouth of the rainwater pipe. This is followed by wire mesh at the entry point of the different media. This includes coarse sand, gravel/stone aggregate, gravel/stone aggregate. The total length of the filter media is around 90 cm,” he said. The Delhi Jal Board had earlier issued guidelines mandating owners of existing and new properties measuring 100 square metres and above to install RWH structures. Now, it has extended the last date for the implementation of the RWH provisions till December 31, 2021. Also, it will no longer be mandatory to take DJB certification for rainwater harvesting systems from now on.“The Kejriwal government has also relaxed the compliance guidelines…the installed RWH systems can be certified by an architect registered with the Council of Architecture on the condition that the structure is made as per DJB guidelines,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-to-offer-financial-assistance-for-rainwater-harvesting-rwh-system-101631555611378.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||Protect the eye-witnesses in Ankit Gujjar case: Delhi HC orders Tihar officials||The Delhi high court Monday sought a status report from the prison authority on the steps taken to ensure the safety and security of witnesses in the alleged murder of inmate Ankit Gujjar in Tihar jail, and directed them that they be kept in a cell in an area under CCTV monitoring.Justice Mukta Gupta, who last week transferred the investigation from Delhi Police to the CBI, saying the deceased “lost his life to custodial violence”, also sought the medical report of two witnesses who were allegedly not receiving proper treatment in spite of suffering “grievous injuries” in the same incident.Gujjar, 29, was found dead inside his cell in Tihar jail on August 4.“Director General (Prisons) will file a status report indicating measures taken to ensure the safety and security of petitioner 1 to 3 is being maintained and also on surrender, safety and security of petitioners 4 and 5 will also be maintained.DG will also ensure that the petitioners 1-3, in custody, and petitioners 4 and 5, who will surrender on September 24, are kept inside an area where the CCTV is fully functional so that the ingress and egress to the cell is properly monitored,” ordered the judge.The court was hearing a petition by the five witnesses seeking directions to ensure their safety and security as well as to restrain the authorities from “threatening/coercing/injuring them with a view to prevent them from seeking justice for themselves and the deceased inmate”.“The petitioners are all inmates of Delhi Prisons and are eye witnesses to the brutal murder of one Ankit Gujjar (deceased), by Respondent No.1 officials, inside Central Jail No.3 on 03.08.2021,” the petition reads.Two of the petitioners, it is claimed, were the co-inmates of the deceased who are also victims of the same assault while the other three saw the deceased being beaten up by jail officials.Lawyer Mehmood Pracha, counsel for the petitioners, apprehended threat, injury and pressure from officials to coerce them into changing their stand.Two of the petitioners, who were released on interim bail on the same day, informed the deceased family about the events that transpired in jail and they are scheduled to surrender on September 24, he said.“The sequence of events clearly demonstrates the existence of an imminent threat to the lives of the Petitioners on account of the fact that they are eye witnesses to a gruesome and brutal murder inside the jail premises by influential and powerful jail officials, at the behest of the highest rung authorities of the administration,” the plea reads.In its order passed on September 8, the court had stated that the post-mortem report of the deceased “belies the version” of the jail officials that a scuffle took place in which both Deputy Superintendent and Gujjar received injuries.Saying that it is unfathomable that the jail doctor failed to see the multiple injuries on the deceased, the court opined that an investigation was needed into not only the offence of brutally beating the deceased but also into “the role of jail doctors in not providing proper treatment at the right time”.The court observed that the DIG Prisons “failed to notice the connivance/laxity” of the jail deputy superintendent who did not permit the local police to go inside the jail to inquire into the PCR call made in relation to the beating of the deceased on the intervening night of August 3-4.In the petition for transfer of investigation from Delhi Police, the family of the deceased inmate alleged that Gujjar was being harassed by the jail officials as he was “unable to meet their regularly increasing demands for money” and was murdered “as a part of pre-planned conspiracy”.The matter would be heard next on September 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/protect-the-eye-witnesses-in-ankit-gujjar-case-delhi-high-court-orders-tihar-officials-101631555072004.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||Gahlot lays foundation stone for EV charging plaza at Nehru Place bus terminal||New Delhi: Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Monday laid the foundation stone for setting up the first public electric vehicle (EV) charging plaza in Delhi Transport Corporation’s (DTC) Nehru Place bus terminal and inaugurated one EV charging station at the site. The project, for which Convergence Energy Services Limited (CESL) has been allotted 10mx9m space at Nehru Place bus terminal, will be completed and opened to the public within a month.“We are moving closer to our agenda of developing innovative charging infrastructure and EV ecosystem in the national capital and we are happy to be collaborating with CESL, who comes with an expertise in EVs and charging infrastructure in the country. Since the launch of the EV policy last year, we’ve had a significant rise in the number of EVs plying on Delhi roads, with more than 17,000 EVs registered,” said Gahlot. CESL, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), Ministry of Power, in collaboration with the state-run DTC will develop public EV charging stations and battery swapping stations at seven DTC terminals and depots in Delhi. Each of the seven locations will have a total of six charging points, three of which will be for two- and three-wheelers, and three charging points for four-wheelers. Once installed, these locations, with their real-time status and availability of charging points, will also be available on the One Delhi app of the Delhi government. The minister said: “We are also in the process of deliberation on adding 20 more sites of the transport department in the next phase of installation, apart from the 100 public charging stations which will be installed through an open tender. This will significantly ease the transition towards e-mobility for public transport and subsequently for the residents of Delhi.”The government’s EV policy, unveiled last year, aims to push for faster adoption of electric vehicles in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gahlot-lays-foundation-stone-for-ev-charging-plaza-at-nehru-place-bus-terminal-101631555011375.html
14-09-2021||Gurugram||Kanhai intersection to be redesigned by GMDA for smoother, safer commute||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will redesign the Kanhai intersection, one of the most important points of the city, from next month to eliminate possibilities of accidents and make commute smoother, officials said on Monday.The problems at the intersection were discussed in detail during a GMDA meeting held last week, with special emphasis on improving a left slip road and a right turn for commuters heading from Bhagwan Mahaveer Marg.“During the meeting, the mobility wing of the GMDA made a digital presentation on the challenges at the intersection as well as the possible solutions for it,” a senior GMDA official, who attended the meeting, said.The intersection, also known as the sector 44-45-52 T-junction, is the point where vehicles from Vikas Marg, Sohna Road, Saint Thomas Marg, Golf Course Road, Bhagwan Mahaveer Marg and Huda City Centre converge.Despite its importance, the intersection is riddled with problems, including a massive pothole that makes commute difficult. Among the main issues is a boomerang-shaped free-left slip road near Sushant Estate that is mostly avoided by commuters heading from Saint Thomas Marg, as it takes them much longer to travel through this stretch instead of simply taking a left turn on the main carriageway. Most commuters prefer to opt for the latter, despite the movement being regulated by a signal, due to which the number of vehicles taking a left tends to be higher than those moving straight, towards Bhagwan Mahaveer Marg, and causing congestion on the carriageway.“If the service lanes at the Kanhai intersection is fixed and designed correctly, it can reduce the congestion by half. Nobody ever takes the slip lane. The service lane is potholed and like a zig zag,” Rakesh Kapoor, a resident of DLF-5, said. Another issue is that the median on the Vikas Marg stretch ends abruptly, much before the traffic signal, leaving a large gap at the central point of the intersection, which increases the scope for accidents. As a result, commuters heading from Bhagwan Mahaveer Marg towards Vikas Marg and those heading straight from Sushant Estate towards Bhagwan Mahaveer Marg often get in each others’ way.Commuters say that out that traffic signals at the intersection are also poorly placed and difficult to spot. The intersection also lacks basic amenities for pedestrians and cyclists.The GMDA official cited above, who did not wish to be named, said, “One of the suggestions was to use the existing green belt and align the left slip road while for the right turn, compacting the intersection with either large-scale engineering work or placement of jersey barriers was discussed.”A second official privy to the development said that senior GMDA officials assessed the possible changes and their effectiveness for the public. “It was jointly decided to expedite the work at the intersection. Formalities for the tendering process is underway and we are aiming to start on-ground work from October, once the monsoons clear up,” an official of the GMDA’s mobility wing said. The official of the mobility wing said that the redesign is a part of the GMDA’s long-term plan to fix a five-kilometre stretch between the intersection and Sohna Road, passing along key arterial stretches of Vikas Marg and San Felipe Marg. Last month, the GMDA floated a ₹9-crore tender to repair and upgrade the five-kilometre stretch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/kanhai-intersection-to-be-redesigned-by-gmda-for-smoother-faster-and-safer-commute-101631553934683.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||DTU students want fee waivers, admin cites running costs||Several students of Delhi Technological University (DTU) have expressed concerns over paying the full annual fee of ₹2.06 lakh due to financial hardships arising out of Covid-19 pandemic and requested the administration to waive off several components of the fee which “will not be used by students”.University officials, however, said they cannot reduce the fee and pointed out that they are already giving fee concessions in genuine cases.Many students protested last year as well, when the annual fee was ₹1.90 lakh, but the university did not reduce the fee. In 2019-20, students had to pay a yearly fee of ₹1.66 lakh.On August 19, the university released a notice for second-year students to pay their annual fee by September 22, failing which they would be required to pay a late fee. While first-year students are yet to join the university, most third- and fourth-year students have already paid their fee.A group of students have submitted multiple memorandums to the university administration.“With all such difficulties (due to the pandemic) faced by students and their parents and as the future looks uncertain and grim, it becomes nearly impossible for us to pay such exorbitant fees. And given the campus has remained closed for more than a year now, and classes are continuing online, students shouldn’t be charged the full fees,” the students wrote in the letter sent to multiple officials, including the Registrar and Dean of Students’ Welfare, on Saturday.The students have proposed waiving off several fee components – student welfare fee, extracurricular activities, facilities and service charges, examination fee, facilities, fests, gathering, and conferences.Anup Lather, public relations officer of the university, said that the university cannot reduce the fee, and added that the administration already offered concessions for those who approached the university with “genuine causes” like Covid-19 deaths in the family, among other reasons.“There has been no fee hike as such and this fee structure was mentioned in the prospectus at the time of the admission... We cannot reduce the fee because only classes have moved online. Other expenditures like employee salaries, maintenance of university, setting up a new hostel and student centre – all of these things are still going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dtustudents-seek-fee-concession-cite-financial-hardships-due-to-covid-101631553875174.html
14-09-2021||Delhi||236k+ apply for entry to Delhi’s govt schools||The Delhi government on Monday said it has received over 236,500 applications for admission to public schools in nursery to Class 12 for the academic year 2021-22. Of these, over 158,400 aspirants have already been admitted.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted the figures on Monday and said it was the first time that “this (of students moving to government schools in such large numbers) is happening in India”.“Till date, the Directorate of Education, Govt. of NCT of Delhi has received 236,522 applications for admission in classes between Nursery to 12 for the session 2021-22. So far, 158,484 students have been admitted in Delhi government schools. The admission process is still on,” the education department said in a statement.The department also said the enrolment – number of students in government schools – had increased substantially. “After the new admissions, the enrolment in government schools is now 17.67 lakh [1.76 million] for the session 2021-22, from 16.28 lakh [1.62 million] in the previous academic session, which is also higher than the 15.05 lakh [1.5 million] in 2019-20,” the statement said.The Delhi education department conducts two types of admission – planned and non-planned.Students who from switch one government school to another are considered planned admissions while those switching from private schools to government ones are considered non-planned admissions.A senior education department official, requesting anonymity, said, “A substantial part of the 236,522 applications is made up of non-planned admissions. We can’t say that all these students are from private schools since the figure also includes applications for entry-level classes (nursery, kindergarten and class 1) and the aspirants may or may not be from private schools. The non-planned admissions, from Class 6 onwards can be considered as those who have migrated from private schools.”Several government school principals reported an increase in admissions when compared to previous years.Sukhbir Singh Yadav, president of the government principals’ association, said, “Non-planned admissions have increased a lot. We received over 3,000 applications for classes 6 to 9 this year as compared to around 1,800 last year. This is mainly due to the economic crisis wrought by the pandemic and lack of in-person classes. Parents do not want to continue paying for online classes that often ignore the plight of students without smartphones. Government schools at least have worksheets for such students.”Mary Jyotsna Minj, principal of a government girls’ school in New Kondli, said, “In most government schools, the strength has increased because parents have been considering it a safe choice as they don’t have to pay fee. We have all streams and that is why we get more students from our cluster. The admissions to classes 6 to 12 have jumped manifold in the past two years. Before the pandemic, every year, we saw a jump of 200-250 students in non-planned admissions to classes 6 to 12. This figure jumped to around 400 during the last academic year and this year, we received around 4,900 students which is a jump from 4,100 from the pre-pandemic year.”Rohini resident Rashmi Bhatnagar, whose son was admitted to Class 11 in a government school this year, said, “The infrastructure of Delhi government schools has improved over the years and we have noticed a change in the quality of teaching in these schools. Public schools are coming up with several schemes to help students with learning. They focus on the holistic development of children with entrepreneurship mindset curriculum, etc. We do not have any economic challenges as such but we made the switch only on account of the quality of education.”Closure of schools for younger children and continued online education also prompted parents to opt for government schools. Old Delhi resident Nazia, who has two children studying in Delhi government schools, said the family faced hardships during the pandemic due to delayed disbursal of salaries. Her husband, who also works as a teacher in a low-budget private school, was worried about the stability of his job.“Covid-19 affected the household income of many families. We didn’t know if my husband would even retain his job. My older son studied in a private school till Class 5 and was going to switch to another private school in Class 6. But the pandemic delayed the transfer process indefinitely. We did not want our child’s year to be wasted so we enrolled him in a government school. I also enrolled my younger son in a nearby government school for now because we don’t know when classes will resume for younger children,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/236000-apply-for-admissions-to-delhi-govt-schools-says-education-dept-101631553751794.html
14-09-2021||Pune||Maha-Metro to resume installing girders across Lakdi pul after Ganesh festival||PUNE: Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha Metro) will take a call regarding installing girders across the Sambhaji bridge popularly known as Lakdi pul after the Ganesh festival.Atul Gadgil, director of Maha Metro, on Monday said, “It is a technical matter and will take some time to study. We have requested city mayor Murlidhar Mohol to give us one week’s time for the purpose. We will report and make a presentation to the mayor. The decision will be taken after the Ganesh festival is over.”After around eight prominent Ganesh mandals located in the peth areas raised objections to the work of placing girders on the pillars at Sambhaji bridge last week, Mohol intervened and instructed Maha Metro to stop work apart from calling a meeting of Metro officials to discuss the issue.Maha Metro, which is executing the Pune metro project, started work on installing a 50metre-long steel girder across Sambhaji bridge, which is the longest girder on the metro stretch between Vanaz and Civil court. However, workers of Ganesh mandals objected to placing the girder at a height of 20 metre above Sambhaji bridge and demanded that the height be increased from 20 feet to 28 feet as they would otherwise face problems passing through the bridge to immerse Ganesh idols in the Mutha river during the Ganesh immersion procession. Office bearers of the mandals claimed that placing girders at a height of 20 feet may pose obstacles during the Ganesh immersion procession. Officials of Maha Metro said that the measurement of the height of Ganesh idols along with their chariots and other decorations has been completed and that till date, these have a maximum height of 24 feet.As per National highway height clearance standards, a height of 20 feet is mandatory and the two pillars above Sambhaji bridge upon which the girder is going to be placed are kept at a height of 6.5metre by Maha Metro. Maha Metro has taken permission for temporary traffic diversions due to closure of the Lakdi pul from August 24 to September 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maha-metro-to-resume-installing-girders-across-lakdi-pul-after-ganesh-festival-101631550514338.html
14-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 556 new Covid cases||Pune: Pune district reported 556 new Covid cases in 24 hours on Monday. This took the progressive count to 1.13 million of which 1.09 million have recovered, 19,698 deaths and 13,102 are active cases in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 51,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 318 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 351,797 and the death toll remained at 6,736. Pune city reported 130 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 514,355 and the death toll was 9,122. PCMC reported 108 new Covid19 cases and the progressive count went up to 264,388 and the toll stood at 3,491. Vaccine count Pune also saw 51,904 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Monday and totally 9,161,531 vaccines have been administered including 6,551,675 first dose and 2,609,856 second dose. A total of 456 sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 223 are government and 233 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-556-new-covid-cases-101631550210070.html
14-09-2021||Pune||Monsoon likely to linger till end of September: IMD||PUNE With monsoon rainfall likely to continue into the last week of September, the withdrawal of the annual monsoon, earlier forecast as September 17, may be delayed. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune said, “There is a lot of time for the monsoon to retreat. The monsoon as of now is very active and vigorous over some parts of the country. For monsoon retreat to be declared, there has to be no rainfall for a few days,” said Kashyapi.He however added that rainfall activity over Maharashtra will be subdued after September 17. “The low pressure area over Bay of Bengal which has now intensified into a depression is moving. Due to this, the monsoon will be vigorous. Konkan and Goa will receive widespread rainfall till September 15,” said Kashyapi.For Pune city, Kashyapi added that the city is forecast to experience light rainfall till September 19. Pune reported continuous rainfall on Monday. On Monday, Shivajinagar reported 3.2mm of rainfall, whereas Lohegaon reported 2.6 mm of rainfall, weather officials said.IMD officials noted that Mahabaleshwar on Monday reported 81 mm of rainfall. In Central Maharashtra, Kolhapur also reported 13 mm of rainfall on Monday.“Ghat regions have an orange alert for very heavy to heavy rainfall on September 14. After that there is no alert for the city,” said Kashyapi.Between June 1 and September 13, Pune has reported a deficiency of 20.1 mm of rainfall. This departure is on the higher side due to three consecutive monsoon breaks. With good rainfall across Maharashtra, the state itself has received 112 per cent excess rainfall in September alone, as per the weather department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monsoon-likely-to-linger-till-end-of-september-imd-101631550150247.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Railways issued 7.4 lakh season tickets for Mumbai local trains in a month||More than 743,000 commuters have obtained railway season tickets for suburban train journey in almost a month since local train services resumed for fully vaccinated general public in Mumbai. Central Railway (CR) issued 548,046 railway passes while Western Railway (WR) issued 195,397 suburban railway passes to passengers to travel in Mumbai locals, in a month.The maximum numbers of passes were issued at Dombivli and Borivli railway stations. Meanwhile, the number of ticketless commuters has significantly increased on CR with more than 100,000 passengers fined for travelling without a ticket in a month. The railway has collected ₹3 crore as fine from them. On WR, 15,786 passengers were fined for travelling without railway tickets and ₹43.92 lakh was recovered from them. “We appeal to the passengers to travel with proper and valid railway tickets to avoid inconvenience and travel with dignity and follow all norms mandated for Covid-19,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR. Local train services resumed for fully vaccinated passengers on August 15. Passengers have to register showing their vaccination details and get a universal pass through online or offline procedure and then buy monthly railway passes to travel by local trains.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the nodal authority in charge of issuing universal passes, said it does not have the exact number of passes issued. “We have not collated the number of universal passes issued yet. It is a tedious process as it involves collecting the numbers from both online and offline systems,” said a senior BMC official. Passenger associations said the Maharashtra government should consider allowing people to travel by local trains who have taken one dose of vaccine. “People who are travelling ticketless are the ones who have no choice but to make a living. It is important for them. People who have taken one dose of vaccine should also be allowed to travel by local trains. The Maharashtra government should consider that,” said Subhash Gupta, president of Rail Yatri Parishad.Local train services were suspended for the general public on April 15 due to the rise in Covid-19 cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-issued-7-4-lakh-season-tickets-for-mumbai-local-trains-in-a-month-101631548650798.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC aims to conduct 60,000 Covid tests daily after Ganesh Chaturthi in Mumbai||Anticipating a surge in Covid-19 cases after Ganesh Chaturthi, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has instructed ward officers to ramp up daily testing for Covid. The civic body aims to conduct around 60,000 tests daily including rapid antigen tests (RAT) for early identification of infected patients. Amid the ongoing Ganpati festival, Covid-19 tests have plummeted in the city. As per BMC data, on September 10, the civic body conducted around 50,000 tests which dropped to 29,849 on Sunday (September 12) and 25,581 on Monday. Last year, the pandemic curve had witnessed a surge after Ganesh Chaturthi due to violation of Covid-appropriate behaviour. “Due to the festival, the number of tests is low. But we have instructed ward officers to increase testing after the festival is over. We are eyeing at increasing tests up to 60,000 daily so that we can identify infected patients early,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner.In the past one week, the test positivity rate (TPR) has risen to more than 1% which was around 0.8% earlier. For instance, on Monday, TRP was 1.36%. With this in mind, the civic body has plans to set up RAT desks in each ward. “We will run RAT on the floating crowds in populated areas, especially at railway stations, markets and malls. We will also test shopkeepers and vendors,” said Kakani. Though medical experts have welcomed the move, they laid emphasis on conducting more RT-PCR tests, which has a higher accuracy rate than RAT. Dr Kedar Toraskar, critical care specialist at Wockhardt Hospital and member of the state’s Covid-19 taskforce, said, “Testing and vaccination hold the key to controlling the anticipated third wave. We need to test more than 60,000 people daily before the pandemic curve surges again. This will not only control the transmission rate but also help in early treatment which will lessen mortality rate.”With the festive season beginning in the city, BMC has urged people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and get tested immediately if they have any symptoms.Dr Ramakanta Panda, chief consultant for cardiovascular thoracic surgery and managing director of Asian Heart Institute, Bandra-Kurla Complex, said parents should pray from home and not take children to visit pandals. Dr Panda said Sars-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — enters the body through ACE2 receptor, the protein which provides the entry point to the virus to hook into and infect a wide range of human cells. These receptors are not matured in children. However, as seen in the second wave, a large number of children contacted Covid-19 and a certain percentage of them also developed complications.“Rare but severe incidences of systemic inflammatory diseases have been found as a result of Covid-19 in kids. In the absence of a vaccine for children, it is best that families pray from home,” he said. As HT reported earlier, BMC has changed testing rules where high-risk and close relatives of Covid-19 positive patients will be tested on that day itself instead of waiting for five-seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-aims-to-conduct-60-000-covid-tests-daily-after-ganesh-chaturthi-in-mumbai-101631548530605.html
14-09-2021||Pune||Covid testing wanes in Pune as positivity rate shows slight increase||PUNE The number of Covid-19 tests being conducted in the district has been dropping, week on week, this despite the positivity rate showing a slight increaseBetween August 8 and August 14, when 124,638 Covid-19 tests were conducted, 6,917 new Covid-19 cases were reported. The positivity rate at the time was 5.5%. In the week between August 25 and August 31, 115,914 Covid-19 tests were conducted and the positivity rate climbed to 6.2% with 7,263 new Covid-19 cases found. In the last week between September 5and September 11 105,863 tests were conducted and the positivity rate as at 6.01% as 6,372 cases were reported. Along with Pune which is at a 6.6% combined positivity rate, other districts of concern are Ahmednagar (5.5%), Sangli (4.4%), Satara (3.4%), Nashik (3.7%) and Osmanabad (3.6%). Ravindra Bhinwade, additional municipal commissioner said, “I have already spoken to the health department saying that the Covid-19 daily test numbers should remain above 10,000 daily. On Sunday, this number had fallen down to 5,000. However,on Sunday swab collection centres are also functioning with limited staff since it is their weekly off. We are also in talks with various Ganesh mandals to ensure that possible super- spreaders are tested. Also for mandals to come forward as volunteers to conduct Covid-19 tests. We want to focus on RTPCR tests. Rapid antigen tests (RAT) are only limited to symptomatic contacts of positive Covid-19 patients. We do not miss any patient who may test negative on RAT.” With the Ganesh festival on and crowds returning to the streets the fear of a third wave is palpable and only increased testing could see the administration know if there is a renewed outbreak of the virus.As reported by Hindustan Times in its Sunday edition, members of the Covid Task Force have pointed out that negligence towards Covid-appropriate behaviour can have serious repercussions in the near future. Dr Shashank Joshi member of the state task force, even asked for caution and alert as the mass gatherings have increased during the festivities in cities like Pune and Mumbai. “We have to be on the red alert. We have to ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour must be followed. We must delay the third Covid wave as long as possible,” Dr Joshi said. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management, had said that the last week of September would be crucial as Covid cases may go up post Ganesh immersion. “Covid-appropriate behaviour is nowhere to be seen in the semi-urban and rural areas. Even in the urban parts only a few people have been following the norms such as wearing masks. It is a dangerous sign. We have seen the effects of the negligence. We should all be aware,” Dr Salunkhe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-testing-wanes-in-pune-as-positivity-rate-shows-slight-increase-101631548409914.html
14-09-2021||Lucknow||Covid: Preschoolers back in classrooms in Lucknow||Preschoolers were back in classrooms as the preprimary sections of many schools in Lucknow reopened after a prolonged closure due to the Covid pandemic but the attendance remained moderate at about 50 per cent. In some schools, it was even less.Schools under the umbrella of the Unaided Private School Association Uttar Pradesh (UPSA) and the Preschool Association started classes for preprimary children from Monday, said Anil Agarwal, president of UPSA.The school campuses came alive resonating with music, floral welcome and vibrant decorations for the nursery to upper kindergarten (UKG) children on Monday. All branches of St Joseph School welcomed the nursery, preparatory and kindergarten students with beautiful displays. The school band performed as the tiny tots entered into the school campuses.Wearing face masks, the kindergarten students went through the sanitisation tunnel to their brightly decorated classes and corridors. Teachers greeted the children with chocolate treats. Arrangements were made for thermal scanning of all students.Agarwal said since the schools were already running successfully for classes 1 to 12, the little ones could come safely.Preschool Association president Tushar Chetwani said that all preschools and playway schools would ensure complete compliance with Covid protocols and standard operating procedures.However, a number of other educational institutions under Unaided Private School Association Uttar Pradesh (UPSA) chose to keep the preschools shut for different reasons. Debjani Pakrasi, principal of Pioneer Montessori School (Rajajipuram branch in Lucknow), said, “Though the government has given proper guidelines for the reopening of preschools, still the parents of toddlers seem to be quite apprehensive in sending their little ones to school.”Pakrasi said, “On average, 60% parents have still not given their consent for sending their children and wish to wait till October before taking any decision. The school management is cooperating with such parents by running both online and offline classes simultaneously.”There are many educational institutions like City Montessori School, which is part of Unaided Private School Association Uttar Pradesh (UPSA), that reopened the kindergarten section on September 8 itself while the association had given a call to do so from September 13.CMS founder Jagdish Gandhi said that the safety of students remained the topmost priority and all CMS campuses were strictly following the Covid protocol while running their offline classes.To maintain physical distancing for students and parents outside the campuses, social distancing circles have been painted for their safety and posters spreading awareness about Covid prevention measures have been put up at prominent locations on every campus. Social distancing is being ensured during seating and classrooms are also being sanitised on a regular basis for the safety of students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-preschoolers-back-in-classrooms-in-lucknow-101631533829346.html
14-09-2021||Mumbai||Sakinaka rape, murder over monetary dispute: Mumbai Police||monetary dispute led to the brutal rape and murder of a 32-year-old Dalit woman in Sakinaka last week, Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said on Monday, adding that the victim and the lone accused in the case, who has confessed to the crime, knew each other.The weapon used in the incident has been recovered, he added.Since the victim was a Dalit, the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act has been invoked against the accused, who is already facing rape and murder charges, Nagrale said at a press conference.On September 10, the 32-year-old woman was raped and brutalised with a rod by a man inside a stationary tempo in suburban Sakinaka. She succumbed to her injuries during treatment early on Saturday.“We have the sequence of events, like when the victim reached the spot, when the accused reached the spot, how the crime took place - everything is on record,” Nagrale said.The accused, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, worked as a driver and lived on a pavement in the same area. He was identified with the help of CCTV footage collected from the area and traced within a few hours of the incident, the police have said.The police have taken up this case on priority and a charge-sheet will be filed within one month, he added.“We will send all evidences for DNA analysis. All relevant CCTV footage has been collected from the area. There was some monetary dispute between the two (accused and victim) due to which the incident took place,” the senior IPS officer said.Earlier in the day, amid severe backlash from the Opposition parties over the case, the Shiv Sena termed Mumbai the “safest city” in the world for women and there should be no doubt about it in anyone’s mind.“The rape and murder of the woman in Sakinaka has shocked one and all. But, Mumbai is the safest city in the world for women and there should be no doubt about it in anyone’s mind,” said an editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with the senior officials from state police force and home department, where he issued a slew of directives regarding women’s safety. “Police force should be more vigilant and alert to keep up its formidable reputation. Fingers are being raised over the capability of the force and it needs to be taken seriously by it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sakinaka-rape-murder-over-monetary-dispute-mumbai-police-101631533588939.html
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Manali-Leh highway closed due to rain, snowfall in Himachal||The Manali-Leh highway has been closed for traffic due to snowfall in the higher reaches on Monday, officials said. Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar said the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has pressed men and machinery to restore traffic on the strategic highway after a fresh spell of snowfall at Baralacha La. At 15,912 feet, Baralacha La is one of the five highest mountain passes on the Manali-Leh highway. Rohtang La, Nakee La, Lachung La and Tanglang La are the other four passes. Leh-Delhi bus service suspended The Himachal Pradesh Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) has temporarily suspended its Leh-Delhi bus service. The route that covers a distance of more than 1,000 km is the longest with one of the most dangerous stretches on which the HRTC runs buses. The Lahaul HRTC regional manager has said that the bus service will be suspended for winter if bad weather extends beyond September 15. Earlier, the bus service remained suspended for one-and-a-half years due to Covid-19 and was resumed on July 1. NH-5 closed at Urni Meanwhile, National Highway number 5 that connects Shimla and Kinnaur has been closed for traffic after a bailey bridge was damaged due to a landslide. The bridge is being repaired. Multiple landslips have reported across this route. Traffic on the Kalka-Shimla highway that was closed due to a landslide on Sunday night has been restored. In Kullu district, a landslide at Nehru Kund near Vashisht has blocked a link road. Himachal Pradesh has been experiencing heavy rain for the past three days. In Rohru sub-division, the remote Janglik-Tangnu area was cut off after a bridge was damaged in a flashflood. Rain forecast till September 17 The meteorological department has forecast rain till September 17. However, the intensity of the monsoon will weaken from Tuesday onwards. The monsoon is likely to withdraw from Himachal Pradesh by September 26. This season, the monsoon claimed 379 lives besides causing loss of an estimated ₹998 crore due to damage to public and private property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manalileh-highway-closed-due-to-rain-snowfall-in-himachal-101631532631671.html
14-09-2021||Indore||Indore hospital conducts rare liver transplant. Here's all about the condition||A 26-year-old man, whose liver and heart were on the wrong side of his body, was operated upon in a hospital in Indore city of Madhya Pradesh so that he could donate one of his organs to his father. Doctors at the city's Choithram Hospital said the surgery was conducted on the man, who has a condition called situs invertus totalis, on August 28. The 59-year-old father was suffering from liver cirrhosis, which called for the donation, doctors said."The liver is usually found on the right side, but due to a congenital condition, it was on the left side for Prakhar. A team of four doctors performed the surgery, which if not done in time, could have caused danger to the life of the recipient," Dr Sudesh Sharda, the hospital's organ transplant surgeon, was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Sharda claimed that only five such transplants had been performed in the world. The man has been discharged while his father would also be allowed to go home soon, he added. Situs inversus totalis is a condition in which internal organs are totally reversed. "Situs Inversus totalis has been estimated to occur once in about 6-8,000 births. Situs inversus occurs in a rare abnormal condition that is present at birth (congenital) called Kartagener's syndrome," medicine.net says.Situs inversus can occur alone with no other abnormalities or conditions or can occur as part of a syndrome with various other defects. "Congenital heart defects are present in about 5-10% of affected people. The underlying cause and genetics of situs inversus are complex. Familial cases have been reported," according to US Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center (GARD).In isolated situs inversus, there is a complete mirror image transposition of the chest and abdominal organs, and front-back symmetry is normal. "Many affected people have no associated health issues when the condition is isolated. When situs inversus occurs in association with other conditions such as Kartagener syndrome or primary ciliary dyskinesia, additional signs and symptoms relating to these conditions will be present," GARD says.Diagnosis of situs inversus is done through a thorough physical examination, followed by radiographic imaging of the chest and abdomen and electrocardiography. "The Genetic Testing Registry (GTR) provides information about the genetic tests for this condition," GARD says."In isolated situs inversus, no treatment may be necessary. When situs inversus is associated with another condition, treatment may depend on the associated condition and the signs and symptoms present in the affected person," it says.GARD also said that the long-term outlook for those with situs inversus depends on whether the condition is isolated, or is associated with additional abnormalities affecting the heart or other parts of the body.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-hospital-conducts-rare-liver-transplant-here-s-all-about-the-condition-101631503211534.html
