15-09-2021||Pune||10,000 autorickshaws operating illegally in Pune: RTO||PUNE The Pune traffic police and the Regional transport office (RTO) continued the action against autorickshaw drivers in the city on Wednesday. In latest data released by the RTO the total number of registered autorickshaws in Pune stands at 60,000. However, apart from this, at least 10,000 rickshaws are operating illegally in the city, as per the RTO.“Our drive against auto drivers is going on daily and in different parts of the city. Mainly, drivers do not have permits and licences and are illegal. There are 60,000 registeredautos with permits in Pune. Then there are 10,000 autos which ply without any a permit or any legal documents. Such vehicles are being immediately seized by our squads,” said Sanjeev Bhor, deputy regional transport officer, Pune RTO.Since September 9, joint action to check rickshaws by both, the RTO and the traffic police officials has been on. On Tuesday, a total of 6,002 autorickshaw drivers faced action by the Pune traffic police department. Over 4,250 autorickshaw drivers were penalised for not wearing a uniform, while 730 were fined for not carrying a driving licence. A total of 308 cases were registered against drivers without an RTO-issued badge, while 729 cases were filed over missing RTO permits and other documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/10000-autorickshaws-operating-illegally-in-pune-rto-101631730481963.html
15-09-2021||Other||Amir has no links with terror activities:Kin of Lucknow suspect||Lucknow: The family members of Mohammed Amir Javed, 31, of Lucknow’s Bakshi Ka Talab, who was arrested by UP ATS on Tuesday for allegedly planning terror activities have denied his involvement in any illegal activities. “My brother is a law-abiding citizen who keeps himself busy with work to support his family and child. He has nothing to do with illegal activities, let alone terrorism,” said Amir’s brother Abdullah here on Wednesday. He said Amir and the entire family were into the business of dates. He informed that he, Amir and their other brother Mohammed were rounded up by a team of UP ATS from their house for questioning on Tuesday and were later detained for a few hours at the ATS headquarters in Lucknow’s Sarojini Nagar. He said he and Mohammad were allowed to go after a few hours of questioning while Amir was arrested. According to family members, Amir graduated from Darul Uloom Nadwatul Ulema or Nadwa College in Lucknow and started a fruit business. They said Amir got married in 2019 and had a six- month-old son. “My son remained busy with work to support his family. He cannot have any links with terrorist activities,” said Amir’s mother Humaiya Yasmin. Turning down the UP ATS claims of Amir’s visit to Pakistan, Amir’s father Aslam Javed said he worked in Saudi Arabia between 1994 and 2003 and thereafter returned to India along with his family. He said Amir was merely seven years of age then and since then, he had never gone outside the country. The family met representatives of Rehai Manch, an NGO fighting for atrocities against minorities, on Wednesday. Mohammed Shoaib, chairman of Rehai Manch, extended support to the family and questioned the working of UP ATS. He said that this was not the first time when the UP police had framed innocent Muslim youths in terror activities and sent them to jail. On Tuesday, the kin of Zeeshan Qamar, held from Prayagraj, also claimed he was innocent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amir-has-no-links-with-terror-activities-kin-of-lucknow-suspect-101631730480049.html
15-09-2021||Pune||Forest dept threatens action over immersion of idols in Vetal tekdi quarry||PUNE Environmentalists have opposed the immersion of Ganesh idols in ponds at a quarry on Vetal Tekdi (hill), claiming it will harm the environment. The activists, along with local residents, have sought a stricter vigil on the area from the forest department. Forest department officials clarified that strict action will be taken against those who immerse idols in mines on the hill. Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests, Pune Division, said, “We will have staff on Vetal tekdi and Mahatma tekdi on the days of Ganesh Immersion. We will take strict action under the Forest Act, 1927 against those who immerse idols here. A case could be registered and the person concerned could be arrested.” Earlier, Sushma Date, member of the Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samiti and also volunteer at Save Vetal Tekdi, clicked pictures of people immersing Ganesh idols at the quarry on Vetal tekdi and reported the same to the deputy conservator of Forests. “As water sources are already polluted, biodiversity of the tedki is getting destroyed,” she said. She along with other residents in the area took to social media to help form a vigilante team to make sure this doesn’t happen. Another resident, requesting anonymity, pointed out that if the rains stop, the pools will dry up and idols could remain not fully dissolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/forest-dept-threatens-action-over-immersion-of-idols-in-vetal-tekdi-quarry-101631730300089.html
15-09-2021||Other||71K diyas to be lit up in Varanasi temple on Modi’s 71st birthday||Seventy-one thousand diyas (earthen lamps) will be lit up at the Bharat Mata Temple in Kashi to mark the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 17.“Earthen diyas will also be lit up in every Kashi house,” UP Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) co-incharge Sunil Ojha said on Wednesday. Ojha said this in Varanasi, Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency, during a meeting with the BJP workers in Kashi.“A 71-meter-long ‘chunari’ will be offered to ‘Ma Ganga and aarti will be performed in 71 temples of Varanasi. Seventy-one kilogram of laddus will be distributed in each of the eight assembly constituencies of Varanasi,” the UP BJP leader said. Ojha said that a number of other events will also be held to mark the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/71k-diyas-to-be-lit-up-in-varanasi-temple-on-modi-s-71st-birthday-101631730062723.html
15-09-2021||Other||GNDU pioneering course to train teachers for kids with disabilities||AMRITSAR Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) is pioneering a Special Education (multiple disabilities) course in Punjab and neighbouring states of North India to produce Special Teachers to look after needs of such special students. From the current session (2021-22), the varsity has the approval of the Rehabilitation Council of India, Union education ministry, to run a BEd Special Education (Multiple Disabilities) with an intake of 30 seats. The course aims at developing teachers for differently-abled children and for creating an inclusive environment in schools. Vice-chancellor Jaspal Singh Sandhu said, “A great beginning has been made and we will soon produce teachers to cater to special kids.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gndu-pioneering-course-to-train-teachers-for-kids-with-disabilities-101631730061299.html
15-09-2021||Pune||Shivajirao Bhosale bank case: Chargesheet registered against Anil Bhosale, 6 others||PUNE A 7,380-page chargesheet has been registered against seven people, including former corporator Anil Bhosale, at a special court in Pune , in a case of cheating involving the Shivajirao Bhosale Co-operative Bank worth ₹496,44,00,000, according to a statement issued by Pune police on Wednesday.The chargesheet is against Bhosale, Suryaji Pandurang Jadhav, Tanaji Dattu Padwal, Shailesh Sampatrao Bhosale, Mangaldas Vitthal Bandal, Hiten alias Hitendra Virabhai Patel, and Manojkumar Pranath Abrol.The chargesheet includes charges under Sections 406, 408, 409, 420, 468, 471, 109, 120(b), 465, 467, 474, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 3, 4, and 5 of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors.“In the case, the accused criminally plotted in a strategic manner and helped each other to use names of these loan benefactors to forge loan documents and used them as genuine documents to issue loans and in the process cheated and breached the trust of customers of the bank,” read a statement by the Economic Offence Wing of Pune police.The chargesheet was registered in the special MPID court of Additional Sessions Judge GP Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shivajirao-bhosale-bank-case-chargesheet-registered-against-anil-bhosale-6-others-101631729641816.html
15-09-2021||Other||Yogi announces launch of UP Matra Bhumi Yojana||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday announced the launch of ‘Uttar Pradesh Matra Bhumi Yojana’ that seeks to make the common man a direct participant in the development work of the state and strengthen the participatory rural economy and infrastructure. “Under this, every person will get a chance to directly participate in various works of infrastructure development in villages. The government will bear 50 per cent of the total cost of the project, while the remaining 50 % will be contributed by the interested people. In return the project can be named after the relatives of the collaborators as per their wish,” said the CM. He made the announcement while inaugurating and laying the foundation stones of various roads under PM Gramin Sadak Yojana(PMGSY) and District Panchayats using hot mix and full depth reclamation (FDR) method. The CM also asked the departments of rural development and panchayati raj to submit an action plan for the formal launch of the new scheme. He said that continuous work was being done by the central and the state governments for the overall development of villages. “The Uttar Pradesh Matra Bhumi Yojana can prove to be a good attempt in the establishment of health centre, Anganwadi, library, stadium, gymnasiums, open gym, cattle breed improvement centre and fire service station, among others, in villages,” Yogi Adityanath said. He further said that whether for setting up CCTVs for smart villages, development of funeral sites or for installation of solar lights, there could be public participation in every work. “Through this new scheme, the person concerned will be able to take full credit for the project by bearing half of the total cost,” he pointed out. Interacting with the presidents and members of Gram Panchayat, Kshetra Panchayat and District Panchayat, the CM said that the panchayats needed to be self-reliant. Stressing on rural development, the CM further said that roads were not just a means of transport but also a powerful means of strengthening the rural economy. “Countries with developed infrastructure are also economically prosperous. In a state like Uttar Pradesh, about 80 percent of the population lives in rural background. To strengthen the rural economy, good roads and better connectivity are essential which is being done continuously through PMGSY”, he said. He pointed out that the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, which was started by former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in the year 2000, had become a medium for the progress of villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-announces-launch-of-up-matra-bhumi-yojana-101631729640564.html
15-09-2021||Other||Panipat acid attack victim awaits justice||Even as 11 months have passed, a 38-year-old acid attack victim of Panipat is still awaiting justice as police have failed to trace the accused.The woman’s world changed when two bike-borne youths threw acid on her when she was returning from her job at a textile factory on October 26, 2020. She could not see their faces as they were wearing helmets. The incident was recorded in a CCTV camera installed in the locality but as of now, there is no clue about the perpetrators.Neither the victim nor her family know the reason behind the crime that claimed vision of her right eye. “I want to know why they did this to me. But police have failed to do their job even after almost a year,” said the victim.She is mother of three boys, and her husband works at a factory. “I used to work at a factory at ₹5,000 per month but after the incident, I lost vision in one eye and cannot work. Also, I hesitate to go out,” she added.She had told the police the names of two suspects who used to harass her and one of them is her relative. She had filed a complaint against him about six years ago.Police officials associated with the investigation said there is no evidence to prove the involvement of suspects in the case. Police have closed the investigation after announcing a cash reward of ₹1 lakh for any information on the accused.“We had investigated the case but police could not identify the accused even as a cash reward was announced,” said Panipat DSP Satish Vats.On the victim raising suspicion against two people in the case, he said, “We did not have any evidence to prove her allegations and their involvement in the case.”Police had promptly registered an FIR against the unknown accused under Sections 326 A and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Quila police station. But now, the victim has lost hope that the accused will ever be arrested or sent behind the bars.“Most acid attack victims in our country know the accused. But in my case, police could not trace them,” she said. The victim had sustained serious injuries in her right eye and burns on her face.Women protection officer-cum-child marriage prohibition officer Rajni Gupta said she is provided financial assistance by the women and child development department and the legal services authority.“Now, we are providing her free legal assistance so that she can get benefits of government schemes meant for acid attack victims,” she added.Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said, “The case is untraced and the accused are still unknown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panipat-acid-attack-victim-awaits-justice-101631729461075.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Terror suspect was under watch, Maharashtra home minister denies intelligence failure||State home minister Dilip Walse Patil on Wednesday said the police have all the right to arrest people from other states if they have concrete information. He, however, added that Jaan Mohammad Shaikh alias Sameer Kalia, a terror suspect, was under police surveillance and denied the allegations of intelligence failure. He also refused to disclose if Intelligence Bureau (IB) had shared any alert or input with the state police on the terror module. The home minister further asked the opposition parties not to bring politics in the extremely sensitive matter and they are required to cooperate with the state and the police.He was responding to the allegations made by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashish Shelar over intelligence failure of the state police and no free hand to the force by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.“Police have the right to make arrests in other states on the basis of concrete information and accordingly Jaan Mohammad Shaikh alias Sameer Kalia was arrested,” the home minister said after holding a meeting with senior police officials following the arrest of a terror suspect from Dharavi in Mumbai for his alleged association with a Pakistan-organised terror module.“A case was registered against Shaikh in 2001 since then there is no criminal record against him. Police keep a watch of all the people who need to be under surveillance, and he was also under watch. There is no intelligence failure,” Patil said.“Sometimes the information of IB is shared with the states and sometimes it is not,” he said while refusing to share details if the information of Intelligence Bureau was shared with the Mumbai Police or not.He said that the case is very sensitive, and he won’t be able to share many details as it may impact the investigation. He was talking to reporters in Mantralaya after his meeting with senior police officers.On Tuesday, the special cell of Delhi Police arrested six people who were part of an alleged “Pakistan-trained terror module” and claimed to have averted serial blasts and targeted killings in at least three states including Maharashtra during the upcoming festive season. One of them, Shaikh, is a Dharavi resident. Delhi Police have claimed that Shaikh was part of the six-member ‘Pakistan-trained terror module’ and arrested him from Kota in Rajasthan. Underworld don Dawood Ibrahim’s brother Anees Ibrahim, suspected to be hiding in Pakistan, was connected to this module and trying to smuggle arms and ammunition into the country.On Wednesday, Shelar squarely blamed the MVA government over alleged negligence by the state intelligence unit. “Were the police that issued a lookout notice against a Union minister (Narayan Rane) for a non-cognizable offence, another lookout notice for a sitting MLA and misbehaved with a journalist, sleeping for the terrorists? If the police had the intelligence, then why action was not taken? Or they want to take a moderate stand against a particular community for political purposes?,” Shelar accused. He further alleged that though the state police force is capable enough, they are being involved in other matters such as extortion, and that is the reason such cases happen.“Instead of raising questions on the law-and-order situation, the Opposition party should cooperate with the police. They also should not hold protests by violating the government’s order. I don’t want to give importance to his (Ashish Shelar) statement. Mumbai police too have arrested two people in Delhi two days ago though in a different case. Police have the right to make an arrest,” Patil said in his response.“The police have been given free hand in the state. They are not engaged in any other work. I don’t think there is any sort of political interference. They are doing their job properly,” he added further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/terror-suspect-was-under-watch-maharashtra-home-minister-denies-intelligence-failure-101631729399909.html
15-09-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati attacks UP govt over poor condition of roads||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati took potshots at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government on the issue of potholed roads, even as state’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya announced a new ‘gaddha mukt sadak’ (pothole-free roads) campaign across UP from Wednesday. ‘Gaddha mukt sadak abhiyaan’ (pothole-free roads) was one of the key promises of the BJP government. “We have decided to roll out a campaign to repair the roads across the state,” Maurya said, adding that the construction quality of the roads has vastly improved in the state. Mayawati in a tweet on Wednesday said that like the law-and-order machinery, the road network too is in a mess in the state. “It is difficult to decipher if there were potholes on roads or roads on potholes,” Mayawati said. “Several accidents have happened due to these potholed roads. Newspaper reports are full of people dying due to accidents caused while driving on these potholed roads. This is sad and proof of government’s failure,” Mayawati tweeted. “Roads were among the basic requirements of the people as they are directly linked to development. The truth is that no matter how many slogans the government coins or makes claims, people are unable to understand if potholes are on roads or roads on potholes. The government must pay attention,” she tweeted. Mayawati’s attack on the BJP government over pitiable roads came a couple of days after she had targeted the government over the issue of floods ravaging eastern UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-attacks-up-govt-over-poor-condition-of-roads-101631729279900.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Poor hygiene, water contamination prima facie cause of Palwal kids’ death||The Haryana health department on Wednesday said the probable cause of death of seven children in Chilla and Chilli villages of Palwal could be unhygienic living conditions and contamination due to illegal drinking water pipes.However, the final cause of death of these children can only be commented upon after completion of epidemiological investigations, a health department report stated.As per the laboratory findings of the area, all 425 malaria test reports, 12 dengue ELISA samples, 64 RT-PCR Covid-19 tests, and 50 Covid-19 antigen tests have tested negative.Officials said of the seven deaths, two deaths were reported of children below 5 years of age.Additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora said information regarding suspected fever deaths among children in Chilli and Chilla villages, a district rapid response team was activated by Palwal civil surgeon and sent to the area affected.An epidemiological investigation was ordered in coordination with WHO representatives, he said. The ACS said the population of the affected villages is 2,947 and 763 with total households of 186 and 72, respectively. The outbreak started on September 9.He said house-to-house active case search for fever is being done by the health teams and 1,089 houses have been checked as part of epidemiological investigations. Besides this, all anti-larval activities such as fogging, water bodies’ checking, etc are on in the affected area.Elaborating on the probable reason for the outbreak, he said officials found a leakage in the pipeline of drinking water and public health officers have been instructed to repair it at the earliest.Temporary medical camp has been set up in the area and cases treated symptomatically and referred as per the severity.Some deaths may be due to pneumonia and gastroenteritis as per records of Nalhar medical college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poor-hygiene-water-contamination-prima-facie-cause-of-palwal-kids-death-101631729219805.html
15-09-2021||Lucknow||Four killed in separate incidents of wall collapse due to heavy rain in UP||Four people, including two children, were killed and five others injured in separate incidents of wall collapse caused by heavy rains and storms in parts of Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, government officials confirmed. Two children, aged two and five, died while three people were injured in separate incidents of a wall collapse in Bareilly district of western UP after a storm accompanied by rains uprooted trees and electric poles on Tuesday night. Bareilly Additional District Magistrate, (Finance and Revenue), Manoj Kumar Pandey said, “The incidents occurred in Subhashnagar police station area where Nihal Thakur (5) died after the wall collapsed on him when he was going to a nearby shop. Locals rushed the child to a local hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. In the Saidpur area under Izatnagar police station, Sachin Sahu (2) died after the wall of an under-construction house collapsed due to rain and storm. The sister of the deceased was also injured in the incident and is undergoing treatment at a hospital. Local officials have been rushed to the two spots to assist the families of the deceased.” Two others were injured in similar incidents reported from the rural area of Bareilly district on Wednesday. Rains and strong winds also disrupted the power supply in many areas, officials said. Traffic on Lucknow-Bareilly Highway was also affected by uprooted trees. In Ballia district of eastern UP, a 55-year-old woman, Purshottam Devi, was killed while her husband and two grandsons were injured when a wall of their semi-pucca house in Savrupur village under Rasra police station area collapsed on Wednesday morning, officials said. All four were rushed to the Community Health Centre (CHC), where doctors declared Purshottam Devi dead. Her husband and grandson are undergoing treatment at the district hospital, they said. In a similar incident in the Chitrakoot district of the Bundelkhand region, a 68-year-old woman, Kunti, was killed after a ‘kutcha’ wall collapsed in Shankar Bazar area of Karvi Sadar Kotwali police station area on Tuesday night, the officials said. The disaster relief department of the state government has initiated the process to provide relief to the kin of the deceased. An alert for heavy rains and accompanied by strong winds has been issued in over 25 districts of Uttar Pradesh till Thursday following the forecast of the Indian Metrological Department (IMD).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/four-killed-in-separate-incidents-of-wall-collapse-due-to-heavy-rain-in-up-101631728919921.html
15-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan speaker adjourns assembly sine die after repeated disruptions||Rajasthan Speaker C P Joshi on Wednesday adjourned the state Assembly sine die after repeated disruptions by opposition members, days before the session was to conclude.The Business Advisory Committee had fixed the agenda of the House till September 18.Later, the ruling Congress and BJP legislators met the Speaker in his chamber and requested him to change his decision.Joshi said everyone should respect the dignity of democracy.He said both the ruling party and the opposition have the responsibility of upholding the tradition and dignity of democracy in the House.Earlier in the day, proceedings of the House were adjourned twice due to heated arguments between the ruling party and Opposition legislators during a debate on a road transport bill.Following arguments, BJP legislators trooped into the well of the House and raised slogans.Amid the din, the proceedings of the House were adjourned for 15 minutes and then again for 45 minutes.When the legislators continued exchanging arguments, the Speaker first warned them and then adjourned the House sine die, saying he won’t let the House run in this manner.Earlier replying to the debate on the Rajasthan State Road Transport Service (Prevention of Ticketless Travel) (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said the previous government was about to shut roadways and said most leaders raised the issues unrelated to the legislation.He said the previous government did not give permit to buses run on contract whereas the present government purchased 900 buses right after coming into power, leading to a heated debate between members of the ruling Congress and the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-speaker-adjourns-assembly-sine-die-after-repeated-disruptions-101631726878586.html
15-09-2021||Gurugram||Najafgarh Jheel: Haryana to submit environment plan to NGT next month||A year after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) sought an environment management plan from the Haryana government with regard to the Najafgarh Jheel (water body), officials of the environment department on Wednesday said that they are likely to submit a plan next month, when a hearing in this matter is also scheduled.Officials from the environment department said that they are finalising the plan at present, after receiving reports from the agencies concerned.RK Chauhan, the joint director of state environment, said, “We have received reports from the technical and engineering committees formed to study the matter and the environment management plan will be ready by the end of this month. We have proposed some biodiversity management plans like treatment of water, controlling the chemical oxygen demand (COD) and biological oxygen demand (BOD) levels of the water, and designated the fisheries department to enhance the ecology of the area.” On September 17, 2020, the NGT, hearing a petition filed by the Indian National Trust for Art & Cultural Heritage (INTACH) for protection of the water body, said, “In view of the fact that there is a large transboundary water body which partly falls in Delhi and partly in Haryana, it will be appropriate that an environment management plan is prepared jointly by the State of Haryana and NCT of Delhi.” Delhi had submitted a draft plan earlier this year, which focused on objectives like restoration of wetland habitat, removal of invasive species, efficient treatment of sewage received within the wetland and maintenance of diversity of biota within Najafgarh Jheel, among other objectives. The green court is scheduled to hear the matter next month. As per the orders of the NGT, the Haryana government was supposed to submit the environment management plan within three months from the hearing, i.e., by December 2020. However, due to technical procedures like identification of area that falls under the ambit of the lake and monitoring by technical committees, the submission of the environment management plan got delayed.The seven-square-kilometre Najafgarh Jheel is an important water body for Gurugram as it acts as a large aquifer to recharge groundwater. Many creeks in the Aravallis flow into the Najafgarh Jheel, which is further carried to the Yamuna river. The lake is located in a natural depression in southwest Delhi, close to the Gurugram-Rajokri border on National Highway-48. It is fed by the Najafgarh drain, which has a sizeable catchment area in Gurugram. A portion of the lake falls in Haryana. On Wednesday, officials said that the Haryana State Wetland Authority is likely to meet next week under the chairmanship of the chief minister to take a decision on declaring the lake a wetland. “There are a lot of issues that need to be looked into, like acquiring private land around the lake before declaring it as a wetland. Experts are also exploring how a dam can be constructed around the lake so that water flowing into the lake does not flow back into the Gurugram city during peak monsoon. All these issues will be discussed in the meeting before taking a final decision,” an official from Gurugram, requesting anonymity, said.In August 2020, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that the government was considering the construction of check dams (bundhs) around the lake to prevent flooding of around 5,000 acres of agricultural land located in its vicinity. Stating that he was aware of the problems faced by villagers, Khattar had said, “Activities are ongoing at the state level to resolve the issue. The deputy commissioner has submitted the report to the state wetland authority. Under this, technical and financial subcommittees have been formed. Also, the plan is to build a dam on the slope side of the lake to stop water from inundating the agricultural land.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/najafgarh-jheel-haryana-to-submit-environment-plan-to-ngt-next-month-101631727424953.html
15-09-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination: Gurugram achieves target in three-day mega drive||The district crossed the target set for the three-day mega vaccination drive by conducting 62,408 inoculations against Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 147,693. Officials of the health department said that the district was set a target of 145,000 but it managed to cross the target despite the first-dose inoculations having exceeded 100% coverage prior to the mega drive.“We got a very good response during these three days; whether it was drive-through vaccination, vaccination in markets in the evening hours or at vaccination centres set up in government and private hospitals. We had kept slots for both first and second doses of vaccine as due to floating population, many people are still taking their first dose in Gurugram district,” Dr MP Singh, the district immunisation officer, said. At least 62,426 people were vaccinated on Monday, 22,859 on Tuesday and 62,408 on Wednesday. Officials said that the district might hold another mega vaccination drive on Friday but that they are awaiting final instructions from the state government in this regard. According to the health department data, of the 62,408 doses of vaccines administered on Wednesday, 37,622 doses were administered as the first shot, while 24,786 were administered as the second shot. Almost 94% (59,252 doses) of the inoculations took place at government vaccination centres and the remaining at private hospitals. According to the data, over 2.77 million people in the district have been administered the Covid-19 vaccines since the start of the Covid-19 vaccinations on January 16. According to Singh, the district has exceeded its target of inoculating people in the 18-45 years age bracket, with a coverage rate of over 120%. On Wednesday, a drive-through vaccination was also conducted at Airia Mall in Sector 68, where 450 people were vaccinated with the first and second doses of Covishield. A target of vaccinating 500 people was set for the drive-through vaccination centre. Meanwhile, eight new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Gurugram on Wednesday, along with seven new recoveries. The district, at present, has 30 active cases of whom 24 are in home isolation and six are hospitalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-gurugram-achieves-target-in-three-day-mega-drive-101631727423863.html
15-09-2021||Gurugram||Colonies transfer: MCG to assess deficient infra, prepare estimates for eight colonies||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will set up committees to assess the deficient infrastructure and service estimates of eight private colonies, developers of which have agreed to transfer the colonies to the civic body as part of its takeover of municipal services in the city, officials said on Wednesday.The development follows a review meeting held on Wednesday, in which the municipal commissioner reviewed the status of 11 private colonies that are to be taken over by the MCG. The commissioner directed officials to prepare a report of deficient services based on the service estimates obtained from eight developers. “The executive engineers of the respective zones in which these colonies fall should prepare the estimates,” Ahuja is quoted in a statement released by the MCG. The next review of the situation is scheduled for September 23, according to the statement. According to MCG officials, developers of Mayfield Garden, Malibu Towne, Vipul World, Sushant Lok-2, Sushant Lok-3, Greenwood City, Rosewood City, Uppal Housing have agreed to hand over the colonies, while developers of Ardee City, DLF Phase-4 and DLF-5 are yet to give their consent for the transfer. The MCG takeover of these colonies was announced in November 2019 under the second phase of the transfers, after the transfer of nine private colonies under the first phase in 2016. The Haryana government started the transfer of private colonies in 2016 as residents wanted government agencies to take care of civic issues in colonies developed by private realtors.In December 2020, MCG councillors of wards across the city had taken up the issue of colony transfer with Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and pressed him to expedite the transfer of private colonies to the MCG. Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner, who attended the meeting said that service estimates have already been obtained for the eight colonies and now, reports of deficient work need to be prepared to execute the pending works and services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/colonies-transfer-mcg-to-assess-deficient-infra-prepare-estimates-for-eight-colonies-101631727422019.html
15-09-2021||Gurugram||Armed men booked for robbing rice container truck from Manesar petrol pump||Three armed men were booked for allegedly robbing a truck that was ferrying rice to Gujarat and abducting a helper, who was present in the vehicle at the time of the incident, in the early hours of Tuesday from a petrol pump in Manesar, the police said. The driver of the truck, Pankaj Kumar, who works for a cargo company, told the police that he and his brother-in-law, identified as Karan, were on their way to deliver rice in Gujarat. On Tuesday morning, Pankaj alighted from the truck to withdraw money from an ATM around 2am and upon returning, saw that two persons had forcibly entered the vehicle from opposite sides and drove away the truck with Karan inside the vehicle. The complainant also said that a third person in a car was driving ahead of the truck and was giving directions to the driver. “The suspects kidnapped my brother-in-law and sped away with the truck. They were armed,” he said in his complaint to the police. Subash Boken, spokesperson, Gurugram police, said that a case had been registered and the matter is being probed. An FIR has been registered against the accused under sections 365 (kidnapping), 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at Manesar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/armed-men-booked-for-robbing-rice-container-truck-from-manesar-petrol-pump-101631727420791.html
15-09-2021||Gurugram||Haryanvi man sculpture at Iffco Chowk to promote Gurugram as ‘futuristic city rooted in tradition’||An eight-metre-high metal sculpture of a rural man in traditional Haryanvi attire has been installed at Iffco Chowk by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) to promote the Millennium City as a futuristic city that is rooted in tradition.The sculpture, which is likely to be unveiled next month, is of a man seated on a charpoy (a light bedstead) wearing a turban and smoking a hookah. It has been developed under a corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative of the GMDA and city-based NGO iamgurgaon using 1,800 kilograms of recycled metals, with the aim of “exploring the coexistence of age-old wisdom with a progressive future.” Sudhir Rajpal, the chief executive officer of GMDA, said, “This sculpture showcases that despite the great diversity that the city has, people are always connected to their roots.The primary idea behind installing such sculptures is to create public spaces in the city, which can be beautified, with green patches developed around them. This will help keep our busy spots clean.”City residents have been invited to name the sculpture and submit their suggestions (both in Hindi and English) on the GMDA portal till September 27, officials said.Gopal Namjoshi, the artist who created the sculpture, said, “Gurugram, like any other progressive Indian city, is situated on the cusp of traditional sensibilities and modern adaptation in lifestyle choices. I wanted to establish the fact that age-old wisdom that comes with traditions has a potential to be imbibed with forward-thinking acquired knowledge.” Namjoshi that the statue will showcase an epoch of rich past and progressive future. “They can be in a peaceful coexistence, only if we respect and upgrade our traditions with reference to time, place, environmental perspective and thereby, mindfully, grow wise with every dawn.” The sculptor said that he was working already on this project, when the NGO and GMDA approached him seeking a sculpture made from recycled metal, to promote product reuse and sustainable living.The GMDA, which facilitated the installation of this sculpture, is working on adding more such sculptures and statues in the city. Rajpal said that he asked the IT industry to come up with artwork depicting Gurugram as an IT hub of the northern part of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryanvi-man-sculpture-at-iffco-chowk-to-promote-gurugram-as-futuristic-city-rooted-in-tradition-101631727419692.html
15-09-2021||Lucknow||Sanjay Nishad rolls out yatra, takes swipe at ally BJP||LUCKNOW Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ally Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal (Nishad) leader Sanjay Nishad on Wednesday said that his party would play the role of a kingmaker in the 2022 UP assembly elections. He said this while launching a month-long 20,000 km ‘sankalp samaj utthan arakshan’ yatra from Lucknow. The yatra started days after Sanjay Nishad was caught in a sting operation, making highly objectionable remarks about how he planned to win the elections. On the occasion of the yatra’s launch, he dismissed the sting and said it was carried out by his opponents who were jealous of his rise and his ability to unite the riverine community. “I openly want to tell all that yes, I need money, but not for myself. It’s for the poor community of mine. I would like to invite those liaison people who are out to discredit me to be part of my yatra,” he said. The yatra would conclude with a rally in Lucknow on October 15, said Nishad. While making it clear that his party would contest the 2022 UP polls with BJP, the Nishad party top leader, who targeted all the opposition parties, also took a swipe at the BJP. “This yatra will also remind our ally BJP about the promises it made to us ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. These include promises of reservation, taking steps for the betterment of the community and withdrawal of political cases on cadre,” he said. “Our party cadres and 18% voters have now stopped voting for the Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress and you can well see their fate. If our ally doesn’t keep its promises, then Sanjay Nishad would remain the only Nishad voter of the party. That’s why we feel that BJP should quickly fulfill its promises,” he said. “On October 15 at a massive ‘sarkar banao, adhikar pao (form government, get rights) rally at Lucknow’s Ramabai Ambedkar grounds, we will put all the issues before the Nishad community. Whatever decision the community takes would be acceptable to us,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sanjay-nishad-rolls-out-yatra-takes-swipe-at-ally-bjp-101631727119653.html
15-09-2021||Lucknow||Two paramilitary personnel test Covid +ve at Lucknow’s KGMU||LUCKNOW Samples of two paramilitary personnel, who returned to Uttar Pradesh, tested positive for Covid at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU), after which authorities decided to send their samples for genome sequencing on Wednesday. One of them came back from Kerala and the other from Assam after their leave got over. As per protocol, their samples were sent for lab test. The two were asymptomatic and sent back to their barrack in Bijnore. The contact tracing drive was initiated by the health department and all the people who came in contact with these security personnel were screened and their samples were taken. “We are testing those who came in contact with the two security personnel via both antigen and RT-PCR method,” said Dr Milind Vardhan, deputy chief medical officer, Lucknow. “For now they are staying in isolation in camp,” said Dr Vardhan. Genome sequencing will also be done by the department of microbiology at the KGMU. “Contact tracing is a process to find out if the Covid infection has been passed on to anyone who met them during travel or even after they came to Lucknow. If anyone else tests positive, they will also be treated,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. By evening, 115 samples of the people on the contact list of both the security personnel were taken for lab test. Their antigen test result came negative while the RT-PCR sample report will come in a day. Earlier, a traveller from the US and another other from Dubai had tested positive. Their samples were also sent for genome sequencing and the report was awaited. Till now, Lucknow had reported over 2.38 lakh cases of Covid and 2,651 deaths while 14 active cases were under treatment at present. Meanwhile, Lucknow crossed a significant milestone of testing over 5 million samples for the coronavirus disease. Half of these were tested via RT-PCR method and the remaining through antigen, TrueNat and CB Naat tests. In all, 5189309 samples were tested in Lucknow since the pandemic began. These included 2414737 RT-PCR samples, 2606191 antigen, 141276 TrueNat and 27105 CB Naat. “Lucknow has tested maximum samples among districts in the state,” said Yogesh raghuvanshi, spokesperson of the office of chief medical officer of Lucknow. In UP, 75539756 Covid samples have been tested till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-paramilitary-personnel-test-covid-ve-at-lucknow-s-kgmu-101631726400082.html
15-09-2021||Other||Kidnapped boy’s body thrown in Amritsar canal; neighbour arrested||Amritsar A day after being kidnapped for ₹3.5 lakh ransom, an 11-year-old boy, Ranjan, was strangulated to death and his body thrown into a canal after being packed into a gunny bag on Wednesday morning. The victim is son of a mason, Gulab Chaudhary of Uttar Pradesh, who works in the city. Police have launched a search operation in the canal to find the body. A close friend, Nandan, 28, of Ranjan’s elder brother Deepak, has been arrested for the crime with police claiming that Nandan had held the victim hostage at his house on Tuesday evening.“After the kidnapping, Nandan visited the victim’s family and pretended to help in searching for the kid. Nandan stayed at Ranjan’s home on Tuesday night. About 12.30am, when Ranjan’s family had gone to Amritsar railway station to find their son, Nandan called them from an unknown number and demanded ₹3.5 lakh ransom,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP-investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar. He said, “On Wednesday, the family approached the police. A case was registered and a search was launched. Nandan also remained with the police during the search. When the family disclosed that they had got a ransom call on Tuesday late night, our technical team took over, and Nandan emerged as a suspect.”He added, “On questioning, Nandan confessed to having strangulated the child to death at around 7am on Wednesday. After killing the boy, the accused threw his body into Sultanwind canal. We have called divers from Harike Pattan to find the body.”Nandan has been booked under Sections 302 (murder), 365 (kidnapping) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the IPC at Sultanwind police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kidnapped-boy-s-body-thrown-in-amritsar-canal-neighbour-arrested-101631726279577.html
15-09-2021||Lucknow||Banda ASP suspended for inefficient tackling of illegal mining||Additional superintendent of police (ASP) of Banda Mahendra Pratap Chauhan was suspended with immediate effect on Tuesday for showing inefficiency in tackling illegal mining, senior state government officials said on Wednesday.A senior police official privy of the development, said Chauhan’s name had surfaced during a telephonic conversation of SP Singh, who is allegedly involved in illegal mining. Singh was being tracked by UP STF on the directions of the state government. During the telephonic conversations, Singh had referred to meeting the ASP. The official said, earlier too, allegations had surfaced against some police officers for supporting illegal mining and transportation mafia. The state government has ordered a departmental inquiry into the matter. The order says, “On basis of the review of works done by the ASP Mahendra Pratap Chauhan, he was found to be inefficient in tackling crimes and criminals in his state, illegal mining and transportation mafia in particular.” The order also mentioned that ‘maurang’ extracted from Madhya Pradesh was being transported illegally through Uttar Pradesh and vehicles carrying it passed through Banda, a district under Chauhan’s jurisdiction. “Had he taken proper action against the illegal mining and transportation mafia, such lapses would not have taken place. it reflects his carelessness and poor supervision during his work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/banda-asp-suspended-for-inefficient-tackling-of-illegal-mining-101631725859539.html
15-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh polls: AAP releases list of 100 probable candidates||The Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday released list of 100 probable candidates, including 35 from the other backward castes (OBCs), for the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh due early next year. Sanjay Singh, Uttar Pradesh in charge of the party, released the list of 100 Vidhan Sabha in charge of the party, who are probable candidates of the party for assembly polls. “List of 100 Vidhan Sabha in charge of the party is being released. If they carry out party’s work in their respective assembly segments effectively, they will be party’s candidate for assembly polls,” Sanjay Singh told media persons. Apart from 35 candidates from the OBCs, the list includes 20 Brahmins, 16 Dalits and five Muslims. Remaining candidates are from other caste groups. “We have given representation to all communities on the list. Doctors, engineers, advocates, postgraduate, farmers and youths figure on our list,” Singh said. In the state capital, AAP’s probable candidates will be Nadeem Ashraf Jaisi from Lucknow Central, Amit Srivastava from North, Rajiv Bakshi from West, Durgesh Singh from Cantonment, Rohit Srivastava from Sarojini Nagar, Baliram Varma from Bakshi Ka Talab and Suraj Kumar from Mohanlalganj. AAP has announced to contest 100 seats in assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh without entering into alliance with any party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-polls-aap-releases-list-of-100-probable-candidates-101631725143080.html
15-09-2021||Other||Man refuses to return money credited to A/C due to bank error during lockdown, arrested||PATNAA private tutor in Khagaria district of Bihar, who received ₹5.5 lakh in his account due to a bank error but refused to return the amount despite notices served to him as he felt it could be a ploy to extort money from him sent by the government, has been arrested by the police following a complaint lodged against him by the bank authorities. The money was sent in the account of Ranjit Das, a native of Bakhtiyarpur village under Mansi police station area on April 25, 2020, due to a lapse on the part of the Dakshin Bihar Gramin Bank (DBGB). Once the error was detected, Das, who also had an account in the same branch, was served notice to return it. “I felt that due to Covid-19 and the lockdown, the government had sent the amount into my account. These days, a lot of banking frauds take place and so I did not return. As I had some needs, I spent ₹1,60, 970. I was happy that the government had sent some money when I needed it. How else could money reach my empty account,” he told the police. Deepak Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Mansi police station, told HT that the branch manager of DGDB Satyanarayan Prasad lodged an FIR against Ranjit on August 17 this year. The police arrested Das on Tuesday and he was sent to judicial custody by a local court on Wednesday. The SHO said the remaining amount was debited from his account by the bank. Prasad said bank authorities had served more than six notices to Das before lodging an FIR (first information report).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-refuses-to-return-money-credited-to-a-c-due-to-bank-error-during-lockdown-arrested-101631724479432.html
15-09-2021||Other||Patna man gets 20yr RI for minor’s rape||PATNAA special POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) court in Patna on Wednesday sentenced a man to 20 years rigorous imprisonment for raping a 15-year-old girl in 2015, the public prosecutor in the case said.According to special public prosecutor (PP) Suresh Chandra Prasad, the main accused, Pawan Kumar, picked up the girl from her coaching institute on the pretext of sight-seeing. “Later, he and his four friends took her to a house in Rajendra Nagar in the state capital Patna and gang-raped her,” he said.“Charge sheet against the rest four were filed later and so they haven’t been convicted so far,” the PP said. The court of Awadhesh Kumar also ordered a compensation ₹7.5 lakh to the victim. “Out of the amount of compensation whenever disbursed, ₹1.5 lakh is to be used for the benefit of the minor victim at once and rest will be a fixed deposit in her name for her welfare,” the prosecutor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patna-man-gets-20yr-ri-for-minor-s-rape-101631724359506.html
15-09-2021||Patna||Ambulance bought with MP fund seized with liquor stock, driver arrested||The police on Wednesday seized an ambulance in Saran district bought under Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) but being allegedly used for transporting countrymade liquor for the upcoming Panchayat polls and arrested its driver, officials said.The ambulance was seized near Shyamchak village on Saran-Siwan main road with 280 litres of countrymade liquor, police said. The arrested man has been identified as Rakesh Rai. His associate managed to flee, police said.As per officials, the ambulance was purchased in 2019 by Saran MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy from his MPLADS fund and was handed over it to the mukhiya of Rampur Kotwa Patti panchayat. During interrogation, the arrested driver told police they had been using the ambulance to smuggle liquor for the last few months. The FIR (first information report) lodged by the police names Rakesh Rai, Sugu Rai, mukhiya (panchayat head) Jaiprakash Singh and an unidentified person.“The ambulance was on its way from Telpa (Saran) to Siwan,” said Saran superintendent of police (SP) Santosh Kumar, adding that raids were on way to nab the other accused. “The liquor was meant to be used during panchayat election,” the SP said.Station house officer (SHO) of Bhagwan Bazar police station, Mukesh Kumar Jha, said the ambulance was booked in the name of a pregnant woman.Meanwhile, Rudy lauded the police for quick action and demanded stern action against the culprits. “I have written a letter to the district magistrate and provided all papers to him. I have also demanded a thorough probe and punishment to culprits,” he said.During the deadly second wave of the coronavirus pandemic earlier this year, former MP Pappu Yadav, along with his supporters, had alleged that ambulances bought in Saran with MPLADS fund were gathering dust at a school ground in the district and had accused Rudy of wrongdoing, a charge denied by the Saran MP. A video clip of Yadav and his supporters “exposing the fraud” was largely circulated on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ambulance-bought-with-mp-fund-seized-with-liquor-stock-driver-arrested-101631724239576.html
15-09-2021||Patna||JEE Main 2021 result: Bihar’s Vaibhav Vishal number one in the country||After attempting twice this year to crack the country’s most coveted engineering exam, Bihar’s Vaibhav Vishal finally rose up to All India Rank (AIR) 1 in his third attempt by scoring 100 percentile in the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main 2021. The National Testing Agency (NAT), which is responsible for organising the exam, declared the overall ranking of students over Tuesday and Wednesday night.Another Bihar student, Kumar Satyadarshi of Begusarai, also scored 100 percentile, securing AIR 11, while Richa Kumari has topped in the female category with 99.884 percentile.Vishal, who hails from Sitamarhi district, shares the top spot with 17 other students in the country, and is one of the 44 students to have obtained the perfect 300 marks in JEE Mains.The ranks of the candidates have been released taking into consideration the best of the four NTA scores in accordance with the policy already made. As per NTA’s tie breaking policy, candidates with higher marks in mathematics are given preference while allotting ranks; followed by NTA score in physics; and then by the score in chemistry. If the tie remains, the candidate with a lesser ratio of negative to positive response will be preferred, said a senior NTA official.The Bihar student’s father Prabhakar Kumar is a chief life insurance advisor at Life Insurance Corporation, while his mother Madhuri Mishra is a teacher. The top ranker now aspires to study computer science in Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay.Vishal had also taken the exam last year, both Mains and Advance, securing the 1,762 rank in the former and 1,700th place in the latter. “I was not satisfied with my rank last year, so I decided to give another try. I modified my study strategy and resorted to rigorous revision and taking mock tests for scoring better. In 2021, I took three attempts at Mains. In the first two, I scored around 98 percentile, while in the third attempt I fetched the perfect 100,” he said.Vishal, who completed intermediate as a flying candidate last year, scored 97.4% in Class 12.Talking about his journey, he said, “I moved to Delhi in 2018 for entrance exam preparation. The coaching class provided well-planned study material along with conducive environment and healthy competition. I like physics the most, as my faculty taught the subject in a very easy and practical way.”“For competitive exams, it is important to understand concepts well. I dedicate equal time to each subject and complete syllabus on a daily basis. Usually, I study for 13 to 14 hours everyday,” said the 18-year-old, while thanking his sister for guiding him during preparation.Vishal returned to his home town owing to the lockdown, and now preparing for JEE Advance, which is scheduled on October 3.Starting this year, JEE-Main was conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. The first phase was held in February and the second in March. The next phases were scheduled for April and May, but were postponed in view of Covid-19. The third edition was later held in July, and the fourth in August-end. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jee-main-2021-result-bihar-s-vaibhav-vishal-number-one-in-the-country-101631724179450.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai ranks fifth in crimes among 19 cities in India||Amid the spate of Covid-enforced restrictions, Mumbai saw only a marginal drop in registered crimes in 2020, ranking fifth among 19 metropolitan cities, according to the latest crime statistics released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Tuesday.Data showed that Mumbai recorded 58,676 cases under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and special and local laws in 2020, down from the 60,823 offences in 2018 and up from the 57,073 recorded in 2018. Delhi (262,443), Chennai (168,450), Ahmedabad (82,609) and Surat (59,604) registered more crimes registered than MumbaiThe NCRB report also revealed that Maharashtra saw a rise in crimes in over the last three years. The state recorded 394,017 cases in 2020, a rise of 47,726 from 2018 (346,291)Experts said that although registered IPC cases showed an increase of around 1,000 in Mumbai (when comparing 2018 to 2020), this was because of violations committed by people under section 188 of the IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) for violation of lockdown restrictions.According to the police, incidents of street crime also decreased considerably, owing to the movement in restrictions in 2020 as there were fewer people on the streets. Officers said that the heavy presence of police personnel on the road, including more than 150 checkpoints across the city during the lockdown period, directly contributed towards getting the crime rate down. The statistics revealed that in 2020, at least 16,181 cases were registered under section 188 IPC in Mumbai.“Last year, the government had announced a total lockdown due to which people did not get out to register a complaint even if a crime was committed,” said an officer.Mumbai was yet in the second place for cases registered for grievous hurt and assault with 4,229 cases, coming after Kolkata with 4,51.“Steady increase in crime rate could be the result of increasing unemployment in a metropolis like Mumbai. However, several reasons can be behind the increasing crime rate, which can only be determined by examining the data closely,” said professor Vijay Raghavan Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) centre for criminology and justice.Some experts claim that since Mumbai is still a growing metro with several job opportunities, many people migrate to the city, making it difficult to know about their background. “There are several people who do not even know who is their neighour or have never even spoken to them. It becomes easy for criminals to blend in such circumstances and commit crime without leaving a trace,” said an IPS officer, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ranks-fifth-in-crimes-among-19-cities-in-india-101631723819519.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai ranks third in country in cybercrimes in 2020||Mumbai ranked third nationwide in terms of cybercrimes committed in 2020, as per the latest statistics released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Bengaluru, Silicon Valley of India, topped the list, followed by Hyderabad. While majority of cybercrime cases in Mumbai are for fraud, extortion, sexual exploitation, personal disrepute as per the offences registered in 2020, other cities have several cybercrimes that involve personal revenge, prank, political motives, terrorist activities and inciting hate against the country.In 2020, the Mumbai Police registered around 2,433 cases of cybercrime through various cyber cells and local police stations, as revealed in the statistics released by NCRB late on Tuesday. The number of cybercrimes saw a drop than 2019 when it stood at 2,527. However, it rose compared with 2018 when the number of cybercrimes was 1,482.The city ranks behind Bengaluru which registered around 8,892 cybercrimes and Hyderabad with 2,553 cases.Cyber experts feel that these numbers do not reflect an accurate picture which, according to them, is more grim. “These figures of NCRB only show figures of registered cases and not the real picture,” said cyber security expert Ritesh Bhatia.“A lot of under-reporting happens everywhere in the country,” Bhatia said, adding that, “The government of India’s portal to lodge online complaints against cyber frauds receives several complaints daily. However, not everyone manages to register an FIR in the matter.”The NCRB statistics further revealed that most of the cases registered in Mumbai were related to identity theft, cheating by personation by using computer devices, publication or transmission of obscene or sexually explicit acts in electronic form, publication or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit acts, cyber stalking or bullying of women and children, data theft, fraud, debit card and credit card frauds, OTP frauds, creating fake profiles, blackmailing and fake news. The motive behind most of the cybercrimes registered in Mumbai, as per the statistics, was fraud, extortion, anger, causing disrepute and sexual exploitation. The city had around 4,828 cases pending investigation from 2019. In 2020, the Mumbai Police investigated around 7,261 cases by registering around 2,433 new offences. The cyber cell could not find sufficient evidence and closed around 968 cases, though the allegations were found to be true. The police completed investigation and filed charge sheet in 151 cases in 2020, whereas Karnataka’s Bengaluru Police filed charge sheet in 2,632 cases.In 2020, investigations were pending in around 6,071 cyber offences in the city. The pendency percentage in the city stood at 83.6% compared to cities like Bengaluru with 87.4%, Coimbatore with 96.8%, Hyderabad 77.8% and Chennai with 82.5% pendency percentage.Speaking on pendency, Bhatia said in most cybercrimes, accused persons sit in one part of the country and commit crimes in another part, therefore it becomes difficult for police to arrest them. In view of this, the pendency is high in cybercrimes. He also expressed the need to create awareness to educate people about cybercrimes.In terms of court disposal of cases, around 1,242 cases were pending for trial in various courts in the city. The prosecution could manage to get conviction only in two cases while one case was acquitted by the court. The conviction rate stood at 66.7% in Mumbai. Bengaluru saw 14 acquittals in 2020. Around 7,139 cases were pending before various courts for trial in 2020 across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ranks-third-in-country-in-cybercrimes-in-2020-101631723459487.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 29 per cent dip in economic offences in 2020||The city ranked second in white collar crimes with around 3,927 cases registered in 2020. However, overall white collar crimes in Mumbai saw around 29% dip last year as compared to 2019. New Delhi saw highest economic offences registered in 2020 with 4,445 cases. Telangana’s capital Hyderabad ranked third with 3,427 offences.Experts believe that due to Covid-19, the number of cases in 2020 were less as compared to 2019 when Mumbai had registered around 5,556 cases. In 2018, the Mumbai Police had registered around 4,803 offences of cheating by white collar criminals, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) which released its 2020 annual report on Tuesday evening.The Mumbai Police registered around 572 cases under section 406 for criminal breach of trust, seven offences for counterfeit under section 231, and 3,348 offences for forgery, cheating and fraud under sections 420, 465, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in 2020.A total of 14,935 cases were pending from 2019. The Mumbai Police investigated around 18,862 offences in 2020 and had to dispose around 1,667 cases due to insufficient evidence despite the cases being true. The police filed charge sheets in 1,081 offences. However, 16,051 cases were pending investigations at the end of 2020 in Mumbai, which is the highest in the country. New Delhi had 14,431 cases pending in the same period.Trial was completed by various special courts in 187 matters and courts disposed around 266 matters related to economic frauds; however, 21,948 cases were still pending for trials at various levels. The conviction rate in the city stood at 18.7%, far less than New Delhi which had a conviction rate of 53%. The pendency percentage of most metropolitan cities having more than 2 million people stood at 98%, as per NCRB.Mumbai Police arrested around 2,385 people for crimes related to economic offences and charge sheeted 1,727 people. They got conviction against 56 persons in white collar offences in 2020 while six were acquitted. A total of 228 people were acquitted by various courts from cases registered by the Mumbai Police for economic offences.The conviction figures of Delhi police, Jaipur police and Kanpur police were better than Mumbai. Delhi Police witnessed around 160 convictions, while Jaipur police managed to bring to book around 174 accused and Kanpur police 383 accused.“Investigation in economic offences cases is mostly lengthy as most of the time the prosecution depends on documentary evidence. Reports of various agencies like forensic, bank statements, handwriting experts form a part of the charge sheet, which delay the investigations. That is the reason why the officials take time to investigate cases and several cases are pending,” said Ramesh Mahale, retired police inspector and an expert who trains police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-29-per-cent-dip-in-economic-offences-in-2020-101631723399379.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Dengue cases in Delhi under control; govt is alert and prepared: Health minister||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday that dengue cases recorded in the national capital till now are in control and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government is alert and prepared to deal with any situation arising out of the vector-borne disease.Delhi has so far recorded 158 cases of dengue this year, according to a weekly report released by the city’s municipal corporations. The report showed that 34 dengue cases have been recorded since last Saturday (September 11). However, no deaths have been reported till now, it added. On the other hand, Delhi has also seen 68 cases of malaria and 40 cases of chikungunya since the beginning of 2021. Civic bodies in Delhi have ramped up their measures to control the spread of the above mentioned vector-borne diseases.“About 34 cases (of dengue) have been recorded in September till date. Last year, 188 cases were reported in the entire month of September. So, cases are under control. We are alert, and all prepared to handle any dengue situation,” Jain was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. The health minister said his government’s anti-dengue drive ‘10 Hafte, 10 Baje, 10 Minute’, has been running for the past two weeks to raise awareness and it will be further intensified.However, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has accused the Delhi government of indulging in campaign politics when it came to combating vector diseases.BJP leader Mukesh Suryan, who is the mayor of South Delhi, said on Tuesday that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was taking credit for work done by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) in curbing the spread of vector-borne diseases in the Delhi, adding that the anti-dengue campaign is an eyewash in the fight against such diseases.“The Delhi government is playing campaign politics as their anti-dengue drive, ‘10 Hafte, 10 Baje, 10 Minute’ is just an eyewash in the fight against vector-borne diseases,” Suryan said while speaking to reporters on Tuesday. The South Delhi mayor also sought an explanation from the Delhi CM as to how “how vector-borne diseases can be controlled through advertisements.”Concerns over dengue cases in Delhi arise amid a widespread outbreak of the vector-borne disease in the neighbouring state of Uttar Pradesh. Several districts in UP including Firozabad, Agra, Mathura, Noida, among others, have been hard hit by dengue. Last week, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that it had detected the D2 strain of dengue in the specimens from Uttar Pradesh, which is fatal, impacts the platelet count and can often cause haemorrhage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dengue-cases-in-delhi-under-control-govt-is-alert-and-prepared-health-minister-101631723194432.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Afghanistan guns down opponents, here Pegasus is used to defeat them, says Sena||Shiv Sena slammed Centre over its refusal to file an affidavit regarding the Pegasus snooping row, stating it is a matter of national security. Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Wednesday attacked Centre saying in Afghanistan opponents are gunned down, while here means like Pegasus are used to defeat political opponents.The government on Monday said it had nothing to hide but cited “national security” as a reason to not file a detailed affidavit in response to petitions in Supreme Court seeking a formal inquiry into the Pegasus spyware row.An editorial in Sena mouthpiece said that the Centre was playing ‘hide and seek’ on the issue and has been running away from replying to questions from Opposition in the Parliament, and now by the Supreme Court. In an attack on the Central government, the editorial remarked, “Centre has decided that Parliament and courts must not be given importance.”International media had earlier in July reported that more than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two serving Central ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders, activists in India could have been targeted, for hacking through the Israeli spyware, which is sold only to government agencies. “What was the exact threat to the nation from two Central ministers, Rahul Gandhi and Opposition leaders, a few journalists, army officers that Pegasus had to be used to spy on them?” the editorial asked. It further said that the Centre told the SC that the issue involves aspects of national security, hence it cannot be debated on affidavit.“The issue of national security is important, there are no differences over that. But it does not mean that only the Modi government is worried about national security and not the Opposition parties in Parliament and our Supreme Court... In Afghanistan, opponents are shot dead. Here mediums like Pegasus are used to defeat opponents,” the mouthpiece said.As a policy of the Maharashtra unit of Bharatiya Janata Party, it does not respond to criticism or remarks made in Saamana editorials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/afghanistan-guns-down-opponents-here-pegasus-is-used-to-defeat-them-says-sena-101631723100633.html
15-09-2021||Lucknow||BrahMos missiles unit to come up between Lucknow and Kanpur||KANPUR Next-generation BrahMos missiles would be manufactured in UP’s Defence Corridor at a facility between Lucknow and Kanpur. The land was nearly finalised and would be handed over to the DRDO by the end of this month, said Satish Mahana, minister for industrial development.The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) had asked the UP government for 200 acres of land for the project and around ₹300 crore would be invested in its first phase. “The government will not charge for the land. It will be given to the DRDO at a token amount of Re 1. In all probability, we will be giving away the land by the month-end,” he added. Mahana had met Brahmos Space Technology director general Sudhir Mishra last month and the latter had proposed a manufacturing facility for Brahmos missiles and defence systems in Uttar Pradesh. In the first phase, 70 ancillary units would also be set up at the facility between Lucknow and Kanpur. As many as 400 more supporting units would come up by the time the Brahmos facility gets rolling. The defence sector in Kanpur already has 300 small and big units producing defence equipment worth ₹1,500 crore every year. The Ordinance Factory is producing one of most important components for Pinaka missile systems. The DRDO had asked for land on the Lucknow, Kanpur and Jhansi stretch of the Defence Corridor and officials saw several locations during the past two weeks. The land between Lucknow and Kanpur topped priority, said officials. Brahmos supersonic cruise missile is considered one of the most lethal weapons, which flies at a speed of 3.5 mach (or 4,300 km per hour) having a range of 290 km. The missile was tested successfully last year in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/brahmos-missiles-unit-to-come-up-between-lucknow-and-kanpur-101631722980055.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch files charge sheet against Raj Kundra in porn case||The Mumbai crime branch on Wednesday filed a second charge sheet against businessman Ripu Sudan aka Raj Kundra and Ryan Thorpe, the IT head of his company Viaan Enterprises, and two wanted accused, in connection with the pornographic film racket. The 1,467-page charge sheet contains statements of 43 witnesses, including statements of five persons recorded under section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) before metropolitan magistrates.Property cell of the crime branch had, in April 2021, filed the first charge sheet of 3,529 pages against nine accused arrested earlier in the case. The investigation was continued to find out the mastermind behind the porn racket and after recording statements of several witnesses and on basis of evidence, the crime branch raided Kundra’s office in Andheri (West) and allegedly seized several electronic gadgets, storage devices and porn clips, related to the racket. Based on the evidence recovered from Kundra’s office, the property cell arrested Kundra and his IT head Thorpe on July 19.The second charge sheet also names two wanted accused —Yash Thakur alias Arvind Shrivastava who is reportedly staying in Singapore, and Kundra’s brother-in-law Pardeep Bakshi, who is in London. The crime branch claimed that Yash Thakur’s name cropped up during interrogation of an accused Tanveer Hashmi who allegedly provided porn content for his Nuefliks app. Police also found chat records and bank transactions between Thakur and Hashmi.Police claimed that from the pornographic films Kundra had allegedly earned over $158,057 ( ₹1.17 crore), from subscribers of his Hotshots app on Apple’s App Store between August and December 2020. Hotshots app was developed for running a pornographic film racket and Kundra controlled its entire operation through WhatsApp groups. Kundra’s manager Umesh Kamat who was also arrested earlier, bought and sent those videos to the UK where they were uploaded on Hotshots app. It appears that till now Kundra has made around 100 porn movies, which were uploaded, and more than 20 lakh subscribers have paid an amount to watch porn on his app. The police also claimed that there are several suspicious monetary transfers in Kundra’s bank account, which has been pointing to his role in the porn racket.The incident came to light after the Property cell raided a bungalow in the Madh area in Malwani and found two women engaged in the shooting of a pornographic film. Police claimed to have rescued a young woman, who was allegedly lured into acting in a short film and forced to perform sex on camera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-files-charge-sheet-against-raj-kundra-in-porn-case-101631722799357.html
15-09-2021||Other||Punjab CM orders high alert, after arrest of 4 ISI-backed operatives||Amritsar Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has ordered an high-alert in the state, after the police busted the fourth terror module with links to Pakistan over the past 40 days on Tuesday. Four more members of an Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI-backed) terrorist module, involved in a bid to blow up an oil tanker with an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) tiffin bomb last month, were arrested on Tuesday. Those held are Rubal Singh, Vicky Bhutti, Malkeet Singh and Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi. Rubal, also wanted in a murder case of September 1, was picked up from Ambala, the other three were nabbed from their villages in Ajnala, Amritsar. Their fifth accomplice, Gurmukh Brar, had been arrested on August 20.Two Pakistan-based terrorists, including a Pakistani Intelligence Officer, have also been identified and named in the case registered in August.Taking note of the ‘increased attempts by terror groups to disturb the state’s peace’, the CM has directed the police to be on high alert, particularly in view of schools and educational institutions reopening, the festive season and the assembly polls. Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said the two terrorists from Pakistan named in the case are International Sikh Youth Federation chief Lakhbir Singh Rode and Qasim, an intelligence officer. The DGP added that Qasim and Rode had promised to transfer over ₹2 lakh to five arrested accused for carrying out the blast. “Rubal and Vicky Bhutti were in touch with Qasim, who had reportedly tasked the four members to blast an oil tanker for causing maximum damage to people and property,” the top cop said, adding that the blast was made on August 8 when, at about 11.30 pm, the Ajnala police received information that an Oil Tanker (PB-02 CR 5926) parked at Sharma Filling Station Ajnala, located on the Amritsar-Ajnala Road near village Bhakha Tara Singh, had caught fire. Ultimately, the fire brigade doused the flames.Preliminary investigations revealed that Gurmukh had placed the tiffin IED at Hambowal on Jalandhar-Amritsar highway, from where, on August 6, 2021, Vicky, Malkeet and Gurpreet Singh picked it up on the directions of Rode and Qasim. The trio hid the bomb near a canal in the Rajasansi area. A pen-drive was attached with the tiffin box, which contained intructions to operate the Tiffin Bomb IED. On August 8, 2021, these terrorist operatives carried out a recce of Sharma Filling Station during the day and placed the IED at about 11pm, with the timer set to eight minutes. The blast took place at 11.30pm. All five arrested operatives, along with Rode and Qasim, have been booked under Sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Unlawful Activities (prevention) Act and the Explosive Substance Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cm-orders-high-alert-after-arrest-of-4-isi-backed-operatives-101631722679328.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Byculla zoo welcomes two penguin chicks||The Byculla zoo welcomed two penguin chicks this year, said Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a statement on Wednesday. The male penguin chick, named Oreo, was born to Humboldt penguins Donald and Daisy on May 1 this year and is four months old now.Meanwhile, another penguin chick was born to Flipper, the oldest female among the Humboldts, and Mr Molt, the youngest male in the zoo, on August 19. The baby penguin is stable and under the observation of zoo authorities. The sex of the penguin will be determined by a DNA test later.Dr Sanjay Tripathi, director of Byculla zoo, said, “The reason behind naming the male chick Oreo was spontaneous. We will also name the 25-days-old baby penguin in the coming days after sex determination.”Tripathi added, “The enclosure of penguins has a capacity of housing 25 penguins at a time and with the addition of two, we have a total of nine penguins in the enclosure.” As part of its revamp project, the Byculla zoo, also known as the Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan, bought eight penguins from Seoul in South Korea on July 26, 2016, at the cost of ₹45 crore.However, on October 23, 2016, one of them, named Dory, died owing to bacterial infection, which led to protests from political parties and activists.The seven others – Bubble (5 years), Mr Molt (5 years), Donald (5.5 years), Daisy (5.5 years), Popeye (6 years), Olive (7 years) and Flipper (8 years)– were displayed to the public in March 2017.Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said, “Bubble, who did not have a mate till now is taking good care of Oreo.” Oreo, now four months old, has mixed well with the colony, added Pednekar.Pednekar also slammed those who criticised the BMC over its spending on the upkeep of the penguins. Pednekar said the revenue of the zoo has gone up drastically after the penguins came. Recently, political parties, including BJP, Congress and Samajwadi Party (SP), had cornered the BMC over floating tenders worth ₹ 16 crore for maintenance and upkeep of the penguins.The BMC, under which the Byculla zoo comes, said, “Oreo has been completely parent reared and a team of vets only assisted the parents by feeding the parents every two-three hours. This ensures that parents feed the chick well. In addition, the vets also check the chick’s weight every morning, which helps them decide whether the chick needs supplemental feeding.” The statement added, “Oreo has switched to eating fish like an adult penguin now and doesn’t need any special diet. He is in his juvenile coat and will undergo moulting into his adult coat at about 1 year. This moulting is very stressful for young penguins; hence we are taking utmost care.”According to zoo authorities, the 25-days-old baby penguin is also being kept under close observation. According to authorities, up to three months of age, young penguins are very susceptible to diseases since they have weak immunity. The vets do a physical check every morning, auscultate the chick and give formula feeding.Humboldt penguins usually mate after the age of 3.5 in two mating seasons — March to April and October to November. Penguins pair up during the entire mating period. After mating, a female penguin lays eggs in 1.5 months, and parents take turns to incubate them.Meanwhile, the Byculla zoo is shut for general public since April 05, 2021 as the second wave of Covid hit the city. There are no plans to open the zoo to the general public yet, in anticipation of a third wave, said zoo authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/byculla-zoo-welcomes-two-penguin-chicks-101631722559596.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||4 arrested by police for luring man with job opportunity and killing him in Mumbai||The Dombivli-Manpada police arrested four accused including a minor for allegedly killing a 48-year-old man and dumping him in an injured state at Katemanivli area in Kalyan, on September 11. The four accused — Rehan Shaikh, Sagar Ponala, Sumit Sonawane, and a minor — took advantage of his desperation to find a job and lured him with an employment opportunity in Diva. Later, they robbed the victim and attacked him. The victim Krishnamohan Tiwari, 47, a resident of Dombivli (East), was an engineer and worked with a Dubai-based company. However, he lost his job two months ago. Vivek Pansare, zone 3, deputy commissioner of police, said, “Shaikh, who worked with a placement agency, used to get a data of the people who would apply for jobs. He called Tiwari, lured him with a job opportunity and called to a remote place in Diva. Shaikh along with three other accused then threatened and robbed Tiwari. When he resisted, they hit him and assaulted him with a stone. He had sustained injuries on his head, chest, and other body parts. They took him in an autorickshaw, owned by one of the accused and threw him in the Katemanivli area.” “He was found by one of our officers who took him to the hospital where he succumbed to his injuries,” Pansare said. Dombivli Manpada police team got information about the accused who had fled with the victim’s mobile phone. With help of CCTV footage and technical evidence the accused were arrested from the Kalyan and Dombivli area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-arrested-by-police-for-luring-man-with-job-opportunity-and-killing-him-101631721899262.html
15-09-2021||Lucknow||Farm laws one of boldest moves ever made by govt: Rajnath||LUCKNOW Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday termed the centre’s three farm laws as one of the boldest moves ever made and said these would strengthen the farmers economically and also boost agricultural reforms. “There was a dire need for agricultural reforms in India. But, the previous governments did very little in this regard. It was only our government that took a bold step and passed three bills that would help farmers gain financial security and also strengthen agricultural reforms,” he said while inaugurating the UP Session at the 18th Indo-US Economic Summit organized on a virtual platform by the Indo-American Chamber of Commerce-North India Council (IACC-NIC). The coronavirus pandemic had brought newer challenges in terms of disruption to supply chains, a downturn in industrial activities, negative growth in travel and tourism industry and there was no doubt that the Indo-US cooperation will go a long way to restore normalcy and further boost economic dynamism, said the defence minister, who was also the chief guest at the inaugural session of the summit. Singh listed a range of measures initiated by the NDA government to boost economic growth, saying global investors were now receiving a “red carpet” welcome in India instead of “red-tapism”. He said the trust between the government and the industry had increased following the scrapping of the retrospective taxation regime.“This was the much needed move that was never initiated by the previous governments. We have formulated progressive and investor-friendly tax policies. We have said ‘Good Bye’ to retrospective taxation,” added Singh. He said the government was preparing for “dynamic growth” in this entire decade and noted that there was a lot of scope for American and Indian defence firms to go for co-production and co-development of military equipment. The high-profile session moderated by Mukesh Singh, chairman, Lucknow Chapter, executive council member, IACC-NIC and State Head Arthur D. Little, senior advisor, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Uttar Pradesh, also saw discussion on the UP-US economic ties in the ‘Partner States-Uttar Pradesh-Partners in Progress’ session of the summit. Michael Rosenthal, director, North India Office, US Embassy in his address said that India-US relations were very old. “At present, in the global political equation, relations are being established between these meaningful democratic powers of the world not only through political but also through economic, cultural, social, military, technical, partnerships. We strive to strengthen UP-US relations and encourage American companies and investors to invest in Uttar Pradesh,” said Rosenthal. Arvind Kumar, ACS, industries, information technology and electronics department, UP highlighted various schemes run by the government to improve the economy of UP and attract investment. He said the land bank was being expanded to attract foreign investment in UP. “For the ease of industrial units, construction of new expressways, metro rail projects, elevated national expressway, dedicated freight corridor and Jewar International Airport in western UP is going on at a brisk pace,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/farm-laws-one-of-boldest-moves-ever-made-by-govt-rajnath-101631720759028.html
15-09-2021||Other||Financial prudence, cut in loan has PSPCL in profit for 1st time in 5 years||Patiala Financial diligence, reduction in cost of money and improvement in operational efficiency have led the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to report a profit of ₹1,446 crore for 2020-21 for the first time in five years. In 2019-20, the utility had reported a loss of ₹1,158 crore. Transmission and distribution losses also came down slightly. Elaborating, chairman and managing director A Venu Prasad said, “We saw a reduction in finance cost of ₹1,306 crore due to the Ujwal-DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY) scheme; there was an increase in carrying cost of ₹577 crore for delayed payment of subsidy, increase in grant by ₹570 crore on account of loss funding of previous years and increase in delayed payment surcharge of ₹156 crore from consumers.” He added that annual accounts were approved on Tuesday at a meeting of board of directors of the PSPCL, where Anurag Aggarwal, additional chief secretary (power), and principal secretary finance, KAP Sinha, were also present. Prasad added that the utility decreased its borrowing by 4% and it had reduced its financial cost by restructuring of loans. “PSPCL earned a rebate of around ₹150 crore in 2020-21 against payments towards power purchase by efficient handling of its working capital,” he added, mentioning smart meters as another major initiative towards a better system. “To further control expenditure on power bills by the citizens, smart meters may also be used as prepayment meters in future. This measure will unquestionably be going to improve the operational competence of the corporation by significant reduction in transmission and distribution,” he claimed, adding that cheaper power replaced expensive power bought from other sources. In the process, PSPCL procured around 724 million units at ₹2.76 per KWH, leading to a 6.4% decrease in power purchase cost over the last fiscal.Prasad also thanked the Punjab government for its continued support to the power sector, as it had released subsidy of ₹9,657 crore during 2020-21, covering important sectors like agriculture, industry, and weaker sections of the society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/financial-prudence-cut-in-loan-has-pspcl-in-profit-for-1st-time-in-5-years-101631719858848.html
15-09-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh reports 7 new Covid cases, tally over 792,300||The Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh rose to 792,367 on Wednesday with the addition of seven fresh cases, while no new death due to the infection was reported in the state, a health department official said. The death toll remained unchanged at 10,517, he added. The overall recovery count is now 781,726, while there are 124 active cases in the state, he said. As 65,571 swab samples were examined during the day, the cumulative test count in Madhya Pradesh went up to 17,590,885, the official added.A total of 52,863,225 anti-coronavirus vaccine doses have been administered to the eligible beneficiaries so far, including 6,91,063 on Wednesday alone, an official release said.The coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 792,367, new cases 7, death toll 10,517 (no change), recoveries 781,726, active cases 124, total tests 17,590,885.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-reports-7-new-covid-cases-tally-over-792300-101631717967328.html
15-09-2021||Other||Bathinda misses air-connectivity bus in flight winter schedule||Bathinda Air connectivity to Bathinda from Delhi and Jammu has drawn a blank from the service providers for the forthcoming winter season. Bathinda airport director Varinder Singh confirmed on Wednesday that according to the new schedule for October 27-March 28 issued last week, air connectivity will continue to remain grounded indefinitely.Bathinda was the only district in southern Punjab with air connectivity. Alliance Air (AA), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Air India, has been the sole service provide from here since 2016, and it chose not to extend operations after its contract ended last year.The airline had discontinued air services on the Delhi route from November 28, 2020, whereas flights to Jammu were suspended on October 27, 2019. Flights from the Bathinda airport were grounded after a lockdown was imposed due to the coronavirus outbreak in March 2020. Even as domestic flights have restarted over the past few months, Bathinda has continued to be a ‘no-go zone’ among players from the public and private sector.Before the suspension of the flight service, Bathinda was connected to New Delhi thrice-a-week, with an average occupancy of 80%. Flights to Jammu had an average occupancy of 70% with most taking it to reach Vaishno Devi and Amarnath. Bathinda-Jammu flight operated five days a week, barring Tuesday and Thursday.“Early this year, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) had approached two private service providers to consider running the Delhi-Bathinda flight. We are yet to get a response,” said the director. Sources said since the Covid-19 outbreak aviation sector was struggling to get back to normalcy as there are few takers for the air services.Air service to Bathinda was started with much fanfare in December 2016 as part of Centre’s ambitious regional connectivity scheme (RCS) of Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik (Udan), with fares were kept low. Less than four years of this launch, air connectivity to the under-developed south Malwa was suspended. Now, no player is keen to start or resume services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bathinda-misses-air-connectivity-bus-in-flight-winter-schedule-101631718118827.html
15-09-2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP MP Arjun Singh’s armed security cover upgraded to ‘Z’ category||The Centre on Wednesday upgraded the armed security cover of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from West Bengal Arjun Singh from ‘Y’ category to ‘Z’ category, following the recent incidents of bombing outside his house ‘Majdoor Bhavan’ at the North 24 Parganas district of the state.Under the Z category, Singh, who represents the Barrackpore constituency in the Lok Sabha, will now have around six to seven commandos, from the earlier two security personnel, every time he travels across West Bengal while an additional contingent will provide security to his house, officials told news agency PTI. The BJP MP has been given Y category security since March 2019.Also Read| Bomb goes off near Bengal BJP MP’s home day after MHA orders NIA probeThe upgrade in Singh’s armed security cover comes a day after a crude bomb went off near his house at 9am on Tuesday. A police official, on the condition of anonymity, told Hindustan Times that the bomb was lying near a wall, adding, nobody threw it and no injuries were reported. Singh’s son, Pawan, said on Tuesday that there is no law and order and the attacks exposed the inefficiency of the police.Previously, three crude bombs were hurled at Arjun Singh’s house on September 8, despite being heavily guarded, between 6am and 6.30am. The bombs had hit one of the entrances of the residence but no one was injured. Singh at that time was in Delhi but his family members were inside the house.On Monday, the Union home ministry directed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to probe the September 8 attack outside the BJP legislator’s house. And on Wednesday, a special NIA court ordered the Barrackpore Police to submit the case diary in three days and produce the accused arrested in connection with the incident before the court next Tuesday (September 21), when the matter will be taken up again for hearing.Also Watch| CCTV video of 'bomb attack' at BJP MP's house in Bengal, Arjun Singh blames TMCArjun Singh alleged members of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) are trying to kill him. A former leader of the TMC, he had joined the BJP ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and won from the Barrackpore constituency.The West Bengal BJP has also blamed the TMC behind the bomb attacks on Singh’s house. However, the TMC rubbished this allegation and said the attacks took place as a result of an internal feud within the state BJP.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bjp-mp-arjun-singh-s-armed-security-cover-upgraded-to-z-category-101631716636927.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Court pulls up Delhi govt for ‘lethargy’ in constructing 100-bed hospital||The Delhi high court on Wednesday pulled up the Delhi government and cited its ‘lethargic approach’ as the reason behind its failure to process a forest clearance to construct a 100-bed hospital in the city’s Najafgarh area despite the Centre’s nudge. The bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) by a lawyer, Rajesh Kaushik, seeking a direction to the two governments to finish the construction of the hospital at the Rural Health Training Centre in Najafgarh. “Do something so that the construction is over. You can say no also but don’t sit tight. You decide as per law,” the bench said during the hearing, news agency PTI reported. “It is the misfortune of the public at large that a 100-bedded hospital could not be completed because of the lethargic approach on part of the Delhi government,” the bench was quoted as saying. The bench further stated that the Union of India has been writing “letter after letter” and yet “no reply” is being given on part of the Delhi government. “No counter has been filed (by Delhi government),” the bench said, according to PTI. Advocate Anurag Ahluwalia, who was appearing for the Centre, said that the project was 80% complete and is waiting for Delhi government’s forest department’s go-ahead since December 2018 as the site needs a sanction for the “transplantation of trees.” The petition noted that the structure of the building is complete, and it was “utmost essential” for the general public that the hospital becomes operational prior to the arrival of the possible third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). It also stated that the Najafgarh area lacks good hospitals and the setting-up of the 100-bed hospital would “cater to the needs of 15 lakh people” living in 73 villages. In the end, the bench rendered time for the Delhi government to file response to the plea and mention the “least possible time” within which the sanction for the tree transplantation will be granted. The matter has been posted for next hearing on November 8. In August, Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo Arvind Kejriwal said that his government will add as many as 6,800 additional beds in government hospitals across the Union territory (UT) – which will be operational in the next six months. He added that the addition of the new beds would ramp up the bed capacity in Delhi government hospitals – which currently has around 10,000 beds, by 70%. Kejriwal said that these additional beds will be helpful if the national capital sees another Covid-19 wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-pulls-up-delhi-govt-for-lethargy-in-constructing-100-bed-hospital-101631715996547.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||5 houses gutted in Kinnaur; no loss of life reported||A major fire incident was reported in Ramni panchayat of Kinnaur district in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday evening.Kinnaur deputy commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq said as per initial reports, at least five houses have been damaged in the fire. He said the villagers have been trying to douse the flames. A team of firefighters and emergency workers has been rushed to the spot.No loss of life has been reported in the incident so far. However, damage to the property may run into lakhs. Further reports are awaited. Body of missing trekker from Punjab found near Manimahesh The police rescuers have found the body of a missing trekker near Kamal Kund, three kilometers ahead of famous pilgrimage site Manimahesh Lake. The deceased has been identified as Rahul, a resident of Jalandhar in Punjab. The body was recovered on Tuesday and is being brought to Bharmour, said Chamba deputy superintendent of police (headquarters) Abhimanyou Verma. Earlier, two of his companions — a Gujarat woman and a Ludhiana man — were found dead on September 13. A Chamba youth was also found dead in the same area on September 12. Prima facie, all of them died due to cold and lack of oxygen.Verma said that seven pilgrims from Sultanpur Lodhi in Punjab were also rescued from Kamal Kund area. He said a group of 14 pilgrims had embarked on Manimahesh Kailash Parikrama from Kugti village side on September 10. While seven returned after failing to cross the Jotnu Pass, the remaining ones were stuck near a glacier. Those who returned had filed a missing report after which a rescue team was sent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-houses-gutted-in-kinnaur-no-loss-of-life-reported-101631715718422.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC to undertake mandatory Covid test of occupants in sealed buildings||Anticipating a possible surge in Covid-19 cases after the festival season, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to run reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests on occupants, especially, those suffering from comorbidities, residing in sealed buildings across the city.As of September 15, Mumbai has 37 sealed buildings and 1,528 sealed floors. Of the 4,696 active Covid-19 patients, 42% are asymptomatic, 47% symptomatic and 11% critical.It was observed in the second wave that high-rise buildings recorded a higher number of Covid-19 cases than slums. “Residents in high-rise buildings constituted almost 90% of the cumulative Covid-19 cases in the second wave. We, therefore, want to run RT-PCR tests on occupants in sealed buildings, mostly those who have underlying health issues,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.Members of the state’s Covid-19 task force have welcomed the move as the RT-PCR test is considered gold standard for diagnosing Covid-19. “The reliance should be more on RT-PCR which has a higher efficiency rate than Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT). We still don’t know about the epidemiological pattern of the possible third wave, but the civic body has to keep a close eye on non-slum areas,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state Covid-19 task force.HT has previously reported that the civic body plans to increase daily tests to 60,000 after the festival season. But their main focus would be those above 50 years due to their co-morbidities. Ward officers have also been instructed to mandatory test all close contacts of infected patients immediately, to avoid the transmission of the infection amid the relaxation of the Covid-19 restrictions.“We are making a list of all the elderly with underlying health issues who haven’t taken the jab as yet. We will contact them and encourage them to get fully vaccinated. We have also increased contact tracing per infected person to 25 individuals which were 15 earlier,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC.As per data provided by BMC, individuals above 60 years are most vulnerable to breakthrough infection after vaccination. The breakthrough infection rate among beneficiaries above 60 years with one vaccine jab is 1.52%, while it is 0.52% among fully vaccinated individuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-undertake-mandatory-rt-pcr-test-of-occupants-in-sealed-buildings-in-mumbai-101631714998833.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Pakistan-trained terror module: Jaan Mohammad Shaikh was also on our radar, says Maharashtra ATS chief||Jaan Mohammad Shaikh alias Sameer Kaliya, one of the six terror suspects arrested by Delhi Special Cell, was also on the radar of the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS).ATS chief Vineet Agarwal on Wednesday said that an ATS team visited Shaikh’s residence in Sion and conducted searches, however, nothing incriminating was found in the search.“Shaikh has a criminal record of around two decades and was on ATS radar like other criminals in the city, but central agencies did not share information about him, with us. They shared the information with the Delhi Police. We have recorded statements of Shaikh’s family members and the ATS Mumbai team will visit Delhi and will share the information with them,” said Agarwal.Shaikh was allegedly involved in firing at a businessman’s office in south Mumbai in 2001 and a case was registered at Pydhonie police station. He was arrested in the case, but was acquitted, said a crime branch officer. He added that there were also a couple of non-cognisable offences registered against him in Dharavi.“Shaikh was in contact with Fahim Machmach who was reportedly staying in Karachi, Pakistan and was believed to be a loyalist of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim. Machmach died a few days ago and so Shaikh might have come in contact with Anees Ibrahim. Shaikh was hired by the gang for freelance work. Apart from ATS, the Mumbai crime branch was also keeping watch on him,” added the officer.“Shaikh had planned to travel to Delhi on September 13 and had transferred funds to a travel agent in Dharavi, on September 10. His ticket was booked in sleeper class in Golden Temple Express, said Agarwal. Shaikh lost his job two months ago and was driving a cab. He had taken a loan from a cooperative bank to buy a taxi,” said an ATS official. Delhi Police have claimed that Shaikh was part of the six-member ‘Pakistan-trained terror module’ and arrested him from Kota in Rajasthan. Delhi Police also claimed that the arrested accused were planning serial blasts in three states during the upcoming festive season. Underworld don Dawood Ibrahim’s brother Anees Ibrahim, suspected to be hiding in Pakistan, was connected to this module and trying to smuggle arms and ammunition into the country.The Delhi Police said that they have seized RDX, which was smuggled from Pakistan and meant to carry out blasts in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, but police did not specify the location in states. Delhi Police said that Shaikh was in contact with Anees Ibrahim and was tasked by a Pakistan-based person connected with an underworld operative hiding in Pakistan to ensure the smooth delivery of IED (improvised explosive device), sophisticated weapons and grenades to different entities in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pakistantrained-terror-module-jaan-mohammad-shaikh-was-also-on-our-radar-says-maharashtra-ats-chief-101631714758434.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Suspended cop moves HC, seeks CBI probe against Maharashtra minister Anil Parab||While holding that courts cannot be used to fight out political battles, the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday refused to grant an urgent hearing on a petition of a suspended inspector from Nashik Regional Transport Office (RTO). The petitioner, Gajendra Patil, alleged that there existed rampant corruption across RTOs in the state. He has also accused transport minister Anil Parab and others of corruption as regards to transfers and postings in the transport department.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar was informed that the petitioner was suspended after he complained about corruption to his superiors. His counsel advocates VP Rane and Venkatesh Shewale submitted that the suspended officer was seeking an independent investigation into his allegations by a central agency, preferably the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). In his petition, Patil claimed that after his suspension he was not given an opportunity to defend himself, nor was his complaint addressed by anyone. Patil alleged that apart from corruption in RTO’s there was corruption at border check posts and illegal registration of BS-4 vehicles was also taking place. Patil alleged that police officers were using their position to settle cases against some private operators. Recently, the transport minister had been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a money laundering case, whereas former state home minister Anil Deshmukh is accused of channelising extortion money through an educational trust. Parab has also been accused by arrested assistant inspector Sachin Vaze, who in a letter written to the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in April, alleged that Parab had directed him to extort ₹50 crore from a private trust. When the advocates for Patil sought an urgent hearing of the petition, the bench declined to do so and observed that “courts should not be used for political battles.”The court has posted the petition for hearing on October 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/suspended-cop-moves-hc-seeks-cbi-probe-against-maharashtra-minister-anil-parab-101631714338219.html
15-09-2021||Patna||Bihar tops in property disputes and attacks on police, 2nd in murders and riots||The latest data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) has painted a grim picture of Bihar on the law-and-order front with the state recording the second highest number of 3,195 murder cases in 2020 after Uttar Pradesh’s 3,939. However, when it comes to land and property related disputes, it left all others behind with 4,838 cases, as Maharashtra ranked second with 1,340 cases registered in 2020 . Bihar also earned the dubious distinction of registering 77 cases of attack on police and government officials last year - the most in the country.Disputes, especially over property, emerged as the biggest factor behind murders in Bihar. With 13,202 cases of attempt to murder, Bihar was only behind West Bengal, which registered 14,751 such cases in 2020, as per the NCRB data.The data revealed that in 2020, 815 persons were killed in the state over land disputes, 170 over love affairs, 115 over illicit relations and 16 for political reasons.Bihar also saw 7,262 cases of rioting behind Maharashtra’s 9,422 cases. In cases of caste conflicts, 234 people were killed in Bihar in 208 incidents last year. Bihar also ranked second in dowry-related cases with 2,555 registered matters following 3,031 such cases recorded in Uttar Pradesh and followed by Jharkhand’s 1,535 cases. The cases of atrocities against Dalits across Bihar rose in 2020 with registration of 7,368 cases, only behind UP, where 12,714 such cases were registered last year.Bihar also reported second-most instances of kidnapping for ransom with 42 reported incidents reported, however, in the overall statistics for kidnapping and abduction related crime, Bihar was at the fourth spot with 7,889 cases, behind states such as Uttar Pradesh (12, 913) and West Bengal (9309). With 15,359 recorded incidents in 2020, Bihar ranked ninth in crime against women. Uttar Pradesh with 49, 385 cases, West Bengal with 36, 439 and Rajasthan with 34, 535 cases, were the three worst-performing states on that front.Bihar recorded 860 rape cases, far less than 5,310 recorded in Rajasthan and 2,769 in UP. In cases of assault on women with intent to outrage modesty, Bihar was 21st among states with most reported incidents in 2020. Another silver lining was seen in the significant decline in the number of crimes against children in Bihar during the year 2020. In 2019, Bihar ranked fourth, registering 9,320 such cases, but in 2020, the state registered only 6,591 cases.Similarly, in cases related to Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) and crime against senior citizens, Bihar was ranked behind several states like West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Telangana.Overall, Bihar recorded a 4.3 % decrease in the number of crimes under the Indian Penal Code and Special and Local Laws (SLL) compared to 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-tops-in-property-disputes-and-attacks-on-police-2nd-in-murders-and-riots-101631711157980.html
15-09-2021||Lucknow||JEE (Main): Ghaziabad girl shares all-India rank 1 with 17 others||LUCKNOW Ghaziabad girl, Pal Aggarwal, 17, scored 100 percentile and shared all-India rank (AIR) 1 with 17 others in the JEE main, according to the results declared by the National Testing Agency (NTA) late on Tuesday evening. In all, 18 candidates secured 100 percentile. Pal was delighted over her achievement because normally it’s the boys who usually perform better in this exam. “It’s indeed a joyful moment for me but more than that it is a source of motivation to do well in JEE Advanced. I feel that the first 20 years of our life are just like an insurance policy, which will give lifelong results, if we invest something daily. So, instead of wasting this precious time, we should give our best in everything we do,” said the passout of Seth Anandram Jaipuria, Noida.Pal got 100 percentile in physics, mathematics and chemistry. But there were no major celebrations at her place. “The celebrations can wait for now as the most important exam, JEE Advanced, is scheduled for October 3. I have covered the syllabus thoroughly but still there are areas which I need to work on,” she said.Pal aspires to become an astronaut and wants to graduate in astrophysics. She secured 99.988 percentile in session 1 (February), skipped session 2, obtained 100 percentile in session 3 Pal and skipped session 4 exam. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, NTA conducted JEE Main four times, beginning from February and the best score of the four exams was considered to prepare the final merit for JEE Main this year. Pal said, “I am grateful to my parents, teachers and all those from whom I have learnt something in my life.”“My advice to future aspirants is that one should study not just for the exams, but for one’s own self. It is then that we start enjoying the subject and excel in it without any stress,” she added.Pal’s mother, Rakhi Aggarwal, a clinical psychologist, said: “It’s a proud moment for us that our daughter has bagged AIR 1 in JEE Main. I believe that emotional well being is the foremost requirement for academic excellence. Also, children should use the Internet wisely instead of getting lost in this carnival of distractions. Focusing on the goal day and night will definitely fetch you good results.” Her father, Vishal Aggarwal, is a businessman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jee-main-ghaziabad-girl-shares-all-india-rank-1-with-17-others-101631710498011.html
15-09-2021||Lucknow||‘Abba jaan’ remark triggers political war ahead of UP polls||LUCKNOW As the din over chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s ‘abba jaan’ remark gets louder, the political discourse appears to be changing ahead of 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. A political war has ensued over the use of ‘abba jaan’, which are otherwise respectable words to address or refer to a father. Yogi made the jibe while addressing a public meeting at Kushinagar recently. “Those who said ‘abba jaan’ used to get all the rations,” said Yogi while claiming that most of the people were not getting their rations before 2017. Yogi obviously made the remark to make his point about Muslim appeasement during the Samajwadi Party regime. Yogi’s jibe irked the opposition more than once in recent months. “As they know that their government is on its way out, the language of its head has changed,” said former chief minister and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav in an obvious reference to Yogi’s “abba jaan” comment in Kushinagar. Yogi used these words in another speech earlier, albeit in a different context. While referring to the Covid vaccination in August 2021, Yogi said those who used to oppose vaccination were getting the jab after ‘abba jaan’ got vaccinated. Without naming any leader or his father, Yogi had apparently referred to Akhilesh Yadav’s apprehensions about the Covid vaccination. Yadav had initially called the Covid-19 vaccine as “BJP’s vaccine” though he later decided to get vaccinated. His father and SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav too got vaccinated. Yogi maintained that ‘abba jaan’ was not an un-parliamentary word. The SP, however, asked chief minister to mind his language. UP government spokesman and minister for MSME Sidharth Nath Singh said the chief minister only highlighted how the previous government was using distribution of rations for appeasement. “Whenever the BJP talks about development programmes, the opposition sees polarization and there is no question of changing political discourse,” he added. Besides the SP, others were also targeting the chief minister for his jibe ahead of the 2022 assembly polls. UP Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu said the Yogi government had failed on all fronts. He said use of such language was an indication about the CM’s frustration, who was now trying to mislead people. Lallu said the chief minister apparently wanted to divert attention from real issues that were affecting the people of Uttar Pradesh. All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi also joined the debate on the issue. Giving details about the low number of primary health centres, community health centres and sub-centres during the BJP government’s regime in the state, Owaisi said there would not have been any shouts of “abba, abba” if some work had been done. “Use of words should be balanced by all leaders irrespective of their political affiliation, be it during or after the elections. Leaders of all political parties should mind their language and follow values of healthy politics,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, head of department, political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/abba-jaan-remark-triggers-political-war-ahead-of-up-polls-101631708217766.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Murder cases up by 30% in Himachal in Covid year||Murder cases were up by 30% in Himachal Pradesh in the Covid pandemic year of 2020. The latest edition of the National Crime Records Bureau’s (NCRB) Crime in India data released on Tuesday found that the total number of crimes under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Special Acts and Local Laws (SLL) in the state increased by 3.4% with 20,603 cases reported in 2020 against 19,924 in 2019. According to the report, 1,817 violent crimes were reported in Himachal Pradesh in 2020 as compared to 1,833 in 2019, a decline of 0.8%. The NCRB’s violent crime category includes murder, attempted murder, culpable homicide, attempted culpable homicide, dowry deaths, infanticide, foeticide, grievous hurt, kidnapping and abduction, rape, attempt to rape, rioting, robbery, dacoity, and arson. The homicides increased by 30% in the state, with 91 murder cases and 70 attempted murder cases in 2020 as compared to 70 murder cases and 54 attempted murder cases lodged in 2019. The motive behind 50% of murders was personal enmity and in 25% cases family disputes. Among the victims 58 were men and 33 women. Six were child victims, two of them females. Kidnapping cases down by 32% There was also a decrease in cases of culpable homicide (not amounting to murder) with only 10 cases reported across the state. In the previous year, 19 such cases were registered. However, the FIRs for grievous hurt increased by 14% and rioting by 10%. Kidnapping and abduction cases were down by 32% with a total of 343 cases in 2020 compared to 455 in 2019. On the whole, crimes against women dipped by 1.3%. A total of 1,614 crimes against women were reported across the state. In 2018, the number was 1,633. The rape cases were down by 8.4% in the state with 331 incidents involving 332 victims reported in 2019. In the previous year, 359 incidents involving 361 victims were reported. Eight cases of rape and murder were reported against 13 cases in 2019. Most rape victims in 12-16 years age groupStatistics revealed that of the 332 rape victims, 197 (59%) were minor. In 2019, 55% of the rape victims had been minor. Data shows that, eight victims were below six years; 20 between 6 and 12 years old; 91 from 12-16 years old and 78 above between 16 and 18 years. Among 135 adult victims, 78 were between 18 and 30 years old; 53 between 30 and 45; three between 45 and 60 years old and one above 60 years. In 99.3% of cases, the offenders were known to the victims. Of the 331 cases, in 51 the perpetrators were family members, in 159 cases family friends, neighbours, employers or other acquaintances. In 119 cases, they were friends, online friends, live-in partners or separated husbands. In only two cases, the offenders were unknown to the victims. As many as 1,817 violent crimes were reported in the state in 2020 as compared to 1,833 cases reported in 2019. ‘Predictive policing helped buck the trend’Himachal Pradesh director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu said the ‘Predictive Policing’ strategy has helped buck the trend of heinous crimes, especially those against women. “We introduced Register Number 26 in the police stations to start profiling of sexual offenders. It is being ensured that no crime against women and children goes unreported, undetected, unregistered, uninvestigated and unprosecuted,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/murder-cases-up-by-30-in-himachal-in-covid-year-101631706597908.html
15-09-2021||Other||CBI court dismisses plea seeking cancellation of Andhra CM Jagan’s bail||A special court for Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) cases in Hyderabad on Wednesday dismissed a petition seeking cancellation of bail of YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy in connection with the alleged quid pro quo case pending against him.The petition was filed by Kanumuru Raghurama Krishnam Raju, a rebel Lok Sabha member of YSRCP from Narasapuram in West Godavari district in April this year. Raju requested the CBI court to cancel Jagan’s bail on the grounds that the latter had violated the bail conditions and was trying to influence witnesses in the CBI case against him.The CBI court also dismissed a separate petition filed by Raju seeking cancellation of bail of Jagan’s close aide and YSRCP parliamentary party leader V Vijay Sai Reddy, who is also accused in the case.Also Read | 14-feet statue of PM Modi, made with scrap materials, to be erected in BengaluruIn 2012, the CBI filed a case against Jagan alleging that he had, in a criminal conspiracy with others, received bribes from various companies and individuals who had invested in his group companies as a ‘quid pro quo’ deal for securing undue favours from then combined Andhra Pradesh government headed by his father late Dr YS Rajasekhar Reddy during 2004-2009.Simultaneously, the Enforcement Directorate also filed cases of money laundering against Jagan. The CBI arrested Jagan in May 2012 and was let off on bail in September 2013. He became the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh in May 2019.Raju contended in his petition that Jagan tried to influence several officials, who were co-accused in his case, by posting them in key positions.The CBI court disagreed with the arguments of the rebel YSRCP MP that Jagan had violated the bail conditions in connection with the quid pro quo case.The court observed that there was no complaint from any of the witnesses stating that Jagan tried to intimidate them or influence them after coming to power. It also felt that Raju’s apprehensions were purely hypothetical and not substantiated by any material evidence.Reacting to the CBI court’s judgement, the rebel YSRC MP said he would challenge it in the high court. “If I don’t get justice in the high court, too, I will move the Supreme Court,” he said.Earlier in the day, the Telangana high court dismissed Raju’s petition requesting transfer of his petition in CBI court to another criminal court, on the suspicion that the judgement could have been leaked to Sakshi, the media house owned by the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbicourt-dismisses-plea-seeking-cancellation-of-andhra-cm-jagan-s-bail-101631705037467.html
15-09-2021||Patna||Congress Bihar in-charge proposes new candidates for state party chief||Congress’s Bihar in-charge Bhakta Charan Das has proposed a panel of new candidates for appointment of the state party president. This comes in the wake of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) disagreeing to his initial proposal for reconstitution of the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC).A senior AICC leader familiar with the development said Das has proposed a set of four leaders —former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar, AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar, former governor Nikhil Kumar and Kutumba legislator Rajesh Ram—for the appointment of a new BPCC president in place of incumbent Madan Mohan Jha. He has also recommended the names of four working presidents including Kumar Ashish, Pravin Kushwaha and state Mahila Congress chief Amita Bhushan, against the previous list of eight leaders. A senior party leader said the high command expressed its reservation over appointment of eight working president against the set norm of four. Also Read | Life term for kidnapping and killing 2.5 yr old child in BiharDas had last month submitted the proposal of nominating Rajesh Ram as the BPCC chief, but the party high command had turned it down in view of the protests lodged against him by many senior party leaders. They feared that any decision in the state unit would not be impartial if the in-charge, co in-charge and president were all from the Dalit community. Former BPCC president Chandan Bagchi said the AICC should be cautious while reconsituting the BPCC. “The party high command shall not solely rely on the in-charge,” said Bagchi, who has served as AICC in-charge of five states in the past. Though Das could not be reached for his comments despite repeated attempts, leaders close to him said he was still in favour of appointing Rajesh Ram or Meira Kumar so he could have a direct control on the BPCC. “Das has rented a flat in Patna so that he could spend more time in the state. He is also looking to contest the Lok Sabha election from the state,” said a working president. A section of senior party leaders, who are aspiring key positions in the new committee have already rushed to New Delhi to bolster their chances of induction. In the last Lok Sabha polls, the Congress won only one out of nine seats it contested, while the party’s tally in the assembly came down to 19 against the previous strength of 27 in the House of 243.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/congress-bihar-in-charge-proposes-new-candidates-for-state-party-chief-101631704557281.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||37-year-old Sonepat farmer dies of cardiac arrest at Singhu border||A 37-year-old farmer from Sonepat’s Khanpur Kalan, who was participating in the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farmer laws near KFC Mall at Singhu border, died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday, police said. The farmer, Manoj Sharma, had also attended the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s mahapanchayat at Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh recently. Also read: Farmers are angry for valid reasons, but there are no easy solutionsHe had been active in the farm stir since the farmers camped at Delhi’s borders in November last year. Officials of Kundli police station reached the spot and sent the body to Sonepat civil hospital for post-mortem. “We have registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPc and started investigation,” a spokesman of Sonepat police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sonepat-farmer-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-at-singhu-101631704317173.html
15-09-2021||Other||Maharashtra villagers risk lives, cross railway tracks to immerse Ganesh idols||For residents of Kachore village and Khambalpada in Thakurli, Maharashtra, immersing their Ganesh idol is a risky affair. They are forced to cross the railway tracks and then immerse the idol into the creek on the other side. As per the villagers, there is a long standing demand for better connectivity and an artificial pond in the village itself as around 1,000 idols are immersed in the creek every year during Ganesh Chathurthi. Meanwhile, to ensure the safety of these residents, local police along with the railway police have now deployed a team at the track to guide the villagers. “Earlier, we used an underpass tunnel but it hasn’t been maintained well. We are forced to cross the tracks to immerse the idols in the creek. This year, the municipal corporation provided a small tank but people want to immerse the idol in a proper water body,” said Manoj Chaudhari, 41, a villager. Also Read | Charges framed in Dabholkar murder case as accused plead not guiltyHe added, “We had raised the demand to political leaders and authorities to help us with some sort of connectivity to the creek.” Dombivli GRP senior police inspector Mukesh Dhage said, “During the festival, we deploy a team of 25 police personal at the track to help residents cross the track. The personnel are from local police, GRP and RPF. We also inform the railways to control the speed while approaching this area as people keep crossing the tracks in groups.” KDMC ward officer Vasant Bhongade said, “After the residents placed a demand to provide an artificial pond at the village this year we provided them with a tank. However, there is a poor response from the villagers. As of now, there is no plan for a permanent artificial pond in this area.” Local corporator Rekha Chaudhari said, “There is a need to have an artificial pond in this village for which I will be following up with the civic body in future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-villagers-risk-lives-cross-railway-tracks-to-immerse-ganesh-idols-101631703840341.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||‘Sukhbir Singh Badal favoured farm ordinances for being pro-farmer, opposed resolution’: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu hit out at Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD) Sukhbir Singh Badal, alleging that Badal cited the three farm ordinances as “pro farmer” and “withdrew” when the Punjab government passed a resolution demanding unconditional withdrawal of the three laws during the budget session of the state assembly in March.Sidhu alleged that Badal “favoured the ordinances, opposed resolution arguing that there was nothing wrong in ordinance, describing it as pro-farmer”.Akali Dal members had created an uproar in the assembly when chief minister Amarinder Singh was replying to the Governor's address on the day the resolution was passed in the House in early March. Singh had lashed out at Badal and his wife and former Union minister Harmsimrat Kaur, accusing them of brazenly cheating the people of Punjab with their double-speak on the farm laws.Sidhu also hit out at the Badals calling them “neeti nirmata” of Centre’s three farm laws, alleging that these laws were similar to the Punjab Contract Farming Act, 2013, that was passed by the BJP-SAD government in March of 2013, after being tabled in the assembly by then chief minister Prakash Singh Badal of SAD.The Contract Farming Act was also cited by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in the Rajya Sabha in February of this year while arguing in favour of the new farm laws. Tomar has stated in the House that "Punjab Contract Farming Act provides for jail and fine up to ₹five lakh for the farmer. In the Act made by the Government of India, the farmer can come out of contract farming at any time."Sidhu’s allegations come as SAD is gearing up to observe September 17 as a ‘black day’ on the completion of one year of the enactment of the three laws to protest against the laws. Badal has urged protesting farmers to join the protest march from Gurdwara Rakab Ganj to Parliament demanding repeal of the three laws.Sidhu also talked about the pro-farmer policies brought by the Congress party while it was in power, stating that “it's Congress that brought MSP, mandi, National Food Security Act, The Public Distribution System was also brought by the Congress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-singh-badal-favoured-farm-ordinances-for-being-pro-farmer-opposed-resolution-navjot-singh-sidhu-101631703033032.html
15-09-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand tops hill states with maximum cases of rape, child abuse, says NCRB report||Uttarakhand registered the maximum number of cases of rape and child sexual abuse among the nine Himalayan states, revealed the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report on crime in India for the year 2020. According to the data in the NCRB report on crimes against women, which was released on Tuesday night, Uttarakhand reported 487 cases of rape in 2020 which was the highest among the nine Himalayan states which include Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura. Close on the heels of Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh reported the second highest number of rape cases -- 331 followed by Tripura with 79 such cases. Among other Himalayan states, Meghalaya reported 67 cases and Mizoram 33 cases. Similarly, in the total number of cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in 2020, Uttarakhand once again topped the tally among all the Himalayan states with a figure of 573 cases followed by Meghalaya with 328 cases and Tripura with 143 cases. Neighbouring Himachal Pradesh reported the least number of cases --5, among all the Himalayan states as per the NCRB report. Among the other major Himalayan states, Mizoram reported 105 cases while Sikkim reported 98 cases under the POCSO Act. The NCRB report also indicated that Uttarakhand registered a total of 1282 cases under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act in the year 2020. It was the second highest among all the Himalayan states after Himachal Pradesh which reported the maximum number of cases-- 1538 in the same year. Drug trafficking is one of the major crimes found in Uttarakhand with the state police running a campaign to nab traffickers. The Uttarakhand government also recently announced that it will soon form a new anti-drug policy to “curb the menace” in the state.Inspector general Amit Sinha who is also the chief spokesperson of the police headquarters in Dehradun, reacting to the revelations of the NCRB report on Uttarakhand said, “The number of cases of rape and those lodged under POCSO is reportedly high because the state police have been taking those incidents very seriously and registering such cases without any delay to nab the accused.”“Reporting of such cases by the victims too has increased with the hope of justice which is the top priority of the state police in such cases,” Sinha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-tops-hill-states-with-maximum-cases-of-rape-child-abuse-says-ncrb-report-101631702937066.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana saw marginal decline in crime under IPC last year: NCRB||Haryana saw a marginal dip in the number of cases registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in 2020 as compared to 2019, even though there has been a sharp rise in the cases registered under the special and local laws (SLL), according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Also read: Crime cases increased by 15% in Jammu and Kashmir in 2020The Crime in India-2020 data shows that Haryana’s chargesheeting rate pertaining to both the IPC and the SLL cases was among the worst in the country. The chargesheeting rate indicates the disposal of the crime cases by the police. It also indicates the percentage of total cases the police have disposed of. As many as 1,03,276 cases were registered in Haryana under various sections of the IPC in the Covid pandemic year of 2020, which is 8,047 less than those reported (1,11,323) in 2019. However, the total cases lodged under the SLL in 2020 stood at 89,119 (34,106 more than 2019) against 55,013 reported in 2019 and 83,017 in 2018. The NCRB data shows that the chargesheeting rate of Haryana of the combined cases registered under the IPC and the SLL was 39.7% even as the all-India rate stood at 82.5%. Haryana is third from the bottom among the states in this category. The chargesheeting rate of neighbouring Punjab and Himachal Pradesh in IPC and SLL cases together was 82% and 87.5%, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-saw-marginal-decline-in-crime-under-ipc-last-yearncrb-101631702576950.html
15-09-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru reported most cases against civic agencies for causing death: NCRB||Bengaluru led the country in registering cases against civic authorities for causing death due to negligence in 2020,as per the National Crime Records Bureau’s (NCRB) latest report. Its 18 cases account for 85% of all such cases reported in the country. Mumbai and New Delhi accounted for the three other cases reported in this category, while all other major cities didn’t book any civic authorities for death due to negligence.Even though the number of cases is less compared to 49 in 2019, the numbers remain promising as in 2018, the city had booked civic authorities for their negligence only thrice. However, no data was available on how many of them were charge-sheeted and how many convictions were reported. The city was also a fifth in the country in the number of cases reported under the Indian Penal Code. The rate of crime in the city, that is, number of crimes per one lakh 100,000 population was 234.9. In comparison, neighbouring Chennai reported a crime rate of 1,016.4, while Kochi and Hyderabad reported 282.2 and 206.2 respectivelyAlso Read | Assam records highest rate of crime against women for 4th yearBengaluru also topped the country for the highest number of cases registered under the Information Technology Act. While it reported 8,892 cases under this section, the second-highest number of cases under this Act were reported in Lucknow, which reported 1,451 cases. In major crimes, Bengaluru reported the second-highest number of murders in the country, standing second only in New Delhi. 179 murders were reported, and 191 persons lost their lives due to murder in the city. In comparison, 204 murders were reported in Bengaluru in 2019 and 210 people had lost their lives. Bengaluru also reported the highest number of cases of abetment to suicide. With 99 cases and 101 victims, the city surpassed New Delhi in this section.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-reported-most-cases-against-civic-agencies-for-causing-death-ncrb-101631702397067.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu says Badal niti nirmata of farm laws||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday said that the Parkash Singh Badal-led Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP government laid the foundation of the Centre’s three farm laws. Citing the Punjab Contract Farming Act, 2013, Sidhu told reporters in Chandigarh: “These (the three farm laws) were implemented by the Badals in Punjab first and then the Narendra Modi Government framed the three laws. The Centre’s farm laws are a photostat copy of the Act brought by the Badals.” Also read: Farmers are angry for valid reasons, but there are no easy solutionsHe called the then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal the “niti nirmata (policymaker)” of the farm laws. Flanked by the four working presidents of the Punjab Congress and state unit general secretary Pargat Singh, Sidhu aimed to step up the attack on the rival Shiromani Akali Dal on the contentious farm laws that have become the main rallying point among political parties in the run-up to the assembly elections early next year. Badals playing double game: Capt Amarinder Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had also taken on the Badals as he sounded the poll bugle at Balachaur on Monday. He accused SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal and his son and former deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal of playing a double game on the farm laws passed by the Modi government last year. He said that the SAD, as an ally of the Modi-led NDA government, first endorsed the three farm ordinances but later did a U-turn under pressure from its rural constituency of farmers in Punjab. “The three farm ordinances were made in agreement of the Shiromani Akali Dal, as Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal was a part of the cabinet that passed the ordinances,” Capt Amarinder said. He said that the former chief minister, Parkash Singh Badal, had issued a video statement, endorsing the farm laws and advocating that there was nothing wrong in the new ordinances. He accused the SAD of abandoning the interest of farmers when its backing was needed and supporting them now when they are protesting the farm laws tooth and nail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-chief-navjot-sidhu-says-badal-niti-nirmata-of-farm-laws-101631701617087.html
15-09-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati targets UP govt over potholed roads in state||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati took potshots at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh over the potholed roads even as deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya announced a new gaddha-mukt sadak campaign from Wednesday. Gaddha mukt sadak abhiyaan (pothole-free roads) was one of the key promises of the BJP government. Also Read | BSP won’t field any ‘bahubali’ or mafia in UP elections: Mayawati“We have decided to roll out a campaign to repair the roads across the state,” Maurya said adding that quality of construction of roads has vastly improved in the state. “It is difficult to decipher if there are potholes on roads or roads on potholes,” Mayawati tweeted on Wednesday, adding that like the law-and-order machinery, the road network too is in a mess in the state. “Several accidents have happened due to these potholed roads. Newspaper reports are full of reports of people dying in accidents caused while driving on these potholed roads. This is most sad and proof of government’s failure,” Mayawati tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-targets-up-govt-over-potholed-roads-in-state-101631701497115.html
15-09-2021||Other||Odisha anganwadi worker owns property worth ₹4 crore; arrested||An anganwadi worker in Bhubaneswar was arrested this morning a day after she was found to have allegedly amassed properties worth over ₹4 crore, including 4 buildings, more than a dozen plots, state’s anti corruption sleuths said.Officials said Kabita Mathan, a worker in anganwadi centre in Koradakanta area, was found to own a four-storey building, a triple-storey building, and two double-storey buildings in Bhubaneswar, 14 plots of land, a four-wheeler, three two-wheelers, insurance deposits over ₹2.2 lakh, and gold ornaments worth ₹6.36 lakh.The woman lived in an asbestos-roofed house near a fish market in the city with her father and husband. Most of the properties were acquired in the name of her in-laws and she drew a monthly salary of ₹7,500.Also Read | Excess rainfall in September result of climate change in Odisha, say expertsMathan has claimed that she acquired most of the assets by doing different jobs, including selling pakoras and giving tuitions.In July this year, anti-corruption sleuths of Odisha found assets worth over ₹3.79 crore, including 1.5 kg gold, from the house of a class-3 employee of Odisha Staff Selection Commission. Biranchi Narayan Sahoo, 58, private secretary to member of Odisha Staff Selection Commission Jagannath Lenka, was later given compulsory retirement.As per the NCRB 2017 figures, Odisha recorded the second highest number of cases relating to corruption in government offices after Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-anganwadi-worker-owns-property-worth-rs-4-crore-arrested-101631700416879.html
15-09-2021||Other||Charges framed in Dabholkar murder case as accused plead not guilty||Charges in the murder case of Narendra Dabholkar were framed on Wednesday after all five accused pleaded not guilty in a special court in Pune. While four of them will be tried for murder, criminal conspiracy, and terrorism, one will be tried for destruction of evidence.Three of the five were identified as Virendrasinh Tawade, who appeared from Yerwada Central Jail through video conference, Sachin Andure, who appeared from Aurangabad jail and, Sharad Kalaskar, who appeared from Arthur Road jail in Mumbai. Two others -- Vikram Bhave and Advocate Sanjeev Punalekar, who are currently out on bail, were present in court.Dabholkar, a rationalist who was against superstition, was on a walk on the morning of August 20, 2013, near Omkareshwar bridge in Pune when two bike-borne shot him dead. The investigation was taken over by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) from the state police. In the CBI’s initial charge sheet, Sarang Akolkar and Vinay Pawar were identified as shooters. The second charge sheet identified Andure and Kalaskar as shooters.In both the charge sheets, Tawade was identified as the main conspirator. Bhave was accused of helping the two shooters with vehicle, and escape route. Punalekar was found to have advised one of the shooters to dispose of the weapon after which Kalaskar allegedly threw parts of the weapons in the Thane creek. This information was provided by Kalaskar to the Karnataka police special investigation team (SIT) investigating the 2017 Gauri Lankesh murder in Bengaluru. Kalaskar and Andure have also been named in Lankesh’s murder. Kalaskar was also found to have been involved in the August 2018 Nalasopara arms haul by Maharashtra Anti-terrorism squad. Bhave has been convicted in a bomb blast case for possession of explosives. The CBI has also alleged a larger conspiracy by the Sanatan Sanstha, to which all the accused and their lawyer belong, to kill Dabholkar, Lankesh, and scholar MM Kalburgi in Dharwad, Karnataka, in August 2015.Also Read | MoD sanctions 16,122 sqm of land for construction of Bopkhel-Khadki bridge“As the trial has begun, it would be appropriate that the accused are lodged in the nearest jail ie., Yerwada Central Jail. The transfer should be done immediately. The SP of Yerwada Central Jail should facilitate the transfer. One week transit time will be allowed,” said judge Satyanarayan Navander who is hearing the matter.“The charges have been framed and further proceeding will take place starting September 30. I cannot comment on what is happening in the high court,” said special public prosecutor Prakash Suryavanshi.The three accused lodged in different jails have expressed anguish over allegedly being kept in the dark about the court proceedings. The court order on September 7, which gave time for the accused to contact family and lawyers, was only worked upon in the last 24 hours, according to two of the accused.Additionally, the discharge application for Bhave and Punalekar is pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/charges-framed-in-dabholkar-murder-case-accused-plead-not-guilty-101631699456804.html
15-09-2021||Kolkata||BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal gets notice for alleged violation of Covid-19 protocol at poll rally||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Priyanka Tibrewal, who is contesting for the Bhabanipur assembly bypoll in West Bengal, was sent a notice by the constituency’s Returning Officer (RO), seeking her response on why permission for any of her future rallies should not be stopped, reported ANI. The notice cites violation of model code of conduct (MCC) and established Covid-19 protocols by her and her supporters on the day of nomination filing, the news agency added.Tibrewal, who is contesting the bypoll against sitting chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee, has till 5pm on Wednesday to respond to the notice. She filed her nomination at the Survey Building in Alipore on September 13 along with Left Front's Srijib Biswas. She was accompanied by TMC turncoat and current BJP legislator Suvendu Adhikari, BJP MP Arjun Singh, senior BJP leader Sishir Bajoria among other party members."People of Bhabanipur have got a chance to repeat what happened in Nandigram a few months ago. This is a fight against injustice... This is a fight for justice, for the people of West Bengal. I would like to tell the voters of Bhabanipur that they’ve received a big opportunity, they should come forward and create history,” she told reporters after filing her nomination.Tibrewal has also filed a complaint with the constituency's poll officer, alleging that Banerjee did not disclose pending criminal cases against her. Her election agent Sajal Ghosh wrote a letter to the RO citing several news reports to substantiate their allegation.Tibrewal, who currently holds the state vice-president's post in Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), has lost both the elections she has contested so far. Banerjee, a lifelong resident of Bhabanipur, has won the constituency twice in the past, but faced defeat in the 2021 Legislative Assembly elections at the hands of her former protege Adhikari in Nandigram.Bhabanipur is slated to go to polls on September 30, and counting of votes will take place on October 30. The Election Commission has decided to deploy 19 companies of central forces in Bhabanipur for the upcoming polls, of which 8 companies are currently deployed in the area for pre-poll area domination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-candidate-priyanka-tibrewal-gets-notice-for-alleged-violation-of-covid-19-protocol-at-poll-rally-101631698608199.html
15-09-2021||Patna||Life term for kidnapping and killing 2.5 yr old child in Bihar||A Bhabua town sessions court in Bihar’s Kaimur district on Tuesday sentenced a man who brutally killed a 2.5 year old boy after kidnapping him to rigorous life imprisonment.The court of 3rd additional district and session’s judge (ADJ) Rajesh Kumar Shukla awarded rigorous life imprisonment to Ajit Raj Singh under Sections 364 (A) and 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and ₹50,000 fine under each section.The court ordered that the convict will have to undergo additional two years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) if he failed to deposit the fine. He will also have to undergo seven years of RI and pay a fine of ₹10 thousand under Section 201 of the IPC. All the terms will run concurrently.The court under Section 357 (A) of criminal procedure code (CrPc) recommended the district legal service authority (DLSA) to pay rupees three lakh compensation to father of the deceased, additional public prosecutor Sachchidanand Ray who conducted the prosecution case, said.According to facts of the case, 2.5 year old Shreyansh, son of Hitesh Kumar Singh of Jamurna village under Ramgarh police station limits of Kaimur district, was abducted while playing outside home at about 8am on December 25, 2016.In the afternoon, the father received a ransom call for ₹six lakh, following which he informed Ramgarh police.Next day police recovered the body of the child from the home of the accused and arrested him. He confessed to kidnapping and strangulating the child.“Deceased child’s grandfather Rajgrihi Singh also died after a few days due to shock. We have got some relief after the court decision,” family members said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/life-term-for-kidnapping-and-killing-2-5-yr-old-child-in-bihar-101631698316658.html
15-09-2021||Patna||Bihar to begin mass drug administration drive against filariasis on Sept 20||Bihar is set to begin mass drug administration (MDA) to eliminate filariasis, an infectious tropical disease caused by round worms that spreads by insects such as black flies and mosquitoes. The programme, to be conducted in 22 districts of the start, will begin on September 20, said health officials. The state is yet to decide the date for the second round MDA in the remaining 16 districts. Mass drug administration is done once a year with diethylcarbamazine citrate and Albendazole and administered to all community members, excluding toddlers, pregnant women and seriously ill people. Also Read | Another Bihar government official raided, booked for disproportionate assetsBihar missed the MDA rounds slated for May 2021 due to the second wave of Covid-19. MDA was last done in 11 districts of the state in September and October 2020. A transmission assessment survey will also be conducted in districts of Arwal, Gaya, Kishanganj, Purnia, Bhagalpur and Katihar to determine if infections have reduced enough for MDA to be discontinued this year. As part of the MDA round, which is generally for 14 days, health workers will conduct door-to-door visits and administer anti-filarial medicines to beneficiaries.Dr Neeraj Dhingra, director, National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, told state health officers that 90% coverage during MDA rounds was essential for the state to eliminate filariasis, said an officer privy to the review meeting on lymphatic filariasis and kala-azar convened here on Tuesday. Lymphatic filariasis is endemic in all 38 districts of Bihar. As many as 125,000 lymphoedema (swelling in body part, usually in the arms or legs) and hydrocele (swelling in scrotum) cases were reported in the state, as per government data of 2020-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-begin-mass-drug-administration-drive-against-filariasis-on-sept-20-101631698136556.html
15-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan registered highest number of rape cases: NCRB||Rajasthan registered the highest number of rape cases in the country followed by Uttar Pradesh, National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2020 data has revealed. Rajasthan recorded 5,310 rape cases, Uttar Pradesh came second with 2,769, followed by Madhya Pradesh with 2,339 and Maharashtra with 2,061 cases. However, the desert state has witnessed a decline of around 16% in crime against women, and stands third with 34,535 cases, after Uttar Pradesh with 49,385 and West Bengal with 36,439 cases registered in 2020. Of the total rape victims, 1,279 are under 18 while 4,031 are adults. The perpetrator in more than half the rape cases in the state were allegedly family friends, neighbours, employee or other known people. The state also witnessed an increase in crimes against members of scheduled caste – in 2018, the state recorded 4,607 cases, which rose to 6,794 in 2019 and 7,017 in 2020 with a crime rate of 57.4%. Also Read | Crime cases increased by 15% in Jammu and Kashmir in 2020ADG, Crime, Ravi Prakash Meharda said free registration led to the high number of cases. He said rape cases are on the rise but around 42 % are found to be false allegations after a probe or sometimes, the survivor and the accused arrive at an agreement. The ADG pointed out that even the NCRB report states that rise in crime and increase in registration of crime by police are two different things. Meanwhile, BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said the state government has failed in maintaining law and order. The chief minister heads the home department but is busy saving his own chair, he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-registered-highest-number-of-rape-casesncrb-101631697476575.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Opponents shot dead in Afghanistan, snooped on in India via Pegasus: Saamana||Shiv Sena on Wednesday slammed the Centre over its refusal to file an affidavit in Supreme Court regarding the Pegasus snooping row, stating it is a matter of national security. Sena mouthpiece Saamana attacked the Centre by saying that in Afghanistan opponents are gunned down, while here, spyware like Pegasus is used to defeat political opponents.On Monday, the government said that it had nothing to hide but cited “national security” to tell the Supreme Court it would not file a detailed affidavit in response to petitions seeking a probe into the Pegasus spyware rowAn editorial in the Sena mouthpiece said the Centre was playing ‘hide and seek’ on the issue. It added, “The Centre has decided that Parliament and courts must not be given importance.”International media earlier in July reported that more than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including those of two serving central ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders, and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the Israeli spyware which is sold only to government agencies. Also Read | Hindus most tolerant; India can’t be Afghanistan: Javed Akhtar in Shiv Sena’s Saamana“What was the exact threat to the nation from two central ministers, Rahul Gandhi and Opposition leaders, a few journalists, army officers that Pegasus had to be used to spy on them?” the editorial asked. “The issue of national security is definitely important, there are no differences over that. But it does not mean that only Modi government is worried about national security and not the Opposition in Parliament or our Supreme Court... In Afghanistan, opponents are shot dead. Here, mediums like Pegasus are used to defeat opponents,” the mouthpiece said.As a policy, the Maharashtra unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party does not response to criticism or remarks made in Saamana editorials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/opponents-shot-dead-in-afghanistan-snooped-on-in-india-via-pegasussaamana-101631696756516.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Most Covid deaths among people aged above 50 in Mumbai’s G/North ward||Between April 2020 -- when Covid-19 first broke out in Dharavi -- and June 2021, the G/North ward (that Dharavi is a part of) has reported 717 deaths due to the infection, 60% of which were among people above the age of 50. While 402 deaths were reported among people over 60, 183 deaths were reported in the 51-60 age group. Five deaths were reported in the youngest age group of 5 - 20 years.Eleven deaths were reported in the age group of 21 to 30 years, 27 deaths were reported in the age group of 31 to 40 years, and 89 deaths were reported in the age group of 41 to 50 years.From April 2020 to September 15, the G/North ward has reported a total of 981 deaths, while Dharavi has reported a total of 417 deaths. This puts Dharavi’s case fatality rate at 5.9%. Dharavi reported the maximum number of deaths in April and May 2020, according to information revealed by Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward, with jurisdiction over Dharavi, in his book “The Dharavi Model”, which was inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday.The Dharavi model is based on 4Ts, tracing high risk contacts of covid-19 positive patients, tracking them, testing on time, and treating. Dighavkar said, “With increase in the number of tests, results in early detection, which has led to a drop in total fatalities with time. The decrease in the case fatality rate continued through the second wave.”Data has also revealed that approximately 65% of the 717 deaths were male, while the remaining were female.As of Wednesday, Dharavi has 10 active Covid-19 cases, and a total caseload of 7,058.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/most-covid-deaths-in-dharavi-among-people-aged-above-50-101631695916415.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||BJP starts statewide agitation against MVA over OBC quota||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday started its statewide agitation against Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in municipal and district body elections. The 27% reservation in electoral wards that the OBCs may be scrapped following a Supreme Court order that says the overall quota should not cross 50%. Alleging that the state’s weak legal representation in the Supreme Court on OBC reservation led to the situation, the party said it will hold protests at 1,000 places across the state.It planned its agitation after the state election commission (SEC) announced on Monday bypolls in six district councils of Palghar, Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim, and Nagpur and 33 other panchayat samitis, on the seats vacated following the Supreme Court order against OBC quota in local bodies. The polls will be held on October 5 and counting of votes will be held the next day.Also Read | Mumbai-Goa highway work can get over by March ’22 if we get funds: NHAIIt means that no seat will be reserved for the OBC in the bypoll as the apex court asked the state government to collect empirical data for the community to reinstate their political reservation.On Wednesday morning, the party started its agitation in Aurangabad where workers gathered and raised slogans against the MVA government. “MVA government did not give a lawyer to present its side before the Supreme Court. Congress state president Nana Patole also pointed the same. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar owe an explanation to the OBC community,” Sanjay Kute, vice president, state BJP unit said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-starts-statewide-agitation-against-mva-over-obcquota-101631695496304.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Parts of Delhi to face disruption in water supply till Sept 17. Details here||Water supply will not be available in several areas of south west Delhi due to the disruption at the Dichaon Kalan underground reservoir because of heavy rains in the city, Delhi Jal Board announced on Wednesday. The water supply will remain affected till September 17, it stated in the statement."Water will not be available through the pipeline till September 17 tentatively till repairs are completed. Till then, water will be made available to the residents through tankers," Delhi Jal Board stated in the statement.To book water tankers, locals can call on toll-free numbers -- 18001217744 and 8527995818 -- or for any other query.The affected areas include Gopal Nagar, Lokesh Park, Dichaon village, Mitraon village, Kair village, Surakhpur, Shiv Enclave, Hira Park, Najafgarh Park, Nirmal Vihar, Gupta Market, Aggarwal Colony, Ekta Vihar, Gopal Nagar group of colonies, Krishna Vihar and Shri Krishan Colony.It will also be disrupted at Aradhna Enclave, Baba Haridass Nagar, Baba Haridass Colony, Sainik Enclave, Naveen Palace, Vinobha Enclave and Extension, Surya Kunj and Sarswati Kunj, Jharoda village, Mahesh Garden, Janta Vihar and Extension and Satyam Puram and the adjoining group of colonies, according to the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/parts-of-delhi-to-face-disruption-in-water-supply-till-sept-17-details-here-101631693986985.html
15-09-2021||Patna||Another Bihar government official raided, booked for disproportionate assets||Continuing its tirade against corruption, the Vigilance Investigation Bureau (VIB) on Tuesday evening searched several houses and an office of an executive engineer in the road construction department (RCD) for possessing disproportionate assets worth ₹1.76 crore. This was the seventh DA case lodged against suspected corrupt government officials in the state this year.Verification of documents of his movable and immovable properties at Nityanand Enclave, Gosai Tola and Krishna Apartment in Boring Road in Patna and also at his office chamber in the city was done during the raid, which was conducted following search warrants issued by the special judge, vigilance, Patna, and concluded late Tuesday night. The officer under suspicion, Kauntey Kumar was a native of Ranchi in Jharkhand and currently posted at Gulzarbagh in Patna City road division. The raids were conducted under the supervision of bureau deputy superintendent of police (DSP) SK Mauar.VIB said its sleuths recovered ₹15.50 lakh in cash, relevant documents, eight bank account passbooks, gold and silver jewellery worth ₹33.75 lakh alongwith land and plot related documents during the raids. The seized documents revealed that Kauntey Kumar amassed his property in his wife’s name. VIB also found two bank lockers linked to the family and they were frozen during the searches. A VIB official said the bureau was yet to reach the exact valuation of the properties, “but yes, the price of land and flats in those areas is very high and what Kauntey Kumar owns may be worth several crores of rupees”. The official said that a case of disproportionate assets had been lodged and a preliminary probe suggested that the executive engineer bought properties with ill-gotten money.“We have recovered passbooks of bank accounts, insurance policies and other documents so far. The total assets will be known in some time,” said an official, who was part of the raiding team but refused to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/another-bihar-government-official-raided-booked-for-disproportionate-assets-101631693877821.html
15-09-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka witnesses ‘marginal rise’ in influenza-like illness, viral fever cases: State health minister||Karnataka recorded a marginal rise in influenza-like illness (ILI) and viral fever cases this year, state health minister K Sudhakar told reporters on Wednesday, adding that the administration is keeping a close watch on the situation and collecting inputs from government and private hospitals. The state is already on alert and surveilling districts bordering Kerala for Nipah-like symptoms.“ILI (influenza-like illness) kind of infection is witnessed during monsoon year on year. This year we're also witnessing. We're closely watching, taking inputs from private and government hospitals. There has been a marginal increase in ILI cases and viral fever,” Sudhakar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.States across the country have been reporting an uptick in dengue, viral and ILI cases. West Bengal reported a spurt in viral fever cases, with the paediatric ward of the state-run Jalpaiguri district hospital currently treating 50-60 children. The state government has formed a team of experts to monitor such cases and recommend measures. Delhi has also reported a spike in the number of dengue, viral and scrub typhus cases among children in hospitals, and doctors have urged for precautionary measures to be followed."Cases of viral fever among children are exponentially high this year. The OPD is functioning round-the-clock. Normally OPD sees 700-800 patients every day, but for the past one week more than 1,800 patients are coming every day only during the day and evening time. We are seeing approximately 300 patients each night," Dr Mamta Jajoo of Chacha Nehru Hospital told news agency ANI on September 11.Elsewhere in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) took cognisance of the dengue situation. “The situation is bad. 40-50% of patients suffer from dengue and viral fever. 60% of the patients are children,” president of IMA’s Agra unit, Rajeev Upadhyaya told news agency ANI.Sudhakar also told reporters that those exhibiting symptoms of ILI are also being tested for Covid and 99.5% of them are testing negative for it.“So, from Covid-19's perspective, we're relieved. But definitely, we're watchful and taking all necessary precautionary measures,” he added. He did not, however, mention how many among those exhibiting symptoms of ILI are children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-witnesses-marginal-rise-in-influenza-like-illness-viral-fever-cases-state-health-minister-101631693053403.html
15-09-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal reports sharpest spike in crime against children in 3 years: NCRB||West Bengal recorded the sharpest spike in crime against children in the last three years, says the latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). According to the NCRB’s Crime in India 2020 report released on Tuesday, Madhya Pradesh, with 17,008 cases of crime against children, tops the list followed by Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra which registered 15,271 and 14,371 cases respectively. West Bengal ranked fourth with 10,248 cases. Out of the 36 states and Union Territories, only nine have registered a spike in crime against children, as per the report. West Bengal registered the sharpest spike in such crimes listed under Indian Penal Code and Special and Local Laws. While the top 3 states all registered a decline over the past three years, West Bengal, with a rise of 63% from 2018, registered the sharpest spike. Tamil Nadu with a spike of 44% comes next followed by Jammu and Kashmir with 28% rise, and Rajasthan with 27% spike. Jharkhand and Odisha have recorded 21% increase each. The report reveals that in 2018, Bengal registered 6,286 cases. In 2019, it dropped to 6191 but in 2020 it shot up to 10,248 cases. Also Read | Assam records highest rate of crime against women for 4th yearHowever, the state’s rate of crime against children is still low, compared to many states. The rate is calculated as the number of crime cases recorded per 100,000 population, in this case, the children. According to the 2011 census, West Bengal has a population of around 30 million children. The rate of crime against children in the state is around 34%. In contrast, Sikkim, a small Himalayan state, has reported 147 incidents of crime against children but given its child population of around 200,000, the rate comes to around 71%. Delhi’s rate of crime against children is around 91% while in Andaman and Nicobar Island, it is more than 100%. Senior government and police officials and even NGOs working in the filed in West Bengal refused to comment on the figures, saying they haven’t gone through the report yet.The state ranks second after Maharashtra when it comes to cases of kidnapping and abduction of children in 2020. While Maharashtra reported 7,392 such cases, West Bengal had 7,079 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-reports-sharpest-spike-in-crime-against-children-in-3-years-ncrb-101631693156159.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi completes liquor licence allotment in all 32 zones; earns ₹8,900 crore||The Delhi government has completed the process of appointing new licensees for the retail sale of liquor in each of the newly carved 32 excise zones of the national Capital. Data accessed by HT showed that the state excise department earned at least Rs8,900 crore through the bidding process of these zones alone, which is about 26.7% higher than the reserve price set by the government.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s excise minister, is likely to reveal these details in press conference scheduled at 2pm on Wednesday. All the new retail liquor licensees have been asked to begin operations from November 17 this year. This will also mark the departure of the Delhi government from the retail business of liquor in the city as the entire segment will be privatised as mandated under the latest Delhi Excise Policy, 2021.Of the 32 zones, the draw for 20 zones was done on August 5 and 6. The remaining 12 were allotted this week. The excise department had kept a total reserve price for all the 32 zones at around Rs7,041 crore, whereas it actually managed to earn about Rs8,917.59 crore through bidding.Also Read | DDMA allows exhibitions in Delhi; schools to remain closed for classes up to 8Excise reports seen by HT showed that in terms of absolute amount, Zone 28 covering areas such as Dwarka-A, Deoli, Bhajanpura, Kardampuri and Quraish Nagar won the highest bid (Rs357 crore). But when analysed in terms of the highest profit earned by the government in terms of the base price, Zone 32, which is the Airport zone, topped the list as it went for Rs235 crore against the reserve price of Rs105 crore -- about 124% higher than the reserve price.In addition to the bid value for the 32 zones, the excise department will also earn about Rs650 crore from excise duty, import fees, value added tax and other licence fees, an excise official said on condition of anonymity. Another Rs900 crore to Rs1,000 crore is expected to come from licensing of new brands, distributor licenses, etc.This will mark a new record for the Capital, and push annual earnings growth rate from the current 5-7% to over 30% -- highlighting that the new excise policy, which aims to reform the city’s liquor business by improving user experience, cleaning up the liquor mafia and eradicating pilferage, is making an impact within two months of being adopted.The average revenue of the city over the past three years stood at around Rs5,500 crore annually, according to government data. The new policy was implemented on June 11. Under the new policy, retailers are free to decide the selling prices in a competitive environment, rather than an MRP being mandated by the government. Each zone will have at least 27 liquor vends — all of which will go to one successful bidder.The newly appointed retail licensees will have to build bigger and modern liquor vends from November 17. Customers will get the facility to walk in and choose their preferred liquor brands. Under the new policy, business hours have been fixed as from 10am to 10pm, while those at the airport may open round-the-clock.The policy, among other things, envisages five new super-premium liquor shops for high-value products. It includes a rule that any liquor shop in the city should be at least 500 square feet in size. It gets rid of the iron grilles at the front of most liquor vends in the Capital, and allows buyers to browse and purchase the brands of their choice. For this, the shops have to be spacious, well lit and air-conditioned to allow customers a walk-in experience and must be under camera surveillance. Shop owners will have to ensure that liquor sale and pick-up takes place properly inside the shop premises. It also allows home delivery of liquor in the Capital through websites and apps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-completes-liquor-license-allotment-in-all-zones-earns-rs-8900cr-101631692856041.html
15-09-2021||Patna||Tej Pratap Yadav accuses staff of cheating his firm of ₹71,000||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) and former health minister Tejpratap Yadav has accused one Ashish Ranjan of duping him of ₹71,000. The elder son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and sitting MLA from Hassanpur gave a written complaint to the SK Puri police station in Patna in this connection on Tuesday, officers said.Tejpratap alleged that Ashish Ranjan, who handled the marketing function of his firm LR Radhe Krishna Agarbatti, cheated him by allegedly diverting ₹71,000 in his own bank account without the MLA’s permission.The elder Yadav scion was in news recently for opening a shop selling incense sticks and other articles used in pooja rituals. The shop is located in Danapur, close to the cowshed owned by his father Lalu Prasad.“Ranjan received ₹71,000 in his own account without my permission. This money was to be sent to the account of LR Radha Krishna Agarbatti. It happened without my permission. I demand legal action against Ranjan,” Yadav said in his written complaint to the police.The station house officer (SHO) of SK Puri police station, SK Singh, said, “I have received a complaint from Tejpratap Yadav against his staff. I have talked to both to know the facts. The police are looking into the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tej-pratap-yadav-accuses-his-employee-of-cheating-his-firm-of-rs-71000-101631691535990.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal bans sale, use & storage of firecrackers in Delhi during Diwali over dangerous pollution levels||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced that there would be a “complete ban” on the usage, storage or sales of any type of firecrackers inside the city during the festival of Diwali. Further, Kejriwal also appealed to the traders in the national capital to not stock up on firecrackers in view of the ban and in order to avoid losses.He cited the dangerous pollution levels in Delhi as the reason behind the announcement. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi CM said, “In view of the dangerous condition of Delhi's pollution during Diwali for the past 3 years, like last year, a complete ban is being imposed on the storage, sale and use of all types of firecrackers. So that people's lives can be saved.” पिछले 3 साल से दीवाली के समय दिल्ली के प्रदूषण की खतरनाक स्तिथि को देखते हुए पिछले साल की तरह इस बार भी हर प्रकार के पटाखों के भंडारण, बिक्री एवं उपयोग पर पूर्ण प्रतिबंध लगाया जा रहा है। जिससे लोगों की जिंदगी बचाई जा सके।His appeal to the traders came in a subsequent tweet, in which he said, “In view of the seriousness of pollution after the stocking of firecrackers by traders last year, a complete ban was imposed late, which caused losses to the traders. It is an appeal to all the traders that this time in view of the complete ban, do not do any kind of storage.”पिछले साल व्यापारियों द्वारा पटाखों के भंडारण के पश्चात प्रदूषण की गंभीरता को देखत हुए देर से पूर्ण प्रतिबंध लगाया गया जिससे व्यापारियों का नुकसान हुआ था। सभी व्यापारियों से अपील है कि इस बार पूर्ण प्रतिबंध को देखते हुए किसी भी तरह का भंडारण न करें।However, the CM did not mention the exact time duration for which the cracker ban would be in place. Last year too, the Delhi government had banned all firecrackers, including green crackers, in the national capital. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had imposed a ban on firecrackers in Delhi and the adjoining National Capital Region (NCR) between November 9 and 30. Diwali was celebrated on November 14 last year. The NGT then extended this ban until Christmas and the new year in a bid to control pollution.The ban was announced last year with only a few days left for the festival due to which several traders in the city had expressed their concerns about incurring losses and asked the government to reconsider their decision. However, the government went ahead with the ban and also earmarked 800 open spaces in the city where people were allowed to burst only green crackers for two hours in the night.Earlier in 2017, the Supreme Court of India had temporarily banned the sale of crackers in 2017 before the festival of Diwali. However, after that, the court had allowed the sales of low-emission firecrackers in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-bans-sale-use-storage-of-firecrackers-in-delhi-during-diwali-over-dangerous-pollution-levels-101631690718523.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||On Engineers Day, AAP praises 'IIT engineer CM', showcases his work in Delhi||On the occasion of Engineers Day 2021, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday boasted of Delhi's infrastructure with some chosen photos of structures across the national capital. Sharing the images from its official handle on Twitter, the party lauded its president and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is an alumnus of the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur, one of the finest engineering institutes in the country.Tweeting the photos of Delhi's edifices, the AAP posted, “This is what happens when you elect an IIT Engineer as your CM.”Happy #EngineersDay 🏗️This is what happens when you elect an IIT Engineer as your CM 👇🏼 pic.twitter.com/7sCbAvchUzThe photos shared by the AAP media cell include the Delhi government's 450-bedded Burari hospital and a Delhi government school in Delhi's Khichripur, which was awarded a ‘School of Excellence’.India marks September 15 as Engineers Day every year, as a tribute to Sir Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya, more commonly known as Sir MV, one of the country's finest engineers. He was considered one of the foremost nation-builders, creating marvels upon which modern India was built, and was also known as the ‘precursor of economic planning in India’, according to the Institution of Engineers India (IEI).Since today marks the statesman's 160th birth anniversary, several eminent individuals across the country paid their tributes to the engineering icon. Earlier in the day, Arvind Kejriwal sent his best wishes to all the engineers of the nation who're making “several path-breaking innovations”.“On Engineers Day, I would like to give my best wishes to all engineers who are contributing to nation-building and making several path-breaking innovations with utmost dedication, knowledge, and hard work,” Kejriwal tweeted. The Delhi chief minister himself is a major in mechanical engineering from the IIT Kharagpur, which was ranked sixth in the overall list of institutes, according to the latest NIRF rankings. Kejriwal took the IIT-JEE exam in 1985 and had secured an All India Rank (AIR) of 563.On Engineers Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, and others also paid their tributes to Sir Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya and all the modern-day engineers of India.“Greetings on Engineers Day to all hardworking engineers,” the Prime Minister tweeted. “No words are enough to thank them for their pivotal role in making our planet better and technologically advanced. I pay homage to the remarkable Shri M Visvesvaraya on his birth anniversary and recall his accomplishments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/on-engineers-day-aap-praises-iit-engineer-cm-showcases-his-work-in-delhi-101631685500641.html
15-09-2021||Patna||Sr railway engineer arrested from Jamalpur in ₹34 crore misappropriation case||The Patna zonal office of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday arrested the senior section engineer of Jamalpur Railway Workshop, Chandeshwar Prasad Yadav, for alleged involvement in misappropriation of 100 condemned wagons and thousands of wheel sets apart from other excluded fittings of Eastern Railway’s Jamalpur railway workshop, estimated to be worth ₹34 crores. He was arrested under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) 2002 and the special PMLA court remanded him to five days in ED custody. Earlier, ED had arrested the proprietor of Shree Maharani Steel, Dewesh Kumar, a resident of Bari Dariapur under Jamalpur police station area of Munger district. His wife Mitu Ravikar is a member of the Munger district board. ED started probing the case following an FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on February 9, 2018 following a complaint by senior deputy general manager (DGM) and vigilance officer of the Eastern Railway against Patna-based Shree Maharani Steels, unknown railway officials posted at Jamalpur and unknown private persons.According to the complaint dated October 16, 2017, Eastern Railway found misappropriation and irregularities in the disposal of condemned wagons and other excluded fittings from Dhobi Ghat siding of Eastern Railway in Jamalpur between 2013 and 2017.During a preventive check conducted by the vigilance department of the Eastern Railway, it was found that 100 condemned wagons and 3,220 released wheel sets along with other excluded fittings, having a net value of ₹34 crore approximately, were misappropriated by an outside private agency and auction purchaser Dewesh Kumar, also proprietor of Shree Maharani Steel in connivance with unknown railway officials and other unknown private persons. Yadav was the custodian of the condemned wagons. Officials said Dewesh and Yadav didn’t cooperate throughout the investigation. They added that further investigation was in progress to unearth the proceeds of crime and role of other suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/sr-railway-engineer-arrested-from-jamalpur-in-rs-34-crore-misappropriation-case-101631690155969.html
15-09-2021||Patna||Bihar: ₹10 crore tax evasion on tobacco products detected in raids||The Commercial taxes department has detected tax evasion worth ₹10 crore in tobacco-related products by 26 firms across Bihar during surprise inspections on Tuesday and Wednesday. In total 39 firms, mainly dealers and distributors of commodities like cigarettes, paan masala and areca nut, were covered under the raids. The department officials said the inspections were based on data intelligence and inputs from field officers that a large number of firms dealing in cigarettes, paan masala , areca nut and bidis were evading taxes by not paying cess and also not reflecting value addition. “We have seized goods worth ₹15 crore and detected tax evasion worth ₹10 crore. The godowns of these firms engaged in clandestine trading have been sealed. Heavy penalty and other legal action would follow against the erring firms,” said Dr Pratima, commissioner cum secretary, Bihar commercial taxes department. Officials in the department aware of the developments said the firms engaged in tax evasion on tobacco products were bringing stocks illegally from states like Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Assam and not showing them in their books of accounts to evade taxes. Paan masala stocks were being brought in from UP and sold illegally without any books of records. “The dealers of paan masala, a product with a huge market, used to get consignments from UP clandestinely and keep it in their godowns from where it used to be channelized in the market. Some of the dealers caught in the raids have confessed to have brought in consignments of paan masala and other tobacco products from neighbouring states and also from Assam and Bengal by showing it as stocks of sugar, jaggery and other products just to evade taxes,” said one officer, engaged in the raids. One primary reason for Tobacco products to be considered an evasion-prone commodity is it falling in high tax category under the GST regime. Paan masala attracts 28% tax and 60% cess while cigarettes and tobacco fall in 28% tax and 160% cess category.“The dealers were mostly showing sale of cigarettes at lower price than retail rate to avoid cess payment,” said the officer quoted above. Dr Pratima said the generation of bills on eway portals was negligible by these firms. “These firms were evading taxes and cess in a big way. They were not showing value addition on goods and paying taxes through input tax credit. The inspections were carried out as part of the department’s regular monitoring of goods considered evasion-prone commodities,” she said. The commissioner also highlighted that the department in the last few months had seized 29 commercial vehicles laded with paan masala and detected tax evasion worth ₹2.96 crore. Commercial taxes is one of the main revenue generating departments of the state. In August, 2021, the GST collection in Bihar was ₹1037 crore, which was 7% higher than the corresponding period last year. In August 2020, the GST collection in the state was ₹967 crore, as per Press Information Bureau of Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-rs-10-crore-tax-evasion-on-tobacco-products-detected-in-raids-101631688235726.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||High court grants anticipatory bail to Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday granted anticipatory bail to singer Gurdas Maan in a case of hurting religious sentiments. On September 8, a Jalandhar court had dismissed Maan’s plea for the same. Also read: Jalandhar court denies anticipatory bail to Punjabi singer Gurdas MaanMaan was booked under Sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code at Nakodar city police station in Jalandhar on August 26. The high court bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan granted the bail, observing that custody is not required as nothing is to be recovered. Gurdas Maan asked to join probe in week The bench said that the issue as to whether words used by the petitioner while performing on stage were deliberate/malicious so as to invoke Section 295A would be subject to investigation, Maan’s counsel Arshdeep Singh Cheema said. The court observed that Maan is a noted singer and is not a personality who will abscond from investigation. He has been asked to join investigation in a week. Maan’s remark at Nakodar fair triggered row During a religious fair in Nakodar on August 24, Maan had described Ladi Shah of Dera Baba Murad Shah as a descendant of the third Sikh master, Guru Amar Das. When a social media campaign started against his statement, Maan put out a video online, offering an apology for his statement. However, a case was registered against him. Maan has argued that no offence under Section 295A of the IPC can be said to be made out against him. To be booked under the section, it has to be demonstrated that an act has been committed with deliberate and malicious intention to outrage the religious feelings of any class of citizens and such act insults or attempts to insult the religion or the religious beliefs of that class. In the present case, the first information report (FIR) prima facie fails to disclose that the essential ingredients of offence were made out, it has been argued. The plea says the trial court judge apparently got “influenced by the show of public outcry, generated by some sections through a sustained campaign”. “As a humble Sikh and a sensitive citizen, the petitioner made a widely circulated public apology. His words ought to be interpreted in the total background of his lifelong devotion to Sikh Gurus and to the principles of Sikhism,” the plea says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-punjabi-singer-gurdas-maan-101631686855496.html
15-09-2021||Noida||DMRC gets nod to conduct studies for Noida Airport-Delhi high-speed metro link||The Board of the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) on Tuesday gave its go-ahead to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for conducting studies for high-speed metro rail links from Noida International Airport to Delhi.These metro rail connecting projects are in two parts -- one between the airport in Jewar and Greater Noida and the other from Greater Noida to Delhi, according to details that emerged from the 71st Board meeting of YEIDA."The board has given its approval to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for metro rail connectivity between Knowledge Park in Greater Noida to Noida International Airport in Jewar," YEIDA said in an official statement."The board also gave its go-ahead for issuing a work order in order to conduct a feasibility study for metro rail connectivity between Greater Noida and New Delhi," the statement read.YEIDA Additional CEO and Airport project in-charge Shailendra Bhatia said both the studies are to be conducted by the DMRC for which an agreement had already been signed and the Board gave its approval on Tuesday."One link will be between the airport in Jewar and Knowledge Park 2 metro station in Greater Noida over a distance of some 35 km. The other will be from Knowledge Park 2 to Shivaji Metro station in Delhi," Bhatia told PTI.During the meeting, the Board was also apprised of the developments related to Greenfield airport being developed by Yamuna International Airport Private Limited, a 100 per cent subsidiary of the Switzerland-headquartered Zurich International Airport AG, the YEIDA, which functions under the UP government, said.The feasibility study and the DPR prepared by property consultant CBRE India on the proposed Heritage City were also put before the Board and it was told that the final report incorporating all suggestions would be placed before it soon, the YEIDA, which manages land along the 165-km-long Yamuna Expressway, said.The YEIDA informed its Board that it generated a revenue of ₹670.22 crore from April 1 to August 30 this year, double the amount over the corresponding period in 2020, according to the statement.However, the expenses incurred by the YEIDA, which also includes paying past dues, stood at ₹1,099.93 crore during the period, it added.The YEIDA informed its Board that it would soon be bringing schemes for residential plots, commercial kiosks, petrol pumps, hotels, etc in its sectors like 16, 17, 18, 20, 22D, 29, and 32.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dmrc-gets-nod-to-conduct-studies-for-noida-airport-delhi-high-speed-metro-link-101631684918707.html
15-09-2021||Kolkata||Rise in kids complaining of fever in north Bengal; state forms expert panel||A sudden spike in paediatric cases in north Bengal, with most children complaining of fever and respiratory trouble, has triggered a panic of some virus outbreak, prompting the state health department to set up an expert team to monitor all such cases across the state. “An expert committee has visited the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital. They suggested tests for dengue, chikungunya, scrub typhus, Japanese encephalitis and Covid-19. Only one child tested positive for Covid-19. We suspect it is some kind of a respiratory virus. Further investigation is going on,” said a senior health official. Officials said that while 50-60 cases are admitted in the paediatric ward of the state-run Jalpaiguri district hospital on a daily basis, the number has more than doubled in the last four to five days. Also Read | Sushmita Dev TMC’s pick for Rajya Sabha“The children are all between one and four years of age and they complain of fever, cough and shortness of breath. We have added new beds and an extra ward to accommodate the patients. Regular visits are being made to identify if there is an outbreak but so far, it seems to be a seasonal illness, like influenza,” said the official. An expert team has also been set up to monitor such cases in other state-run hospitals across the state and recommend actions. The West Bengal government has already preparing for the third wave of Covid-19. Paediatric, and critical unit treatment facilities at every district hospital are being strengthened. Till date, 1.5 million Covid-19 cases have been reported from West Bengal. While the daily count shot up to 20,000 mid-May, the number has dropped to around 500-700 cases every day. Around 18,600 people have succumbed to the virus till now in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/rise-in-kids-complaining-of-fever-in-north-bengal-state-forms-expert-panel-101631682415072.html
15-09-2021||Patna||Pind Daan at Gaya temple during Pitru Paksh to take place amid Covid protocols||The Pitru Paksha Mela—a Hindu ritual to pray for souls of ancestors—organised yearly at Vishnupad temple at Gaya in Bihar has officially been cancelled for the second consecutive year due to Covid-19 fears but the authorities will not stop pilgrims from main rituals of Pind Daan (offering to souls of ancestors) at the shrine this year. In 2020, the temple doors remained shut and all the rituals were banned. This year the temple has been allowed to receive pilgrims during the Pitri Paksha—beginning September 20--- but no one will be allowed without masks. Pilgrims have also been asked to carry negative Covid test and vaccination certificates by the temple management committee.Pitru Paksha is a lunar phase during which Hindus pray and make offerings to the souls of their ancestors for their peace. Since ancient times these rituals have been held at the Vishnupad temple at Gaya and also on the banks of Falgu River and Akshay Vat- the ancient age Peepal tree on the temple premises. Some of the rituals are also observed atop the Brahmayoni hills, Ramshila hills and Pretshila hills at Gaya. Every year, seven to nine hundred thousand Hindus from across the world visit Vishnupad temple during the Pitri Paksha period to perform Pind Dan rituals while the local administration makes special arrangements for their safety and security. This year the Pitri Paksha is to begin on September 20. “We will not stop anyone from observing the rituals at the temple. But officially, the Pitru Paksha Mela has not been allowed even this year. The chance of a third wave of Covid-19 pandemic is still there and so the administration cannot take the risk of allowing big gatherings,” Abhishek Kumar, district magistrate (DM), Gaya, said. The administration has planned to carry out Covid tests of the visitors, he added. Shambhu Lal Bitthal, the chairman of Vishnupad Prabandhkarini Samiti, said though the Pitru Paksha Mela has officially been cancelled even this year, pilgrims have started arriving. “In fact, those who need to perform the rituals as per the tradition, cannot stop coming here. Also, everything is open now, ranging from the Vishnupad temple to railways to air services,” he said. But the temple committee is also aware of the risks posed by mass gathering and is taking precautions to avoid Covid infections. “We have already made appeals to the pilgrims to carry their Covid test and vaccination papers. The Corona guidelines will be put on display at the entrance of the temple. The use of a mask and sanitiser is a must. We will also provide masks at the main entrance while a sanitisation machine has also been installed there,” he said. He added that the temple administration will be meeting Gaya DM to discuss arrangements to quarantine pilgrims if they are found to be infected in tests carried out by the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pind-daan-at-gaya-temple-during-pitru-paksh-to-take-place-amid-covid-protocols-101631681935534.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Light rains likely to continue in parts of in Delhi-NCR today, says IMD||Light, patchy rains are likely to continue in parts of Delhi and NCR on Wednesday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Senior IMD officials said there is a forecast of the intensity of rainfall increasing from September 17 and patchy rains will continue in isolated parts of the city till then. Some parts of Delhi and Faridabad also received light rainfall spells along with thunder and lightning on Tuesday night. “Light spells are likely to continue, but these will be patchy and might not cover the entire city. Rainfall activity is expected to increase again from September 17,” a senior official said. Also Read | Delhi Police chase after parole jumpersDelhi this year has seen an erratic monsoon, with the season being one of the wettest since IMD started maintaining weather records. In the month of September, Delhi also recorded eight rainy days, which is unlikely for this time of the year. Usually, the rainiest month of the season is August. “It is unlikely that the monsoon will withdraw anytime soon. We will have to wait and see how many records are set this year,” the IMD official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-rains-likely-to-continue-in-parts-of-in-delhi-ncr-today-says-imd-101631676774603.html
15-09-2021||Bhopal||Medical courses to be also taught in Hindi medium in MP||Madhya Pradesh education department will teach medical and paramedical courses in Hindi medium, medical education minister said on Hindi Diwas on Tuesday.“An expert committee will be formed to decide how to introduce Hindi medium in MBBS course, nursing and other paramedical courses. It will be a joint effort of the medical education department and Atal Bihari Vajpayee Hindi University,” Vishwas Sarang said.Earlier in 2016, Atal Bihari Vajpayee Hindi University announced engineering and medical education in Hindi. It even introduced engineering in three streams in Hindi medium but only three students took admission in the first year, and later, the university discontinued the course, and the students were shifted to private colleges to continue their engineering in English medium.However, the university couldn’t start the MBBS course in Hindi as it didn’t get the permission from the Medical Council of India.Now, the state government has decided to take permission for the course and the syllabus will be prepared by Hindi university, said Khem Singh Dehariya, vice-chancellor, Hindi University.“The reason behind the failure of engineering in Hindi medium project was translation of engineering terminology in Hindi. But now, we have decided to retain the terminology of medical course from English language so that students will not find any difficulty in learning about medical education.”Earlier, Medical Education University in Jabalpur and Rajeev Gandhi Proudyogiki University in Bhopal allowed students to write exams in mixed Hindi-English language to promote learning and to end the barrier of language. The teachers have been asked to evaluate the answers on the basis of knowledge of the subject and not the language.Some in the Medical fraternity said that teaching medical science in Hindi will make budding doctors suffer.“The state government should teach Hindi to students but not at the cost of English. Medicine is a vast field and doctors attend seminars organised in different countries to know about new technologies and treatment plan. Hindi medium students will suffer and will not be able to upgrade themselves. This is not a good decision,” said Dr Anurag Gupta, state president of Indian medical Association’s student wing.The opposition also attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government for experimenting with students’ future.“Engineering in Hindi didn’t succeed, para-medical didn’t succeed, and now the state government wants to try one more time with MBBS courses. They shouldn’t experiment with the courses to spoil the future of students just to take their agenda ahead. Hindi is a good language and people should know it but by introducing Hindi in medical colleges they want to make the student disabled,” said JP Dhanopia, spokesperson, MP Congress Committee.However, BJP leaders said the move was only aimed to ensure that Hindi medium students do not get disadvantaged on the basis of language of learning.“This step is not only to promote a language but also to promote Hindi medium students, who face difficulties in learning things due to language barriers. They will get five years to learn English and understand it while gaining knowledge in their mother tongue. It is a very good step,” said Rajneesh Agrawal, spokesperson, BJP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/medical-courses-to-be-also-taught-in-hindi-medium-in-mp-101631676234671.html
15-09-2021||Lucknow||UP districts see uptick in dengue cases; IMA official claims health dept not 'providing updated data'||The Prayagraj district in Uttar Pradesh has reported 97 cases of dengue, its chief medical officer Nanak Saran said on Tuesday amid the major outbreak in the state that has mostly killed children. Out of these 97 cases, around nine dengue patients are admitted to hospitals at present, news agency ANI reported quoting Saran.The senior official also informed that the cases are likely to increase further in the city along with the overall state tally. "Despite having recorded 97 cases in Prayagraj, the district has not reported any death due to dengue so far," Saran also said as per the ANI report.Several other districts in the state also reported a surge in dengue cases. Meanwhile, Rajeev Upadhyay, President of the Indian Medical Association in Agra said that the situation is very bad claiming that the "health department is not providing the updated data". "40 to 50 per cent of the patients are coming from dengue and viral, in which 60 per cent are only children," Upadhyay said, according to the ANI report. Agra has a total of 35 cases of dengue as of Tuesday, out of which 15 are active, the government data showed.In worst-hit Firozabad, 60 children have died due to dengue and 465 children are still admitted to the child ward of the medical college in the district. In Gorakhpur, six dengue cases have been confirmed.Dengue is a mosquito-borne viral disease that spreads widely in the monsoon season. Its symptoms include high fever, headache, rash, muscle and joint painThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday confirmed that they have found the D2 strain of dengue in these specimens. This strain is deadlier and often causes haemorrhage. It also impacts the platelet count. "The only prevention is to stop the breeding of mosquitoes. Dengue is also a deadly disease," ICMR chief Dr Balram Bhargava said on September 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-dengue-outbreak-ima-official-claims-health-dept-not-providing-updated-data-101631675281936.html
15-09-2021||Lucknow||'Mission UP': Congress to launch 2nd phase of training programme to make workers||The Congress is set to begin the second phase of its programme to train party workers to keep them ready for the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, news agency PTI has reported. During this phase, the party will set up 100 camps to make about 30,000 of its workers ready for the high stakes battle of UP, which is set to take place next year.The programme under which the training is being conducted is titled 'Prashikshan Se Parakram Mahaabhiyan.' It will continue till September 30. Under the programme, the Congress has formed a special training task force to train its workers.PTI reported that the training will be imparted on five different subjects with a special focus on booth management. The workers will also be trained to make the best use of social media sites like Facebook, Twitter, it added.The party will also organise two workshops on 'Congress' ideology, according to the PTI report.Under the 'Kisne Bigada UP (who spoiled UP)' header, the shortcomings of the previous rule of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Samajwadi Party (SP), besides the present BJP dispensation, will also be highlighted, the report further said quoting Congress functionaries.During the first phase of the 'Prashikshan Se Parakram Mahabhiyan', the party had trained around 25,000 Congress workers during the 11 days of the campaign.Earlier the training was conducted through district-wise programmes to train block presidents, ward presidents and nyay panchayat presidents. This time, it will be carried out assembly-wise.Under the overall campaign, Congress aims to train two lakh office bearers and workers through 700 training camps. Two more phases will be launched for the same after this.The legislative assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh are due for next year and the Congress is looking to oust Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government in the state. The party will go to the elections under the leadership of its general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mission-up-congress-to-launch-2nd-phase-of-training-programme-to-make-workers-101631668949760.html
15-09-2021||Bhopal||MP CM dramatically suspends 2 officers on spot during rally||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday announced the suspension of two officials for alleged corruption in building houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana from the dais while addressing a gathering in Niwari, over 350 kilometres from here. Chouhan, speaking at the rally held in Jairon, asked officials for names of those indulging in corruption in PMAY, a Central housing scheme for the poor, and then repeated the names conveyed to him to the crowd. "They (officials) are telling me some Uma Shankar was the CMO (chief municipal officer) and one Abhishek Raut is the sub engineer," Chouhan told the crowd, and when they replied "yes" in unison, he went on to announce the suspension of Shankar and Raut. He also ordered an Economic Offences Wing probe against the two, and told the crowd that his government would ensure those who indulged in corruption went to jail. During his rally, part of the 'Jandarshan Yatra' ahead of the Prithvipur Assembly bypoll likely to be held soon, the CM announced several projects for Niwai and Tikamgarh, officials said. These include the construction of a college building in Orchha, a community centre in Mohangarh, the redevelopment of canal at an estimated cost of ₹11.40 crore and and new bus stand at a cost of ₹2 crore. The Prithvipur Assembly bypoll has been necessitated due to the death of MLA Brajendra Singh Rathore of the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-cm-dramatically-suspends-2-officers-on-spot-during-rally-101631665608559.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Bookseller bares her heart||It’s late afternoon. Pricked with high-rises, Gurugram sky is half-blue and half cloudy. Inside, the glass-walled South Point mall is teeming with masked shoppers. Even amid the air-conditioned luxury, you feel the ravages of the pandemic. A popular cafe has shut down; a specialty restaurant has been replaced by a beauty shop—what must have become of their friendly waiters? But Quill And Canvas, one of the Millennium City’s oldest surviving bookstores—and perhaps among Delhi region’s most spacious—continues to exist on the first floor. Founded in nearby Galleria Market, it will enter its 20th year in October. “Our shop shall survive the pandemic,” says owner Shobha Sengupta as she prepares an online invite on her mobile phone for a forthcoming meet-the-author event on Zoom. “Coronavirus has been horrible to all of us but it has opened other possibilities, like these online events, which is making the world smaller… recently we did a talk with author Raza Mir who was actually sitting in New Jersey.” Ms Sengupta, 62, takes a break from work to answer the Proust questionnaire in which folks are nudged to make “Parisian parlour confessions”, all to explore citizens’ distinct experiences.Your favourite virtueAuthenticity, I hopeYour main faultBluntness to the point of insensitivityYour favourite qualities in a manFearlessness and kindnessYour favourite qualities in a womanThe courage to be androgynous, and compassionIf not yourself, who would you be?Ruler of an Utopian kingdomWhere would you like to live?Right where I am, GurgaonYour favourite birdEagle from a distance, Hummingbird from up closeYour heroes/heroines in real lifeMy husband, my mother, the people who stood by me, no matter whatYour favourite food and drinkChicken chettinad with appam; and champagneWhat do you hate the most?Lies. Any kind of dishonesty, especially to oneselfThe natural talent you’d like to be gifted withSinging. Am totally off key!Faults for which you have the most toleranceExcessive love of grammar and syntax||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-bookseller-bares-her-heart-101631663110149.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||31,970 machines sanctioned for crop residue management in Punjab||Ahead of the paddy harvesting season, the agriculture and farmers’ welfare department has sanctioned 31,970 machines and equipments to individual farmers, Primary Agriculture Cooperatives Societies (PACS), panchayats and customer-hiring centres (CHCs) under the crop residue management scheme. Agriculture director Sukhdev Singh Sidhu said the department has already approved 10,297 applications, which have been received from PACS, panchayats, and CHCs registered under farmers’ societies and individual farmers to combat the menace of stubble burning. The department has issued sanctions under five phases for purchasing paddy straw management machines and equipment. Around 10,023 machines were sanctioned for individual farmers, 15,498 machines for CHCs, 5,543 for panchayats, 906 for PACS on 50% to 80% subsidy.“The department is geared up to distribute these implements well before the paddy harvesting season,” he said, requesting all the applicants who had received sanctions to procure the equipment as soon as possible. He said that 76,626 paddy straw management machines were given on subsidy to the farmers in the last three years. Patiala, Sangrur, Barnala, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Sri Muktsar Sahib, Tarn Taran, Moga and Mansa have been identified as hotspot districts, where most paddy stubble burning cases were reported. Under the CRM scheme, the state government had focused on delivering state-of-the-art machines to farmers, including Super SMS, super seeder, happy seeder, paddy straw chopper, shredder, mulcher, hydraulic reversible mould board plough and Zero Till Drill for in-situ management and baler and rake for ex-situ machines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/31970-machines-sanctioned-for-crop-residue-management-in-punjab-101631659718178.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||In brief: BJP committed to maintaining transparency, says Ashok Kaul||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is committed to maintaining transparency in monetary transactions in politics, said Ashok Kaul, party’s general secretary in J&K on Tuesday. Kaul was addressing a meeting of ‘Aajivan Sahyog Nidhi’ at the party headquarters in Jammu’s Trikuta Nagar. He said with this scheme, the BJP was committed to setting up a trend of using clean money in politics. Kaul said the scheme underlines the party’s ideology of maintaining transparency in fund-collection process as donations are being taken in form of cheques or other digital modes only. He added that the party holds no space for any type of corruption in the organisation or in the public life. Shrine Board felicitates paralympiansRakesh Kumar and Jyoti Baliyan, two para-archers of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board’s Sports Complex, who qualified for Tokyo Paralympics, were felicitated by Ramesh Kumar, CEO, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board on Tuesday. The CEO also inaugurated two electronic shooting ranges, one for rifle and the other one for pistol. ‘Time is not far when J&K will host prime int’l tournaments’International golfers and professionals will be participating in upcoming PGTI golf tournament and the performance will count in reckoning world ranking points.Among them is Olympian Udayan Mane, who is all set to participate in the J&K Open 2021 organised by Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI) at Royal Springs Golf Course starting Wednesday. The event is being sponsored by the tourism department and will feature some of the popular players, including Jyoti Randhawa and PGTI Order of Merit leader Karandeep Kochhar, in addition to players from Bangladesh. Secretary, tourism, Sarmad Hafeez said, “Time is not far when J&K would host prime international tournaments.”“We are aspiring to produce golfers fit to represent the country in international games and this tournament would also offer an opportunity to the golfers here to hone their skills in the game,” he added. Tournament director, PGTI, Sampath Chari said, “J&K Open 2021 is PGTI’s third tournament of the season organised after five months of Covid break. The tournament attracted 125 golfers, including international, national and local players. The tournament is being played from September 15 to 18.”The J&K government is planning to hold seven golf tournaments in Kashmir in next two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-brief-bjp-committed-to-maintaining-transparency-says-ashok-kaul-101631659057917.html
15-09-2021||Other||Monsoon mismatch: Rain deficit in 14 Punjab districts, deluge in Amritsar, Tarn Taran||Monsoon patterns have been variable this season, with Amritsar and Tarn Taran witnessing a deluge due to heavy rainfall over the weekend, and parts of the Malwa region remaining completely dry or receiving sparse rainfall.As per the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) meteorological department Punjab is still 15% short of meeting the average rainfall target. Of the 22 districts, 14 have received deficient rainfall, while districts like Kapurthala have received twice the amount of rainfall. Meanwhile, the rainfall deficit in Fazilka, Mohali, Barnala and Mansa has been around 50%.Meteorologists say rainfall after September 20 could be harmful for the paddy crop as it will not only result in lodging of the crop, but will also curtail the crop maturity cycle.“There has been a serious mismatch in terms of distribution of rainfall in the region. Take Kapurthala for instance, it has received 672.5mm of rainfall so far, while the average rainfall recorded till the second week of September in the district remains 329mm. On the other hand, in districts like Fazilka, there has been a deficit of 53%. The average rainfall recorded in Fazilka remains 260.3mm in the monsoon season, but the bordering district has so far recorded only 123.4mm of rainfall,” said Dr Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head, department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, adding that mono-cropping could be the reason behind erratic rainfall.In a recently conducted study, the department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, had found that in the last 21 years, monsoon in Punjab remained mostly below normal. The average rainfall remained 19 to 59 % lower than normal in at least 10 years, while in nine years the average rainfall remained 19% below normal. The state recorded normal or above normal rainfall for just two years in this period.“This year too is no different. A similar rain patter was witnessed this year as well,” said Sidhu, adding that during the study it was found that the dip in rainfall was due to cloud formation over the region. Cloud formation is usually witnessed during the Kharif season (paddy season), when a huge amount of underground water is used for irrigation.“The formation of cloud cover for an extended period has an adverse effect on the growth and photosynthesis process of the crop” said Dr Sidhu.She said that decline in the rainfall especially in the Kandi areas of Gurdaspur, Ropar, SBS Nagar and some areas of Mohali, is a matter of concern. Earlier, the Kandi belt used to witness 1,100 to 1,200 mm rainfall during the monsoon season, but now these areas are not even witnessing 900mm rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monsoon-mismatch-rain-deficit-in-14-punjab-districts-deluge-in-amritsar-tarn-taran-101631658817703.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rape allegations against Bains: 2 months on, complainant taken to crime spots||Two months after a woman levelled rape allegations against Lok Insaaf Party chief MLA Simrajeet Bains, the police finally took the complainant for identification of the crime spots on Tuesday. The development came a day before the hearing of the case at the Punjab and Haryana high court. The complainant was taken to the MLAs office where she had alleged that she was sexually assaulted. Additional deputy commissioner of police Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said this was routine procedure. The woman had lodged a complaint against Bains in November 2020.After no FIR was lodged, she sat on a protest outside the office of the Ludhiana commissioner of police for five months. The police had lodged an FIR against Bains at the Division 6 police station on July 11. The MLA is yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rape-allegations-against-bains-2-months-on-complainant-taken-to-crime-spots-101631658397805.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police chase after parole jumpers||Deepak Pandey(26) was convicted in a 2013 murder case and sentenced to life imprisonment years behind bars.In April 2020, he was released from Delhi’s Tihar jail as part of efforts to decongest the city’s cramped barracks. Pandey was asked to surrender in February-March 2021, when cases in the Capital were low. He never showed up.Police teams searched his registered address in outer Delhi’s Nangloi, then a relative’s place in Punjab’s Ludhiana. Both turned out to be false leads. Then, working on a tip, police travelled to a remote mountain village in Himachal Pradesh’s Solan district on September 8 , and found Pandey disguised as a factory worker.He isn’t the only one. Over the last two weeks, police have caught at least 40 such “parole jumpers” who are yet to surrender. Police have now formed separate teams to nab these people, coordinating with informers, raiding small towns, holding out inducements, and luring prisoners with money.“We have formed dedicated teams to trace such parole jumpers. We are also coordinating with the police forces of other states,” said a mid-level police officer from a police station in Dwarka.Shortly after the nationwide lockdown was clamped on March 25, Delhi’s three jails in Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini moved to release prisoners to enforce distancing and other Covid protocol inside prison, in line with the recommendations of a a high-powered committee appointed by the Delhi high court. At the time, the three prisons had at least 18000 prisoners.The prisoners were asked to surrender in February and March 2021. But according to jail records seen by HT, of the 5,556 released undertrial prisoners, 2,458 are yet to surrender. Of the 1,184 convicts, 94 are absconding.During the crushing second wave of the pandemic in May 2021, another 3,492 undertrial prisoners and 845 convicts were released, but they were not given any date to surrender.“As part of keeping check on crime and criminals, our police teams are on the lookout for such fugitives. Police are checking with informers to ensure that any prisoner, who has come out of prison, is not active in crime. We take stern action against such fugitives,” said deputy commissioner of police and Delhi Police spokesperson, Chinmoy Biswal,In some cases, police said it averted further crime by putting these “parole jumpers” back in jail. On September 10, another “parole jumper”, Sudhir Kumar Paswan, was arrested from the New Delhi railway station minutes after he stepped off the train from his village in Bihar -- thanks to an elaborate inducement scheme by the police.Paswan, a convict in a kidnapping and rape case, was supposed to surrender in March 2021 but instead skipped parole and went to Bihar.Trying to trace him, police teams posed as jail officers and called Paswan’s brother.“The brother was contacted and was told by the team that the jail authorities had sent a payment of ₹1.5 lakh to him as wages for the work he had done in jail. Sudhir returned to Delhi on being contacted by his brother and was arrested on September 9. He has been sent back to Mandoli jail,” said deputy commissioner of police(North) Anto Alphonse .To be sure, prisoners who work in different factories of Delhi’s Tihar jail receive daily wages, which is saved in their bank account.Some fugitives continued to commit crimes and were arrested more than once while on the run. On August 29, the crime branch arrested a man named Sunder Singh, who was released from Tihar in April 2020. Singh who did not surrender in February 2021 because he was involved in at least five robberies since last year, said police.He was arrested by Ghaziabad Police in April 2021 for a robbery at Sihani Gate but was released on bail within a month, resuming his crimes. Police said on August 29, they received tip off about Singh, and arrested him from Loni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-chase-after-parole-jumpers-101631658004062.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Kishtwar cloudburst: Officials visit Honzar to review rehab process||Officials of the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday visited Honzar and Kiyar Dachhan in Kishtwar district to review rehabilitation process. Honzar was hit by a cloudburst on July 28. Seven bodies were recovered and 17 injured rescued on the same day, but 19 people still remain missing. Jammu divisional commissioner Raghav Langer, ADGP Mukesh Singh and former BJP minister Sunil Sharma visited the two villages to take stock of the ongoing process of rehabilitation of the affected families. Langer was briefed about the process put in place for a comprehensive package for the affected families. He told the locals that central government will also be approached for which a delegation will be visiting Delhi in near future. Minister Sharma assured the people that a special package for employment will be extended to them. The matter has already been discussed and is under consideration with the DGP, he added. Kishtwar SSP Shafqat Hussain Butt said that searches were called off a few days ago. “There is no clue of the 19 missing persons. A few days ago, we called off the searches,” he said. It may be stated here that it takes a seven-hour trek to reach Honzar village from the nearest road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kishtwar-cloudburst-officials-visit-honzar-to-review-rehab-process-101631658337716.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana doctor has close shave as car falls into canal||A city-based doctor narrowly escaped death after her car plunged into the Sidhwan Canal near Issewal bridge on Tuesday afternoon. The alert doctor broke the windowpane of the car and managed to get on the roof of the car. She was rescued by passersby. Later, the police fished out the car from the canal. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Amarjit Singh, from the Raghunath Enclave police post, said Dr Alka of DMCH hospital was driving the car. She was moving from Ferozepur Road to Issewal when she lost control over her vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-doctor-has-close-shave-as-car-falls-into-canal-101631658157653.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sajjad Lone visits slain cop’s family in Kupwara||People’s Conference (PC) chairperson Sajjad Lone on Tuesday visited the family of Jammu and Kashmir Police sub-inspector Arshid Ahmad Mir, who was killed by militants two days back in Srinagar, and called for collective efforts to reject violence in entirety. He expressed his sympathies to Mir’s family in north Kupwara’s Kalmuna village and termed the killing merciless and inhuman.Mir was killed by unidentified gunman on Sunday. The police had said they have identified the killers, but didn’t reveal their names or affiliation.“The unending cycle of violence has destroyed thousands of families and put a sudden end to countless dreams,” Lone said, adding that Kashmir has been in a perpetual state of grief and misery since eruption of violence. “There is a need for collective efforts to reject violence in entirety so that Kashmir could pave its way towards prosperity and no longer gets plunged into a vicious cycle of violence,” he said. “It is imperative that we explicitly condemn and denounce violence. Such dastardly acts should be rejected and must have no societal acceptance if we want to pull Kashmir out of this vortex of violence,” he added.The police have already constituted a team to solve the murder case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sajjad-lone-visits-slain-cop-s-family-in-kupwara-101631658037731.html
15-09-2021||Other||‘Ludhiana City’ app in pipeline, proposal pitched||The Ludhiana municipal corporation, which is lagging behind in digitisation, is planning to develop the ‘Ludhiana City’ mobile app, which will bring data regarding different departments to a single platform. All the public information regarding MC departments including the administration, police, health, fire brigade, tourism will be uploaded on the application. Officials said different departments have separate applications for facilitating residents, but there is no application which can provide all-encompassing information. As per the initial proposal, the application will also have facilities such as bill payment, submission of complaints, location of public offices, toilets, tourist places, and hospitals among other things. Helpline and contact numbers will also be listed on the site. A private company pitched a proposal regarding the application to MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal at the Zone D office of the MC on Tuesday. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu was also expected to participate in the meeting, but he missed out due to other engagements. Additional features such as highlighting traffic diversions and daily events were also discussed. The application may be developed under the smart city mission. MC Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said MC officials have been directed to explore the options available and invite suggestions from residents and NGOs regarding the application. Other government departments, including the administration and police, will also be engaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-city-app-in-pipeline-proposal-pitched-101631657858401.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Will continue to explore possibilities to get J&K’s spl status back: Mehbooba||Recalling ‘golden period’ of her father Mufti Mohammad Sayeed as the chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and former CM Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday expressed her concern over deteriorating situation across the UT. Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, during his tenure as CM of the erstwhile state, had introduced ‘healing touch’ policy, she said. Presiding over a party meeting of senior functionaries at Surankote in Poonch, Mehbooba said, “This is your future, your land, your job, your life and dignity. There was a time when entire traffic used to be stopped for the movement of army convoys. But when Mufti Sahib became CM for the first time, he stopped this practice. There was an unethical practice of detaining people on suspicion. If a militant had eaten food at someone’s house, the security forces used to arrest them and beat up the family. Mufti Sahib stopped all these, but ironically the situation is again back to square one.” Sayeed had participated in the 2002 assembly elections and won 18 seats for the PDP. He went on to form a coalition government with the Indian National Congress and was sworn in as the chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir for a term of three years. Talking to mediapersons later, Mehbooba reiterated her stand on abrogation of Articles 370 and 35-A and said that her party (PDP) will continue to constitutionally explore all the possibilities to get the special status back.She also criticised the BJP government for the rising inflation, unemployment and bringing controversial farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-continue-to-explore-possibilities-to-get-j-k-s-spl-status-back-mehbooba-101631657677860.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana private hospital wrongly diagnosis 26-year-old with HIV||A probe has been marked after a private hospital diagnosed a 26-year-old woman with HIV (human immunodeficiency virus), but the civil hospital found her negative for the disease, which compromises a patient’s immune system. The woman’s father, an auto driver, said his daughter was being treated for mental health issues at a charitable hospital in Sarabha Nagar. On February 22, the hospital carried out a few tests, which found her positive for HIV. “We were shocked when we saw the report. We were told to visit the civil hospital and follow a course of medicines,” said the woman’s father.“The diagnosis shattered us. My son, wife and daughter could not sleep for days fearing social stigmatisation. My daughter’s mental health declined further due to the stress caused by the diagnosis,” he said. When they sought treatment at the civil hospital, the doctors carried out the test again and found that the victim was HIV negative. When the patient’s father raised the matter with the private hospital, they allegedly told the complainant to return the report. “I refused and decided to pursue the matter and have been visiting the civil surgeon’s office for seven months. Earlier, the matter could not be pursued due to the pandemic, later the employee’s strike sent the matter to the back burner. I was asked to appear on Tuesday and have sought damages for the mental agony caused to my family due to the incorrect report,” said the patient’s father. Assistant civil surgeon Dr Vivek Kataria said the complaint has been marked to the senior medical officer (SMO) of the civil hospital. “She will constitute a board of doctors who will conduct an inquiry. In case the hospital is found guilty, a case will be recommended to the district administration for taking necessary action,” Kataria said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-private-hospital-wrongly-diagnosis-26-year-old-with-hiv-101631657497976.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Kovind to be third President to address Himachal assembly||Ram Nath Kovind will be the third President of India to address a special session of Himachal Pradesh assembly after former presidents Abdul Kalam and Pranab Mukherjee, Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar said on Tuesday.Kovind will be addressing the special session of Himachal assembly on September 17 at 11am to mark the golden jubilee of statehood. Addressing a press conference here, Parmar said 93 sitting and former MLAs besides 11 sitting and former MPs will attend the one-day session. He said after President’s address, a felicitation ceremony for present and former MLAs will be held at the Library Hall of the assembly.The Speaker said the president’s visit to the state has been cut short and he will return to New Delhi on September 19 instead of September 20. He said the decision was taken after three employees of ‘The Retreat’, the presidential house in Shimla, were tested positive for Covid-19.Parmar said all the arrangements have been put in place for the President’s visit to Shimla.“Now, the President will be staying in The Oberoi Cecil at Chaura Maidan which is just a one-minute drive from the state assembly complex,” he added. The President is also scheduled to visit Indian Audit and Accounts Academy on September 18. He said for security purpose, the Chaura Maidan route has been closed for vehicular traffic. The Speaker said that the Himachal government is organising a series of events to highlight the journey of Himachal in the last 50 years. He said these events could not be organised last year due to Covid situation. The purpose of these events is to remember all the personalities who have contributed to the development of Himachal Pradesh, he added. Parmar also said that the as per the SOPs, the state government would conduct RT-PCR tests of all those who will attend the special session of the assembly.Besides, tests of police personnel, staff of The Oberoi Cecil and Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC) will also be done, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kovind-to-be-third-president-to-address-himachal-assembly-101631657317783.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram-Nadda meeting fuels HP cabinet rejig speculation||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday made a sudden dash to Delhi to meet the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) high command, fuelling speculations of impending cabinet reshuffle. Thakur met BJP’s national president Jagat Prakash Nadda in the capital with party’s Himachal chief Suresh Kashyap and organisational secretary Pawan Rana accompanying him along with state in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna and co-incharge Sanjay Tandon. Their discussion lasted for nearly three hours. This was HP chief minister’s second visit to New Delhi within a week. He had last visited the capital on September 8 to invite President Ram Nath Kovind for a special assembly session. He had then also met few Union ministers, including finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The discussions in Delhi primarily focused on the preparations and the BJP’s prospects in the upcoming bypolls. The byelections are due for HP’s three assembly segments — Jubbal- Kotkhai, Fatehpur and Arki — and Mandi Lok Sabha seat that fell vacant after the demise of MP Ram Swaroop Sharma, who was found hanging at his residence in New Delhi. The byelections are likely to take place after the festive season. It has been learnt that party’s top brass discussed the possibility of cabinet reshuffle. It is likely that CM Thakur would drop a minister from Kangra district and induct a new one, while two more ministers are expected to be replaced. Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur is likely to be fielded from Mandi. The BJP leaders also discussed in detail the decisions taken at the core group meetings to accommodate dedicated party workers and leaders in the party as well as the government. CM Thakur is likely to appoint chairmen and vice-chairmen of several boards and corporations as well. During the meeting, better coordination between the Centre and state government was also sought. Speaking to the media in New Delhi, CM Thakur said during his previous trip, he had invited President of India to visit the state. “As Himachal has completed 50 years of its statehood, we have called a special session of the state legislative assembly on September 17 which will be addressed by the President,” he added. He said we were here for a followup on important projects being implemented in Himachal. “We had met Union finance minister, Union health minister and Union minister for civil aviation to discuss the progress of those projects,” he added. “Today, I am here to attend an important meeting of the party. This meeting was fixed few days ago,” the CM said. “I will return tomorrow and would welcome the President of India in Himachal on September 17,” he added. Meanwhile, Himachal Congress president Kuldeep Singh Thakur said in Shimla that the party was likely to replace chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-nadda-meeting-fuels-hp-cabinet-rejig-speculation-101631657077581.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Number of polling booths increased in Punjab||Punjab chief electoral officer S Karuna Raju on Tuesday said that after rationalisation, the number of polling booths in the state has been increased to 24,689 from the existing 23,211. Raju said the number of polling stations has been enhanced as the limit of voters falling in a polling booth has been reduced from existing 1,400 to 1,200 due to the pandemic. He said the Election Commission of India (ECI) has given its concurrence to arrange additional EVMs required for the ensuing assembly election in Punjab. The chief electoral officer said that 10,500 control units and 21,100 VVPATs are being transported from Madhya Pradesh to various districts of Punjab. “With the addition of these machines, we will have 45,316 ballot units, 34,942 controlling units and 37,576 VVPAT machines,” he said at a press conference. Raju said these machines were being picked up by nodal officers from Madhya Pradesh in GPS-fitted special transport containers under tight security after proper scanning. “In Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Ferozepur, Muktsar, Mansa and Amritsar, the EVM-VVPATs have safely reached the district headquarters. In rest of the districts, these machines will reach within two days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/number-of-polling-booths-increased-in-punjab-101631656537641.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Surya Kiran show as IAF remembers its PVC awardee Sekhon||With a population of a little over 2,000, Ludhiana’s Isewal village is distinctly known as the birthplace of Flying Officer Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon, the only Indian Air Force (IAF) officer till date to be honoured with Param Vir Chakra, nation’s highest gallantry award. The IAF on Tuesday organised a grand event complemented with a fly-past to commemorate 50 years of 1971 war at the government school named after the air warrior. The event was a part of the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ celebrations organised at the school wherein a bust of late flying officer was unveiled by Air Marshal BR Krishna, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Air Command. Flying Officer Sekhon was awarded the Param Vir Chakra posthumously for exemplary courage and determination in defeating the enemy during the 1971 Indo-Pak war. Air Marshal Krishna interacted with 1971 war veterans and family members of Flying Officer Sekhon. Students of the government higher secondary school also participated in the event. The event culminated with the Surya Kiran aerobatic team carrying out a flying display followed by presentation of mementos to the veterans. Also in attendance was the IAF band, which enthralled the attendees with soulful tunes throughout the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-surya-kiran-show-as-iaf-remembers-its-pvc-awardee-sekhon-101631656301500.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Former police volunteer dies by suicide at Ludhiana zoo||Upset over not getting familial approval to marry the girl of his choice, a 25-year-old former police volunteer died by suicide at the Ludhiana Zoo on Tuesday afternoon.The victim had gone to visit his girlfriend at the zoo, but consumed poison in front of her. The woman raised the alarm, following which he was taken to the hospital in an ambulance, but was declared dead on arrival. The families of both the victim and the girl were against the alliance. The victim had worked with the police as a volunteer during the lockdown imposed to arrest the coronavirus contagion.Inspector Gopal Krishan, Salem Tabri station house officer, said the woman’s family were looking for a suitable match for her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-police-volunteer-dies-by-suicide-at-ludhiana-zoo-101631655937455.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||US-returned man dies by suicide in Ludhiana, wife’s aide booked for abetment||A US-returned man, who was disturbed over his wife’s alleged extramarital affair, ended his life by hanging himself from the grills of the skylight in his house in Chhodian village of Machhiwara on Tuesday. The victim recorded a video message on his mobile phone and also wrote a suicide note, on the basis of which a case of abetment of suicide has been lodged against Navdeep Singh of Noorpur Bedi of Rupnagar, who was allegedly having an affair with the victim’s wife. An FIR was lodged on the statement of the victim’s cousin. The complainant told the police that the victim’s parents had passed away years ago and he had married for love in 2013. Later, his in-laws helped send him abroad, but he was deported and started driving a bus on his return. In his absence, his wife had started working at a hospital, where she come in contact with the accused, Navdeep Singh, and had developed an illicit relationship with him, the complainant said, adding that his wife had returned to her marital home after a spat over the issue. Sub-inspector Vijay Kumar, Machhiwara, station house officer said that a hunt is on for the accused’s arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/usreturned-man-dies-by-suicide-in-ludhiana-wife-s-aide-booked-for-abetment-101631655577385.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Convict, chemist among 3 held for drug peddling in Ludhiana||Three people, including a chemist and convict, were held with a cache of banned tablets on Tuesday.Around 1.9 lakh banned pills and capsules, which had been stuffed in four sacks, were recovered from the car, in which the accused — Puneet Malik, 28, of Haibowal; Ajay Goyal, 41, of Chandar Nagar; and Sonu Chhabra, a chemist, who runs a shop at Jawahar Nagar Camp — were travelling in, flowing a tip-off, police said. The accused were caught near EWS Colony on Tajpur Road while they were on their way to deliver a consignment comprising 1,77,800 banned pills and 16,080 capsules.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, investigation), Pawanjit, said the accused used to smuggle in intoxicants from other states and sell it among addicts.“Malik was arrested in 2019 by the Division 3 police for drug peddling and was out on bail. Ajay is a convict. He was arrested in Payal in 2010 for drug peddling and was sentenced 10 years of imprisonment. He had come out on bail in June this year and had resumed drug peddling,” the ACP said, adding that a case had been registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/convict-chemist-among-3-held-for-drug-peddling-in-ludhiana-101631655098288.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Friend booked after 30-year-old overdoses on drugs in Ludhiana||A 30-year-old man died of a drug overdose at his house in Sheriyan village of Machhiwara on Monday. The victim, Nirmal Singh, who helped run his father’s meat shop near Haidon Bet village bus stand, had injected himself with narcotics in his parents absence and had died soon after. The victim’s father, Balbir Singh, said he and his wife had gone to visit the doctor, and returned to find their son lying dead in the house. “My son-in-law Kamaljit Singh saw his friend Veerpal Singh hand him a packet, which we suspect contained the drugs that claimed my son’s life,” said Balbir. Assistant sub-inspector Jarnail Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to the murder) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused, who is on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/friend-booked-after-30-year-old-overdoses-on-drugs-in-ludhiana-101631654617521.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC fails to keep rabid dogs on tight leash||Rabid dogs are emerging as a pestilent issue in the city, and have become a sore point for the municipal corporation, which incidentally has been unable to trace the diseased dog that bit around a dozen people in the areas near the cremation ground at Civil Lines three days ago.The incident was not a one-off case, as four rabid dogs have been caught in different areas of the city over the last year. One diseased dog was caught near the Gill road grain market last week. The diseased dogs had died at the sterilisation centre of the Haibowal dairy complex. A postmortem had revealed that the canines were suffering from rabies, a fatal viral disease that spreads to people from the saliva of infected animals.With a large number of dog bite cases being reported in the city on a daily basis, authorities have appealed the residents to be wary and report any dogs suspected to be suffering from the fatal virus.Not all rabid dogs are caught. Significantly, an 11-year-old boy from Jaspal Bangar village succumbed to rabies in the last week of July, while a five-year-old girl who succumbed in Sarabha Nagar in October 2018, had exhibited symptoms typical of rabies before her death.“Rabid dogs are certainly a cause of concern. On September 12, the department was notified about the presence of a rabid dog near the cremation ground in the civil lines area. Teams were dispatched to catch the dog and are still making rounds in the area. It is suspected that the dog might have succumbed to the disease. Announcements are being made in the area so that residents remain alert,” said MC veterinary official Dr HS Dhalla.Social activist, Keemti Rawal, said panic has gripped residents after the dog bit a dozen residents, including two nurses. Do not panic, but beware: Ludhiana MC vet  Dhalla said, “Residents should not panic. However, as there is no cure to the disease, residents are appealed to take precautions and report any suspected diseased canines to the civic body. Rabid dogs attack people, causing the disease to spread.”“Those bitten, must immediately get the anti-rabies vaccine. Those bitten on the throat or on the mouth should also get the anti-rabies serum. The vaccine is available free of cost at the civil hospital. The teams carrying out sterilisation are also checking strays for viral symptoms,” said Dr Dhalla.Rabies-free cityAround 50,000 dogs have been sterilised to reduce the population of stray dogs and that the capacity of the sterilisation centre has also been increased to expedite the process.The civic body is also working on the ‘Rabies-Free City’ project wherein free anti-rabies vaccines will be given to the stray dogs in the city. Dhalla said, “The finance and contracts committee (F and CC) has already given approval for the project and the department is working to rope in the animal husbandry department for administering the vaccine to dogs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-fails-to-keep-rabid-dogs-on-tight-leash-101631654138225.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Congress V-P blames city leadership for migration of members||In view of the continuous stream of Congress workers leaving the party and joining rival parties, Congress vice-president and leader of opposition in the municipal corporation (MC) Devinder Singh Babla has blamed the functioning of the incumbent city Congress leadership.In a viral WhatsApp conversation with city party chief Subhash Chawla, Babla stated, “Today, some old Congress colleagues left the party and I feel very sad about this. The leadership of the party will have to think something. Chawla ji, think of something. The leadership of the party is in your hands, my words may sound bitter to you, but there is truth in this.”He continues, “I am a true soldier of the party, I feel sad when my fellow soldiers leave. You would not be a soldier, you are a general, the strength in the army comes from the soldiers.”In response, Chawla reportedly stated, “Babla ji, if I want to double the army of Congress today, I have some leaders of BJP and AAP in my contact who want to come to Congress, but the condition is that they need tickets (for municipal elections). You tell me should I deny tickets to 12 senior Congress leaders and induct these people in Congress?”To this Babla retorts, “Chawla ji, instead of bringing people from outside, take care of the house. You are the head of the party. It hurts when companions leave. You would be hurt too.”Talking to HT, Babla said, “I am not against the leadership, but the leadership must think twice why old Congressmen left the party.” Chawla, however, didn’t respond to repeated calls.In the last one month, several current and former office bearers and workers of Congress have left the party including former party chief Pardeep Chhabra. Most of these have joined the Aam Aadmi Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-congress-v-p-blames-city-leadership-for-migration-of-members-101631653897331.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Three members of vehicle lifting gang arrested in Chandigarh||The crime branch of Chandigarh Police have arrested three members of an interstate vehicle-lifting gang and have recovered two cars and eight motorcycles from them. With their arrest, the police claim to have solved four cases of vehicle theft and two cases of burglary.Police officials said that they received a tip off that two of the accused were present near Grain Market in Sector 39. The accused, Abrar Khan, 36, of Badaun district, Uttar Pradesh, and Aslam, 52, of Gyaspur Colony, Ludhiana, were arrested. The duo was travelling on a stolen motorcycle, which they were going to sell for scrap to a dealer in Maloya.The scrap dealer Kalil Ahmed, 55, of Amroha district, Uttar Pradesh, was also arrested. Two dismantled stolen cars were recovered from him. The bullet motorcycle had been stolen in December 2020, the police said.On further interrogation, a total six cases were worked out and 10 vehicles were recovered. While four of the vehicles recovered including three motorcycles and a Honda City sedan have been linked to cases registered in the city, the six other vehicles weren’t accounted for. Further, some gold ornaments that were also stolen from the city in two thefts on June 29 and August 28 this year were also recovered.Talking about their modus operandi, officials privy to the matter said that Abrar used to steal the vehicles and dispose of them with Aslam’s help. Aslam used to find willing scrap dealers.Abrar had already been arrested by Chandigarh Police in 16 house theft and motor vehicle theft cases while Aslam was arrested earlier for a vehicle theft case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-members-of-vehicle-lifting-gang-arrested-in-chandigarh-101631652097320.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Minorities 100% secure under Modi govt, says NCM chief Lalpura||Minorities are 100% secure under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government and the narrative that hate incidents have gone up during the present dispensation is “wrong”, National Commission for Minorities chairperson Iqbal Singh Lalpura said on Tuesday. Lalpura, who took over as the National Commission for Minorities (NCM) chairperson last week, asserted that his priority would be to dispel “false narratives” fuelling insecurity among minorities. His remarks come amid vociferous criticism of the government by opposition parties, including the Congress, and several civil society members who have argued that the hate incidents targeting minorities have gone up under the BJP-led rule at the Centre. There have also been reports of incidents of mob violence recently in various parts of the country with the victims belonging to a minority community, including a Muslim scrap dealer who was allegedly threatened and forced to chant ‘’Jai Shri Ram’’ by two men at a village in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain district. Lalpura claimed that looking at statistics, the figures have come down now with respect to incidents like rioting, murder and lynching. “Look at the past, we used to hear of riots in Aligarh when the BJP government was not there. We have heard of riots elsewhere also when the BJP government was not there. I am here as a constitutional person...and when we look at the statistics, the figures have come down -- (be it) rioting, murder, lynching,” Lalpura told PTI in an interview. “But cases have happened and cases are happening and that is why we need the National Commission for Minorities,” the former IPS officer said. On the narrative that hate incidents have gone up, Lalpura said this is a “wrong narrative”. Lalpura said that as NCM chairperson his priority would be to look after the interests of the minorities and ensure that no injustice is done. “At the same time, I have to see that false narratives are not created. We all are Indians and we have to work to ensure the development of the country, security of all people, and that everyone gets justice,” he said. Asked about the farmers’ issue and Sikh community being targeted by some sections over the farm laws protests, the NCM chief, virtually backing the laws, said the Centre had to intervene because the states did not develop industry and avenues to sell produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/minorities-100-secure-under-modi-govt-says-ncm-chief-lalpura-101631651617868.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||llegal immigration racket busted in Jalandhar, 2 travel agents held||Jalandhar rural police on Tuesday busted an illegal immigration racket with the arrest two travel agents from Bhogpur town and recovered 66 Indian passports and ₹ 23.92 lakh cash. Police have also seized two high-end cars, including a Range Rover, from the accused identified as Amandeep Singh of Cholang village and Tota Ram of Bulanpur village in Jalandhar district. Adampur assistant superintendent of police Ajay Gandhi said they information that Amandeep was working as a travel agent without any valid licence. “We received a tip-off that Amandeep was travelling in his Range Rover with passports of people & cash obtained through fraudulent means. Acting on the information, police laid trap and arrested Amandeep. Three Indian passports and ₹ 3.92 lakh were recovered from him.” During interrogation, Amandeep revealed that Tota Ram was his partner. “We arrested Tota Ram and recovered ₹ 5 lakh from him. During subsequent probe, 63 more Indian passports and ₹15 lakh were recovered,” he added.The officer said the accused were illegally sending the people to the US through Mexico or Middle-East countries. “We have also recovered passports of Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana residents from them. The duo had been running the business for the past 5 years,” added the ASP.Jalandhar rural senior superintendent of police Naveen Singla said the accused have neither a valid licence for immigration business nor any expertise in the field. “The money recovered from them belongs to gullible people being duped by the,” added Singla. A case was registered against the accused under section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code and section 13 of Punjab Travel Professional Act at Bhogpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/llegal-immigration-racket-busted-in-jalandhar-2-travel-agents-held-101631650957258.html
15-09-2021||Other||Centre’s ill-conceived economic policies turned crores jobless: MP Tewari||Jalandhar Sri Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari on Tuesday lashed out at Centre for its ill-conceived economic policies, claiming that these were taking away the jobs of crores of Indians. Interacting with reporters at the local Circuit House, he said, “The ill-managed implementation of demonetisation and GST across the country devastated the economy and the Narendra Modi government was fully responsible for this. Today, inflation is a such a big issue, with diesel prices almost doubling over the past years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centres-ill-conceived-economic-policies-turned-crores-jobless-mp-tewari-101631650717210.html
15-09-2021||Other||40kg heroin seizure in Amritsar: Key accused remanded to police custody||Amritsar A local court has sent international smuggler, Harpreet Singh alias Happy, arrested on Monday in connection with 40kg heroin seizure along the Indo-Pak border in August to two-day police remand on Tuesday. Police have claimed that he was operating a smuggling network from Pakistan at the behest of one Jagga, who is a Pakistani national and lives in Malaysia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/40kg-heroin-seizure-in-amritsar-key-accused-remanded-to-police-custody-101631649757158.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Jammu man detained for NC leader Tarlochan Singh Wazir’s murder: Delhi cops||NEW DELHI: A Jammu man has been detained by the Delhi Police in connection with the murder of senior National Conference leader Tarlochan Singh Wazir, who was found dead in a rented west Delhi apartment six days ago, two police officers familiar with the development said.HT is withholding the identity of the man, described by the police as a driver, as no senior police officer, authorised to issue press statements, agreed to come on record to confirm the development.Wazir’s decomposed body was found in the washroom of a flat in west Delhi’s Basai Darapur near Moti Nagar on Thursday morning.The 67-year-old former member of the Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) legislative council reached Delhi on September 1 and was scheduled to leave for Canada on September 3. But he went missing on September 2. When his family in Jammu could not contact him, they got in touch with the police in Jammu who requested their counterparts in the national capital to check on him.Two men, Harpreet Singh and his associate Harmeet Singh, who had gone missing after Wazir’s body was found, were key suspects in the case, police said. The flat where Wazir was found dead belongs to Harpreet Singh, two police officers said on conditions of anonymity, as they are not authorised to speak to the media.The two officers said the driver detained by the police was close to Harpreet Singh, considered by the police to be the prime suspect in the case.The driver was detained by the west district police that was initially investigating the case. Since the investigation into the high-profile case was transferred to the crime branch, a police officer said, his custody will be given to the crime branch team.According to the officer cited above, the detained person was possibly involved in the murder conspiracy and may have been present in the flat on the day Wazir was murdered.“We are trying to ascertain his exact role in the crime. His interrogation may lead to the arrest of the two absconding suspects,” the officer said.The Delhi Police were requested by Jammu police to visit the Moti Nagar flat on September 9 as Wazir was not answering calls from his family.Police said Wazir’s family members had earlier contacted Harpreet Singh but were allegedly told that Wazir had already reached Frankfurt and was in quarantine for 14 days.The family members, however, found the claim suspicious and informed the Jammu police, who in turn passed on the information to Delhi police. Police broke open the door and found Wazir’s decomposed body inside Harpreet’s house. Investigations revealed that Wazir and Harpreet were known to each other for the last few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jammu-man-detained-for-nc-leader-tarlochan-singh-wazir-s-murder-delhi-cops-101631649518815.html
15-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Residents, councillor stage protest over clogged sewer lines||Irked over clogged sewer lines in over half a dozen colonies of ward number 28, the residents, along with Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor Paramjit Singh Garcha, staged a protest at the Zone B office of the municipal corporation (MC) near Shingar Cinema on Tuesday.The protesting residents from Prem Nagar, Durga Colony, New Durga Colony, Hathi Colony, Jasvir Colony, Shiv Colony, among other areas, rued that they have been raising hue and cry over the issue for a long time, but the MC officials have turned a blind eye towards the problem.Handing over a memorandum to the zonal commission Ankur Mahindroo, councillor Garcha stated that they have given an ultimatum of 10 days to the authorities to resolve the issue, failing which they will lock down the office of the MC.Sandeep, a resident of the Durga colony, said,” It is difficult to even walk in the street due to the accumulated sewer water and foul smell spread in the area. Earlier also, the residents had staged a protest over the issue, but to no avail. The authorities are not bothered about the residents who are living under the threat of an epidemic.”The residents stated that the unhygienic conditions are also taking a toll on their health.“The authorities have failed to resolve the issue for a long time. They do not even have proper machinery. If they fail to provide proper facilities to the residents, we will lock the gates of the MC office. Despite the installation of new lines in a few areas, including the Durga colony, there is no respite from the choked sewer lines,” said Garcha.MC executive engineer Ranbir Singh said the civic body is already trying to deal with the issue, and new sewer lines have been installed in a few areas including, the Durga colony.Tenders have also been floated to establish a disposal point in the area to drain out the sewer water at a quicker pace, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianaresidents-councillor-stage-protest-over-clogged-sewer-lines-101631649517519.html
15-09-2021||Other||SGPC hospital granted NABH accreditation||AMRITSAR Sri Guru Ramdas Charitable Hospital that the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) runs has been granted accreditation by the National Accreditation Board of Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH), SGPC President Bibi Jagir Kaur said on Tuesday. She added that the accreditation by a national-level organisation has further enhanced the credibility and the commitment of the health services provided by the SGPC for the welfare of humanity. “This benchmarks our commitment to excellent healthcare and will inspire the staff to ensure quality care always,” the president added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpc-hospital-granted-nabh-accreditation-101631649397302.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: GMSH told to conduct night inspections||A day after UT health secretary found lapsesin the working of healthcare staff at various government hospitals in Chandigarh during a night inspection, director health services Dr Amandeep Kang asked officials of Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, to conduct more surprise night inspections. “The medical superintendent, deputy medical superintendent and senior medical officers should take surprise rounds during the night time and submit the reports,” the order reads.Minor fire at PGIMERA minor fire broke out at the department of experimental medicine, Research Block B, at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research Tuesday afternoon. It was put off by the hospital staff. An air conditioner and some equipment were damaged. A short-circuit is suspected to be the cause.PO cell in-charge transferredThe in-charge of the proclaimed offender and summon cell of Chandigarh Police, inspector Jasminder Singh, has been transferred t to the police lines on administrative grounds. Inspector Satvinder Singh has got the temporary charge in his place, according to orders issued by the senior superintendent of police on Tuesday.21-kg drugs disposed offThe drug disposal committee on Tuesday disposed off over 21-kg drugs recovered by the Sector 17 police in 13 cases. It was disposed using the incinerator at the Punjab Chemicals and Crop Protection Limited, Derabassi, Mohali. The drugs included 16.15 kg poppy husk, 4.8 kg marijuana, 3.66 gram smack, 194.15 grams of heroin, 81 injections of buprenorphine and 81 injections of pheniramine.UT admn assures help to Afghan studentsUT adviser Dharam Pal on Tuesday met members of the Afghan Students Unity Group in Chandigarh on Tuesday and assured them of full support from the administration. Pal personally called Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar and asked him to help the students in this hour of crisis with tuition fee waiver and hostel support. He also asked Dr Amandeep Kang, UT director of health services, to extend free treatment for Afghan nationals at the city’s government hospitals and dispensaries.Junior softball meet on Sept 18,19The 37th Junior Chandigarh Softball Championship will be held at Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 35 on September 18 and 19. All participants are required to submit entries on September 15. During the championship, two teams will be selected, which will take part in Junior National Softball Championship at Lovely Professional University in Jalandhar from September 26 to 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhgmsh-told-to-conduct-night-inspections-101631649277134.html
15-09-2021||Other||Manual scavenging: Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission chairman moves high court||Alleging that the authorities at the local as well as state level had failed to act against municipal corporation (MC) officials involved in forcing sanitation workers to manually clear a sewer in the Jugiana area without safety kits on July 16, Gejja Ram Valmiki, chairman of Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission, has moved a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The petition has been filed against the state of Punjab through its chief secretary as a party to the case among 11 others including the additional chief secretary, home department; director general of police; chief secretary, local bodies department; Ludhiana deputy commissioner; Ludhiana commissioner of police; Ludhiana additional deputy commissioner of police, Ludhiana municipal corporation, Ludhiana joint commissioner; sub-divisional magistrate; deputy superintendent of police and station house officer of Sahnewal police station.MC employees tell mayor to take up matter with state govtThis triggered anxiety among MC employees, following which members of the Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee met mayor Balkar Sandhu at the MC Zone-D office on Tuesday. The employees demanded that the mayor take up the matter with the state government and resolve the issue, otherwise, the union will be forced to raise an agitation. Jasdev Sekhon, president of the union, said that the MC employees are not at fault, as the sewermen were not forced to enter the manhole by them and steps being taken by the commission’s chairman are harming their health and morale. “We have urged the mayor to take up the matter at the state level and resolve it. No action should be taken against the MC employees otherwise, the union will raise an agitation,” said Sekhon.Meanwhile, chairman Gejja Ram stated that action will be taken against all employees concerned. “The petition has been filed in the court as officials have failed to take action. The sewermen were forced to enter the manholes to clean the sewer lines without safety kits,” he said.Geja Ram had submitted a complaint with local and state authorities seeking an FIR against the MC executive engineer, junior engineer and sub-divisional officer for allegedly forcing the sewermen to enter manholes without safety kits in Jugiana area on July 16. On July 27, the officials including executive engineers, sub-divisional officers, and junior engineers locked horns with Gejja Ram during the meeting of the commission convened to discuss the delay in taking action against MC staffer. The MC officials alleged that the chairman had forced the employees to enter the manhole to implicate MC staffers.One and a half months after the complaint, the Sahnewal police had booked unidentified persons under Sections 7 and 9 of The Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act 2013 on August 30. The chairman, however, demanded that MC employees should be booked by name in the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manual-scavenging-punjab-state-safai-karamchari-commission-chairman-moves-high-court-101631649158646.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||39 fresh infections, one Covid death in Punjab||Punjab on Tuesday registered 39 fresh cases Covid-19 and one death, while the positivity rate of the state stands at 0.13 %, a media bulletin of the state health department siad. With fresh cases, state’s total tally on Wednesday reached 6,01,109 cases, according to the bulletin. The number of active Covid cases in the state has also reached 319. Among the fresh cases, maximum 14 infections were detected in Jalandhar, followed by seven in Amritsar. With 26 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,84,326, it said. Till now, a total of 16,464 people have lost their lives due to Covid-19. A total of 1,39,64,504 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, of which 29,255 were tested on Tuesday. As many as 1,48,130 doses of the vaccines were administered on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/39-fresh-infections-one-covid-death-in-punjab-101631649097168.html
15-09-2021||Other||Markfed to sell its products at 5,000 PDS depots in Himachal||Chandigarh Markfed on Tuesday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Himachal Pradesh government to sell its products at 5,000 public distribution system (PDS) depots in the state. The MoU was inked at a meeting held in Shimla, regarding making available different products of Markfed and Sugarfed to Himachal Pradesh for PDS. Food and civil supplies secretary, HP, Paul Rasu, registrar, cooperative societies, Punjab, Vikas Garg and Markfed MD Varun Roojam were among those present. Earlier, cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had met HP chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and offered to supply products of the state’s cooperative institutions to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/markfed-to-sell-its-products-at-5-000-pds-depots-in-himachal-101631648918394.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: Reading material for competitive exams to be made available at govt schools||The Ambala administration has decided to make reading material for competitive exams available at libraries in government schools.The initiative is the brainchild of deputy commissioner Vikram, who kicked off the project from Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School in Saha’s Samlehri village on Tuesday.In the first leg, out of 93 senior secondary schools in the district, 22 have been provided with material like books, magazines and career charts, which will help students prepare for competitive exams.“Here, students can prepare for UPSC, judiciary and banking exams among others. Books and other material will be made available to them according to their interest and by the end of this month, we are expecting to cover all schools in the district,” said Vikram.On being asked about career counselling, the DC said, “We will provide booklets at these schools containing all requisite details like best colleges and their cut-offs. School teachers will also help students with their queries related to career options.” Vikram added that he also wants to get experts from various fields to interact with the students.“It’s tough to decide what to do in future, once you’re about to complete schooling, but counselling can help,” the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-reading-material-for-competitive-exams-to-be-made-available-at-govt-schools-101631648917329.html
15-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC demolishes illegal sheds in Model Town extension area||The municipal corporation (MC) demolished illegal sheds installed outside four shops in the market near New Krishna Mandir in Model Town Extension amid resistance shown by the shopkeepers on Tuesday.The shopkeepers accused the MC officials of adopting a pick and choose policy and rued that they were not even allowed to pick up their belongings before the drive commenced.They also submitted a complaint with the municipal town planner (MTP) SS Bindra against the building branch officials who conducted the demolition drive. The MC officials stated that the shopkeepers had failed to remove the sheds despite notice issued in the past.Maninder Singh Makkar, one of the shopkeepers, said,” Another shopkeeper from the market had submitted a complaint against us with the MC. While the MC removed our sheds, no action was taken against him. He has also encroached upon the area outside his shops by keeping a car on display there. If action has to be taken, it should be taken against all.”Assistant town planner (ATP) MS Bedi said the illegal sheds were razed on Tuesday as the owners had failed to remove them despite notice. When questioned about the allegations levelled by the shopkeepers, Bedi said that he will seek a report from the building branch officials who conducted the drive.Meanwhile, the building branch team also demolished two under-construction illegal commercial buildings near Tirkona Park in Model Town Extension and Pakhowal Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-demolishes-illegal-sheds-in-model-town-extension-area-101631648798382.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali preacher in trouble for using children in superstitious videos||Acting on directions of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has ordered an inquiry into alleged superstitious activities being performed among children by a local preacher.A self-proclaimed pastor, Bajinder Singh runs the Church of Glory and Wisdom at Majri in Mohali district. He was earlier in news after his followers clashed with locals over harvesting of wheat crop at Boothgarh village in Majri in April this year.The commission took suo moto note of the case after it came across a Twitter link to a video of Bajinder’s activities. A boy is seen crying in the video and the body language of both the pastor and the child seem unusual, the commission noted. On further examination, the commission found there were a number of such videos available on social media. “Prime facie, it appears that such videos circulating superstition and using children for such a purpose is a violation of the Juvenile Justice Act 2015,” the NCPCR said in its letter to the deputy commissioner (DC), while also noting flouting of Covid-19 norms as participants were without masks and not following social distancing. The commission has asked the DC to submit a report within seven days. The letter was originally sent to the Chandigarh DC, but as the area falls under Mohali district, it was forwarded to Dayalan. The DC said Kharar subdivisional magistrate Akash Bansal will conduct the inquiry and submit a report within seven days.Church of Glory and Wisdom president Avtar Singh called the allegations “totally baseless”. “Some people are trying to malign the image of our church. We will give a proper reply with evidence to the inquiry officer and the child rights commission. ,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-preacher-in-trouble-for-using-children-in-superstitious-videos-101631648797169.html
15-09-2021||Patna||Nation belongs to all: JD(U) on Adityanath's 'abba jaan' remark||The country belongs to everybody, be it Hindus, Muslims, Christians or any other community, and political parties should maintain restraint in their comments, JD(U) president Lalan Singh said on Tuesday as Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's 'abba jaan' remark in a public speech stoked a row."Terms like 'unity in diversity' are used for our country. The country belongs to all. No remarks should be made that harm the country," Singh, a confidant of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, told reporters when asked for his reaction to the BJP leader's comments.In this context, he also took a swipe at JMM leader and Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren for his remarks allegedly aimed at Bhojpuri and Magahi-speaking people of the state. Everybody has a right to settle in whichever part of the country they like, he said.Addressing a programme in Kushinagar on Sunday, Adityanath had alleged that people did not get rations before 2017 like they do now."Because then, people who say 'abba jaan' used to digest the rations. The rations of Kushinagar used to go to Nepal and Bangladesh. Today, if anybody tries to swallow the rations meant for poor people, he will land in jail," the chief minister had said.'Abba jaan' is the Urdu term for father.In his press conference, the JD(U) president, a Lok Sabha MP from Munger, also played down the decision of his party, the biggest BJP ally, to send its senior leader K C Tyagi to a rally being organised in Jind on September 25 by INLD chief Om Prakash Chautala, seen as part of efforts for forming a non-BJP, non-Congress front."We are strongly part of the NDA (BJP-led alliance)," he said, and dismissed talks about a third front, saying his party will attend the rally as it is being organised to mark the birth anniversary of Devi Lal, a towering third front leader of his era.Singh also cited Kumar's old association with Chautala.Chautala had invited the Bihar chief minister, who has expressed his inability to attend it.The JD(U) leader also named former MLA Khiru Mahto and Gulab Mahto as the party's president and vice-president respectively for its Jharkhand unit.Singh said the JD(U) used to be a strong party in the state and added that the appointments are part of its effort to strengthen the regional party in different parts of India.The party will also strongly fight the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and Manipur, he said, adding that it would like to be a part of the BJP-led alliance and fight on its own if the tie-up does not happen.JD(U) sources said the party is likely to organise its national executive meeting in Uttar Pradesh in November and its office-bearers meeting in Manipur as it works to tone up its organisational machinery in the two states. PTI KR IJT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nation-belongs-to-all-jd-u-on-adityanath-s-abba-jaan-remark-101631647432274.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Two men arrested for murder, trying to dispose of body||The Panchkula police have arrested two men for murder after they were caught trying to dispose of a body in a forest area on the Morni road late on Monday night.Though the men managed to flee at the time, even trying to run over the cops with their car, they were nabbed on Tuesday.The victim has been identified as Rajiv, 34, who was unemployed and resided in Dera Bassi. The accused, Jaspal and Gurvinder, are also in their 30s and reside in Dera Bassi, said police.Police are not yet clear about the motive behind the murder and will be seeking the duo’s remand when they are produced in court on Wednesday.According to the FIR, a police team was on patrol duty on the Morni road when it spotted a few men standing next to a car around 11:30pm. As the team tried to question the men, they sat in the car and fled, while trying to run over the cops. Later, police found a body in the bushes.A case has been registered under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-two-men-arrested-for-murder-trying-to-dispose-of-body-101631648437262.html
15-09-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar: Only 6 govt Covid vaccination centres to function today||In order to better focus on routine immunisation of infants and pregnant women, the health department of Gautam Budh Nagar has decided to operate only six Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVCs) in the district on two days this week including Wednesday. The health department usually runs about 35-40 CVCs daily. According to chief medical officer Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, routine immunisation of babies and pregnant women has been affected due to the extensive Covid-19 vaccination campaign in the district for the past few months.“The government has asked the districts to start focusing on routine immunisation of pregnant women and children aged 0-2 years on two days a week. Hence, on Wednesday and Thursday, only six centres will carry out the Covid vaccination and all other government health centres will focus on routine immunisations,” said Dr Sharma.Officials said about 2,650 doses will be administered at the six CVCs on Wednesday. “The six CVCs that will function on Wednesday are the district hospital in Sector 30, Luksar Jail, GIP Mall in Sector 38, Om Vimla Clinic in Sector 10, Surajpur and UPHC Raipur,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-only-6-govt-covid-vaccination-centres-to-function-today-101631648378744.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||CII Chandigarh holds industry roundtable with Polish envoy to India||Confederation of Indian Industry Chandigarh organised an industry roundtable with Polish ambassador to India, Adam Burakowski, on Tuesday.“Poland has a strong Indian diaspora of 40,000 and many Indian companies have already invested in the country. Similarly, we have Polish investments in India. Every week, three cargo planes operate between the two countries,” Burakowski said. He also asked the industrialists to invest in Poland and discussed topics like fintech, cyber security and smart cities.Welcoming the ambassador, Manish Gupta, chairman of CII Chandigarh said that the confederation has had long-standing relationship with Poland. “In 1998, CII signed its first MoU with the Polish Chamber of Commerce. It has engaged with Polish companies and business delegations practically every year since 1996 until the pandemic,” he said.The ambassador also led a delegation to Panjab University (PU) and met vice-chancellor Raj Kumar and other officials of the university.The Polish delegation expressed keen desire for the prospect of Polish students seeking admission in various courses at PU. Members of both sides identified some key areas of research and teaching and explored possibilities of future exchange programmes among the students and faculty of universities in Poland and Panjab University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cii-chandigarh-holds-industry-roundtable-with-polish-envoy-to-india-101631648326865.html
15-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Hospitality industry seeks waiver on bar excise fee||Ruing losses due to closure of bars and restaurants due to imposition of lockdown and curfew restrictions amid the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the hospitality sector has sought bar excise fee waiver for six months from the state government.Members of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Punjab submitted a memorandum regarding the same with A Venu Prasad, financial commissioner taxation, in Chandigarh on Monday.The industry representatives rued that due to the lockdown restrictions imposed by the government, the bar owners were ordered to shut operations before the commencement of the current financial year (from April), and the business was affected for five months. Many hotels and restaurants are on the verge of closure due to the same, they added.Amarvir Singh, president of the association, said as the bars remained shut for around five months, the government should not charge an excise fee for that period.“The government had provided some relief to the sector by waiving off the fee for six months last year. It should also waive off the fee for the next six months to help revive the sector, which was the worst affected due to the imposition of the lockdown. The advance fee submitted by the owners should be refunded,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-hospitality-industry-seeks-waiver-on-bar-excise-fee-101631648320767.html
15-09-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Layout of Film City along Yamuna Expressway to change||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Tuesday decided to change the layout of the proposed Film City to be developed across 1,000 acres in Sector 21 along the Yamuna Expressway. The authority also decided to revise the detailed project report (DPR) of the pod taxi project planned to connect the Film City with the proposed Noida international airport in Jewar. The decisions were taken in the 71st board meeting of the authority. According to officials, the authority has decided to merge 220 acres earlier earmarked for commercial development with the ₹10,000-crore Film City project for better connectivity. “The 1,000-acre area of Film City will remain unchanged, but the revised layout will help provide better connectivity with the Yamuna Expressway and other proposed transport facilities,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida. In March this year, Yeida had roped in the central government agency, Indian Port Rail and Ropeway Corporation Limited, to prepare a DPR of the pod taxi project. According to the DPR, the length of corridor for the ₹862-crore project will be 14.5km. “In August, we got DPR of pod taxi project meant to provide world-class connectivity between the airport and Film City. We had suggested some technical changes in DPR. The board has agreed for these changes to be included in revised DPR,” said Singh.Apart from this, the Yeida board has agreed to soon launch a plot scheme in proposed ‘Medical Device Park’ and Data Centre projects in Sector 28 near the airport project site. “We will allot plots in Medical Device Park and Data Centre via online portal -- www.niveshmitra.up.nic.in -- for transparency and ease of investors. The board has also been informed about progress on the airport project as levelling work at the site is underway,” said Yeida’s chief executive officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-layout-of-film-city-along-yamuna-expressway-to-change-101631648138194.html
15-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana property dealers’ body seeks relief for real estate sector||The Punjab Colonisers and Property Dealers’ Association has written to chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh seeking government intervention to save the real estate sector, which has been facing a financial crisis.The demands of the association include categorisation of the sector under the head ‘industry’; formation of a state board for resolving grievances related to real estate (property) business; easing of the conditions required to develop a colony; setting up of a single-window system for availing licences and easing up the policy for availing completion certificate, etc. The association members handed over a memorandum to former cabinet minister and current Punjab Mandi Board chairman Lal Singh and MLA Surinder Dawar, who have been deputed by the CM to address public grievances at his residence in Chandigarh.Gurwinder Singh Lamba, president of the association, stated that the real estate sector had extended support to the Congress government in 2017 as the party had at that time assured revival of the sector. But nothing concrete has been done yet, he added.“The sector has been struggling to make ends meet and is going through financial crises. The assurances that were given by the Congress then, which were also a part of the manifesto, have not been fulfilled yet. The pandemic has added to our woes. Also, the procedure to avail licence and completion certificate, etc. have further been made difficult,” said Lamba.“If the government fails to pay heed to our problems, it will have to pay the price for the same in the upcoming assembly elections. The condition wherein it is mandatory to get NOC from PSPCL for availing a power connection has further taken a toll on the business,” said Lamba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-property-dealers-body-seeks-relief-for-real-estate-sector-101631648077282.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Delta variant found in 93% Chandigarh samples||According to latest reports received by the Chandigarh health department on Tuesday, the Delta variant of coronavirus (B.1.617.2) and its sub-lineages were detected in 25 out of 27 samples.The health department had sent these samples to the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, for genome sequencing on August 21. Genome sequencing attempts to draw out the complete genetics of the viruses. All the 27 patients were Chandigarh residents who tested positive for Covid-19 between August 3 and 18.The World Health Organisation has classified Delta as a “variant of concern”, as it has shown signs higher transmissibility, causing more severe infection. First detected in India, it has spread in more than 85 nations.Delta Plus (B.1.617.2.1) is its more virulent version. So far, only one case of Delta Plus variant has been detected in Chandigarh, which was reported in June this year.“The results show that Delta Plus variant is not transmitting in Chandigarh, which is a good sign. However, spread of any variant is a concern. People must adhere to Covid-19 safety protocols and get vaccinated to avert another surge,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, Chandigarh.Gatherings: Cap on guests easedThe Chandigarh administration on Tuesday eased the cap on guests at social gatherings from 200 to 300 (or 50% hall capacity, whichever is lesser). All adult guests and staff must have received at least one dose of vaccine or have negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours. 24-year-old man succumbs Chandigarh recorded fifth Covid-related death this month, as a 24-year-old man succumbed on Tuesday. In comparison, Mohali has reported only one fatality while Panchkula has recorded none in September. A resident of Sector 8, the patient suffered from severe acute respiratory distress syndrome after testing positive for the virus, stated a release.Meanwhile, 11 fresh cases surfaced in the tricity on Tuesday, with Panchkula leading with six. Three people tested positive in Mohali and two in Chandigarh. The active caseload dipped to 85, with 42 patients in Mohali, 28 in Chandigarh and 15 in Panchkula. While recovery rate is above 98% across all three areas, daily positivity rate was recorded below one percent.In Mohali, 68,673 cases have surfaced so far, 67,570 patients have been discharged and 1,061 have died. Chandigarh has reported 65,162 cases, of which 64,316 have been cured and 818 people have died. In Panchkula, 30,707 have tested positive, 30,313 have recovered and 377 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-delta-variant-found-in-93-chandigarh-samples-101631647957462.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bicycle sharing: Free rides to continue in Chandigarh||People using the public bicycle sharing system in Chandigarh will continue to enjoy free rides till it is issued a completion certificate.A month since the first phase of public bicycle sharing project was launched in August, 76,786 rides have been recorded, with an average of 2,742 per day. There are 1,250 cycles and 155 docking stations in use currently and each bicycle was used 2.19 times a day on average.According to the agreement, after the soft launch of Phase 1, a period of 30 days was required for testing the system. An independent engineer was appointed for supervision of the construction activities and also issue completion certificate for all phases.After the launch there were glitches in the software while booking rides and ending them. Usage charges were stopped till September 12 due to this.“Though the construction and procurement is complete for Phase 1, certain glitches reported by users are being assessed by Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) and the independent engineerm,” said Anindita Mitra, MC commissioner and CSCL chief executive officer. The completion certificate will be given once the issues are resolved, post which charges will be collected, she said, after a meeting in this regard on Tuesday. The charges have been fixed at ₹10 per half an hour. Those with annual membership of ₹500 have to pay ₹5 per half an hour.Meanwhile, a number of deficiencies in cycle tracks were identified, mainly pertaining to potholes, unauthorised openings for rainwater disposal by neighbouring houses and pruning of trees. Superintendent engineers from both MC and Chandigarh administration are heading teams to address these issues, stated a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bicycle-sharing-free-rides-to-continue-in-chandigarh-101631647777256.html
15-09-2021||Noida||Two persons arrested for violation of Copyright Act in Noida||Police on Tuesday arrested two persons for illegally selling branded shoes and ready-made garments in a hotel in Greater Noida. The police seized 188 pair of shoes, 84 T-shirts and 73 pairs of jeans from their possession.Rameshwar Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector Beta 2 police station, said that the suspects had booked some space in a Greater Noida hotel and organised a sale of branded shoes, T-shirts and jeans. “The suspects were offering heavy discounts. A number of locals had come to the hotel to purchase the products,” he said. Abhishek Tripathi, a complainant and company representative, said that he visited the sale and found the suspects were illegally selling products that bore his company’s brand name, in violation of the Copyright Act. Tripathi informed the police and a team from Sector Beta 2 arrested the men. The suspects were identified as Sarfaraz Khan, 26, and Shoaib, 24, both residents of Agra. “They revealed that they bought these products from a third accomplice, one Sakir Ahmad. The suspects would organise similar sales in different places, and cheat people on the pretext of selling branded products,” the SHO said. The police registered a case against the suspects under sections 420 (cheating), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 63 of the Copyright Act at Sector Beta 2 police station. The two suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Police have launched a search for the third suspect who is on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-persons-arrested-for-violation-of-copyright-act-in-noida-101631647719888.html
15-09-2021||Other||10 day e-training on aquatic animal health management concludes at GADVASU||A ten-day-long e-training on ‘Recent advances in aquatic animal health and environment management for sustainable aquaculture’ organised by the College of Fisheries (COF) of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) concluded on Tuesday.The training was organised under ICAR-NFDB-‘National Surveillance Programme for Aquatic Animal Diseases’ (NSPAAD) of the department of fisheries, ministry of fisheries animal husbandry and dairying (MoFAHD), GOI.As many as 90 participants got an opportunity to interact with eminent scientists of global repute working on different aspects of aquatic animal health management like aqua-genomics, antimicrobial resistance (AMR), vaccines, and environmental health.The programme was also live streamed on social media for interested candidates across the globe.Highlighting the significance of health management in special reference to intensive aquaculture systems, the programme conducted sessions on current and emerging diseases in fish and shrimp; diagnostic tools; prophylaxis; and treatments apropos of one health, surveillance, AMR, alternatives to antibiotics, genomics, environmental wellbeing, food safety, and trading.Course director Vaneet Inder Kaur informed that Dr IS Azad, a research scientist at Kuwait Institute for Scientific Research, presented the key recommendations in the valedictory session.Highlighting the contribution of the fisheries sector in national GDP and export sector, chief guest Rajiv Siwach, chief general manager, NABARD, Regional Office (Punjab), proposed that GADVASU and NABARD take up a collaborative R&D programme for socio-economic development of the farming community and economic growth of the region.Guest of honour Vijaykumar Yargal, executive director, NFDB, discussed food and environmental safety concerns in aquaculture, with emphasis on responsible health management interventions.JPS Gill, director of research, GADVASU, highlighted the pivotal role of the scientific fraternity in the responsible expansion of the sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-day-e-training-on-aquatic-animal-health-management-concludes-at-gadvasu-101631647657074.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: More rain on cards, temperature to drop||The maximum temperature in Chandigarh saw just a marginal drop after 4 mm rain was recorded on Tuesday. With chances of rain likely to increase in the next two days, the mercury is expected to fall further, said the weatherman. Maximum temperature on Tuesday was recorded at 34°C, down from 34.5°C on Monday. In the next three days, it is likely to hover around 32-33°C. However, minimum went slightly up from 24.6°C to 24.8°C and will remain around 24°C in the coming days.“From Wednesday, chances of rain will increase due to the incoming western disturbances. While areas in Haryana will be the most affected, Chandigarh is also likely to see some increase in rainfall,” said Manmohan Singh, director, India Meteorological Department, Chandigarh. Singh said the intensity will be maximum on Thursday, though rain will cease on Friday. However, another spell of rain is expected between September 19 and 21 due to low-pressure areas forming over the country. The withdrawal of monsoon is expected a few days after that. At present, monsoon is 36% deficient in the city, as 502.9 mm rain has been received against the normal of 790 mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-more-rain-on-cards-temperature-to-drop-101631647540834.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Closure of mini Covid centres in Chandigarh: NGOs given three days to decide||Non-government organisations (NGO) running mini Covid centres in Chandigarh have been given the option of either closing them and vacating the premises or continue with temporary closure and retaining the premises up to October 31. They have been given three days to submit their decision.Due to sharp reduction in the number of Covid patients since the last week of June, the mini Covid care centres have been temporarily closed and kept in standby mode till September 30, said Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for mini Covid care centres. “However, considering that retaining the centres will involve certain financial implications, the adviser has left the final decision upto the organisations to opt for either option in the next three days,” he added.During the second Covid wave in April and May, mini Covid care centres with oxygenated beds were set-up by the NGOs, said Garg. They provided free medical care from qualified doctors and nurses, medicines, food etc to the patients without any financial support from the administration, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/closure-of-mini-covid-centres-in-chandigarh-ngos-given-three-days-to-decide-101631647539121.html
15-09-2021||Other||PAU holds virtual kisan mela at regional research station in Gurdaspur||A day-long virtual Kisan Mela was held at Regional Research Station (RRS), Gurdaspur, on Tuesday. It was held as a part of a series of kisan melas being organised by Punjab Agricultural University.Nachiket Kotwaliwala, director, Central Institute of Post-Harvest Engineering and Technology (CIPHET), was the chief guest.PAU director of extension education Jaskaran Singh Mahal welcomed the chief guest, experts, and farmers. He said that though these online fairs are not substitutes for real fairs, millions of farmers have joined virtually and expressed confidence in the university’s recommendations. He hoped that the fairs would be a step forward for farmers to increase profits and enhance income.Kotwaliwala said in today’s era of stable and profitable farming and production, it is time to produce new varieties of wheat and paddy, along with crop diversification and market demand.The varieties and production technologies need to be improved keeping in view climate change, which is the biggest challenge that the agriculture sector is facing,” he said.He emphasized post-harvest crop management for increasing profits.“In addition, more work needs to be done on processing and value addition to reducing production losses”, he highlighted.PAU director of research Navtej Singh Bains spoke about various research activities. He introduced new varieties, production and plant protection techniques as well as machinery recommendations.BS Dhillon, director of the Regional Research Station, Gurdaspur, thanked everyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pau-holds-virtual-kisan-mela-at-regional-research-station-in-gurdaspur-101631647420206.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Electric vehicle policy in Chandigarh: Three-member panel to fine-tune final draft||The UT administration has constituted a three-member committee to prepare the final draft of the Electric Vehicle (EV) Policy.The members of the committee will be deputy commissioner, MC commissioner and chief executive officer of the Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology (CREST).On Tuesday, CREST submitted a draft policy in a meeting chaired by UT adviser Dharam Pal, who asked the draft to be further fine-tuned and financial implications of it further studied.“The committee will examine the financial implications of the incentives to be offered under the policy. It will also analyse the pattern in the other states where such policy has been formulated,” said a UT official. Earlier, the UT transport department had also prepared a draft EV policy. But later this year, the CREST was entrusted with finalising the policy.Under the proposed policy, in order to incentivise buying of electric vehicles, the registration fee, road tax and 50% MC parking charges are likely to be waived off.The policy also envisages making registration of private and commercial e-vehicles easier and quicker by offering “immediate online registration.” Registration will be allowed for two, three, and four-wheelers retrofitted with electric motors.“The aim of the policy is to encourage e-vehicles to reduce pollution in the city by bringing down emissions from the transport sector,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/electric-vehicle-policy-in-chandigarh-three-member-panel-to-fine-tune-final-draft-101631647419027.html
15-09-2021||Noida||Over 22k firms registered under GST Act after Covid outbreak in GB Nagar||Thirty-five-year-old Ram Pratap Singh was disheartened when he lost his job as an executive in a textile marketing agency in Noida soon after the Covid-19 outbreak in March last year. But when his wife Sujata Singh, who works in a book marketing agency, asked him to try his luck in digital marketing, he started a book marketing company. He registered the company under the Goods and Service Tax (GST) Act to avail its benefits. At present, Singh earns around ₹75,000 a month. Gaurav Sharma of Greater Noida has a similar story. Before the pandemic, he was working in a packaging company. After losing his job in June last year, he opened an online stationery store and registered it under the GST Act. Nowadays, Sharma earns at least ₹50,000 per month through his online firm. Despite a major slowdown in commercial activities across the country during the Covid-19 pandemic, over 22,000 firms were registered under the Goods and Service Tax (GST) Act in Gautam Budh Nagar district, a significantly higher number than previous years. Manavendra Pratap Singh, additional commissioner of state GST in Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the number of firms registered under the GST Act in the district has increased every year. “While in the fiscal 2018-19, the number of registered firms in the district was 11,664, it was 14,613 in the next fiscal 2019-20. While as many as 15,472 firmed were registered under the GST Act during the fiscal 2020-21, over 6,812 firms were registered in the current financial year 2021-22 far,” he said. He said that to encourage more entrepreneurs to register their firms the GST Act, the state government has eased the application and approval processes. “We are providing business owners with GST registration numbers within a week after they upload the mandatory documents on the department’s portal. We have registered several small and medium firms, set up by people who lost their jobs due to the pandemic. As per our records, these firms are doing good work now,” he said. Singh also said that the owners of all these registered firms have accidental insurance coverage of ₹10 lakh. “Earlier, this insurance scheme was being run by different insurance companies. But now, the state GST department immediately provides the entrepreneurs’ dependants with the insurance amount in case of their accidental death. It is also one of the major reasons that more and more entrepreneurs are turning up for GST registration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/over-22k-firms-registered-under-gst-act-after-covid-outbreak-in-gb-nagar-101631647417474.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Field trial for global assessment in schools moved||A field trial for Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) which was scheduled to be held between September 15 and September 18 was postponed on Tuesday as per directions received from Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). It hasn’t been announced when the trial will now be held.Confirming this, UT director of school education Palika Arora, said, “The trial was to be held by the CBSE. However, no reason has been given for why it was postponed one day before it was set to start.”Conducted by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, PISA is a global assessment that measures 15-year-old students’ reading, mathematics, and science literacy as they near the end of compulsory schooling.It is held every three years and students from government schools in Chandigarh will represent India in the next test to be held in 2022, which was postponed by a year due to the pandemic.The field trial was to be organised to check the preparation of the students and assess whether online classes for the past year and a half have been adequate for them. As per sources, the schools where the trial would have been held weren’t announced in advance to get an objective assessment. It is likely to be held in the coming days. For the trial, a sample size of 1,710 students has been selected. This includes 1,125 students from 25 English medium schools and 585 from 13 Hindi medium schools. Students born between February 1, 2005 and May 31, 2007 will be eligible to sit for this exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-field-trial-for-global-assessment-in-schools-moved-101631647241638.html
15-09-2021||Noida||Dengue cases at all-time high since 2017 in Ghaziabad, officials resort to containment approach||With dengue cases catapulting to 89 on Tuesday---highest since 2017 when Ghaziabad district reported 232 cases, officials in the health department have adopted a containment approach to ensure the areas from where dengue cases are being reported don’t turn into clusters of cases and curb the outbreak of the disease. “Since dengue cases are on the rise, we have adopted a containment approach. We do not have dengue cases in clusters; they are scattered across the district. Our teams are conducting fogging in about 50 nearby houses whenever a dengue case is being reported from a particular area,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. He added that in case more cases are reported from a particular area, teams take up infection control activities for about 500 nearby houses or to the extent where they feel proper sanitisation has been done. Officials said rapid response teams, response team from integrated disease surveillance program, a team led by a local medical officer and sanitisation teams act within hours of a dengue case being reported from a particular area. “With the containment approach, we are ensuring that there are no cluster of cases. Our teams are taking efforts to break the chain of infection. Moreover, we have also initiated sampling of symptomatic patients at our IDSP laboratory in MMG District Hospital. Of the 550 symptomatic patients tested so far, there are 16 patients who have tested positive for dengue. The positivity rate is on the lower side, at about 3%,” said Gupta. The district also reported 11 malaria cases till Tuesday against 13 such cases in 2020, 142 in 2019, 150 in 2018, 293 in 2017 and 128 in 2016. Experts said utmost precaution is the need of the hour as dengue can also lead to fatalities. “Heavy rainfall, and the resultant waterlogging that has been plaguing the district in the last one month , has led to an increase in dengue cases. Residents must ensure water doesn’t accumulate in their houses or in the premises where larvae can breed,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). The health department has also come up with dengue wards in the district hospitals to treat patients. “The cases of dengue and viral fever are on rise. We receive around 100-150 patients suffering from fever daily in our outpatient department. We have reserved 20 beds in the dengue ward and so far, only one patient has been admitted and also recovered,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dengue-cases-at-all-time-high-since-2017-in-ghaziabad-officials-resort-to-containment-approach-101631647178806.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Deepika Padukone, Ranveer Singh purchase bungalow at Alibag for Rs22 crore||In one of the largest transactions in recent times, actor Deepika Padukone and her husband Ranveer Singh have purchased a bungalow in Alibag for ₹22 crore. The couple paid ₹1.32 crore as stamp duty for the deal. The 5 BHK (bedroom-house-kitchen) bungalow, spread across 9,000 square metres (sq m) of land in a village called Mapgaon, will be the couple’s second home. According to the documents scanned by real estate analytics and research firm Zapkey.com, the couple purchased the property through their firms. The buyers are KA Enterprises LLP – where Padukone is a partner – and RS Worldwide Entertainment Private Limited, where Singh is a director. The property has been purchased from Rajesh S Jaggi. According to Sandeep Reddy, co-founder, Zapkey.com, the deal signifies the growing demand for second homes. “We are seeing people buying their second home in recent times within the vicinity of Mumbai. Due to Covid-19, people look at a second home as an alternative and the work-from-home culture has given a boost to this sector,” said Reddy. Several celebrities such as Shah Rukh Khan, Anushka Sharma and her husband Virat Kohli and Rahul Khanna have their pads in Alibag, which has been rivalling the Khandala-Lonavala belt for weekend breaks. Several top builders, such as Hiranandani, are selling plots at Alibag. The roll-on/roll-off (ro-ro) ferry service which originates from Ferry Wharf at Mazgaon and Mandwa has been a runaway hit as it also carries vehicles. This is apart from the ferry services from Gateway of India to Alibag, where one can reach within 45 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/deepika-padukone-ranveer-singh-purchase-bungalow-at-alibag-for-rs22-crore-101631647177323.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC to act against encroachments in markets||The Mohali municipal corporation has divided the area under its jurisdiction into four zones to tackle encroachments in markets. While chairing the civic body’s monthly General House meeting on Tuesday, mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said the area inspectors heading the teams will be responsible to get rid of encroachments within one month. “If they fail to do so, they will be charge-sheeted or suspended,” he said. A similar order was passed by the then MC commissioner Bhupinder Pal Singh in September 2019, when the city was divided into three zones. However, enforcement remained poor and no action was taken against any of the officials in six months before a countrywide lockdown brought things to a standstill in March 2020. For years, the MC has failed to stop illegal vendors from operating in main markets of the city. The worst-hit are Phases 7, 3B1, 3B2, 9, 10, and 11, where several vendors have set up their kiosks, selling bags, perfumes, jewellery, footwear, apparels and food items, leaving little space in the corridors and parking areas. The issue has been debated several times in the General House meetings, but to no avail. Former deputy mayor Manjit Singh Sethi said the number of vendors has gone up in the past three years. “Encroachment drives in the past remained an eyewash as there was collusion between MC officials and vendors,” he said. The four new teams will be headed by area inspectors Anil Kumar (Zone 1), Varinder Kumar (Zone 2), Harmesh Singh (Zone 3) and Ashok Kumar (Zone 4). The mayor said he is hopeful that they will be able to tackle the encroachment menace. On the MC enforcement wing having only two vehicles to cover the entire city, the mayor said only one team will go on a round at one time. Meanwhile, an enforcement wing official, who did not wish to be named, said the teams are often hassled by frequent disputes with shopkeepers and vendors, and police presence would aid their efforts. Mohali MC House approves fire station at Sector 78The Mohali municipal corporation General House also approved a second fire station in Sector 78 to be built at a cost of ₹2.92 crore. The House unanimously passed resolutions mainly on the policy of taxi stands and the policy of providing green belts for maintenance. A few councillors asked for a reduction in taxi fee.Apart from this, various development resolutions worth ₹19 crore have been passed including road works, paver block works, zebra crossings, painting of centre verges, laying of centre lines and some other development works. All these development works are mainly in Sectors 76 to 80.A sum of ₹2.64 has been earmarked for the purchase of boots, gloves, uniforms, rehris, trolleys and other items for the nearly 1000 employees to be recruited for the manual cleaning by the Mohali Municipal Corporation. This resolution was passed through table item.In addition to this, another important resolution has been passed to outsource the work of mechanical sweeping of city roads. Under this, wall-to-wall sweeping of A roads of the city as well as B roads will now be done mechanically; ₹37 crore will be spent for three years. Some opposition councillors made allegations of discrimination against their wards regarding which mayor said that the work of all the wards was being done with full transparency and no one was being discriminated against. He said that if there was any work of a councillor in a ward, he or she could meet him directly at any time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-to-act-against-encroachments-in-markets-101631647118074.html
15-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana schools celebrate Hindi Diwas||BVM, DugriSampda, TGT Hindi, BVM High School, Dugri, oriented the students about the importance of Hindi language and how celebrating the day helps in sustaining traditional values. Various activities were organised to mark the day. Students of Classes 3 and 4 recited poems whereas students of Classes 5, 6 and 7 wrote slogans. To pay tribute to the official language of India, Hindi dictation and writing competitions were also planned. A fun-filled antakshari activity was conducted for the students of Classes 8, 9 and 10.Ram Lal Bhasin SchoolRam Lal Bhasin Public School celebrated Hindi Diwas. The day commenced with a school assembly. Students of Class 10 gave speeches. The faculty members of the school also delivered their views on the importance of this day. Principal Raman Oberoi said that Hindi reminds us of our true identity and binds the nation as a well-knit family.BCM, Basant AvenueThe primary students of BCM School, Basant Avenue, Dugri Road, took part in fancy dress and poem recitation activities. The students of middle wing took part in a quiz contest. Students of Classes 9 and 10 participated in a speech giving competition. Students decorated the display panel with beautiful posters. Principal Vandna Shahi congratulated everyone on the occasionBCM, Pakhowal RoadThe students of BCM School, Pakhowal Road, highlighted the significance of the language through their slogans, speeches and recitation. Students also shared some Hindi proverbs and explained them. Principal JP Singh spoke about the importance of Hindi language.Atam Public School holds motivational sessionAtam Public School organised an interactive motivational session for secondary and senior secondary students. Munish Jindal, founder, and CEO of Hover Robotix, founding president of MEN TORX Global, and an alumnus of the school, was the guest of honour. He encouraged the students to learn to accept challenges and be self-dependent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-schools-celebrate-hindi-diwas-101631647116898.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine: Ambala achieves 100% target||Nine months after the vaccination process against the coronavirus disease began in Ambala, the health department has successfully achieved 100% target of inoculating the population above 18 years of age on Tuesday.Moreover, half of the beneficiaries are now fully vaccinated with two doses of either Covishield or Covaxine. The figures are in line with the centralised CoWin portal.As per the data provided till 5pm, 7,90,102 (100.01%) beneficiaries have received their first dose and 3,88,054 (49.12%) are fully vaccinated. The eligible population in the district is 7,90,088.Chief medical officer Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “People are already familiar that other than the vaccine, there is no other option to win against the pandemic. I would urge those who are yet to receive their second dose and have covered the prescribed gap to take it without delay. Department is also alerting them through calls.”A three-day mega vaccination camp is underway in the district and more than 38,000 doses have been administered in two days at over 200 sites. To cover more population, department staffers were seen making announcements at chowks and other busy public sites on Monday.However, there has been a marginal disparity in terms of percentage figures of the CoWin portal and those collected by the health department. Ambala, the home constituency of health minister Anil Vij, has rarely faced a shortage of vaccine for a day.DC Vikram said, “I will get it checked.” Meanwhile, an official, who didn’t wish to be named, said that to rectify the error, the department has started doing online portal entries on the spot, instead of registering entries first that are later entered on the portal. Also, due to its geographical location, residents of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and various districts of Haryana usually get their vaccine dose here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccine-ambala-achieves-100-target-101631646881870.html
15-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad allows walk-ins for second dose of Covid vaccine||With the increase in the supply of Covid-19 vaccine, officials have now facilitated walk-in registration for beneficiaries scheduled to take their second dose, cutting down on the need to go online and booking a slot to take the jab. According to figures available on the Co-Win portal, Ghaziabad district administered total 23,49,380 doses till 8.30pm on Tuesday, which includes 5,53,037 second doses. Officials said the decision to facilitate walk-in registrations for beneficiaries scheduled to take their second dose was taken by district magistrate RK Singh, who issued a statement to this effect on Tuesday evening. “Now, beneficiaries, who wish to take their second dose, can walk in to any Covid vaccination centre and take the jab. They can also come after booking online slots. The decision has been taken up to increase the second dose coverage as we have been allocated more Covid-19 vaccines,” said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar. Till August end, Ghaziabad received around 16,000 doses per day, which has now been scaled up to about 25,000 doses. “We are also trying to increase the allocation of vaccines we get from the state. This will help us vaccinate more beneficiaries. The walk-in facility is available for beneficiaries both in the 45+ age group and the 18-45 group,” said the CMO. In terms of overall vaccination coverage, Lucknow stands at the top with total 32,24,019 doses administered till Tuesday evening, followed by Ghaziabad. Data from the Cowin portal shows that Ghaziabad district has been administering more than 100,000 doses in the last four weeks. The district administered 129,884 doses between August 14 to August 20; 136,050 from August 21 to August 27 and 135,660 from August 28 to September 3. More than 200,500 doses were administered from September 4 to September 10. “We feel that it is vital to increase the second dose coverage so that people are better protected in case a third wave of Covid-19 breaks out. Walk-in will ease issues for beneficiaries as many a times, they cannot book online slots,” said Dr V B Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). Starting August 14, the UP government also declared Saturday as ‘second dose day’ and directed that it will be reserved only for beneficiaries, who wish to take their second dose. According to official figures, the district has a target population of about 878,250 beneficiaries in the 45+ category, around 61.1% of whom have been inoculated with the first dose till august 31. Likewise, the targeted population in the 18-45 category is 188,027, 51.89% of whom have taken the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-allows-walk-ins-for-second-dose-of-covid-vaccine-101631646880793.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai-Goa highway work can get over by March ’22 if we get funds: NHAI||The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has assured the Bombay high court (HC) of completing the road-widening work of the Mumbai-Goa Highway by March 2022 – well before the December 2022 deadline – provided the State Bank of India (SBI) lends an additional ₹200 crore at the earliest for the project. The affidavit stated the highway was in a motorable condition before the onset of monsoon. However, due to heavy rainfall and traffic, potholes, patches and water stagnation had developed on certain sections of the highway, which was being repaired immediately. The affidavit was filed by NHAI project director Prashant Fegade in response to the public interest litigation (PIL) by advocate Owais Pechkar, a resident of Chiplun and a regular user of the highway. Fegade submitted before the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni that it was complying with HC’s July directions to provide an update on the status of the project. The affidavit, apart from responding to Pechkar’s petition for the expeditious completion of the road-widening project, also responded to his plea for fixing and repairing of potholes on National Highway-66, which is prone to accidents. Pechkar’s petition stated that in the past 10 years, accidents had claimed 2,442 lives due to potholes and ongoing road-widening work. The bench had directed the authorities to put in place safety measures to avert mishaps. While responding to the contention of ‘slow progress’ of the project, the affidavit stated that due to financial constraints, the authority had resorted to a one-time fund infusion (OTFIS) and had managed to assign ₹540 crore for the project. The amount to be raised through lenders was pending. The affidavit stated that if SBI and other lenders would extend a further ₹200 crore the project could be completed by March 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaigoa-highway-work-can-get-over-by-march-22-if-we-get-funds-nhai-101631646879574.html
15-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Police posts to be abolished, change of jurisdiction in the offing||After 3am meetings, some more major changes are in store for the police personnel in the city such as abolition of at least 15 police posts and change in jurisdiction of police stations. At present, the city has 31 police posts. Once at least half of them are abolished, the staff posted at the police posts will be shifted to police stations. A committee will analyse population, number of cases, number of police officials deputed and other factors before making the changes. Former Ludhiana commissioner of police Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh had also abolished some police stations and police posts in 2017.Jurisdiction changes are being mulled as the buildings of some stations are in an incongruent division. In the present setup, the building of the Division 5 station falls under the jurisdiction of Division number 8 station.The newly built PAU police station lies in the jurisdiction of the Haibowal police station and the Basti Jodhewal police station stands in the jurisdiction of the Salem Tabri station. Similarly, the building of the Focal Point police station is under the jurisdiction of the Moti Nagar police, and the Jamalpur police station and Moti Nagar are under the jurisdiction of the Division 7 police, while the Sadar police station falls under jurisdiction of Division 8.In these circumstances, people are forced to travel extra miles to get police help. PAU officers may move to new station Officials in the know, requesting anonymity, said the committee has recommended that the PAU police station be shifted to some new location. The said station is at present situated at the Dairy Complex on Humbran Road. Incidentally, the building was built for the Haibowal police station, but officers established the PAU station instead.The Atam Park, Humbran, Kailash Nagar police posts can be abolished. Joint commissioner of police J Elanchezhian said the project is in the pipeline. “A committee is conducting a survey of all police posts and police stations. We will take a decisions according to the recommendations of the committee,” he said. New building for Jamalpur stationThe Jamalpur police station will now function out of a new building near Jamalpur Chowk. Earlier, the police station was being run from the Jamalpur police colony, while the Basti Jodhewal police will get a new building very soon as the department has started work on it. Earlier, the police had shifted the crime against women and children cell to a new building in Rishi Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianapolice-posts-to-be-abolished-change-of-jurisdiction-in-the-offing-101631646876987.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Slum dwellers can’t insist for on-site rehabilitation: Bombay high court||In an order that may have far reaching consequences for the state capital, the Bombay high court (HC) has held that slum dwellers cannot insist on getting rehabilitated on site or in the vicinity and dismissed a petition filed by residents of a notified slum in Shivajinagar, Pune that will be demolished in order to make way for a metro line. The order was delivered by a division bench comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni last week, but the 11-page document was uploaded late Monday. The Pune metro line between Vanaz and Ramwadi stations is expected to pass through the Kamgar Putala slum, a notified slum pocket home to 1,264 hutments. Three residents moved the HC after the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) issued an ultimatum on May 21 asking them to vacate their hutments within 10 days. At present, part of the slum stands demolished and work on the metro line is progressing. “At the outset, we may observe that the petitioners who have encroached cannot elevate their protection to such an extent that such slum dwellers have to be rehabilitated either on the same land or be provided a permanent alternate accommodation within the vicinity,” a division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni said, dismissing the petition filed by Abdul Majid Patvekari and two others on July 15. The HC bench expressed “grave doubts” over the policy of the state government “which rewards the encroachers of the public land by a free of cost accommodation.” “In our opinion, such policies qua the Government land not only violate the principles of equality but certainly falls foul of the doctrine of public trust,” the bench said. On their part, the petitioners claimed that they had the right to be rehabilitated on site as they are eligible and protected residents of the slum. Under the Maharashtra Slums Act (1995), occupants of notified slums can form a society and appoint a developer for implementing slum rehabilitation schemes on their own, which would need the approval of the SRA. All slum dwellers settled on public lands before January 1, 2000, should be treated as eligible for rehabilitation and should be protected, according to the act. Housing minister Satej Patil said that the state government would study the order before undertaking further steps. “We will study to order as our aim is not to cause inconvenience to the slum dwellers as well as boost the slum revamp process. After that we will take further action,” he said. The petitioners said that they came to know about the metro line passing through their slum pocket, in 2019. Following this, they made representations to various authorities to realign the line so that the slum dwellers were rehabilitated at the site and did not have to be shifted to distant places. They asked in their petition to be rehabilitated in the balance land after the completion of the metro line construction. Alternatively, they prayed for rehabilitation within a radius of two km of the slum. The HC dismissed the plea, observing that the right of slum dwellers to get rehabilitated cannot be stretched to the extent to claim rehabilitation on site. “In our clear opinion, any encroachment on public land at the threshold ought not to be tolerated and prompt action is required to be taken to remove such encroachment,” the bench said. Experts said that the judgment would likely have far-reaching consequences in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, where similar infrastructure projects were also held up on account of the rehabilitation of slum residents. “Our urban centres face a scarcity of land and we cannot offer rehabilitation nearby due to various constraints. This will speed the pace of projects,” said a senior Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. According to the SRA, Mumbai has around 6.2 million citizens residing in 1.25 million slums. Till date, residents of only 210,000 slums have been rehabilitated. “The judgement will offer flexibility in rehabilitation and housing schemes will get boost,” an officer of the SRA department said on condition of anonymity. Housing rights activist Bilal Khan of Ghar Bachao-Ghar Banao Andolan said slum dwellers are opposed to shifting to far off places because of livelihood opportunities. Shifting to far off places, Khan said, also affects the education of their children. “Rehabilitation camps mostly comprise only housing and are not only located outside city limits, but also lack necessary facilities like hospitals, schools, markets etc.,” he said. In the 11-page order, the HC also expressed a dire need of undertaking an audit of encroached government lands or lands belonging to public authorities. “As to how many such lands have vanished due to encroachment and as to what steps have been taken to preserve such lands are questions which need to be answered to “we the people” and accountability fixed for negligence in this regard.”“We hope that the Government awakens on such issues before it is too late and restores all the encroached Government lands for the benefit of public and strictly to be used for public purposes. This would certainly require a genuine political will and consciousness towards larger public benefit,” the order read. Deepak Goradia, President, Maharashtra Chambers of Housing Industry (MCHI- CREDAI) welcomed the order. “It will give boost to slum rehabilitation schemes and even the slum dwellers will be benefitted by new homes,” he said.“We have witnessed in the past how slum dwellers held up the Airport land and metro projects insisting on in situ rehabilitation. The projects suffered immensely and delayed increasing the costs considerably. The verdict clears the hurdles,” said Gulam Zia, executive director, Knight Frank India, a real estate consultancy firm. (With inputs of Naresh Kamath)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/slum-dwellers-can-t-insist-for-on-site-rehabilitation-bombay-high-court-101631646758207.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Poland explores investment options in Haryana||The ambassador of Poland to India, Prof Adam Burakowski, on Tuesday sought Haryana government’s cooperation in exploring investment possibilities in mega food parks being set up in Sonepat and Rohtak.The Poland ambassador called on Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar here and held talks to identify possibilities of investment. Khattar also invited Poland as a partner country of the Surajkund International Crafts Mela-2023 to be held in Faridabad.The Haryana government, in a release, stated that Prof Burakowski said these mega food parks can turn out to be a great business opportunity for Poland investors. He also showed keen interest in exporting horticulture and agriculture products being produced by Haryana to Poland.Both the sides agreed to share their expertise in the fields of education, agriculture, skill training, and tourism.The CM said the first of its kind foreign cooperation department has been set up by the state government to identify potential investors across the world in order to establish Haryana as a global brand through the ‘go-global approach’ for transforming Haryana into a global economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poland-explores-investment-options-in-haryana-101631646578148.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sonepat DC holds parleys with farmers to clear national highway||Following the observations of the Supreme Court that the central and state governments should coordinate to ensure that inter-state roads and national highways do not remain blocked due to farmers’ protest, the Sonepat district administration on Tuesday held parleys with the protesting farmers to clear the blockade at Kundli-Singhu border.Officials said during the meeting, Sonepat deputy commissioner Lalit Siwach told the farmers’ representatives that Kundli-Singhu border on NH-44 be cleared to give way to the common man.An official spokesperson said the DC told the farmers that the construction work of NH-44 under the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has also been hampered for long-time due to the farmers’ protest and is causing inconvenience to people.With completion of the construction work of the national highway, the general public will be at ease. In such a situation, if the farmers give way on one side of the road, then the construction of the national highway will be completed soon.On request of the DC, farmers’ representatives have assured to give a positive reply in this matter, the spokesperson said.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Doaba’s leader Manjit Singh Rai, who lead the farmers’ union with the Sonepat administration, said they will discuss the matter with senior Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders pertaining to opening the highway near Singhu border.“The final decision will be taken by Samyukt Kisan Morcha senior leaders. We have appraised the same to the district administration,” he added.An apex court bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, in its August 23 order, had said that the solution lay in hands of the central and the state governments concerned. The bench said they should coordinate to ensure that if the protests are on, at least the inter-state roads and national highways are not blocked in any manner whatsoever so that to-and-fro on those roads does not cause great inconvenience to other persons who use those roads.A Noida-based woman, Monicca Agarwaal, had petitioned the apex court contending that though she stays and works in Noida she has to travel to Delhi as she is in marketing job.Aggarwal told the court that she is a single parent and has some medical issues. And it has become a nightmare to travel to Delhi where it is taking two hours instead of normal 20 minutes.She contended that despite multiple directions passed by the apex court to keep the to-and-fro passage clear, the same still does not happen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sonepat-dc-holds-parleys-with-farmers-to-clear-national-highway-101631646516961.html
15-09-2021||Noida||Now, Noida residents can register their pets through a mobile phone app||Residents can now register their pets through a mobile phone application as the Noida authority is set to launch the digital service on Wednesday.In March this year, the authority had fixed ₹500 per year as fee to register a pet and asked pet owners to visit the authority office for registration. However, the pet owners did not show any interest in the registration, officials said.“We realised that the pet owners are not registering their pets manually. Therefore, we have come up with a mobile phone application. Since this process is hassle-free, we hope the pet owners will now comply,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer of the Noida authority.The app will help the authority compile data on the pets in the city, the officials said, adding that the pet owners will have to download the ‘Noida pet registration’ app and the fee will have to be paid online to the authority. “A pet owner will have to upload two photographs of the animal and a selfie with the pet to update it in the authority’s records. Similarly, documents such as rabies vaccination certificates will also have to be uploaded,” said another official of the authority, requesting anonymity.The authority will mention over 150 different breeds of dogs and 100 breeds of cats on the app to enable registration. For now, only registration of dogs and cats is going to be accepted, the officials said.Meanwhile, the Noida authority is also evaluating responses of agencies who have shown interest in the dog sterilisation programme, and said that technical and financial bids are going to be examined this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/now-noida-residents-can-register-their-pets-through-a-mobile-phone-app-101631646458581.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Air quality index: Mohali admn chalks action plan for Dera Bassi||Acting on the directions of National Green Tribunal (NGT) to keep the air quality index of Dera Bassi low, the district administration of Mohali has chalked a plan to remove the town’s tag of non-attainment city (NAC).Nine cities of Punjab including Dera Bassi were declared NAC by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on the basis of ambient air data for the period of 2011-2015 for not meeting the annual average of 60 µg/m3 for PM10 (particulate matter that is 10 microns or less in diameter).NGT has taken cognisance of the draft National Clean Air Program and passed directions to Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to prepare action plans for the nine non-attainment cities of Punjab.In a meeting chaired by additional deputy commissioner (G) Komal Mittal on Monday. “Dera Bassi will soon be equipped with a mechanical sweeping system, water sprinkler, electric vehicles charging stations and electric vehicle based waste collectors,” said Mittal.She said that the CPCB has identified 94 NACs, which have consistently violated air quality standards throughout the country, and Dera Bassi is one of them. The action plan is already prepared for counter measures in Dera Bassi, in which pollution check centres have already been upgraded and efforts are being made to decongest the vehicular mess on main light points, she added.Sensitisation of residents underwayMittal informed that the construction work of two parking zones had already started on tehsil road and adjoining vegetable market of the city. She specifically mentioned that the traffic police strictly monitored the area with a smart CCTV system accustomed with sensing systems. Awareness campaign is already underway in schools and other vulnerable areas to sensitise people about the ill-effects of pollution through online seminars, camps and public meetings.Emphasising on regular checking of emissions of vehicles, the ADC said that their focus was on electric vehicles in Dera Bassi, and PPCB and RTA secretary were told that some charging infrastructure shall be set up in coordination with prominent industries. She also informed that electric vehicle based waste collectors will also be designated to collect waste from houses in the city.Instructing the municipal council to buy a mechanical sweeper system at the earliest, she said that these systems will prove beneficial to reduce the air quality index as well as advantageous to making life better. She also directed optimum use of water sprinklers to further improve air quality. Stressing upon controlling burning of municipal solid waste and regular checks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/air-quality-index-mohali-admn-chalks-action-plan-for-dera-bassi-101631646457011.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Centre seeks clarification on appointment of non-IAS officers as civic heads in Maha||The Central government has sought a clarification from the Maharashtra government over the appointment of non-IAS (Indian Administrative Service) officers to head municipal corporations in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The state government has appointed non-IAS officers in Mira-Bhayandar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur and Panvel municipal corporations despite the Centre’s 2018 diktat to appoint IAS officers in emerging civic bodies.The clarification has been has sought by the department of personnel in a letter to chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, dated September 8. The letter has also stated that appointment of any non-IAS cadre officers on posts meant for IAS cadre by the state government, without obtaining the prior approval of DoPT, amounts to violation of Rule 9 of IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954. “The Maharashtra government is requested to furnish comments on posting of non-cadre officers on cadre posts and to furnish details of all officers occupying the cadre poses in the state,” the letter, accessed by HT, read. On September1, HT had carried a report on how the state flouted the Centre’s norms while appointing commissioners to head Mira-Bhayander, Bhiwandi-Nizampur municipal corporations a few months ago. DoPT, by issuing a notification on June 15, 2018, stated that D-class municipal corporations in the list of civic bodies should be mandatorily headed by an IAS officer. Six of the nine corporations (Mira-Bhayander, Vasai-Virar, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Kalyan-Dombivli and Panvel) in MMR were in the list, while the remaining three (Mumbai, Thane and Navi-Mumbai) are already in DoPT’s list that mandates the state to appoint IAS officers to head these civic bodies. In case of non-availability of an IAS officer, the state can appoint a non-IAS but not for a period of more than three months. Incumbent Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation’s (MBMC) commissioner Dilip Dhole was personal secretary to Eknath Shinde. Shinde heads the state urban development department (UDD), which appoints officers for smaller civic bodies. The appointments of non-IAS officers in MBMC and Bhiwandi-Nizampur civic body were done by removing IAS officers, who held MBBS degrees and were deliberately appointed when the Covid-19 was at peak last year.An official from the general administration department, which appoints IAS officers, said that UDD had not informed them while appointing non-IAS officers for these bodies. Former Mira-Bhayander corporator Sanjay Pange had complained to Governor BS Koshyari about the flouting of the Centre’s diktat. The Governor, too, had on August 27, sought clarification from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-seeks-clarification-on-appointment-of-non-ias-officers-as-civic-heads-in-maha-101631646396883.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||1,008 BCom seats vacant in Chandigarh colleges after second counselling||Even after the second round of counselling, as many as 1,008 seats in BCom are still vacant in city colleges, as per the list published by the Chandigarh department of higher education on Tuesday.The second counselling for admission to centralised courses of city colleges was held from September 8 to 10. The third round will be held on September 18 at the college level, for which the Google forms are available on the DHE website, through which applicants to give their consent against the vacant seats.While 465 seats are vacant in bachelor of computer applications (BCA), 315 are vacant in bachelor of business administration (BBA). In BSc (non-medical) 1,121 seats are vacant while 699 seats are vacant in BSc (medical).In BSc (medical and non-medical) biochemistry (elective), 47 seats are vacant; 58 seats are vacant in BSc (non-medical) computer applications. In BSc (non-medical) computer science, (elective) 304 seats are still vacant. Also, 121 seats are vacant in BSc information technology (elective). Applicants can give their consent for the third counselling from September 14 till 1pm on September 16.Merit list out on September 17The merit list (course wise, pool wise and category wise) will be published on the DHE portal and college website on September 17, after which the admission will be made by the respective colleges on September 18, with the late fee as per Panjab University (PU) schedule. The higher education department has also said that no fresh application will be entertained till further notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1008-bcom-seats-vacant-in-chandigarh-colleges-after-second-counselling-101631646339109.html
15-09-2021||Other||Haryana Roadways employees come in support of protesting Punjab Roadways contractual staff||After farmers of Haryana and Punjab jointly protesting against Centre’s three farm laws for the past 10 months, on Tuesday the employees of Haryana Roadways have extended support to the protesting contractual employees of Punjab Roadways and PRTC.The roadways employees in Haryana held a symbolic two-hour protest on Tuesday in support of the indefinite strike of Punjab’s contractual employees who are demanding regularisation of jobs.The protest call was given by the Haryana Roadways Employees Coordination Committee and there are reports that the employees also held symbolic protests at Kaithal, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Sirsa, Panipat and Hisar depots.They submitted memorandums addressed to Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, to the general managers of the depots in Haryana.In the memorandum, they requested Captain to accept demands of the protesting roadways employees and regularise the services of contractual employees and include more buses in the fleet of Punjab Roadways.Kripal Singh Laadi, president of the Haryana Roadways Sanyukt Karmchari Sangh, said, “We have extended support to the Punjab Roadways employees as around 8,000 employees are being forced to work at ₹12,000 for the past 10 years.”On whether this is for the first time that Haryana employees unions are coming in support of their Punjab counterparts, he said, “In October 2018, unions of Punjab roadways employees had also extended support to our protest. It is our duty to stand by each other.”“Their demands are genuine. There are reports that the Punjab government will accept their demands,” he said.On September 6, around 8,000 contractual employees of the Punjab Roadways and PRTC went on strike for an indefinite period, demanding regularisation of their jobs.The protesters from Haryana also demanded the Haryana government to include 14,000 new buses in Haryana Roadways fleet.However, there was no impact on the movement of roadways buses in Haryana as the staff members at the roadways depots held the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-roadways-employees-come-in-support-of-protesting-punjab-roadways-contractual-staff-101631646279343.html
15-09-2021||Other||PhD scholar Rehmani is Punjab Shahi Imam||Ludhiana Four days after the death of Punjab Shahi Imam Maulana Habib Ur Rehman Saani Ludhianvi, 63, his son Mohammad Usman Rehmani Ludhianvi, 44, was appointed the new Shahi Imam on Tuesday. A PhD in history, Rehmani has so far written six books, said Jama Masjid spokesperson Mohammad Mustkeem Ahrari. Rehmani’s latest book, ‘Dastan-e-Ludhiana’ has details of Punjabis, especially residents of Ludhiana, who remained in the forefront of the country’s freedom struggle. After his appointment, members from the Muslim community, politicians and religious leaders made a beeline to congratulate Rehmani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/phd-scholar-rehmani-is-punjab-shahi-imam-101631646217033.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Want to hold panchayat polls: Haryana to HC||The Haryana government has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that it intends to hold panchayat elections in a phased manner.Director general, development and panchayats department, Ramesh Chander Bidhan, in an affidavit before the HC has said that earlier due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the process of elections could not be initiated.However, since now the situation is being normalised and in view of provisions of Article 243-E of the Constitution and Section 3 of the Haryana Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, the government and the State Election Commission intend to hold elections.As per the Act and Article 243-E, elections should be held within six months from date of dissolution of panchayats.The affidavit further states that the state has not yet issued notification for declaring conduct of polls. In the first phase, elections to gram panchayats are proposed to be held and thereafter in the second phase, elections for panchayat samiti and zila parsihad.The response has been submitted in a bunch of petitions in which the government move to amend Haryana Panchayati Raj law, which bars women from contesting on general seats has been challenged.The law was passed in December 2020 in state assembly providing 50% reservation to the women in panchayati raj institutions (PRIs). It was notified in April 2021.The plea alleges the amendment restricts women candidates from contesting from odd numbered wards which are otherwise open or general wards. Hence, it is discriminatory.There are also some petitions against reservation roster to some categories and the manner in which reservation for backward classes is to be carved out.The HC has sought response to the government’s move from various parties by October 10. There are a dozen petitions on the panchayat elections pending before the HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/want-to-hold-panchayat-polls-haryana-to-hc-101631646098171.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||HC allows Haryana to proceed further with recruitment on 3,206 posts by HSSC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has allowed Haryana to proceed with recruitment of 3,206 persons under the ministry of skilled development and physical training on regular basis.The high court bench of justice GS Sandhawalia acted on an application filed by the state government seeking vacation of stay imposed in December 2019.The recruitment for 3,206 posts in a dozen odd categories were to be carried out by Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) for the posts of engineering drawing instructor , computer operator and programming assistant instructor, employability skill instructor, computer instructor among others.The stay was granted on pleas from some contractual employees who had argued that on account of the Regularisation Policy of 2014, they could not get favourable consideration as three year period of service was required. They are contractual employees who had served for more than 11 years and thus, in view of an apex court order of 2018 in which protection was given by the Supreme Court in some categories, they are entitled for the benefit of status quo.The HC observed that the petitioners are contractual employees and if the government is going ahead to appoint regular persons, benefit of status quo cannot be extended in a blanket manner. “The same would go to the persons who had sought regularisation and were entitled for, it is on the strength of the earlier policies,” the court observed.It said that it would not be appropriate for the selection process to come to a grinding halt on that account. The HC has now modified the December 2019 order stating that government will be entitled to complete the selection process. However, the same will be subject to the final decision of these petitions. The court made it clear that this order does not mean that the government has licence to dispense with the services of the petitioners immediately. “As and only when the selection process is completed and the regular persons are duly selected, it would be open to the state, at that stage, to dispense with the services of the petitioners in a phased manner, on the joining of the regular candidates,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-allows-haryana-to-proceed-further-with-recruitment-on-3-206-posts-by-hssc-101631646036946.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Court finds allegations false, asks Kaithal villagers to plant trees on 4km of highway||The Punjab and Haryana high court after finding that allegations levelled in a petition were false has ordered Kaithal residents to plant trees on both sides of a highway on an area of 4km.The HC bench of justice Ritu Bahri and justice Arun Monga were dealing with a plea from Kaithal residents who had claimed before the court that proposed construction of Trans Haryana North South Expressway from Gangheri to Narnaul, while passing through two villages – Kaul and Chandlana in Kaithal – would result in demolition of a Shiv Mandir and an ancient pond.They had claimed that the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) was ordered to increase the length of the bridge by 50m in the earlier round of litigation in 2019, instituted by manager of the temple, but has not been complied with.Upon notice, NHAI appeared and had objected that every effort has been made to stall infrastructure projects like this by certain people, who have no interest in the property.Such projects are of national importance and the grievance has already been addressed by the NHAI and has extended the length of the bridge by 50m by spending more than ₹5 crore.It was further submitted that petitioners made false statement and incorrect map was shown to the court. Hence, heavy cost be imposed on them.In the reply, the court found that the temple area in its entirety is being protected from any untoward damage by extending the length of flyover. The photographs too reflected that the flyover is not obstructing the location of the temple at all.The court dismissed the plea filed in July this year and ordered that by way of imposition of costs, the petitioners would plant trees of deciduous and perennial nature, on both sides of the proposed expressway, at a running stretch of 1km each towards the right and 1km towards left side of the highway (a total of 4km), by taking temple as the central point.Petitioners shall give a proof of the plantation along with a letter of proof issued by the area official of horticulture department, who shall supervise the plantation as per norms, the court said, adding that compliance be made within a period of three months.High court registry has also been asked to follow up the compliance and report the same to the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/court-finds-allegations-false-asks-kaithal-villagers-to-plant-trees-on-4km-of-highway-101631645984993.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Give written apology or face Rs100-cr defamation suit: Maharashtra min to BJP leader||Shiv Sena minister Anil Parab has slapped a defamation notice against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya over the latter’s allegations made against the minister. In the notice, Parab has demanded that Somaiya issue a written apology, delete all the tweets against the minister and cease from levelling further allegations. If Somaiya fails to adhere to these demands, Parab will file a defamations suit worth ₹100 crore against him, the notice read.Earlier this week, rural development department minister Hasan Mushrif, against whom Somaiya has levelled corruption allegations, too, had said that he will file ₹100-crore defamation suit against the BJP leader.In the past few months, Somaiya has alleged that Parab had allegedly built “illegal” resorts in Dapoli at Ratnagiri and an “unauthorised” office on Mhada (Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority) land in Bandra (East).In the notice through Parab’s lawyer, the minister said due to “political rivalry, envy and grudge”, Somaiya has levelled “defamatory, malicious, and mala fide” campaign of making and publishing libellous matter”. He said Somaiya has been involved in making “false and reckless allegations” since May.Through the notice, Parab asked Somaiya to desist from making defamatory statements, delete all tweets made against him and issue an unconditional written apology, which is to be published in at least two newspapers. If Somaiya neglects the demand within 72 hours, Parab will seek damages worth ₹100 crore, the notice stated.Despite attempts, Somaiya was not reachable for a comment and text messages to the BJP leader did not get any response till the time of going to press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/give-written-apology-or-face-rs100-cr-defamation-suit-maharashtra-min-to-bjp-leader-101631645863021.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Despite govt efforts, water still out of reach of disadvantaged groups||Despite huge investments to improve access to urban water supply and sanitation by the Union and state governments, urban slums and informal communities have fallen out of its ambit, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic when the focus on hand-washing facilities and overall physical hygiene was utmost to keep the viral infection at bay, experts said on Tuesday, while speaking at the 2021 edition of the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) India’s annual flagship event, Connect Karo. The five-day conference seeks to highlight ways and the need for making cities inclusive and resilient, have access to water, sanitation, hygiene and healthy spaces. Hindustan Times is the media partner of the conference.In the session “Water Tales: Inclusion Stories from the AACO (Accelerating Access Coalition) Services”, experts discussed how the lack of access to WASH (safe water, sanitation and hygiene) services is impacting disadvantaged and vulnerable communities, thereby posing a serious risk to the health of the community at large, in particular during the times of the pandemic. The session highlighted various initiatives that voice the stories of such communities across Indian cities including the national capital.Experts said despite schemes such as Smart Cities Mission and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) being launched, an estimated (US) $123 billion is needed to meet universal WASH provisioning for all urban areas. Equity and inclusion are key components that remain missing even at present, as seen in urban slums and informal communities-- people are often seen crowding around the water tanker to fulfil their daily water needs unmindful of social distancing.Around 24% of urban poor households depend on communal or shared sanitation facilities. Slum households were forced to ignore social distancing protocols at public stand-posts and water tankers to collect the limited water available. “Shared toilet and bathing facilities increased the risk of transmission of the coronavirus disease in these communities. Almost 32% of slum residents across India were exposed to the virus in 2020,” a commentary titled “Accelerating Access to WASH and Healthy Spaces to Slum Communities in Urban India: Renewed Urgency Post-Covid-19” by the WRI India said.One of the stories shared on the issue highlighted that last year, with the pandemic-induced lockdown, in Safda Ghevra, a resettlement colony in Delhi, the water tanker would come only once in two or three days. People would not take bath for three or four days. Community toilets were two for all 13 blocks of the colony, housing around 4,000 people.“The issue of toilets is an equally pressing issue in slum communities. Swacch Bharat Mission prescribes one seat per 35 men and one seat per 25 women. Informal communities in Mumbai are severely underserviced with one seat per 190 user; Delhi had a shortfall of about 50% in 2016 of the required 36,000 seats in community toilets,” the commentary continued.Ruchika Shiva, India Country Coordinator of IRC (an international think tank that works with NGOs, governments across the world for WASH), said that all of these issues -- water supply, sanitation, municipal solid waste --- cannot be addressed in silos. “All these are interlinked and hence integrated long-term solutions are required for addressing these at a mass level. For instance, in Delhi, the leachate from Bhalaswa landfill has contaminated groundwater, which has been impacting the health of people living around the landfill,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/connect-karo-2021-despite-govt-efforts-water-still-out-of-reach-of-disadvantaged-groups-101631645862036.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Investing in tech: Haryana to get its own drones, pilots, experts for aerial mapping||The Manohar Lal Khattar-led Haryana government plans to go big on the use of drone technology by investing in the establishment of a company to help undertake aerial surveys, imaging, mapping and facilitate decision support activities for various organs of the government.Officials said the soon to be incorporated government-owned company will be named Drone Imaging and Information Systems of Haryana (DRIISHYA).The company aims to provide innovative, flexible, and cost-effective drone-based geographical information solutions to the state government, he said. It will acquire, manage, operate and maintain drones and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) as imaging and information collection platforms with sensors of various kinds.Officials said the acquisition, management, operations and maintenance of drones will be in accordance with the guidelines of the director general of civil aviation and the central government.Images and raw information collected will be processed at a data processing, applications and management centre to be established by the company. The base maps generated can be used along with other information layers for utilisation by departments in the state government.Drones and pilotsInitially, the company plans to acquire around 20 drones and set up a data processing, applications and management centre at an approximate cost of Rs.20 crore. The share capital raised will be utilised to create assets such as drones, sensors, rovers, information systems hardware and applications software and licenses.Headquartered at Karnal, DRIISHYA will utilise the facilities at Karnal airport for undertaking its operations. Officials said Karnal is centrally-located and has a landing strip which can be utilised for drone and UAV operations. The facilities at the Karnal airport can be used for testing and housing the drones with the sensors.The company also plans to hire 10 trainee pilots who will be put through training for drone-flying operations at the flight civil aviation centre, Manesar. They will have to obtain the requisite licences from DGCA before deployment for drone operations.The company will also recruit GIS professionals and experts in imaging, image processing, surveying, data processing and applications development. The CM will be the chairperson and the chief secretary will be the senior vice-chairperson of the company’s board.Principal secretary to the CM, V Umashankar said drones and unmanned aerial systems have emerged as a cost-effective medium for imaging and location-based geographical information collection which on processing can provide decision support systems for governance.“The state government has launched a project for imaging and mapping properties through a large-scale mapping project where drones were used as the platform for capturing high resolution aerial images for mapping activities. With the growing use of drones and UAVs for imaging and information collection, we felt a need to set up a government corporation,’’ he said.From urban planning, mining to crowd controlOfficials said DRIISHYA will provide imaging, processing, information collection and analysis, and decision support systems to the town and country planning department for urban development planning and identifying unauthorised colonisation.Similarly, it will help in assessment of mining activities in mining zones, will be used for property assessment and spotting unauthorised constructions in municipal areas, used for updating land maps and records.“It can also provide planning support for construction of roads and canals, crowd monitoring by the police, forest protection and management activities. It will act as a repository for geographical imaging and information systems,” Umashankar said.DRIISHYA’S MANDATE- Conduct drone-based activities to provide authentic and quality imaging data with analytics for aiding good governance- Do aerial surveys, cadastral mapping, land records, base maps for planning, aerial surveillance for law-and-order monitoring- Build authentic data repository and analytics unit for servicing various geospatial requirements- Recommend policy recommendations to expand and facilitate the ease of operations of drones||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/investing-in-tech-haryana-to-get-its-own-drones-pilots-experts-for-aerial-mapping-101631645860960.html
15-09-2021||Noida||Domestic help drugs, robs elderly couple in Noida||An elderly couple was drugged and robbed of cash and jewellery worth over ₹3.5 lakh allegedly by their 22-year-old domestic help in Sector 27. Police have launched a manhunt for the domestic help, a native of Nepal, and her accomplice. According to police, the incident took place on Sunday night but was discovered on Monday as the elderly couple -- Janak Sachdeva (70) and his wife Sudesh (65) -- and another domestic help, Roshni, were found unconscious when the family’s washerwoman came to the house around noon. Police said later they had been unconscious for over 12 hours. The washerwoman found the doors open and the three unconscious, police said, adding that she immediately raised an alarm and alerted the neighbours who rushed them to a hospital. The two suspects were identified as Lakshmi, the domestic help, and her accomplice Sanjay who worked as a car cleaner in the area for the past five years. The Sachdevas had employed the woman only 12 days ago on the recommendation of Sanjay. “We have another helper, Roshni, who lives with us. On Sunday night, Lakshmi prepared tea for all of us but she laced it with some drug which made us lose consciousness,” said Sachdeva in his police complaint.Police said that all the victims are now doing fine. “After taking their statements, a police team tried to locate Sanjay for more information about Lakshmi, but he is also on the run. Prima facie it seems that the two were working together,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1.A case was registered at Sector 20 police station on Monday night against Lakshmi and Sanjay under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc. with intent to commit an offence) and 381 (theft by servant). “Efforts are underway to trace them. The family does not have any identity proof of the woman. An investigation in the matter is on,” said the DCP.The Noida police have urged the general public to refrain from employing any unverified staff or help to avoid such incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/domestic-help-drugs-robs-elderly-couple-in-noida-101631645859740.html
15-09-2021||Other||Women behind fake vaccination camp in Moga wanted easy money||Moga Two days after three women were held for organising a fake Covid-19 vaccination camp, police investigation shows that their motive was money. The women wanted to administer multi-vitamins instead of the vaccine jab to gullible villagers and make easy money. The accused have been identified as Manpreet Kaur, of Pandori village, Lovepreet Kaur, of Lohgarh Basti, and Harpreet Kaur, of Mandir village, in Moga. Investigation officer assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Major Singh said, “All three women are local daily wagers and they wanted to make money through the fake vaccination camp. On Sunday, they had organised this camp free of cost to check the situation and try out their plan.” “They were about to inject the first person, when officials of the local health department reached their camp and stopped them. The three were arrested on the health department’s complaint,” the ASI added. Senior medical officer at Primary Health Centre (PHC), Rakesh Kumar, said a local ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) worker first got wind of the fake vaccination camp and informed an Auxiliary Nursing Midwife (ANM) nurse. “She, along with other employees of the health department, reached the camp and exposed the women for holding a fake vaccination camp,” he added. Police have booked the three women under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/women-behind-fake-vaccination-camp-in-moga-wanted-easy-money-101631645858163.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Manjinder Sirsa acquitted in case of rioting at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj in 2012||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Tuesday acquitted Shiromani Akali Dal leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa and four others in a case of rioting at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib in November 2012.Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sachin Gupta granted relief to Sirsa, Manjeet Singh GK, Kuldeep Singh Bhogal, Paramjeet Singh Rana and Chaman Singh, accused of rioting and causing hurt to others during a meeting of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC).All the accused were charged under section 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees or upwards), read with section 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of IPC.“It is clear that prosecution has failed to establish the charges against the accused persons, beyond reasonable doubts and accordingly, accused persons are acquitted for the said offences,” the court said.According to police, on November 15, 2012 at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib, New Delhi, a meeting of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) was convened and all the accused and others used force and violence and deadly weapon like swords for the purpose of rioting.The accused persons were trying to obtain possession of records of DSGMC and in the event of failing to take possession of records, to burn the records, it said.Members of the unlawful assembly including the accused caused grievous hurt and injury to one person and caused simple injuries to two others, it said adding that they also damaged the property of the Gurdwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/manjinder-sirsa-acquitted-in-case-of-rioting-at-gurdwara-rakab-ganj-in-2012-101631645857110.html
15-09-2021||Other||Now, apply for hostel at time of admission to Allahabad University||Now, those seeking admission at the Allahabad University (AU) and wanting to avail hostel accommodation too will have to apply for it while filling up the admission application forms itself, AU officials said. So far application for hostel accommodation was made weeks after admission to AU. Two new hostels at the Allahabad University (AU), one each for male and women students, besides a new extension building for the International House (hostel) are expected to be functional over the next couple of weeks, AU officials said. Once the new hostels are ready, 382 additional students could be allotted accommodation, officials add. Construction of two hostels and the extension of International House had started last year and is set to be completed in a record time, officials said. The construction agency would soon be handing over the buildings to the AU administration as the work is in its final stage, officials said. The women hostel has come up in the premises of Women’s Hostel (WH) campus of AU and would have rooms to accommodate 124 women hostellers. The male hostel has come up at Chatham Lines and could accommodate 224 hostellers. Chatham Lines would also have a 34 room International House too. “Continuous efforts are being made to increase the infrastructure facilities at AU. Once the new facilities come up, students especially those from across country and abroad desirous of seeking admission and hostel accommodation in AU will have an extra reason to smile,” said AU PRO Jaya Kapoor. The process for admission at AU and its constituent colleges has begun and in the first three days, over 28,000 aspirants have already registered themselves online. Till Monday, 6,894 candidates had filled the form for admission in various courses whereas 28,459 registered online. Chairman of AU Admission Cell Prof Ashish Saxena said that in three days, 3663 candidates have registered for the courses of Institute of Professional Studies (IPS) and 112 have deposited the fees. For LLB and BA-LLB, 4,089 students have registered and 971 have submitted the admission forms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-apply-for-hostel-at-time-of-admission-to-allahabad-university-101631645800845.html
15-09-2021||Dehradun||Crocodile found eating body of man missing for 3 days in Uttarakhand: Official||Dehradun: Authorities are investigating the death of a man after a crocodile was discovered devouring a dead body near a pond in Udham Singh Nagar district’s Khatima area on Tuesday. The man, identified by a forest official as Sukhdev Singh Debu, had been missing for three days.It is not clear whether he was killed by the crocodile or he was murdered and his body dumped in the pond.Kundan Kumar, divisional forest officer (DFO)Terai East Forest division said, a man in Raghuliya village who went to drive away some monkeys spotted a crocodile eating what he thought were human remains.“When he reached his farm, he saw a crocodile eating a person near a pond. He immediately informed the other villagers and a crowd gathered at the spot. Village head Gurmej Singh informed police and forest officials about the incident, following which Surai forest range team rushed to the spot and found that the crocodile devouring the dead body,” Kumar said.Forest and police officials have sent the remains of the man’s body for an autopsy to determine the cause of death.The dead man, Sukhdev Singh Debu, was a resident of Raghuliya village in Khatima.Citing statements by villagers, Kumar said Debu was last reported going for a walk in the fields adjoining Khakra pond in Surai forest range three days ago.“But he never returned home. Prima facie, it seems that he was killed by the crocodile, but actual cause of death will be known after the post-mortem report is received” the senior forest official added.In Uttarakhand, crocodiles are found in the Corbett landscape, Terai area, some areas of Haridwar forest division and Rajaji National Park landscape. According to the wildlife census released by the state forest department in June last year, the crocodile numbers in Uttarakhand have risen from 123 in 2008 to 451 in 2020. India has three of the world’s 23 crocodilian species. Uttarakhand has two of them - Mugger Crocodile and Gharial (in Corbett landscape). Mugger Crocodile (Crocodylus palustris), the most widespread freshwater croc species is found throughout India, except the extreme north.In September last year, an eight-year-old girl was killed by a crocodile in Haridwar forest division. The 8-year-old Radhika and her sister had gone near a water body in Kudibaghwanpur village in Laksar area of Haridwar district to pluck some flowers, when she was attacked by a crocodile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/crocodile-found-eating-body-of-man-missing-for-3-days-in-uttarakhand-official-101631645556973.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||250 fined in Delhi for ‘trying to hide’ vehicle registration numbers||Delhi traffic police on Tuesday fined 250 vehicles for trying to hide registration plates, senior police officials said.Muktesh Chander, special commissioner of police (traffic), said that a special drive was started on Tuesday to prosecute drivers who were deploying various means to hide their registration numbers in order to dodge the police.“Our teams have been noticing that many drivers were using ribbons and ropes etc to hide their registration numbers. These methods were being used to prevent speeding and red light violation cameras from reading their number plates and in turn saving them from challans. My message to these drivers is that such ‘hacks’ are not going to work,” Chander said.He added, “Delhi traffic police is keeping a close eye on such vehicles. Algorithms can figure out the correct registration number of the car and traffic cops will reach their homes to prosecute them.”Chander said that in the special drive started against such vehicles, local traffic teams were manually inspecting registration plates of vehicles and any obstruction to the plates were removed and drivers were fined. On the first day of the drive, till 5pm, over 250 vehicles were prosecuted.A week back, the Delhi traffic police had also started a drive against construction vehicles that hide their registration numbers by splashing cement mix onto the plate.Last week, 149 vehicles working on construction sites, were fined after being caught with hidden registration plates.“Many cement concrete mix carriers hide their number plates deliberately to avoid prosecutions by traffic police. If the drivers want they could keep it clean. Such vehicles will continue to be prosecuted now,” the traffic chief added.Senior traffic officials said that the aim of such drives are to ensure that policing and prosecutions are done effectively and drivers are not able to dodge the law in any way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi250-fined-for-trying-to-hide-vehicle-registration-numbers-101631645498362.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Exhibitions may get relief from ongoing Covid restrictions||New Delhi:The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) is likely to allow exhibitions in the national capital in its next order, said Brijesh Goyal, leader of Aam Aadmi Party’s trade wing.Goyal, who is also the chairman of the Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI), said he along with a group of exhibition and event organisers met Delhi industry minister Satyendar Jain and top officials of the DDMA this week to discuss the issue.“Right now weekly markets, cinemas, schools, metro, malls, markets etc. have opened in Delhi.Exhibitions and events should also be exempted. The exhibition industry has suffered a lot due to Covid-19. If the restrictions are lifted then nearly 40,000 people will get back to work,” he said.“We got full assurance from the ministers that exhibitions will also get relief in the next meeting of the DDMA. There are more than 100 exhibition business to customer (B2C) organisers in Delhi. So far, the DDMA has only allowed business to business exhibitions,” Goyal said.There are no such restrictions in Noida, Gurugram and Ghaziabad because of which many programs have been shifted to neighbouring cities and Delhi is losing on revenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-exhibitions-may-get-relief-from-ongoing-covid-restrictions-101631645496900.html
15-09-2021||Other||Cyber helpdesk to come up at each police station in Praygaraj||Cyber helpdesk with specially trained policemen would soon be set up in each police station in the district for quick registration of complaints of cybercrime and initiating prompt action, police officials said. The 15-day special training for such policemen would start from Wednesday, police officials said adding that cops with technical knowledge would be given preference in training. This initiative has been taken on the instructions of director general of police (DGP) Mukul Goyal, police officials said. Officials admitted that cases of cyber frauds were on the rise and that even the High Court had pulled up police and banks for failing to control them. “A computer operator, woman constable at women help desk and four constables and four sub inspectors at each police station will be given special training from Wednesday in controlling cybercrimes and helping the aggrieved,” inspector general (IG) of police (range) KP Singh said. At present, those who approach local police stations with complaints regarding cybercrimes are first sent to cyber cell and their FIR is registered at police stations after enquiry by cyber cell. Cases are registered at cyber police station only if the fraud is worth over ₹1 lakh, officials said. Cyber fraud victims usually fail to get their money back if immediate action is not taken. However, in cases where prompt action is initiated the police can freeze the bank account of conmen and can recover cash within 24 hours, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyber-helpdesk-to-come-up-at-each-police-station-in-praygaraj-101631645442144.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||CHB extends last date for e-auction of 191 properties to October 12||The Chandigarh Housing Board has extended the last date for its latest e-auction of residential and commercial properties to October 12.Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer of CHB, said, “Earlier, we were planning to keep the last date for e-tendering on October 8, but considering the festive season, it has now been scheduled for October 12.” On offer are 132 leasehold commercial properties, 31 leasehold residential properties and 28 freehold residential properties. Most of the commercial properties are in Manimajra and Sector 61. Some are also available in Sectors 38W, 40A and 51A. These include small booths, big booths and service booths. With a 10 to 20% cut and change in computation method, the reserve price of CHB properties in its latest e-auction has fallen by 10 to 50%.CHB committee formed to examine need-based changesCHB’s board of directors on Tuesday constituted an eight-member committee under the chairmanship of its secretary Rakesh Popli to examine requests for further need-based changes in its residential units.Apart from the secretary, CHB’s chairman, chief engineer, chief architect, architect, executive engineer (design), executive engineer (public health), executive engineer (electrical) and executive engineer (enforcement) will be members of the committee.“The committee may consult nominated members of the board, RWAs and other stakeholders for some innovative solutions,” said Garg. The report of the committee will be placed before the board for consideration and appropriate decisions, he added. Allottees have been demanding a one-time policy on the lines of Delhi model. More than 60,000 houses and more than 4.5 lakh people are affected by the need based changes regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chb-extends-last-date-for-e-auction-of-191-properties-to-october-12-101631645441094.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||DDA to allot flats to 2,700 families from JJ cluster||New Delhi: A decade after it prepared the scheme for in-situ redevelopment of three slum clusters in Kalkaji Extension in south Delhi, the Delhi Development Authority is going to start allotment of flats to 2,700 families living in the Bhoomiheen camp, one of the three settlements. .The decision was taken in a meeting, chaired by Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, on Tuesday along with other important decisions.Close to 8,500 families in three Jhuggi Jhopri (JJ) clusters--- Jawahar Lal Camp, Navjivan Camp and Bhoomiheen Camp—in Kalkaji have waited for a long time to get a house. In 2013, the then chief minister of Delhi, Sheila Dikshit, laid the foundation stone of the in-situ redevelopment. It was to be done in a phased manner. A senior DDA official said, “The flats (3,024) have been constructed near the existing slum cluster on three hectares of land and 93% of the work has been completed. We plan to finish the work by October 2021.”Housing for residents of the remaining two clusters (Jawahar Lal Camp and Navjivan Camp) will come up on the land that will be vacated by shifting residents of Bhoomiheen camp to the newly constructed flats. “The housing for these two camps will be developed on the public private partnership model, according to the new policy,” the senior official said. The land-owning agency has carried out the survey of eligible families at the Bhoomiheen camp. DDA officials said that eligible families will have to pay ₹1.12 lakh as beneficiary contribution and ₹30,000 for maintenance charges for five years, under the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board policy adopted by the DDA.DDA said it will also relocate slum dwellers of two rehabilitation projects in north Delhi, comprising three JJ clusters (GP Block in Pitampura, Kohat Enclave and Golden Park, Rampura) having about 2,068 households to the EWS flats at Bhalswa.Regularising alterations in DDA flatsFollowing regular complaints from DDA flat owners regarding access to common spaces, roof rights, illegal constructions by some allottees, permission to install solar panels etc, the DDA has approved some amendments in the policy for regularisation of addition/alterations to DDA flats, a second DDA official said.DDA has clarified that solar panels for domestic use are allowed but a decision on electric vehicle charging points will be taken later.A senior DDA official said, “Like group housing societies, balconies can be covered. However, common areas, including roof terrace and common staircase, up to rooftop, can’t be blocked by any resident for their exclusive use.”The land-owning agency has constituted a board of inquiry for hearing the public suggestions and objections before finalising the Master Plan of Delhi-2041.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dda-to-allot-flats-to-2-700-families-from-jj-cluster-101631645437330.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Task force submits report on NEP to Maharashtra CM Thackeray||The task force set up under scientist Dr Raghunath Mashelkar to study the provisions of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 submitted its report to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday. Thackeray said the Maharashtra government will adopt measures at the earliest to keep the state ahead in terms of education. He added that the government will also focus on innovative concepts in education as it is the need of the hour. The report will be tabled before the state cabinet soon. NEP 2020 was cleared by the Centre last July, but the state government did not implement it immediately. It formed an 18-member panel under Dr Mashelkar in October 2020 to study the policy and make recommendations to the state.Thackeray said education is an important topic and will shape the future of the generation. He added that education is going to be a very important part of the post-Covid world as education will lead to employment. CM said that the pandemic had given push to work from home and online learning, which has to be carried forward. “All the steps will be taken to keep Maharashtra on the path of academic progress by implementing the suggestions [of the task force] at the earliest. Digital education is important in changing times, but it also requires the creation of necessary infrastructure... It is also necessary to reduce the burden in school bags. With changing times, digital learning and learning different languages such as English, German are also essential,” he said in a statement. He added that children immediately grasp what is taught if they are taught through animation or creative visuals. Therefore, it is necessary to focus on such innovative concepts in the future, he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/task-force-submits-report-on-nep-to-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-101631645377098.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||900 more ICU beds for kids as Delhi prepares for next Covid wave||This month, hospitals run by the Delhi government will create 640 paediatric intensive care unit (ICU) beds, while those run by the Centre, the municipal corporations and private bodies will add another 263 such beds under the government’s plan to prepare for a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. These will be part of a total of 2,328 beds for children created across hospitals, said a Delhi government order issued on August 31.After the huge second wave of infection, when Delhi saw daily cases peak to over 28,000, the government set up a committee to prepare for a third wave. It recommended the creation of over 37,000 Covid beds, including 12,000 for ICU. But as children might be more vulnerable to the third wave and there aren’t enough ICU beds for them in the capital, the committee recommended the creation of additional infrastructure for them.Lok Nayak hospital, to take one example, is one of the biggest hospitals run by the Delhi government. There were just 20 ICU beds for children before the pandemic. Now, the hospital is working towards adding 150 more.“After the upgrade, we will have 170 ICU beds for children. The beds will be the same that the hospital has, but there is a need for special equipment for children,” said a senior doctor of Lok Nayak hospital on condition of anonymity.The order factors that in as it has ordered the creation of new beds with ventilators, intubation kits, medicines and other such things appropriate for children and babies.At Burari hospital, which was operationalised last year for treatment of Covid-19 patients, 85 beds will be earmarked for children. Of these, 20 will be ICU beds. “All major hospitals will earmark nearly 10 to 15% of the beds for children. These beds might be used for adults also, if needed, but they will be equipped with ventilators and other equipment that can be used for children. We will arrange for medicines and food fit for children, and also train our staff to treat them. We will also make provisions for admitting one Covid-positive family member along with the children,” said a senior doctor from the hospital, requesting anonymity.Thirteen existing hospitals and new blocks in Delhi government hospitals will add 1,475 Covid-19 beds for children, of which 640 will be ICU beds. Dr Arun Gupta, president of Delhi Medical Council and one of the members of the aforementioned Delhi government committee, said, “We recommended creating hybrid beds that can be used for adults as well as paediatric patients. This is because there is uncertainty over whether there will be a third wave and whether it will affect children disproportionately. However, we will be prepared for any scenario.”He added, “There has always been a shortage of PICU and NICU (neonatal ICU) beds, especially in the government hospitals. A 20-bed ward would usually have 30 children and these are the children born within the hospitals; it is very difficult for other children born in private hospitals to get transferred into a government hospital. The Delhi government had plans to increase the NICU and PICU beds in their forthcoming hospitals anyway, the pandemic has sped up the process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/900-more-icu-beds-for-kids-as-delhi-prepares-for-next-covid-wave-101631645258805.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bats for Kanjurmarg plot for Metro at Niti Aayog meet||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday batted for an amicable solution on transfer of Kanjurmarg land for the proposed integrated car depot of various Metro lines at Kanjurmarg, saying it would help save huge cost of land acquisition, construction and preserve the forest. The controversial shift of the car depot from Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg has delayed the Metro projects, amid the dispute over the ownership of the 41.27-hectare plot at Kanjurmarg. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray during his meeting with Niti Aayog officials on Tuesday in Mumbai requested the Centre’s assistance for its infrastructure, transport, housing, health projects. It also demanded a share in tax/cess collection on diesel-petrol, extension of GST compensation period by three more years, revision of NDRF norms for calamity-affected people and sought clarification on the national stand on Chinese investment in India. The state also requested the Centre for transfer of 45 acres of railway land for Dharavi Redevelopment and sanctions/extensions of loans by international financial institutions for various infrastructure projects. In a presentation before the Niti Ayog team, the state requested the Centre to amicably resolve the land-related litigation. Besides private parties, the department for promotion of industry and internal trade too has claimed the ownership over the land earmarked for the car depot at Kanjurmarg. The pending litigation in the Bombay High Court has delayed the project resulting in the escalation in the cost. Thackeray, during his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 7 had requested for ‘necessary directions to all concerned’ for to resolve the issue to help the construction of the car depot for Metro lines – 2, 4, 4A, 6 and 14 worth ₹58,818 crore. The issue was once again pushed during the Niti Ayog meeting on Tuesday. The government has also requested for extension to the closing date of the Asian Development Bank loan worth $926 million availed for Metro lines 2A, 2B and 7 by two years to June 30, 3035. The state has also demanded permission for construction of a Metro-7 station on defence land at Kandivli. It has also demanded clarity on the policy over development in the vicinity of Defence establishments. The state also requested for speedy nod to the detailed project report rail/Metro projects under implementation in Nashik, Pune and Nagpur. The meeting was attended by vice-chairman of Niti Ayog Rajiv Kumar, member Ramesh Chand, CEO Amitabh Kant and other officials. Besides the CM and his deputy Ajit Pawar, key officials from various government departments were also present in the meeting held at Sahyadri guest house. “Kumar commended the efforts by Maharashtra in containing the spread of Covid-19. Kant applauded the state policy rolled out to promote electric vehicles. He also asked the state to ensure the rise in EVs and their charging stations,” statement issued by the CMO read. The state once again pushed for release of dues of GST compensation of more than ₹30,000 crore. It has also said that the compensation period should be extended by three to five years beyond its five-year period ends in June 2022. The Centre has also been requested for devolution of additional excise duty (AED), Road and Agriculture cess levied on petrol and diesel. “Against Maharashtra’s contribution of ₹32,432 crore towards central taxes in 2020-21, we received only ₹383 crore in devolution. Similarly, against the collection of ₹14,032 crore in the form of petrol in 2020-21, we received devolution of ₹138 crore,” the state has said. Amid the pandemic, the state has requested for early sanction of ADB loan worth ₹5,176 crore for construction of districts, sub-districts, mental, women hospitals and trauma centres. Maharashtra government has also demanded 100% contribution by the Centre in the second phase of Emergency Covid Response Package for Covid mitigation measures. The second phase, to be implemented till March 2022, costs ₹1,368 crore with the state’s share of 40%. The state wants the Centre to bear the entire cost on the lines of the first phase worth ₹1,185 crore implemented till March 21. “The meeting has been fruitful as the members of Niti Ayog assured to take up the issues with the departments concerned,” said an official from the finance department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bats-for-kanjurmarg-plot-for-metro-at-niti-aayog-meet-101631645196909.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi University prepares for phased reopening for final-year UG and PG students||Delhi University colleges and departments are set to welcome final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students back to campus from Wednesday for practical and laboratory work as part of a phased reopening plan announced last week.While not all DU colleges will resume in-person classes right away, many principals are expecting students to come to access library reading rooms and meet teachers.Several students said they are looking forward to returning to college. Aarushi Sharma, a third-year undergraduate student studying computer science in Miranda House, said she would visit the college library on Wednesday ahead of her “lab-turn” on Friday. Several colleges, including Miranda House, have created a schedule for access to laboratories to ensure physical distancing and only 50% of seating capacity at all times.“I haven’t visited my college since February after the second wave halted all offline activities. Half of my graduation has been spent in online mode so I am really looking forward to going to campus, accessing the laboratory, meeting my teachers and friends. Not all of my classmates are back from their hometowns. Since we are just allowed to visit for practical classes, it won’t be feasible for them to come and rent accommodation only for lab work,” said Sharma.Departmental and college libraries have been allowed to reopen from September 6. While all teaching and non-teaching staff have been asked to be vaccinated at the earliest, DU has made it mandatory for all students visiting campus to be at least partially vaccinated.“Laboratory or practical classes and similar activities for final-year UG/PG students may be allowed in the offline mode from September 15 with a maximum 50% of the working capacity of classroom/laboratory/hall room following the principle of rotation. Only a limited number of experiments/exercises/practicals may be selected that are considered essential or important in the semester,” the university order released last week stated.Manoj Sinha, principal of Aryabhatta College and general secretary of DU Principals’ Association, said that they are taking it slow for now. The college has two science courses and three lab-based courses.“A very small group is coming to college on Wednesday. For now, departments are calling 10 students per batch and these students are at least partially vaccinated. These students will act as peer mentors in the coming days and train other students, engage in confidence-building measures and create awareness on Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Sinha said, adding that library access to limited students is available every day and issuance of laptops is already ongoing.However, not all colleges are expecting many students on Wednesday. Simrit Kaur, principal of Shri Ram College of Commerce, said, “We have informed students that our library reading rooms would be open and issuing books has also been allowed. Students can come for these activities. Since we have lab work for only one paper, we have asked students to inform us if they want to attend online or offline classes. Accordingly, the lab classes can be arranged on Sunday so that it doesn’t disrupt our timetable.”Several departments have also prepared to welcome final-year postgraduate students back on campus. Ashok Prasad, head of the chemistry department in the university, said the department had conducted an online survey to assess how many students want to come for offline practical lessons.“We asked students for information on their vaccination status and asked about their preferences for practicals. Of around 300 students in the final-year PG course, we have created six groups of 50 students each for practicals. Of 50, 25 are being allowed to come on one day and even among these, around 10 have opted for online practical lessons under which the teachers demonstrate the experiments and share the recorded videos with students. This is because our students have moved out of Delhi and have expressed their inability to come for offline classes as their parents are worried about the third wave,” Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-university-prepares-for-phased-reopening-for-final-year-ug-and-pg-students-101631645076882.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Tweets highlight run-down state of Delhi’s Begumpuri Masjid||Aam Aadmi Party’s Malviya Nagar MLA Somnath Bharti on Tuesday sought help from the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and union tourism minister Kishan Reddy to restore the area’s Begumpuri Masjid to its original state after its deteriorating condition was highlighted on Twitter by several people. “Thanks for bringing this to my notice. Being area MLA, I seek a response and help from you on this issue. Hope they do whatever is required to bring the monument to its original shape and develop this as tourist place,” tweeted Bharti on Tuesday, tagging the Twitter accounts of ASI, the tourism minister, the secretary of the ministry of culture, and historian William Dalrymple. On Monday evening, Dalrymple had shared a photo of the mosque on Twitter and said that the mosque’s roof had collapsed due to the rain. “The roof of the Begumpur Masjid just collapsed in the rain due to ASI neglect. With better management, this vast medieval wonder could still be a major revenue-earning tourist site. Instead, it’s being allowed to collapse & disappear,” he tweeted. On Tuesday, when HT visited the mosque, routine repair works were being carried out at the building. There were huge stones and debris in two corners of the mosque where portions of the roof collapsed. ASI officials and security guards at the mosque said that the roof had collapsed a few years ago and debris had accumulated on account of recent construction activity. HT could not independently verify whether the roof had collapsed recently. “In the past few weeks or months, no portion of the roof was damaged. The roof collapsed much earlier. There is debris since we are cleaning the water channel here. Water collects here and hence repair work is being undertaken,” said an ASI official on the premises.Another ASI official, who did not wish to be named, said that the roof had collapsed in 2019 and no recent damage had taken place during the monsoon season. “The roof collapsed in 2019. During this rainy season, so far, no portion of the roof has been damaged. The debris on location is due to the ongoing construction work. We are cleaning a drain on the mosque premises to facilitate the flow of water,” said the official. He said that repair work on the mosque was being carried out since 2019. “Due to the pandemic, the work has been disrupted but we are constantly carrying out repair work here. We are trying our best to repair the mosque and fix it,” said the official. Historian and author Rana Safvi who visited the mosque recently said that it needed attention. “This is the second largest mosque in Delhi after Jama Masjid. The courtyard is in a bad shape. It’s covered by overgrown grass. During my recent visit, I also saw some waterlogging,” said Safvi. Built during the 14th century, the mosque is said to be among seven renowned ones built by Feroz Shah Tughlaq’s prime minister Khan-i-Jahan-Junan Shah.In 2017, the ministry of culture designated the mosque as a monument of national importance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tweets-highlight-run-down-state-of-delhi-s-begumpuri-masjid-101631645017037.html
15-09-2021||Noida||Noida may see light rainfall for next three days, predicts IMD||The city will see light to moderate rainfall for the next three days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted on Tuesday. There was no rain in Noida on Tuesday. As a result, the maximum temperature in the city increased by a degree Celsius.The Met department recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures in Noida at 34°C and 24.2°C on Tuesday, against 33°C and 26.5°C a day earlier.The IMD predicted that Noida will see light to moderate rainfall on Wednesday and Thursday, which will increase in intensity on Friday.“The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover between 33°C and 25°C on Wednesday,” said an IMD official, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, weather analysts said that a new low-pressure area that had developed over the Bay of Bengal has reached Madhya Pradesh, and this will lead to rainfall in the region including Delhi-NCR (national capital region).“The low-pressure monsoon trough and area over parts of central and northern Madhya Pradesh will lead to an induced cyclonic effect and wind patterns, leading to rainfall in the region, including Delhi-NCR and eastern Rajasthan... The region may witness light to moderate rain on Wednesday afternoon, and the intensity may increase from Thursday. This will lead to a drop in the temperatures, bringing some respite to the people,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.Monsoon trough, a low-pressure line, oscillates north to south and brings rainfall to a region.The Safdarjung monitoring station, which is considered average for the NCR, recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures at 35.4°C and 24°C -- two degrees above and one degree below the season’s average, respectively.The humidity levels on Tuesday oscillated between 98% and 68%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-may-see-light-rainfall-for-next-three-days-predicts-imd-101631644956895.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi high court notices to cops over firm collecting samples for Covid test without licence||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Tuesday sought to know from the city and Haryana police as to what action they have taken on a complaint by the city government regarding an online health service aggregator allegedly collecting samples for Covid-19 tests without license.Justice Najmi Waziri, while issuing notices to the police of both the states, asked them to file their replies within two weeks.“You can’t have people being cheated by entities who are not even licensed to carry out these tests,” the court said and said that it is open for the government to identify more such private laboratories which are conducting Covid-19 tests without licenses.The high court was informed by Delhi government counsel that a complaint was made by the Delhi Health Department to the Commissioners of Delhi Police and Gurgaon Police against one entity identified by it which had violated the Covid-19 norms by illegally collecting samples for coronavirus tests, including RT-PCR.The court was hearing a plea seeking contempt action against the authorities for not adhering to the Delhi High Court’s earlier direction to take action against online health service aggregators which are operating illegally and collecting samples for Covid-19 tests.On Tuesday, the city government informed the court that the entity was found in violation of the confidentiality and privacy law by sharing patient’s information as stated on its website. The counsel said that though the complaint was made on June 24, they have not received any response or update from the two police departments.When the court asked as to whose responsibility it is to monitor the online health service aggregators, the Centre’s counsel said Delhi government was responsible for it while the state government’s advocate said it was not fully its responsibility and it was not that the state was sitting idle and doing nothing.To this, the court said the approach is not correct and “it is like a baby is delivered but nobody is ready to take care of it”.The ICMR, in its affidavit filed in response to the petition, has said that National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) certification is must for enrolment of private labs for Covid-19 testing and NABL certifies the readiness of labs to undertake molecular testing of SARS-Cov-2 before the research body allows them for testing.Regarding the online health service aggregators, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said monitoring of their activities does not come under its purview.The ICMR has said in its affidavit, filed through Central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia, that as on August 16, 2021, it has approved 134 (35 government and 99 private) labs in Delhi for RT-PCR, TrueNat, CBNAAT and other M-NAT testing platforms and the information is also available on its website.It said the ICMR has laid down SOPs and standard guidance for setting up Covid-19 testing labs and 14 mentor institutes have been set up in India to guide the labs on implementing these SOPs and set up a testing lab.“For Delhi, the mentor institute is AIIMS, Delhi. NABL certification is must for enrollment of private labs for testing. NABL certifies the readiness of labs to undertake molecular testing of SARS-Cov-2 before ICMR onboards them for testing. Through these parameters, it is ensured that labs meet the statutory standards for Covid-19 testing,” the affidavit said.A division bench of the high court, on August 6, 2020 had directed the AAP government to take action in accordance with law against online health service aggregators, who are operating illegally without any registration, after hearing all the stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-notices-to-cops-over-firm-collecting-samples-for-covid-test-without-licence-101631644836935.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt agencies told to make pollution combat plans||The Delhi government on Tuesday asked several agencies to submit by September 21 a detailed plan on managing various factors responsible for the spike in air pollution during winters in the city.The exercise is part of the government’s plan to formulate a 10-point winter action plan to combat pollution from internal as well as external factors, and set up specific strategies to prevent the air quality from going into the dangerous zone, like every year.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday organised a meeting of various agencies in the Capital, to set targets for winter. The recommendations by each agency will form a part of the final plan which is expected to be released by September 30. Rai said the effort is aimed at checking pollution sources within Delhi, as well as those in the neighbouring states.Addressing a press conference, Rai said in the Tuesday’s stakeholders’ meeting, agencies were tasked with controlling and managing various aspects of pollution control. The environment minister and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal have also sought a meeting with the Union environment minister to discuss the contribution of pollution from the neighbouring states, and talk about ways in which this can be tackled.Representatives from the three municipal corporations (north, south and east), Delhi Pollution Control Committee, environment department, transport department, Delhi traffic police, Public Works Department (PWD), Delhi Development Authority, Delhi Cantonment Board attended the meeting.“Each agency has been tasked to formulate a detailed plan, which needs to be submitted by September 21. Based on these individual plans, a holistic winter action plan will be released by September 30,” Rai said.Senior environment department officials said they have identified some of the major factors that contribute to the poor air quality in the city such as stubble burning, vehicular emissions, road and construction dust, waste burning and poor management of pollution hot spots.Despite several action plans, including the Supreme Court directed Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), being in place, every year during winters, Delhi’s air slip into emergency zone, turning the Capital’s air hazy and a public health hazard.Meteorological factors such as low temperatures, low wind speed and unfavourable wind directions, along with unchecked local pollution sources such as road dust, garbage burning, and vehicular emissions contribute to turn the national capital into a gas chamber.An analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) showed that in 2020, there were 23 days when Delhi’s particulate matter 2.5 concentration (PM 2.5) was in the ‘severe’ or worse categories.On Tuesday, the environment minister said to monitor the effective implementation of the winter action plan, the environment department has been assigned the task of coordinating with all other agencies.Explaining what tasks each agency will have to undertake, Rai said, “The work of controlling garbage burning has been assigned to the municipalities. They will have to come up with a plan to ensure that this garbage reaches the proper disposal sites.”Similarly, he said, the Delhi Traffic Police have also been asked to come up with steps for smooth traffic at congestion hot spots, and also repair traffic signals.“When vehicles are stuck at a spot for several minutes, it leads to an increase in pollution levels in the area. We have asked the traffic police to make a list of the congestion hot spots and try to come up with solutions to fix them,” Rai said.Environment experts, however, said the true test of this winter action plan will be in its implementation. “While the direction that they have taken with identifying the sources contributing to Delhi’s air is right, but the true test of this action plan will be how well this is implemented,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-agencies-told-to-make-pollution-combat-plans-101631644777007.html
15-09-2021||Noida||Get high security registration plates or face penalty, Ghaziabad transport dept to 4L vehicle owners||Nearly 400,000 vehicles under the jurisdiction of the Ghaziabad regional transport department do not have high security registration plates (HSRPs), and the owners/drivers may face penalty if they fail to do so by September 30 -- deadline set by the Uttar Pradesh government, said officials on Tuesday.The vendors have the capacity, said officials of the regional transport department in Ghaziabad, adding that awareness programmes are being conducted prior to the initiation of enforcement against erring vehicles. Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Hapur and Bulandshahr come under the jurisdiction of the Ghaziabad regional transport department.“We have nearly 600,000 such vehicles in our region, and only 200,000 vehicles have HSRPs. We have requested the owners to get the HSRPs before September 30, 2021, otherwise offenders will have to pay a penalty of ₹5,000,” said Arun Kumar, regional transport officer (RTO).“Vehicles registered before April 1, 2019, must get HSRPs at the earliest. Those registered after the mentioned date already come with HSRPs. As of now, nearly 30-35% vehicles have HSRPs, and the remaining must get HSRPs by September 30. Our vendors have a capacity of installing 25,000-50,000 such plates a day, but the demand is lesser nowadays,” Kumar added.If a vehicle owner can produce a proof/document showing that he/she applied for a HSRP, no penalty will be issued against the person.AK Pandey, assistant regional transport officer (ARTO-Administration), Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “We urge the people to get the HSRPs as soon as possible. The traffic police and the transport department will start an enforcement drive immediately after the deadline.”HSRPs are tamper-proof, as compared to the conventional number plates, and prevents counterfeiting of number plates too, said the officials. Information like engine number, chassis number, among others are required to issue such plates. A person can get a HSRP by making a booking through www.siam.in -- official website of the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers -- and the process usually takes up to three days, they added.Showrooms selling vehicles said that the demand for HSRPs has been declining, but may pick up with the commencement of the enforcement.Manish Shrivastava, general manager (sales) of Ace Honda in Noida Sector 11, said that he usually gets seven to eight bookings for HSRP per day. “Even two months ago, the bookings went up to 150 per day. We feel the numbers are likely to rise once the enforcement starts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/get-high-security-registration-plates-or-face-penalty-ghaziabad-transport-dept-to-4l-vehicle-owners-101631644656977.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||62 rose-ringed parakeets rescued from east Delhi||The Delhi forest department along with the help of local police has rescued 62 rose-ringed parakeets that were being smuggled and three snakes that were held captive, over the past two days, said officials.According to officials, the parakeets being carried in bags were rescued from east Delhi’s Mandawali area on Monday. “The local police found two men carrying bags full of parakeets in the area on Monday evening. The two men were arrested for smuggling the parakeets in order to sell them at the bird market better known as ‘kabootar market’, mostly indulging in illegal trade, near the Red Fort in Old Delhi. The parakeets were rescued and released in their natural habitat,” said Aditya Madanpotra, deputy conservator of forests (DCF), central division.He added that though these parakeets are common in forests and wooded areas, they are not commonly seen in residential colonies or other inhabited areas. Rose-ringed parakeets are protected under schedule -IV of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The smugglers have been booked by the police as well as by the forest department under relevant sections of the Act.Forest officials said that three snakes have also been rescued from snake charmers. A red sand boa and a common sand boa each were also rescued from north Delhi’s Indira Colony, Mukherjee Nagar on Monday. Also, an Indian cobra was rescued from another snake charmer on Tuesday. “The local police have arrested two men in the case. While the sand boas are non-venomous snakes, the Indian cobra is one of the most poisonous snakes found in the country. The snake charmers community trades these snakes amongst themselves and even uses them for robbing people by scaring them of the snake,” the DCF said.Besides, another red sand boa snake was rescued from a park in east Delhi’s Seelampur. “The snake has been rehabilitated. I appeal to people to not panic if they do come across a snake in a public place and ring up the police or the wildlife department. People panicking around stresses the animal and makes it difficult for it to be rescued,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/62-rose-ringed-parakeets-rescued-from-east-delhi-101631644596940.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Hindus most tolerant; India can’t be Afghanistan: Javed Akhtar in Shiv Sena’s Saamana||Noted screenwriter and lyricist Javed Akhtar in an article in Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana said that Hindus are the most “decent” and “tolerant” majority in the world.The piece was published on Tuesday, days after Akhtar faced criticism from all quarters, including a Saamana editorial, after he equated the Taliban with right-wing groups Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP).In a reference to former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis, who had said that purification at late Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray’s makeshift memorial after Union minister Narayan Rane’s visit reflected the Shiv Sena’s “Talibani mindset”, Akhtar, without naming the Bharatiya Janata Party leader, said not even the worst critic of CM Uddhav Thackeray can accuse him of any discrimination or injustice.The former Member of Parliament, in an interview to a news channel on September 3, had said, “Just like the Taliban want an Islamic State, there are those who want a Hindu Rashtra. These people are of the same mindset – be it Muslims, Christians, Jews or Hindus.” “Of course, the Taliban is barbaric and their actions are reprehensible, but those supporting RSS, VHP and Bajrang Dal are also the same.” On September 6, Saamana had published an editorial wherein it mildly criticised Akhtar, saying that linking RSS-VHP with Taliban is disrespectful towards Hindu culture. Akhtar, in Saamana, said he had faced a lot of criticism following his interview and this article was a way to respond to all. “Recently I had said in an interview that Hindus are the most decent and tolerant majority in the whole world. I have also said many times that India can never become Afghanistan because Indians are naturally not fundamentalists. Being moderate and taking a balanced stand is in the DNA,” he said. He, however, stood by his statement on similarities between the Taliban and right-wing mindset and said Taliban set up an Islamic state while the Hindu right-wing intends to form a Hindu Rashtra. Besides, like the Taliban, the right wing are curbing freedom of women, while . “I see a lot of similarities between the Taliban mindset and the right-wing ideology. This has angered people but the reality is that there are truly many similarities. The Taliban are forming an Islamic government, the Hindu right-wing wants a Hindu Rashtra. The Taliban want to curb women’s rights, the Hindu right-wing has also made it clear that they don’t like the freedom of women and girls; from Uttar Pradesh to Karnataka and Gujarat, young men and women have been beaten mercilessly for sitting together in a restaurant or a garden or any public place,” he said. In an indirect jab at Fadnavis, Akhtar said that it is interesting that while supporters of the Hindu-right wing were upset with him, “one of their own prominent political leaders” says the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government has a “Talibani mindset.” “I am not a member of any of the three parties which in a coalition are governing Maharashtra extremely well under the able chief ministership of Uddhav Thackeray. Today, his popularity in Maharashtra rivals that of Mamata Banerjee in Bengal and MK Stalin in Tamil Nadu. Not even his worst critics can accuse him of any discrimination or injustice. How and why can anyone call Uddhav Thackeray’s government ‘Talibani’ is beyond my understanding,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hindus-most-tolerant-india-can-t-be-afghanistan-javed-akhtar-in-shiv-sena-s-saamana-101631644540999.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||India most vulnerable to climate crisis: Report||India is facing the triple challenge of ensuring a successful recovery from Covid-19, pushing forward on its long-term vision for equitable development, and addressing the threats posed by climate change, a report released by the World Resources Institute (WRI) highlighted on Tuesday. In the session, ‘Mainstreaming Climate Action in Indian Cities’, which was part of Connect Karo, WRI’s annual flagship event, which highlights ways to make Indian cities inclusive, sustainable and climate forward, experts highlighted that India was one of the countries most vulnerable to extreme climate events in the coming years, and the pandemic had only made efforts to avert this possibility more challenging. “The language of climate action has to be the language of the cities,” said Hitesh Vaidya, director, National Institute of Urban Affairs. During the session, WRI released a report titled, ‘Seizing the Urban Opportunity’, where experts highlighted how national governments can recover from the Covid-19 pandemic, secure shared prosperity, and also tackle the climate crisis. “Climate change is an impediment to future growth and we need to take collective responsibility for it. For India, this will be an even bigger challenge because 22 out of the 30 most polluted cities in the world are here. The governments need to work on climate-resilient cities,” said Daniel Bradley, team leader (low carbon growth), British High Commission. The report highlighted the challenges that six emerging economies, including China, India, Indonesia, Brazil, Mexico and South Africa face in managing the climate crisis. The report said that these six countries accounted for one-third of the global GDP, but also 41% of carbon dioxide emissions (from fossil fuel use) and 42% of the world’s urban population. “The pandemic has wrought havoc on the global economy, with particularly severe impacts on the poor. It has also highlighted the urgency of building resilience to a wide range of shocks, especially the growing impacts of climate change,” the report read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/language-of-climate-action-must-be-language-of-cities-experts-101631644538454.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||MSEDCL’s arrears touch Rs73,897 crore in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) – India’s largest power supply utility – is in major financial trouble as its pending arrears for non-payment of bills have ballooned to a whopping ₹73,897 crore. Its liabilities till August, too, have increased to ₹45,440 crore.To come out of the difficult situation, the state government has decided to appoint a consultancy firm, said Maharashtra energy minister Dr Nitin Raut. He also said that if the issue is not resolved, then the entire state may go into darkness.The state energy department has sought a loan guarantee of ₹20,000 crore. It has also requested to provide another ₹12,000 crore against subsidy, schemes and dues pending for public water supply schemes, officials said.Of the total pending amount, ₹14,046 crore has been increased in the past two years in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, while and ₹36,609 crore was accumulated during the Devendra Fadnavis-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government from 2014 to 2019.As the amount for non-payment of electricity bills is rising rapidly, the issue was discussed in the last state cabinet meeting held on September 8, when some of the ministers opposed disconnection of power supply of farmers for non-payment of power bills. The cabinet was told that if the amount was not recovered, it may lead to the question of survival of MSEDCL, which is fully owned by the state government.On Tuesday, Thackeray called a review meeting to understand the matter in detail and deliberate upon the measures that will help revive the company. A presentation of MSEDCL was made before CM.Deputy CM Ajit Pawar, water resources minister Jayant Patil, industries minister Subhash Desai, agriculture minister Dada Bhuse, public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan, relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar and animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar were present in the meeting.“CM said the solution to the problem is very important and it should be technical as well. The state may have to face blackout if the problem is not resolved. To study and suggest measures to overcome the issue, we will appoint a consultancy firm by calling an expression of interest (EOI),” said the energy minister.“The state government had approved ₹20,000 crore as loan guarantee in the last fiscal year, which was yet to be implemented. CM was requested to allow the department to use that guarantee in this fiscal year as it will provide some liquidity,” said Dinesh Waghmare, principal secretary, energy department.“We have requested to provide ₹12,000 crore as financial assistance. It comprises of ₹5,000 crore against subsidy given to farmers and dues pending for public water supply schemes,” said an official from energy department.CM was of the view that they can come to a conclusion only after presentations by the Maharashtra State Power Generation Company Limited (MSPGCL) and Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL) were made.According to MSEDCL’s presentation, maximum arrear of ₹49,575 crore is pending from agriculture pumps. Despite that, the recovery rate from the farmers is minimum — 3.1%. The energy minister also faced resentment from Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers during the meeting for disconnecting power connection of the farmers. “The non-payment from farmers is a fact but wrong decisions by the energy cannot be overlooked. Why is it paying ₹3,000 crore as idle charges for not purchasing energy from the companies even after making an agreement with them? The agrarian community is very upset with the move and it has become difficult for us to face them ahead of the local bodies’ elections,” said a senior minister.Dr Raut also blamed the erstwhile BJP-led government and stated that they left a huge amount as arrears against non-payment of power bills. “Natural calamities such as floods, cyclones and Covid-19 made the situation even worse,” he told reporters outside the Sahyadri guest house in Malabar Hill.In response, Fadnavis alleged that the state government wants to recover pending dues forcefully from farmers and hence, is blowing the issue out of proportion. “The figures itself say how much arrears increased in the past two years [of MVA government]. Arrears such as cross subsidy for agriculture pumps and other losses can be adjusted from tariff rate. In my view, common people and farmers are in trouble owing to Covid-19. Instead of providing relief, a drama has been created for forceful recovery of pending arrears from them,” Fadnavis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/msedcls-arrears-touch-rs73-897-crore-in-maharashtra-101631644537161.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Two get bail in constable Ratan Lal murder case, two others denied||The Delhi high court on Tuesday granted bail to two persons accused of allegedly murdering head constable Ratan Lal during the north-east Delhi riots in 2020, and said they cannot be made to languish behind bars for a longer period of time and the veracity of the allegations against them can be tested during the trial.Justice Subramonium Prasad granted relief to Shahnawaz and Mohammad Ayyub, who are in jail for the past 17 months and said the evidence does not indicate clearly whether they were present at the scene of the crime.Prasad said the call detail records (CDRs) of the accused were “inconclusive” and does not definitively establish whether they were a part of the unlawful assembly that day. He also said there is no electronic evidence available with the investigating agency to prove the allegations.“In view of the facts and circumstances of the cases, without commenting on the merits of the matter, this court is of the opinion that the petitioners cannot be made to languish behind bars for a longer period of time, and that the veracity of the allegations against him can be tested during trial,” justice Prasad said in two separate orders.In the judgment granting bail to Ayyub, the judge reiterated that “right to protest and express dissent is a right which occupies a fundamental stature in a democratic polity, and therefore, the fact that the accused was part of the protest is not sufficient ground to refuse him bail”.“Additionally, merely being one of the organisers of the protest as well as being in touch with others who participated in the protest is also not sufficient enough to justify the contention that the petitioner was involved in the pre-planning of the alleged incident,” Prasad said while granting relief to Ayyub.With respect to Shahnawaz, the court said the audio clip recovered from his mobile phone is “inconclusive” at this juncture as it fails to reveal whether Shahnawaz was involved in the acts committed. It said the audio clips also do not indicate whether Shahnawaz was at the scene of the crime, and therefore, they cannot form any basis for keeping the accused in “prolonged incarceration”.The single bench said it is the constitutional duty of the court to ensure that there is no arbitrary deprivation of personal liberty in the face of excess state power.“Bail is the rule and jail is the exception, and courts must exercise their jurisdiction to uphold the tenets of personal liberty, subject to rightful regulation of the same by validly enacted legislation. The Supreme Court has time and again held that Courts need to be alive to both ends of the spectrum, i.e. the duty of the Courts to ensure proper enforcement of criminal law, and the duty of the Courts to ensure that the law does not become a tool for targeted harassment,” the judge said in the two orders.According to the police, on February 24, 2020, a crowd carrying various weapons and stones convened on the main Wazirabad Road and started pelting stones at police and more than 50 personnel suffered injuries. Constable Ratan Lal was shot dead. He added that the protesters burnt private and public vehicles, as well as other properties in the vicinity, including a petrol pump and a car showroom.Meanwhile, justice Prasad dismissed the bail applications of Sadiq alias Sahil and Irshad Ali, accused in the same case, saying their footage at the scene of crime is “quite egregious”, and is therefore sufficient to keep them in custody.Special public prosecutor (SPP) Amit Prasad had produced three videos shot by one Vishal Chaudhary during the incident, indicating the presence of the accused and their involvement in it.“The clinching evidence that tilts this court to prolong the incarceration of the petitioner is his presence in the Vishal Chaudhary video wherein he is clearly identified at the scene of crime, holding a danda in one hand and pelting stones with his other hand at uniformed officials. The fact that he actively participated and pelted stones at the police officials at the scene of crime justify the invocation of Section 149 IPC read with Section 302 IPC in the instant case,” the judge said in two separate orders.Communal riots broke out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, claiming 53 lives and leaving more than 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-two-get-bail-in-constable-ratan-lal-murder-case-two-others-denied-101631644416945.html
15-09-2021||Mumbai||Rs20 lakh paid to fishermen in Maharashtra for releasing protected marine species||A total of 135 fishermen across coastal districts in Maharashtra were compensated for releasing protected marine species caught as bycatch back into the ocean during the financial year 2020-21, as per the recently published annual report of the Mangrove Foundation, a registered society functioning under the aegis of the state forest department’s mangrove cell. These fishermen were compensated to the tune of ₹2,041,800.“Of the 135 cases processed for compensation in the fiscal year 2020–21, 72 cases were of the release of Olive Ridley sea turtles, 36 cases were of green sea turtle, three cases of Hawksbill turtle, two cases of Guitarfish and 22 cases were of the release of the whale shark,” states the annual report. Of these, the majority of cases were reported from Sindhudurg and Thane districts, where 47 and 39 protected marine specimens were released respectively. In Mumbai, only one such case was recorded during the last year, when a single Olive Ridley turtle was released after getting caught in a fishing net.As of April 2, this year, the total number of cases processed under the state government scheme stood at 178. That number has now grown to just over 200 cases, said Harshal Karve, a marine biologist with the Mangrove Foundation. “The scheme was started in 2018, but the most number of compensations were given out in the last financial year after we undertook outreach exercises with the fishing community. There is a similar scheme in Gujarat for releasing whale sharks, but Maharashtra is the only coastal state which compensates fisherfolk for release of all protected marine species.”According to the compensation scheme, if any fisherman finds a protected marine animal caught in their nets, they are entitled to compensation up to ₹25,000 if they release the animal and their fishing gear is damaged in the process. All applicants have to submit video graphic and photographic evidence of the incident, along with the GPS coordinates of where the animal was caught and released along with details of their boat license.In January this year, the state government revised the compensation structure of the scheme, and fisherfolk are now reimbursed based on the size and degree of protection according to the animal under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. In all, over ₹26 lakhs have been doled out as compensation under the scheme so far. Other species which have been released (outside of the last financial year) include two leatherback turtles and the Indian Ocean humpback dolphin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rs20-lakh-paid-to-fishermen-in-maharashtra-for-releasing-protected-marine-species-101631644296840.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Voter roll revision: Delhi CEO seeks review to replace officers not tech-savvy||Citing the computerisation of the voters’ list revision, the chief electoral officer of Delhi on Tuesday issued directions to all 11 district magistrates to conduct “a comprehensive review” of the performance of booth level officers (BLO) and replace those who cannot handle a smartphone with tech-savvy people.Delhi has around 13,500 BLOs who come under the domain of the revenue department. The directions come at a time when Delhi is inching closer to the municipal polls, likely to be held early next year.The central government has launched a mobile application called GARUDA for voter roll revision. Last month, the Union government issued an order asking all BLOs to mandatorily register themselves on the mobile app. In Delhi, around 8,000 BLOs have registered themselves on the app so far, an election commission officer said, asking not to be named.“Keeping in view the need for technological advancements in the electoral process, the chief electoral officer of Delhi, Dr r Singh, has directed all the DEOs (district election officers) i.e. the district magistrates of Delhi to comprehensively review the work of BLOs and those who cannot handle smartphones should be replaced with tech-savvy BLOs. This has been conveyed in a video conference held by the CEO with all DEOs and EROs on September 13, 2021 regarding the ensuing special summary revision-2022,” a statement from the office of the chief electoral officer (CEO) of Delhi said.It further said, “With the introduction of the GARUDA App by the Election Commission of India, the work of BLOs will become faster, smarter and more transparent and the process of voter registration will become easier and more accurate.” “The CEO Delhi has further directed to ensure that 06 images of each polling station are uploaded in compliance with the directions of the ECI. A virtual tour of the polling station should also be made available for the convenience of electors. Dr Ranbir Singh also emphasised the need to tag the EMF (Extended Minimum Facilities) like police station, fire station, hospital, bus stand, parking etc on GARUDA app by the BLOs with an aim to provide complete information about a polling station to electors,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/voters-list-revision-delhi-ceo-orders-review-to-replace-officers-who-are-not-techsavvy-101631643937960.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||By 2022, Delhi will have 150 more EV charging points, says transport dept||By early next year, Delhi will have electric vehicle (EV) charging stations in at least 150 new locations across the national capital, senior transport officials said on Tuesday. While the Delhi government is focusing on creating a demand for EVs, especially in the two and three-wheeler segments, experts on Tuesday said the city administration should consider offering concessions on land lease and new electricity connections that are needed for setting up an EV charging station. Speaking at Connect Karo, a virtual conference organised by World Resources Institute (WRI) India, to discuss the scope of urban mobility in the country, Amit Bhatt, executive director (integrated transport) of WRI India, said 27% of the fixed investment for setting up an EV charging station goes towards getting a power connection, while 67% is incurred on the charger infrastructure itself. The remaining 3% goes into managing the software and so on. Similarly, when it comes to operating costs, 48% goes towards land rent and 48% on technicians and site maintenance, he said. “There is not much scope to reduce costs in the other components. It is only in terms of land rent and electricity connection that the government can help reduce the cost of setting up charging stations. Currently, the cost of setting up a 10KW/15KW Bharat DC charger for a four-wheeler can go up to ₹2.5 lakh. For vehicles such as Tata Nexon, Hyundai Kona, MG 25 EV, the cost increases to about ₹10 lakh. For two and three-wheelers, the charger cost ranges between ₹50,000 and ₹1.25 lakh,” said Bhatt. In July, the Delhi government floated a tender to select vendors for setting up charging stations in shopping malls, theatres, multiplexes, department stores, hospitals and residential areas. This was separate from the tenders floated and work orders issued by the government to empanel vendors to set up 500 charging points across 100 public spaces with most of them being located in bus depots and outside Metro stations.Talking about China, which by now has at least 39,000 charging stations, Daizong Liu, sustainable cities program director, WRI China, said the EV transition there began from 2009. “Between 2009 and 2013, China started pilot projects and I feel that is the way that the other countries or cities should also go about to achieve their targets. During this period, China did the Olympic green vehicle demonstration and also launched the “ten cities, thousand vehicles” program, after which the EV transition took off,” he said. The program that Daizong spoke about was aimed at getting 10 Chinese cities to add at least 1,000 EVs annually over three years.“There should be strong target oriented government policies to execute the transition to EVs. In India, we have some states that have notified good EV policies, but a solid programme with stricter mandates is required at the national level. In China, Beijing and Shanghai are leading the uptake of electric passenger vehicles due to private vehicle purchase and registration incentives. Shenzhen is leading the adoption of commercial electric fleets such as e-buses and e-freights due to traffic restrictions, operational subsidies and also operational will,” Daizong said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/by-2022-delhi-will-have-150-more-ev-charging-points-says-transport-dept-101631643936800.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Physical, mental health clinics at 15 Delhi govt schools to open on Oct 1||Come October 1, the Delhi government will launch the pilot project of school health clinics in 15 state government schools across the city, which will offer physical and mental health services to its children. The public works department is likely to complete installation of furniture and fixtures, along with electricity and water connection, in the porta cabins and hand it over to the head of the concerned schools by Wednesday.According to a circular issued by the deputy director of education (DDE) of school branch last week, “The departments of Health and Education are coming together to synergise and expand their horizons to provide Physical and Mental health services to children through School Health Clinics in Government Schools of Delhi, GNCTD. The Pilot Project of School Health Clinic in 15 proposed Delhi government schools as per the list…will start on October 01, 2021.”The clinics will have a doctor, a nurse, a psychologist, and a public health specialist and will be operational during the school hours. Along with providing routine check-ups, the clinics will also focus on the emotional well-being of children, address issues related to their mental health,and offer counselling services.“Often, mental health is not given priority in our country so it will be one of the key focus areas. The health clinic project will mainly function on a preventative system instead of a curable system, wherein we work on the cure once a person falls sick. The idea will be to prevent a disease or illness by monitoring the health of children. Several schools in the United States of America or countries in the European Union have school health clinics. We have studied those models before launching the same here,” said an official working on the project, requesting anonymity.The official also explained that a health screening for all children would be conducted as soon as the clinics are set up. “The health screening would comprise different kinds of tests, such as blood tests, heart rate, eyesight, throat issues, among other things. Eventually, we are aiming to have a students’ health card, which will have all this information in a collated format, that will be helpful in the long run,” he said.A senior education department official said, “We are starting with the pilot project in 15 schools for now. Based on the response and lessons, a decision will be taken on how the plan will be executed in other schools. Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital will act as a resource centre and adolescent mental health collective ‘Children First’ will be collaborating with us on this and work with our psychologists. The clinic will be open for all students of the school and conduct health screenings and referral system, to begin with.” Of the 15 government schools where the proposed clinics are expected to start next month, six are in north district, five in south-west district, two in south east district, one in west and northeast districts each.Principals across these schools said they are awaiting instructions from the education department on the role of schools in the project. Harish Kumar, principal of RPVV, B-block, Yamuna Vihar, which is among the 15 selected schools, said, “The health clinics have been set up. We are waiting for directions from the education department on how it would be operate. We will speak to parents and other stakeholders only after getting instructions from the department .” Burari resident Siya Sharan, a school management committee (SMC) member of RPVV Raj Niwas Marg, which is also among the pilot schools, said they have heard about the school health clinics but there was no meeting on it with SMC members so far. “If a clinic like this is established, it will help students from economically weaker sections. These children face issues in accessing health facilities and the clinic will serve as a one-stop centre for all health-related information and services. Besides, families won’t have to think on where to take their children if they fall sick as they can easily approach the school first,” said Sharan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/health-clinics-to-come-up-in-15-delhi-govt-schools-from-oct-1-101631643696833.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi reported dip in crime in Covid year 2020: NCRB||Overall crimes in Delhi dipped by 16% in 2020 compared to 2019, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report that was released on Tuesday. In 2019, the capital recorded nearly 20% rise in crime compared to 2018.NCRB statistics show that 249,192 cases were registered in the national capital under various sections of the IPC in 2020, which is 50,283 less than those reported in 2019. In 2018, the total IPC cases in Delhi stood at 249,012. The total IPC cases registered in 28 states and eight Union Territories (UTs) in 2020 was 4,254,356 compared to 3,225,597 in 2019. Across the country, crime cases registered under various IPC sections rose by just 3% in 2019 over 2018, the data shows.An analysis of the NCRB’s data for Delhi shows that serious crimes such as murder and kidnapping as well as crimes against women dipped in 2020 as compared to 2019. Murder cases saw a decrease of nearly 9% in 2020 compared to the previous year, whereas this crime increased by over 1% in 2019 from 2018.Delhi recorded 472 murder cases in 2020 compared to 521 in 2019. As far as the motives behind the murders in 2020 are concerned, 106 murders took place over various disputes such as family, property and petty quarrels. A total of 53 murders took place over communal or religion issues and 67 were related to personal enmity. Love affairs were cited behind 17 cases, shows the NCRB data.To be sure, Delhi witnessed a strict lockdown, spread across various months, to contain the spread of Covid 19 pandemic last year, when movement of people across the city was highly curtailed. Activities and businesses were opened only in a phased manner.The statistics also showed that the city witnessed 4,062 cases of kidnapping and abduction in 2020 -- 1,839 cases less then those reported in 2019. There were 5,901 such cases in 2019, which means that the year 2020 saw a decrease of over 31% in such crimes.As far as the crimes against women are concerned, an area of concern for the Delhi Police, the city saw a decrease of around 25% in 2020 compared to the previous year. The total registered crimes against women in 2019 were 13,395, in 2020 10,093 such cases were reported in the city, shows the NCRB data.Among the total crimes against women in 2020, there was one case of murder with gang rape, two cases of acid attack and three acid attack attempt cases. Total 997 rape cases were registered, 1,840 of molestation cases and 416 sexual harassment incidents were reported to the police in 2020, the data shows.In the crimes against children section, there were 5,362 cases registered in 2020 that was nearly 2,400 cases less than 7,783 cases reported in 2019. Of these total cases, 29 children were murdered in 24 reported cases.Delhi Police officers refused to comment on the city’s crime trends in 2020, saying that they have not seen and analysed the NCRB data as it was released late on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reported-dip-in-crime-in-covid-year-2020ncrb-101631643518292.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal meets Bajrang Punia, lauds him for bringing Olympic glory||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday met Tokyo Olympics bronze medallist Bajrang Punia and said “he is an inspiration to millions of youth”. The chief minister also discussed the sports infrastructure in the national capital with Punia,a freestyle wrestler from Haryana, who won the bronze medal at his debut Olympics in Tokyo this year. “CM Arvind Kejriwal meets Bajrang Punia and felicitated him for his triumphant victory at the Olympics. CM Kejriwal congratulated Bajrang Punia on bagging the bronze at Tokyo 2020 and motivated him to bring more medals for the country,” said a statement issued by the chief minister’s office after the meeting between the two at the Delhi Secretariat on Tuesday afternoon.Kejriwal said, “Bajrang has made the entire country proud. He is an inspiration for youngsters. Bajrang’s performance will motivate sportspersons and inspire them to bring laurels for India. The Delhi government is always ready to help players. We have established a sports university to nurture talent at the international level.”Punia, who was accompanied by his coach Satpal Singh, said, “It was great to meet CM Arvind Kejriwal. The chief minister asked about my training and discussed my future plans.”Last month, Kejriwal had met with Olympics silver medallist wrestler Ravi Dahiya and felicitated him for his achievement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-meets-bajrang-punia-lauds-him-for-bringing-olympic-glory-101631643037141.html
15-09-2021||Delhi||Day after Sabzi Mandi building collapse, shop owner held over ‘illegal’ repairs||A day after two brothers, aged seven and 12, were killed and a 72-year-old man was seriously injured in a four-storey building collapse in north Delhi’s Sabzi Mandi area, police on Tuesday said they arrested the 24-year-old owner of one of the shops on the building’s ground floor for allegedly carrying out illegal repair and renovation work that reportedly led to the collapse.Police said the shop owner had not sought permission from the municipal corporation for carrying out the repair and renovation work.“We have arrested Mohak Arora, who is the owner of the shop in which the renovation work was being carried out... A case under Indian Penal Code sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings) and 34 (common intention) was registered against him at the Sabzi Mandi police station in connection with the deaths caused by the building collapse,” said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse.Many residents had on Monday attributed the building collapse to vibrations caused during the repairs.The search and rescue operation at the building collapse site continued till 10pm on Monday, as the locals had claimed that at least three labourers were trapped under the debris. However, except the bodies of the two children and the safe rescue of the 72-year-old man, Ramji Das Aneja, who ran another shop on the ground floor, no bodies or injured persons were found trapped under the debris.The bodies of brothers Prashant Gupta (7) and Saumya Gupta (12) were recovered from the debris by the rescue teams and local residents. They were passing by when more than half of the building’s structure collapsed, crushing them.“We have learnt that one Javed and two more labourers were working inside the shop. Prima facie, it appears that they all fled as the structure started shaking. We are looking for them,” said a senior investigator, who did not want to be named.The four-storey building, more than 60 years old but not declared in the “dangerous category” by the local civil agency, collapsed around 11.30am on Monday, while the renovation work was on at the ground floor shop.Three brothers — Ajay Aneja, Rajiv Aneja and Sanjay Aneja — lived on the three upper floors with their families. Barring one of their family members, 19-year-old DU student Aryan Aneja, none of their families were on any of the upper floors when the building collapsed. Police said Aryan survived because he had walked into the kitchen that was on the side of the building that remained intact.Based on initial investigation and Arora’s interrogation, the senior investigator said, the building was Anejas’ ancestral property.“The wives of Lovely and Bunty (two other Anejas who died earlier) owned the shop but had sold it to Mohak Arora’s family. The registry of the property was done in Arora’s name on September 2. Arora’s family wanted to establish him in a business for which they had planned to repair and renovate the shop,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiday-after-sabzi-mandi-building-collapse-shop-owner-held-over-illegal-repairs-101631642856831.html
15-09-2021||Pune||MoD sanctions 16,122 sqm of land for construction of Bopkhel-Khadki bridge||The defence ministry has given final sanction to the transfer of defence land measuring 16,122 square metre to the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) for construction of the approach route and bridge across the Mula river connecting Bopkhel village with Khadki bazaar. The bridge over the Mula river will connect Bopkhel and Khadki and help the residents of Bopkhel, Ramnagar and Ganeshnagar.The letter signed by the undersecretary, government of India, R K Yadav, addressed to the chief of army staff and director general of defence estates (DGDE), read, “I am directed to convey the sanction of the President of India for grant of work permission for the transfer of defence land measuring 16,122 square metre of the Khadki Cantonment Board to the PCMC for construction of the Bopkhel bridge and approach road connecting Bopkhel village through the Khadki cantonment. The way has been cleared for the construction of a bridge in Bopkhel on the site of the defence ministry.”Deputy mayor Hirabai Ghule said, “During the last four years, the people of Bopkhel had to make a big detour to reach Pimpri-Chinchwad or Pune. Therefore, through BJP MLA Laxman Jagtap, we approached the central government to build a bridge over the Mula river. The then defence minister Manohar Parrikar followed-up with the now finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. As a corporator, I have consistently pursued it through MLA Jagtap and got it approved by the army and ministry of defence.”The PCMC started actual construction of the bridge on the Mula river connecting Bopkhel and Khadki on January 4, 2019 and completed it quickly. However, work needed to continue on defence land for which a working permit from the defence ministry was required. MLA Jagtap followed up with the central government for this and requested defence minister Rajnath Singh for speedy permission.“The central government responded positively. The defence ministry gave final approval for 16,122 square metre land on September 9. This will lead to construction of the bridge on defence land,” said Ghule.Additional commissioner Vikas Dhakne said, “The final working permission has been obtained to start work on the Bopkhel bridge. A meeting will be held with the PCMC commissioner in this regard. Planning will be carried out on how to start the work. Work on the bridge will begin accordingly.”Ghule said that the civic body planned to complete the work and open the bridge to the people of Bopkhel in a few months. Both Jagtap and Ghule thanked the central government on behalf of the people of Bopkhel.On May 13, 2015, the CME authorities closed the road connecting Bopkhel with Dapodi after the Bombay high court dismissed a petition filed against closure of the road. Due to the road being closed, the residents of Bopkhel have to travel for at least half-an-hour more on alternate routes.The issue of closure of the Bopkhel road took a violent turn on May 21, 2015 when villagers pelted stones and bricks during an agitation and the police had to resort to lathi charge and the use of tear gas to control the mob. At least 22 police personnel and 15 villagers were injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mod-sanctions-16-122-sqm-of-land-for-construction-of-bopkhel-khadki-bridge-101631637817194.html
15-09-2021||Pune||4,250 autorickshaw drivers penalised in Pune for not wearing uniforms||Pune: As many as 4,250 autorickshaw drivers have been penalised for not wearing a uniform, while 730 were fined for not carrying a driving licence. A total of 308 cases were registered against driver without the RTO-issued badge, while 729 cases were filed over missing RTO permits and other documents.As of September 14, a total of 6,002 autorickshaw drivers have faced action by the Pune traffic police department. Since September 9, special squads are been formed by the traffic police and Pune RTO officials to track and fine errant rickshaw drivers.“The drive against autorickshaw drivers is done on daily basis and maximum drivers faced action for not having the proper uniform of an auto driver. This is followed by not having a driving licence while running the auto, also many cases have been filed by the RTO officials for not having a valid auto permit and other necessary documents,” said deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Rahul Shrirame.Action on auto drivers follows the shocking incident on August 31 in which a minor girl was allegedly kidnapped and raped by autorickshaw drivers from the Pune railway station.“We will continue our drive against the auto drivers in the city, and it is our appeal to all the unions to instruct their members to follow all the traffic and RTO rules strictly.” added Shrirame.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/4250-rickshaw-drivers-penalised-for-not-wearing-uniforms-101631637035845.html
15-09-2021||Pune||After 30 years, Pune builder sentenced to 1-year jail by consumer forum for non-delivery of flats||PUNE After 30 years, a builder has been held accountable by the Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission for failure to deliver possession of two apartments.The consumer commission on Tuesday sentenced the prominent real estate developer to one year in jail.Mahendra Chhagpal Karia of Karia Builders has been ordered to undergo simple imprisonment for one year and pay a fine of ₹10,000 by the consumer forum, consisting of president JV Deshmukh, and members Shubhangi Dunakhe and Anil Jawalaker.Shobha Bhagde and Harish Bhagde from Ganesh peth had booked two flats in the A-wing of the ‘Konark Classic’ society on Bund garden Road for Rs3.5 lakh each in 1990. Bhagde had moved the consumer forum which in 2001 had ordered the builder give possession of the flats after receiving the balance payment, and to execute the registered sale deed. There was another option, to refund the paid amount with 9% interest. However, the complainants failed to get possession of the flats although they were ready to pay the outstanding amount.In 2016, the complainants had moved the consumer commission which again directed the builder to hand over the flats. The builder challenged this order in the Bombay High Court and his plea was rejected.Considering all the facts, the commission convicted the builder on Tuesday. The builder through his legal counsel, filed a reply stating that he should be given lesser punishment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-30-years-builder-sentenced-to-1-yr-jail-by-consumer-forum-for-non-delivery-of-flats-101631635475729.html
15-09-2021||Pune||CoEP on list to conduct third-party audit of local self-govt devp works||In a bid to maintain the standard of development works by local self-government bodies such as gram panchayats, zilla parishads, municipal councils and municipal corporations, the state government on Monday issued an order and listed the names of over 50 polytechnics and engineering colleges across Maharashtra that will carry out third-party technical audits of the development works. The College of Engineering of Pune (CoEP) has been included in the list. Also included are the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT-Mumbai), Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI-Mumbai) and Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, Nagpur (VNIT).B Jadhav, joint secretary of the urban development department (UDD) of the state government, issued the order listing the names of more than 50 polytechnics and engineering colleges in the state and instructing them to conduct third-party audits of the development works carried out by local self-government bodies. Jadhav stated in the order that the state has taken the decision to conduct a technical audit of the development works after receiving complaints of substandard works.Dyneshwar Molak, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Normally, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) conducts a third-party audit of different development works carried out within the PMC limits. However, most of the works are major projects. We give work to the CoEP. Besides that, consultants also carry out third-party audit work. Now, the state government has issued an order to carry out a third-party technical audit of development works to maintain their quality.”Professor B G Birajdar, applied mechanical department, COEP, said, “The corporation assigns work for third-party technical audits of their development works. Now, the state has issued an order and appointed the CoEP to conduct an audit of development works.”“As per the government order, any work worth Rs20 lakh will be eligible for a third-party technical audit. We will submit a report concerning local self-government and after that, they will sanction the bill of work to the contractor. We will be entitled to carry out audit within Pune district. It includes the public works department (PWD), Pune district collector, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporations (PMC and PCMC), Pune zilla parishad etc.,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/coep-on-list-to-conduct-third-party-audit-of-local-self-govt-devp-works-101631635295714.html
15-09-2021||Pune||After locals oppose, MSRDC to change alignment of Pune ring road||Following opposition to the passage of the Pune ring road via tunnel through Maval tehsil’s Bhandara dongar which is considered sacred by the locals, the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has initiated an assessment procedure for change in alignment of the eastern part of the road near the said hill. Officials said that the original plan for the road to pass through the hill has been dropped and assessment is slated to begin to shift the route from the base of the hill.The assessment of various factors related to the change in alignment such as its impact on the project budget, distance, land requirement and proximity of other national highways is scheduled to begin from Tuesday and will take at least a month to complete as per MSRDC officials.Sandeep Patil, sub-divisional engineer, MSRDC, said, “There are emotions attached to the Bhandara dongar. Now we have to do an assessment for this change in alignment. We will need to assess how much extra land would be required if the ring road is to be shifted from the base of the hill and how many houses would be affected. The new alignment will have to be planned keeping in mind that the Chakan-Shikarpur national highway is nearby. Consultants will conduct this study and its economical impact will also have to be assessed. It will take a month.”On Monday, a meeting was held in Mumbai with Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, top officials of MSRDC, and people’s representatives. According to sources, there was consensus among the attendees about the decision related to Bhandara dongar. Meanwhile, a demand has also been presented to avoid irrigated land from the alignment of the ring road. However, MSRDC officials said that it is impossible to plan the ring road’s alignment exclusively on non-irrigated land.On September 6, the state government approved ₹26,831.21 crore for the Pune ring road project, including construction and land acquisition costs. Out of ₹26,831.21 crore, ₹12,175.97 crore has been allocated for the western part of the ring road. Land survey of only three out of the 37 affected villages remains to be done for the western part. Collectively, ₹14,655.24 crore has been allocated for the eastern part. The Pune ring road is a proposed circular, outer road for the Pune Metropolitan Region, expected to solve the traffic woes of the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad cities. For the 173 km ring road, a total of 1,526.1153 hectare area is required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-locals-oppose-msrdc-to-change-alignment-of-ring-road-101631634995691.html
15-09-2021||Pune||In my opinion: Why BJP must redraw its pre-poll strategy in Pune||In poker, the long-standing rule of thumb is, don’t play the cards, play the person. The analogy between poker and the political situation in Pune is primarily because a high-stakes game will unfold in February 2022, the Pune municipal corporation, now the biggest by area in Maharashtra, goes to the polls. Between now and e-day, politics will turn into astute game play as parties in the fray for dominance in Pune’s civic body begin to parlay – take their political good fortune and raise the stakes with “all-in” calls - to win the right to have the power to decide Pune’s future, or as Pune’s activist denizens would phrase it, to win the right to be entrusted to do the best for Pune’s future. At this high-stakes table sit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), the Congress party and the Shiv Sena. There are the “inside-outers” – players in the know with perhaps just enough of political clout to upset the odds. The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), for example. In early game play, watching from the sidelines and negotiating endless quotes about “plans to make Pune a smart city” and “ensure the pandemic is beaten” – every move now is either a bet, a call, or a fold, depending on the issue at hand, with only one focus – making it to the final table (election day) with an unbeatable chip stack (political capital). At the table today are the NCP’s Ajit Pawar, the BJP’s Chandrakant Patil (why not the BJP’s MP from Pune Girish Bapat is for another day), and the Congress. The Congress, like the party at the national level, has been questioned by political experts for “playing” without a “powerful front” to reckon with. The trickle-down effect is evident in Pune as well. Ramesh Bagwe then takes the seat for the Congress. The Shiv Sena at the moment is backing the NCP’s hand, though individually, a challenge may emerge as the stakes get higher and the game gets deeper. Like in poker, do not play the cards dealt. Play the opponent. The NCP is making all the huge bluffs – the kind that puts social media in a frenzy - repeatedly going all in, in what seems to be crazy play at the time, only to have the BJP back down, or fold (to keep the poker parlance in play). Amazingly, the chip count at the end of each game is stacking up nicely for the Pawars. The long bet – making a play very early in the game so as to impact the eventual outcome – was Ajit Pawar’s Game of Thrones (metaphor taken from a blockbuster series) move at the time of the state elections in 2019. Cards in play? BJP wins 105 seats, NCP wins 54, Congress wins 44 and the Shiv Sena, 56. The bluff. Ajit Pawar joins hands with the then BJP chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and is announced as his deputy, after an early morning swearing-in ceremony. The fold. BJP-Ajit Pawar government lasts 80 hours. Pawar goes back into the NCP and is named cabinet minister in the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) which forms the state government, along with the Congress. The takeaway from this particular “game” for the BJP must be Pawar’s quote, responding to a media query on his “strange” call (to say the least): “Whatever I did, I did it openly. I crossed over and came back. Now, I am firmly in the saddle here (MVA/NCP).” A year later, the NCP and BJP, which is the ruling party in the PMC currently, face off again… a high stakes game, now with the civic elections looming. Cards in play? The BJP-led PMC’s plan to lease out amenity spaces in the city to raise funds for the civic body, post the vast Covid expenditure and loss of income. The bluff. As the issue goes to the general body meeting for a final decision, much dust has been raised by the NCP in the build-up–primarily, the story-line that the BJP is “selling” the city to raise funds; the BJP counter, the money raised will save the city. Vandana Chavan, senior NCP leader and Rajya Sabha member from Pune, announces the NCP will NOT oppose the proposal, as earlier planned. Cue, shock and raised eye-brows, all emojis of course, of the general public. The fold. On the day of the GB with the BJP all set to push the proposal through, “winning” with an ambitious proposal, the NCP plays its hand – withdraws support. Caught flat, the BJP cancels the GB meet to postpone a decision on the proposal. The gallery view on both these plays suggests that the explanations: Ajit Pawar rebelled and then was won back; and the BJP promised to make changes to the proposal requested by Chavan and then did not, seems a little too convenient. In politics, if it’s too simple, it definitely is not. The idea that the NCP is in total chaos and has no strategy or communication, is perhaps the other “go-to” that the wily old Pawar, i.e. Pawar senior, AKA Sharad dada, wants to send to all players at the table. Regarding exposure to the happenings both on and off the table, it is believed that the BJP got played… badly. Because, for the gallery (voting public), at the end of the above two “games”, the NCP seems to have come out as winners – Ajit Pawar as deputy CM and leasing of amenity spaces on hold. From here on in, momentum, that famous word to capture the “air”, the “vibe” the “feeling”, is all about not losing any; at least for the NCP. For the BJP, keep an eye on the cards dealt, yes, by all means, but, remember, play the player. Note: Poker is a card game involving skill. The writer in no way supports, advocates or propagates its playing as, like the PMC elections, money is involved and the costs are dangerously high. . Roopesh Raj can be contacted at roopesh.raj@htlive.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/in-my-opinion-the-political-poker-game-and-the-civic-polls-101631618854741.html
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Covid update: Schools to stay closed till Sept 21||The Himachal Pradesh government has deferred the reopening of schools for regular classes for one more week in due to the Covid-19 situation. The Himachal Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) issued orders to this effect late on Monday.At present, the first term exams of Classes 9 to 12 are underway in Himachal. The exams are being conducted online. Schools were re-opened for Classes 9 to 12 in the state on August 2 after the second wave of Covid-19 subsided but were closed a week later due to the rise in coronavirus infections. Positivity rate climbs to about 2% Himachal Pradesh has been reporting an average of 200 cases of Covid-19 daily. The positivity rate has again climbed to about 2% from 0.9% in July. To date, the state has seen 2,15,893 infections, while 3,623 people have died due to the contagion. More than 1,500 active cases were reported in the state on Monday. Meanwhile, HP recorded 195 fresh Covid-19 infections on Tuesday taking the state’s tally to 2,16,088 while the death toll mounted to 3,626 after three patients succumbed to the infection. Of the new cases, 54 were reported in Kangra, 48 in Hamirpur, 31 in Mandi, 22 in Shimla, 11 in Bilaspur, eight in Chamba, six in Lahaul-Spiti, four each in Kullu and Una, two in Solan and one in Kinnaur. The active cases have gone up to 1,532 while recoveries reached 2,10,913 after 181 people recuperated. 150 test positive in J&KJammu and Kashmir recorded 150 fresh coronavirus infections on Tuesday. There were 112 cases in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 38 infections. The summer capital Srinagar, which is witnessing increase in cases, saw the highest count of 75 cases. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 72 with active cases reaching 1,325. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 656 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 151 and 119 cases, respectively. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,21,401 prompting the recovery rate to mount to 98.24%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,27,140 and the death toll stands at 4,414.Officials said that 49,481 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT . 13 detained in Srinagar for not wearing masksAmid surge in daily Covid cases in few areas of Srinagar district, the administration on the directions of DC Mohammad Aijaz Asad heightened its efforts to ensure compliance with SOPs and guidelines.A government spokesperson said that flying squads inspected different locations of Srinagar, including Bemina, Batamaloo, Lal Chowk and others, and detained 13 people for not wearing masks and violating Covid guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-covid-update-schools-to-stay-closed-till-sept-21-101631597134637.html
