16-09-2021||Other||Punjabi University senate meets after five years||Patiala Punjabi University senate met after a gap of five years on Thursday, where the institution co-opted three eminent personalities including Swaraj Bir Singh, Arun Grover and SS Marwaha. Addressing the meeting, vice-chancellor Arvind said that despite financial difficulties, the varsity had never allowed its academic activities to slow down or suffer. “We continue to excel in both academics and sports,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabi-university-senate-meets-after-five-years-101631816710728.html
16-09-2021||Noida||Rain forecast: All educational institutes to shut down for 2 days in UP||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday decided to close down schools/colleges and educational institutions across the state for two days on September 17 and 18 due to a forecast of heavy rain. The office of the chief minister, who has directed divisional commissioners and district magistrates to ensure relief work, issued a statement to this effect. “All schools/colleges and educational institutions will remain closed for two days on September 17 and 18,” the statement said, adding that agencies concerned must clear waterlogging in their respective areas. India Meteorological Department has forecast heavy rain in the state on Friday and Saturday.The Ghaziabad district magistrate on Thursday also issued an advisory in the wake of the Met forecast. “People should avoid moving through waterlogged areas, avoid going near electricity poles, an avoid moving to areas with high volume of traffic,” the advisory stated. The district administration has also issued a helpline number 9193320115 for issues related to any fault in electricity cables. They also issued another number, 8178016890 for issues related to waterlogging, buildings collapsing and trees falling. Residents can also log complaints with the integrated command and control centre on the numbers: 0120-2829040, 9910426374 and 8826797248, the statement issued by district magistrate’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rain-forecast-all-educational-institutes-to-shut-down-for-2-days-in-up-101631816532729.html
16-09-2021||Bhopal||Three held for killing popular tigress of Bandhavgarh, fourth accused still at large||Three people were arrested on Thursday for killing Bandhavgarh’s most popular tigress, Amanalabali, and dumping her body in a well, a forest department official said. The tigress was 14 years old. A team of forest officials arrested Shivlal Baiga, Babulal Baiga and Kailash Baiga, all residents of Kanchhoha village which falls in the buffer zone of the Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve (BTR). The fourth accused-- Kalyan Baiga is absconding. “They pulled out teeth, whiskers and nails of the tigress after she was killed,” said Vincet Raheem, tiger reserve’s field director. On September 1, forest officials recovered the carcass of a tigress from a well in Manpur forest range, which falls in the buffer zone of the tiger reserve. The carcass was stuffed in a sack and it was thrown into the well after loading the sack with heavy stones. There were injury marks on the carcass of the tigress. The carcass was identified as T-32, the most popular tigress in the Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve. “Forest officials detained Shivlal Baiga. During interrogation, Baiga confessed his crime. He said they laid a live electrified wire trap near the Damna beat of the forest to kill wild boar. But when they saw that a tiger was trapped in the wire, they disconnected the wire. They pulled out the teeth, whiskers and nails with the help of an axe,” said Raheem. The accused kept the teeth, whiskers and nails for occult practice and as a lucky charm. To hide the crime, they stuffed the carcass into a sack and threw it into the well.Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve has 124 tigers, of which 45 tigers are in the buffer zone. It is considered Madhya Pradesh’s most congested habitat for tigers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/three-held-for-killing-popular-tigress-of-bandhavgarh-fourth-accused-still-at-large-101631813836007.html
16-09-2021||Gurugram||Three Faridabad cops suspended over viral video showing accused drinking liquor in hospital||The Faridabad Police on Thursday suspended three cops after a video of an accused, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital, drinking liquor was shared on social media on Wednesday evening. Taking cognizance of the video, Vikas Arora, the Faridabad commissioner of police, directed the ACP (crime) to investigate it at the earliest. An initial probe found that the video was shot on August 28 when the accused was taken to the hospital, the police said. “The police personnel on duty have been negligent in their duty by not checking the goods delivered to the room of the accused under consideration. All three policemen have been suspended for negligence on duty,” a spokesperson for the Faridabad Police said. In the video, liquor and food items can be spotted in the hospital room of the accused, Anil Jindal, the chairman of SRS Group, with policemen present in the room. Jindal was taken from the jail to a private hospital by the local police on the information of the jail authority. The police said that instructions have also been given to the Nimka jail authority and manager of the private hospital to take necessary action. In April 2018, Faridabad police had arrested Anil Jindal, along with his four associates, from a hotel in Delhi on charges of cheating, fraud and duping investors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-faridabad-cops-suspended-over-viral-video-showing-accused-drinking-liquor-in-hospital-101631813834539.html
16-09-2021||Gurugram||Gadkari in Gurugram: U-turn underpass at Sirhaul, near Ambience Mall, to open by October 15||A U-turn underpass at Sirhaul toll plaza, near the Ambience Mall on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway is set to open for traffic on October 15, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari announced on Thursday during a visit to the city to review work on the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway.The Sirhaul underpass has been a longstanding demand of Gurugram residents, as it will help them avoid going to Rajokri in Delhi for taking a U-turn to reach Ambience Mall and DLF Phase-3.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is constructing the underpass, has missed several deadlines for this project but officials said that the work on the underpass is almost complete and they would ensure it opens on October 15.Vikas Mittal, senior manager, NHAI, said that the work on the underpass was in the final stages and they were in the process of fixing lights, planting greenery and signage. “This underpass will greatly reduce congestion at Sirhaul toll plaza,” he said.Work on the underpass commenced on March 5, 2019, and it was to be completed by September 2020. However, due to delays in shifting MCD (Delhi municipality) toll booths and lockdown imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the project was delayed, said officials.The length of the underpass, including the roads, is 1.5 kilometres, while the underground stretch is 377 metres long and seven metres wide across.Speaking at the event, Gadkari said that this U-turn underpass will ease congestion and provide relief to commuters. “We have worked on several projects to decongest Gurugram and these include several underpasses and flyovers at Signature Tower, Iffco Chowk, Rajiv Chowk and other points. We have also sanctioned new projects to ease traffic at Manesar, Bilaspur and Kapriwas,” he said.Gadkari said that besides these projects, several more worth around ₹1,200 crore have been sanctioned for smoother traffic flow on the Delhi-Jaipur highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gadkari-in-gurugram-u-turn-underpass-at-sirhaul-near-ambience-mall-to-open-by-october-15-101631813833288.html
16-09-2021||Other||DLF Phase-3: Amid resistance, walls of 10 under-construction houses demolished for norm violations||Amid stiff resistance from a large group of locals and residents, the enforcement wing of the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Thursday demolished the internal walls of 10 under-construction houses in DLF Phase-3.Officials said that these were built on additional storeys, in violation of the building plan and rules. DTCP officials said 12 shops constructed illegally on residential EWS [economically weaker section] plots were also sealed despite strong protestations by residents and owners, who were asked to abide by the rules and not to interfere in the drive.RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that to check the movement of the crowd and to prevent any miscreants from creating trouble, they deployed a drone to keep a watch on the situation. “We were supported by a large police team, which effectively maintained law and order. We had hired 50 labourers, who were directed to demolish internal walls of illegally constructed storeys on these EWS plots,” Bhath said.Bhath said that they conducted a survey of 2,600 EWS plots recently and identified several instances of illegal constructions, extensions and violations of building plans. “There is clear direction from the government that illegal structures have to be removed. We will continue the drive in coming days,” he said.DTCP officials said that the drive started around 1pm and went on till around 5pm, with around 100 police personnel keeping the crowd in check.Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement), said that they have appealed to the plot owners to restore the violations themselves, failing which their properties might be sealed. “The construction of additional storeys is in violation of Haryana Building Code of 2017 and it can’t be condoned. These structures are unsafe and in an emergency, such as an earthquake, would become difficult to manage,” he said.DTCP officials said that commercial enterprises, such as shops, restaurants and service centres, are also not allowed on these plots and such establishments must be closed.In March, the enforcement team had sealed around 150 shops in DLF Phase-3, where commercial activities, including saloons, property dealer offices, restaurants, medical shops, grocery shops, and other businesses, were being run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dlf-phase-3-amid-resistance-walls-of-10-under-construction-houses-demolished-for-norm-violations-101631813832167.html
16-09-2021||Gurugram||Gadkari in Gurugram: Electric ropeway, rail projects on the cards to ease commute between Gurugram and Delhi||The Union transport ministry is considering an electric ropeway and electric rail projects to ease commute between Gurugram and Delhi. While the ropeway project, which was earlier proposed as a pod taxi project, will connect Dhaula Kuan and Kherki Daula on the NH-48, while the electric rail project is under consideration for Dwarka Expressway, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said during a visit to Gurugram on Thursday.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had announced an electric ropeway project on the National Highway (NH-48) in 2015, but there has been little progress on the project.Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari, while speaking at a gathering in Sohna on Thursday, said that the proposed cable car was his “dream project” but it could not be executed earlier as innovative mobility solutions such as ropeways, cable cars and funicular railways were not under his mandate earlier. These mobility solutions were given to the transport ministry recently.“The ropeway project is under consideration and the ministry would conduct a feasibility study for the project to connect Dhaula Kuan and Kherki Daula. Such projects will not only ease commuting but also reduce pollution,” he said.The minister also said that he was envisioning an electric mass transport system along the Dwarka Expressway. “We can look at how the existing space can be used to set up an electric rail or bus system for mass transit,” he said.Gurugram Lok Sabha member, Rao Inderjit Singh, said that the “futuristic transport projects should be planned on the lines of Rapid Rail project”, which is being set up along the main carriageway of Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway. “No land acquisition has been done for this project and similar projects could be set up on Dwarka Expressway and Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway,” he said.Gadkari announced that the Sohna elevated road, being constructed at a cost of ₹1,700 crore, will be completed by March 2022. Likewise, the Dwarka Expressway in Gurugram would be completed by December 2022. “The completion of both these roads would ease traffic movement in the city,” he said.Referring to the incident where a concrete span had collapsed on Dwarka Expressway a few months ago, the minister said that NHAI would look into every aspect of the incident and that a report has also been filed by a technical committee in this regard.Gadkari said that for better roads, commuters will have to pay toll as world-class facilities can be made and maintained only if the user is ready to pay. “Better roads reduce travel time, cut pollution and ensure savings in the long run,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gadkari-in-gurugram-electric-ropeway-rail-projects-on-the-cards-to-ease-commute-between-gurugram-and-delhi-101631813830900.html
16-09-2021||Other||PPCB to come down hard on stubble burning, 10 districts on its radar||Ludhiana The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has started monitoring stubble burning incidents from September 15 and no case of paddy residue burning has been reported yet, said new chairman Adarsh Pal Vig on Thursday. Vig, who was attending a seminar on the World Ozone Day at the Pal Auditorium of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), said, “We will pay attention on the 10 districts that reported most stubble burning cases in 2020. Some of these are Sangrur, Ludhiana, Moga, Bathinda, Ferozepur and Patiala. We will also zero in on villages with a similar poor record.” In 2020, Sangrur was the worst offender on the stubble burning front with 9,705 cases followed by Bathinda (7,806); Ferozepur (6,947); Moga (5,843); Muktsar (5,458) and Patiala (5,304). Vig added that the PPCB and the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre has developed a mobile application through which fire incidents could be tracked on phones. “Patwaris across the state have been linked through the app. They will be directed to mark a red entry in the land record of farmers found violating government guidelines. Paddy residue management is a money-spinner. The farmer needs to be a little innovative and industrious,” he added. He added that stubble management was laborious and a bit costly, but polluting the environment and making your own children and elderly sick was not a viable option at all. PPCB member secretary Krunesh Garg added that the state government had allocated ₹25 crore to be given as subsidy to industrial units that incorporate stubble with rice husk for burning in their furnaces. “The department has identified 50 such industries and each unit will be given ₹25 lakh. The objective is to use one million tonne of paddy stubble for industry in the first phase,” Garg added. ‘PUNJAB WRONGLY BLAMED FOR POLLUTION IN DELHI’ PAU soil department head OP Choudhary while sharing a recent report stated that stubble burning had nothing to do with the pollution in Delhi and the national capital has to cut down on carbon emission to decrease it pollution level. “Stubble burning is a localised problem and caused more harm to residents of Punjab than any other location,” he said, adding that chlorine rich particulates from e-waste and plastic waste- burning emissions were responsible for reducing the visibility of Delhi in winters. Meanwhile, PPCB has started a state-wide two-month awareness programme against stubble burning as well with Patiala its first stop. Chairman Vig added that with the burning of stubble, environment is polluted, land fertility depletes and friendly insects die. He added that the Centre had set up an air commission to cover Punjab, Haryana, UP and National Capital Region (NCR) areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ppcb-to-come-down-hard-on-stubble-burning-10-districts-on-its-radar-101631813709889.html
16-09-2021||Pune||Phadke subway in Kothrud reopens, others need attention||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday reopened Phadke subway in Kothrud, much to the relief of pedestrians. While Phadke subway was opened following complaints by civic activist Vivek Velankar, other subways in the city are either closed or filled up with mud and rainy water.The city has a total of 17 subways for pedestrians. The subways at Deccan Gymkhana and Pune railway station has been operational with good response, but other such structures are lying idle due to lack of or mixed response.Of the 17 subways, three are allowed only for vehicles with one each at Bharati Vidyapeeth on Satara road, Wakadewadi and the third near Pushpamangal hall close to Bibwewadi.PMC additional engineer Shrinivas Bonala who is in charge of subways in the city accepted that some subways are closed citing various reasons.“Some subways are indeed closed for various reasons, but right now I do not have the exact numbers. PMC had given the responsibility to regional ward offices to take care of the subways and take a call on reopening or keeping them closed. Even the maintenance work of the subways is carried out by regional ward offices,” said Bonala.Residents and activists complained that PMC has not scientifically planned the subways, and so some of them did not get any response.“PMC is interested only in erecting infrastructure and do not care for its maintenance. Ideally, the civic body should have carried out maintenance work during the pandemic. Even most of the underpass erected are unscientific. PMC didn’t check whether there is a need for an underpass or overhead bridge in the area. That’s why they are getting mixed responses from people. For example, PMC built a foot over bridge (FBO) at Mayur Colony in Kothrud and also installed a lift. But no one is bothered whether the lift is functional or not,” said Velankar.One such subway on Jungli Maharaj road near Modern College has not been used as pedestrians find it inconvenient. It was reopened for a brief period before lockdown but was closed again as schools and colleges are closed. At many places, garbage and mud have blocked the way.Earlier in May 2021, Parisar NGO had found the conditions of FOBs and subways across the city to be in a poor state in an independent survey conducted earlier this year.The survey assessed the condition of 13 pedestrian subways and nine FOBs in Pune after a physical site visit and conditions using parameters defined in the city’s pedestrian policy.The report submitted to the PMC showed that many facilities of subways and FOBs are poor in terms of lighting, ventilation, have no fire fighting equipment, and have water seepage.Ramesh Bafna, a citizen said, “The subway at Pushpamangal was built for pedestrians first but allowed later for two-wheelers. It was filled with mud due to rains and has become very difficult to walk from there. By considering that citizens prefer to cross the road by taking a risk.”The elected members are also pressing to reopen the subways though officials at PMC ward offices are reluctant.“As schools, colleges and most of the offices working on less capacity, the traffic on roads is less. By considering this, PMC administration prefers to close the subways,” said a civic officer on condition of anonymity.“I have given instructions to our department to carry out inspection of subways in the city. During lockdown for security reasons, all the subways were closed. As per citizens demand, some subways were reopened. We are conducting a survey mainly for electric works and whether tubes are operational, leakage and whether ward offices have provided the security,” said Bonala.Other officers from Bibvewadi ward said on the condition of anonymity that the subway near Sai Temple at Swargate has been closed for years as it was used playing cards or became the den for drinkers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/phadke-subway-in-kothrud-reopens-others-need-attention-101631812870748.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||CM Thackeray’s close aide Milind Narvekar appointed as Tirupati temple trust member||Milind Narvekar, Shiv Sena secretary and close aide of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, was appointed as a member of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Trust Board on Wednesday. Thackeray reportedly spoke to Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to recommend Narvekar as one of the 24 members of the richest temple board in the country. Following the appointment, Narvekar thanked Thackeray and the Andhra government in a post on Twitter. “I am grateful to the Government of Andhra Pradesh for appointing me as the member of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Trust, and thankful to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for giving me this opportunity. God has opened this door for me to do service. This is my good fortune,” Narvekar posted on Thursday.Chief ministers of all states nominate one person from the state to the temple trust board every two years. In 2018, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and then state finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar’s wife Sapna was appointed on the trust board. The Maharashtra government has allotted a 650-square metre plot in Bandra to the trust in 2019. The Andhra Pradesh government had also planned to give plot to the state to set up a guest house on the lines of Haj House for thousands of devotees visiting the temple from Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cm-thackeray-s-close-aide-milind-narvekar-appointed-as-tirupati-temple-trust-member-101631812869399.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC orders eviction of abusive son from parents’ flat||The Bombay high court (HC) ordered a Santacruz resident to be evicted from the flat of his 90-year-old father and 89-year-old mother on the grounds of harassing the elderly couple with an intention to grab the premises. A single judge bench of justice Girish Kulkarni rejected the petition by the Santacruz resident after noticing that his aged parents were suffering at the hands of their only son and his wife. “This is a classic case where the petitioner intends to prevent his parents from leading a normal life at their old age,” said justice Kulkarni. Noticing that this was a case of old parents suffering at the hands of their only son and his wife, the court observed, “It appears that there is certainly some element of truth in the popular saying that daughters are daughters forever and sons are sons till they are married.”The petitioner had moved the Bombay HC challenging the October 21, 2020 order of the Senior Citizens Tribunal, directing him and his wife to vacate the Santacruz (West) apartment of his parents in 30 days, after noticing that the elderly couple was being harassed for years.His lawyer pointed out that in February 2010, the petitioner’s mother had filed a complaint under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence (DC) Act, and in the final order passed on it in January 2016, the magistrate court had clearly that the complainant was not be entitled to orders evicting her son and daughter-in-law from the flat. He submitted that the tribunal could not have passed the eviction order in view of the magistrate’s observations.The HC, however, noted that the magistrate himself had noted that the aged parents were living in terror and suffering at the hands of the son and daughter-in-law. The magistrate had seen strong possibility of dispossession of the aged couple and had passed protection orders.Justice Kulkarni also noted that the son owned three residential premises — two in Navi Mumbai and one at Dahisar, but was insisting on staying at the Santacruz flat.The Bombay HC, therefore, rejected the petition observing that the provisions of the Senior Citizens Act are required to be construed to take within the ambit of maintenance all facets that would aid the senior citizens to lead a normal life and would certainly include the senior citizen’s right to property.Besides, the court said, the flat was not an ancestral property on which the son can claim any legal right so as to keep himself on such property along with his family and foist themselves on the parents against their wishes. “This itself is a harassment and/or defeating the parents right to lead a normal life,” said the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-orders-eviction-of-abusive-son-from-parents-flat-101631812749605.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Special Covid vaccination drive for women in Mumbai on Friday||A special vaccination drive for women has been organised in Mumbai by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday. It is the first such drive organised for women in the city.Under this drive, women beneficiaries will be given both first and second doses on a walk-in basis. Owing to this, the online booking of slots was kept shut on Thursday. The drive will be undertaken at vaccination centres run by the state government and civic body.Private hospitals will continue to administer vaccine doses to both male and female beneficiaries as usual. There are a total of 455 vaccination centres in the city, of which 302 are run by the BMC, 19 by the state government and 134 are private hospitals.In a statement issued on Thursday, the BMC said, “Under the Covid-19 prevention vaccination campaign, a special vaccination session reserved for women will be conducted on Friday (September 17) between 10.30am to 6.30pm at all government and municipal Covid-19 Vaccination where women will be able to take the first or second dose of the Covid vaccine by on-spot registration and online will be remained closed for this special session.”In the city, 90,761 doses were administered on Thursday taking the total number of vaccines administered to 10,833,648. There are 3,253,824 fully vaccinated citizens in the city. The highest number of vaccine beneficiaries are in the 18-45 age group with 5,155,057 beneficiaries, followed by 2,991,926 in 45-59 age group, 1,891,523 senior citizens and 744,575 are frontline and healthcare workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/special-covid-vaccination-drive-for-women-in-mumbai-on-friday-101631812630853.html
16-09-2021||Pune||Researchers from Deccan College, IIT Kharagpur to study climate change during Indus Valley Civilisation||Researchers from Pune-based Deccan College and IIT Kharagpur have undertaken a study to understand the human response to a similar climate change that could have affected the Indus Valley Civilisation. The project aims to establish biological relations, if any, to climate change that is believed to have contributed to the downfall of the civilisation starting approximately 2,000 BCE.According to researchers, the project will study isotopes in land shells from archaeological sites to retrieve data on past changes in seasonality over century-level timescales.Aarti Deshpande-Mukherjee, archaeologist, Deccan College, is the principal investigator of the project along with professor Anindya Sarkar from the geology department of IIT Kharagpur, co-investigator in the project. Sushama Deo, a retired professor at Deccan College is also one of the investigators in the project.The research will also involve researchers from the physical research laboratory, Kutch University, and the Archaeological Survey of India.Mukherjee said the main aim of the project is to study the climate change, environment and various other factors of the civilisation which exists thousands of years before.“Also, how the people responded to the change of climate and weather conditions during that period was it similar to the existing conditions or was completely different. All this is going to be a part of our study and when the results will come then only we can tell more about it. For this, we have identified two sites in our country - Gujarat and Haryana state. It is a three years project and will probably complete by the end of 2024,” she said.The project was sanctioned and to be funded by the Science Engineering Research Board (SERB) under the Department of Science and Technology (DST) of the Government of India.“Today is the world of collaboration and for such research and findings, we need to work along with other institutes in the country. So the project is done in integration by Deccan College with IIT Kharagpur. It is a unique project to work on, we have already started the work on it, one of which is Bhirana in Haryana and Dholavira from Gujarat. This is an interesting subject to work on, people have a curiosity about how was civilisation in our country around 4,000 years back and what happened to it later. It will be a fruitful project and interesting results will come out once the studies are completed,” she saidRecently, Dholavira was tagged as a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage site, becoming the third such site in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/researchers-from-deccan-college-iit-kharagpur-to-study-climate-change-during-indus-valley-civilisation-101631812629578.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Active Covid cases in Mumbai surge by 62% in a month, BMC on alert||In the past one month, the number of active Covid-19 cases has increased by 62.3% in Mumbai, as per the civic body. Anticipating a further rise in cases in the next 14 days, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has instructed ward officers to activate buffer beds at Covid Care Centres (CCCs). On August 15, the city had 2,834 active Covid cases, which on September 15 increased to 4,602, according to BMC. However, as per data by the public health department, active cases in the city have seen a surge of 77.2% with active cases increasing from 3,096 on August 15 to 5,488 on September 15. On Wednesday, Mumbai recorded a test positive rate (TPR) of 1.71% with 514 new Covid-19 cases. As a result, BMC has started taking preparatory measures. “We have already instructed ward officers to increase buffer beds reserved in CCCs to avoid any shortage of beds in case the number of patients increases. We will also station more healthcare workers (HCWs) at these centres to attend to these patients, in addition to making arrangements to keep oxygen supply facilities at a stand by,” said Suresh Kakani, additional BMC commissioner. “For the third wave, we will keep 70,000 beds in CCCs,” he added.State health minister Rajesh Tope had earlier said the government might impose restrictions if the daily consumption of oxygen reaches 700 metric tonnes per day. Some wards like E and A that cover Byculla and Fort, respectively, are recording a surge in cases. As of September 15, both these wards have recorded seven-day positivity rate of 0.09% — the highest in the city. Of the 508 active beds, where patients can immediately get admitted to, in E ward, 272 beds are occupied which accounts for 55% occupancy. Private hospitals are recording higher admission rates of Covid-19 patients as compared to August. Of the eight beds reserved in Covid-19 intensive care unit (ICU) at LH Hiranandani Hospital in Powai, seven are occupied. “As the global trend predicts, Mumbai will also face the third wave, mostly by the end of September or middle of October. In the past two weeks, we are seeing a steady rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. In this festival season, testing has gone down, so, many Covid-19 patients are going undetected. But with the end of the festival, we might see a surge in the next two-three weeks,” said Dr Neeraj Tulara, infectious disease specialist at the hospital.As HT reported earlier, BMC has predicted that in the possible third wave, the city might record around 125,000 new Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/active-covid-cases-in-mumbai-surge-by-62-in-a-month-bmc-on-alert-101631812509479.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||304 samples positive for Delta variant of Covid virus in genome sequencing in Mumbai||In the second cycle of genome sequencing done at Kasturba Hospital, 304 samples, of the total 376 samples that were collected, tested positive for the Delta subtype of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. None of the samples tested positive for the Delta Plus variant, which is considered more communicable. Results of the second cycle were declared by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday.The Delta variant, also known as B.1.617.2, was first detected in India in late 2020 and is largely the more dominant variant. Delta Plus (AY.1) is a mutation of the highly transmissible Delta variant and was detected in the state during the second wave. In June, the Union health ministry declared it as the variant of concern.According to the results of this second cycle, two samples were tested for the 19A subtype, and four samples were of the 20A subtype. The remaining 66 samples were tested for the common Covid virus.Similarly, in the first cycle of genome sequencing, results of which were declared in August, none of the 188 samples had tested positive for the Delta Plus variant. However, 128 samples out of the 188 had the Delta variant. Giving details of the first cycle on Thursday, BMC said, out of the 128 samples, 93 patients were from Mumbai. Of these 93 patients, around 58% or 54 patients needed hospitalisation, while 42% or 40 patients showed no symptoms at all. Also out of the same 93 patients, 27 patients had taken both vaccine doses, and 20 patients had taken their first dose. Only four patients out of those who had been fully vaccinated needed oxygen support.Genome sequencing is an exercise to study the changes in the structure of the virus over time. A combination of changes in the ribonucleic acid of the virus can give birth to a new variant. Kasturba Hospital has a genome sequencing laboratory, that was inaugurated at the hands of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on August 4 this year, making it the first civic-run hospital to conduct the tests in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/304-samples-positive-for-delta-variant-of-covid-virus-in-genome-sequencing-in-mumbai-101631812329502.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||70% of active Covid cases since Sept 5 are coming from five districts of Maharashtra||Even as Maharashtra sees an overall downward trend in daily Covid-19 infections, five districts have added nearly 70% of the state’s active cases between September 5 and 14, and the weekly positivity rate from eight districts is higher than the state’s average. Maharashtra on Thursday added 3,595 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking its tally to 6,511,525. The state added 45 fatalities, pushing its death toll to 138,322. Case fatality rate in the state was 2.12%.Mumbai added 446 fresh cases, taking its tally to 736,728. It also reported two fatalities, pushing the death toll to 16,039. City’s active case count stood at 5,589, up from 5,488 on Wednesday.The active cases in the state were 49,342. The active case load went up by 308 on Thursday. The state also saw 3,240 discharges in the last 24 hours. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 168,793 samples and the daily positivity rate was 2.13%. So far, the state has tested 56,529,882 samples and the overall positivity rate was 11.52%.On Thursday, of the 3,595 cases reported, 2,668 infections or 74.21% of cases came from Mumbai, Ahmednagar, Pune, Solapur, Satara, Sangli districts. Ahmednagar reported 618 new cases, while Pune added 898 fresh infections. Solapur logged 241 new cases, while Satara added 236 fresh infections. Sangli district added 229 new cases.As per the data of the state public health department, between September 5 and 14, five districts — Pune, Ahmednagar, Mumbai, Satara and Solapur — have added 69% of the active cases or 25,776 cases. While the remaining 30 districts have contributed 31% of the active cases (11,320) during the same period. Pune added 8,062, while Ahmednagar added 7,484, followed by Mumbai (4,087), Satara (3,439) and Solapur (2,704),Eight districts — Pune, Ahmednagar, Sangli, Nashik, Satara, Osmanabad, Palghar and Sindhudurg — have a higher weekly positivity rate than the state’s overall average of 2.63%. While Pune and Ahmednagar districts’ weekly positivity rates were 5.82% and 5.52%, the remaining districts had the weekly ratio between 3.88% and 3.02%, the data from the health department showed.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the overall Covid-19 situation is under control. “Overall, there is a downward trend. Some districts have a high weekly positivity rate, but that is also reducing week-on-week. It is not so that their positivity is increasing, it is higher than the state’s average,” he said. However, Ahmednagar’s weekly positivity rate is on an upward trajectory. The data showed that its positivity rate was 4.70% between August 18 and 24. Subsequently, it rose to 4.85% between August 25 and 31. It breached the 5% mark in the subsequent week at 5.35%. Ahmednagar, along with four other districts, have been designated as districts to keep a watch on by the state health department. The four districts include Pune, Sangli, Nashik and Satara. Nashik district’s weekly positivity saw a jump. Between August 25 and 31, it was 2.52%, which climbed to 3.34% between September 1 and 7. Between September 8 and 14, it was 3.76%. A state health department official, who did not wish to be named, said, “We carry out weekly review of the Covid-19 situation. We are not just looking at these five districts, but also other districts as the spurt can happen from any location. Weekly monitoring will give us time to act. With activities opened up across states, coupled with festival season, there is a fear of increase in viral activity. However, whenever the possible third wave come, we are prepared for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/70-of-active-covid-cases-since-sept-5-are-coming-from-five-districts-of-maharashtra-101631812149525.html
16-09-2021||Lucknow||Schools, colleges in Uttar Pradesh to remain shut on Friday, Saturday amid heavy rainfall||All schools and colleges in Uttar Pradesh will remain closed for the next two days in the wake of incessant rainfall, the chief minister's office said on Thursday. The decision was made after reports of deaths and injuries in separate rain-related incidents across the state since Wednesday night.Ranvir Prasad, the relief commissioner of UP, had earlier confirmed to HT about incidents of kuccha houses caving in due to heavy showers. Citing information provided from respective district magistrates, Prasad said that about 14 deaths were reported in those incidents till Thursday evening."The information is being compiled and districts officials have been directed to ensure proper medical treatment to the injured and monetary relief to the kin of the deceased,” he added. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has indicated that monsoon is unlikely to retreat from north India by September-end. The weather department said rainfall activity is likely to increase over Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal with fairly widespread to widespread rainfall and isolated heavy falls over above areas on September 18-19. "There are no signs of monsoon withdrawal from north India for the next 10 days," news agency PTI quoted IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra as saying.Meanwhile, Delhi is also witnessing record rainfall as it breached the 400-mm mark this month. Till Thursday evening, the national capital recorded 404.4 mm of rainfall, the maximum rainfall recorded in September since 417.3 mm in 1944 in the same month."On and off rains will continue till September 23-24 due to the expected late withdrawal of monsoon," PTI quoted Mahesh Palawat, vice president, Skymet Weather, as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/schools-colleges-in-up-to-remain-shut-on-friday-saturday-amid-heavy-rainfall-101631809178765.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Expert suggests opening all gates of metro stations, DDMA yet to take a call||During a recent meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the director of the National Centre for Disease Control, Dr Sujit Kumar Singh suggested that all gates of Delhi Metro stations should be opened in order to reduce congestion for passengers, PTI reported. The DDMA is yet to decide on this matter as Delhi Metro continues operating at its full seating capacity with no standing travel to avoid overcrowding.The meeting was chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. Dr Singh pointed out that only some gates of metro stations were opened and advised opening of all gates at the earliest as this would lead to lesser congestion.At present, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is facilitating the entry of passengers at all stations through 276 gates. A DMRC official told PTI on Thursday that the opening of more gates would lead to more passengers entering the metro stations. “We are following the guidelines of the DDMA and some gates are closed at metro stations. The opening of more gates would lead to more people inside the station. We will follow the guidelines of the DDMA,” the official said.In 2021, Delhi Metro services were suspended when the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government imposed a complete lockdown in the national Capital on April 19 due to a massive increase in coronavirus disease cases during the more infectious second wave of the pandemic.As the situation started improving in June, the DMRC started metro services with 50% seating capacity and no standing travel. Since July 26, trains have been running at full capacity with no standing passenger allowed.Hindustan Times reported last week that despite the DMRC allowing full seating capacity in trains, Delhi Metro is running at just 20% of its capacity. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director of research and advocacy, CSE, told HT that there are apprehensions among people that travelling in close proximity with others will increase the chances of getting infected with Covid-19.Delhi has so far recorded 1,438,373 cases, 25,084 deaths, 1412880 discharges and 409 active cases due to the viral disease. On Thursday, 28 people were detected as Covid-19 positive while 22 patients recovered. After seeing zero deaths for more than one week, one Covid-19 patient died on Thursday, the second fatality reported in September -- the earlier was on September 7.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/expert-suggests-opening-all-gates-of-metro-stations-ddma-yet-to-take-a-call-101631810194330.html
16-09-2021||Pune||FYJC admission 2021: 69,778 seats vacant in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad after three regular rounds||PUNE After the completion of three regular rounds of the First Year Junior College (FYJC) or Class 11 admissions, 69,778 seats are vacant in the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad region.In the three regular rounds out of 86,013 students registered for the online centralised admission process, 43,187 students have taken admission.From Thursday (September 16) onward the first special round for the admissions has begun and new students who have not yet registered can register themselves for the admission process.In the third regular round, a total of 63,876 seats were available, for which 29,505 students were eligible and out of which 9,261 students were allotted a college. Of the 9,261 allotted students, 554 students were given the college of their first preference, 1,476 students were given the college of their second preference and 958 students were given the college of their third preference.Meanwhile, the detailed schedule of the special Round 1 for FYJC online centralised admissions for the Pune region was declared today by the Director of Education (Secondary and Higher Secondary), Pune.After the Round 3 admission process ended on Thursday, the vacancy list will be displayed by the colleges and the allotment list of special Round 1 will be declared on September 17 at 10 pm.As per the new schedule of the special Round 1, from September 17 new submission and registration process will start. Students can also update part 2 forms.On September 20 till 8 pm, the application form (Part-1) edit and choice filling or updating of options form (Part-2) for round 3 will be available online.On September 22, at 10 am, the junior college allotment list for special Round 1 admissions will be displayed online. Accordingly, a display of the cut-off list for the admission round will be done and SMS will be sent to students.“From September 22 at 10 am to September 25 at 6 pm, students need to confirm their admission in the allotted colleges. If a student wants to take admission in the allotted junior college then click on ‘proceed for admission’ through student login then upload required documents and confirm admission in the allotted college. If any student wishes to cancel his/her admission, they should give it a thought, as this round may be the last round. Many of the seats are expected to be filling at the round.” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of the secondary and higher secondary education department.While on September 25 the junior colleges will upload the status of admitted students on the website and display quota wise vacancies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fyjc-admission-2021-69-778-seats-vacant-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad-after-three-regular-rounds-101631809389183.html
16-09-2021||Other||No stopping PSEB question paper leaks, Class-11 history exam out this time||Ludhiana The leak of question papers for Punjab State Education Board (PSEB) mid-term examination for Classes 6-12 continued with monotonous regularity for the third day in a row on Thursday. This is despite the education department being aware of the matter and promising to check this blatant toying with the system. This HT reporter did a reality check outside a Government Senior Secondary School in the city and found that the this time, history question paper of Class 11 had been leaked. A couple of students had the question paper on their phones, outside the centre. Later, the same question paper was distributed inside the hall. HT has photographs to prove this. A student claimed he had got the question paper from a YouTube channel. Source said that on Tuesday evening, a YouTube channel, Virdi Blog, had uploaded question papers of exams scheduled for Thursday (September 16)Responding to the leaks that started from Monday, Punjab education secretary Krishan Kumar has ordered the department to conduct exams in two shifts. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had also ordered immediate steps to plug this breach in the system. Meanwhile, the principal of the school that HT visited on Thursday claimed to unaware of the leak. When shown the two photos of the question paper on mobile and the one distributed to students, she said, “We are working hard to check this. After receiving the question paper over e-mail around 8am today, we got them photocopied, strictly as per department guidelines. I was not aware that the department had not changed the question paper.” She added that the entire examination system had now become an object of ridicule. Sukhdarshan Singh, the whistle-blower in the entire matter, claimed, “The social studies question paper of Class 10 held today was also leaked on YouTube. I fail to understand that why has the department not approached the police to date.” Sukhdarshan is the president of Anti-Cheating Teachers’ Front, Punjab, and he has also uploaded his complaint online on a request from chief ministers’ office (CMO). Despite messages and calls, district education officer Lakhvir Singh Samra remained unavailable for comment. Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma also chose not to respond to text messages and calls from this reporter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-stopping-pseb-question-paper-leaks-class-11-history-exam-out-this-time-101631808789355.html
16-09-2021||Other||New room coming up at Rabri’s Patna residence for Lalu||PATNAPreparations are afoot at the sprawling 10, Circular road bungalow in Patna, allotted to former Bihar chief minister Rabri Devi, ahead of the imminent return of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad, who has been away from the state since his conviction fodder scam cases and subsequent incarceration in December 2017, party sources said.A new room is coming up at the bungalow and will be equipped with medical facilities and a visitors’ enclosure for Prasad, who has been undergoing treatment for several ailments in New Delhi, where he is currently staying at his daughter and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti’s official residence. Party insiders said the new room is being constructed at the ground floor of the main house inside the bungalow where there will be adequate medical facilities, a doctor’s enclosure, one medical bed and a separate visitors’ enclosure for Lalu Prasad once he returns to Patna, possibly in October. The bungalow is allotted in the name of Rabri Devi in her capacity as the leader of the opposition in the state’s Legislative Council, sources said. A party source said the new constructions would take another 10-15 days to complete. Prasad, who has also served railway minister and Bihar’s chief minister, was released from jail on bail in April this year while undergoing treatment at AIIMS in New Delhi. “Previously, Laluji used to stay on the first floor of the main house, but now he has been advised against climbing stairs. So the ground floor is preferable,” said Bhola Yadav, RJD’s ’ national general secretary and a close aide of the 74-year-old Prasad. “We are hoping Laluji will return back by end of October. It will all depend on the suggestions of doctors attending to him in New Delhi and decision by family members,” said Yadav. RJD chief’s family doctor in Patna, Dr S K Sinha, could not be reached for comments. A frail looking RJD chief has been seen in public quite a few times in recent months and has interacted with the party workers through video conferencing, including on RJD’s foundation day event on July 11. “We are hoping that RJD chief would be in Patna during the Chhath festival, which has been a big event in the his family for years,”said another RJD leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-room-coming-up-at-rabri-s-patna-residence-for-lalu-101631808250412.html
16-09-2021||Lucknow||14 killed, several injured in rain related incidents across UP||LUCKNOW/ PRAYAGRAJ/ VARANASI At least 14 people, including three children, were killed and several injured in separate rain related incidents across Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, state relief department officials confirmed. “Several incidents of kuccha houses caving in due to heavy showers have been reported across the state since Wednesday night. Around 14 deaths were reported in these incidents till Thursday evening, as per information provided by the respective districts magistrates. The information is being compiled and districts officials have been directed to ensure proper medical treatment to the injured and monetary relief to the kin of the deceased,” said Ranvir Prasad, relief commissioner of UP.Seven deaths were reported from Prayagraj and Pratapgarh districts. A woman identified as Anita, 55, died when a mud wall caved in and fell on her in Muthiaganj of Prayagraj on Thursday morning.A mud house also collapsed due to heavy rain in Semra Veerbhanpur village of Mauaima area of Prayagraj resulting in the death of one Rammurat Yadav, 49 while two persons were also injured in a similar incident at Bongi village in Ghoorpur area of the district. Similarly, one Ramzan Ali, 18, died while four of his family members sustained serious injuries when their house collapsed in Reri village in Jethwara area of Pratapgarh. One Kalawati, 65, of Lauli village in Kohdaur area of Pratapgarh died when her house collapsed on Thursday morning while one Urmila Devi, 67, also succumbed to her injuries, which she sustained when her mud house collapsed in Gehrichak village of Kandhai in Pratapgarh.Meanwhile, three of a family died in two incidents of wall collapse in Jaunpur. In Saraikhani village, the wall of a kutcha house of Bharat Lal Jaiswal, 38, collapsed in which Jaiswal, his wife Gulaba Devi, 34, daughter Sakshi, 10, sister-in-law Rekha Devi, 45 and niece Kajal, 12, got trapped under the debris. Locals rushed them to the hospital where Jaiswal, Gulabo Devi and Sakshi were declared brought dead. Two others of the family were under treatment.In Ramsanehi Ghat area of Barabanki, two people were killed after a mud house collapsed. Deaths were also reported from Ayodhya, Sitapur and Kaushambi districts. The death toll due to rain related incidents could rise in the next 24 hours, said the relief commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/14-killed-several-injured-in-rain-related-incidents-across-up-101631808249233.html
16-09-2021||Other||Bihar panchayat polls: Trend reverses,women emerge as ‘better half’ after 50% quota||PATNAA former commissioner with Chief Vigilance Commission is set to contest the panchayat election in Bihar from Raj Singhwahini panchayat in Sonbarsa block of Sitamarhi district, which was represented for the last five years by his wife, who now wants to move on to state-level politics, breaking the stereotype that men use women as proxy in grassroots politics, in which Bihar was the first state to provide 50% reservation to women in 2006.Arun Kumar’s wife Ritu Jaiswal, as mukhiya of Raj Singhwahini panchayat, has been a recipient of the “Champions of Change” award from vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu and the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar (DDUPSP), 2019, by union minister of panchayati raj Narendra Singh Tomar for her work.Ritu had contested the last Assembly election on RJD ticket and narrowly lost. This may be an isolated case, but it also underlines the changing trend. Despite reservation, Ritu had won from a general seat and contested against male counterparts. The statistics this year also indicate that more women are interested in jumping into the election fray than the 50% quota.Woman candidates have outnumbered men in the forthcoming panchayat elections by a good margin in the first two phases and the trend is likely to continue, considering the growing awareness among women in the rural areas, which was reflected during the last panchayat elections as well as Assembly and Lok Sabha voting patterns.In the first phase, 15,328 candidates filed their nomination for different panchayat posts, of which 9,093 were women, which comes to 52.79%. For the second phase, 76,279 candidates filed their nominations, including 40,168 women, ie. 52.65%. Bihar had 71,046 women out of 1,36,573 panchayati representatives after the 2016 panchayat polls. This comes to 52.025% representation of women. “It shows gender imbalance in Bihar’s rural governance is gone, gender stereotypes are breaking and it would gradually end apprehensions about women being projected as proxies for their husbands. Women enjoying empowerment has started making a difference, as it will gradually help change the male-dominated climate not only in grassroots politics, but also in improving their much-needed participation in workforce. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has been assiduously working on this from day one and now women are in every field,” said Bihar’s information and public relations minister Sanjay Kumar Jha.Female literacy in Bihar went up from a mere 37% in 2005-06 to 60% in 2015-16, though still the lowest in the country, and is expected to go further up in the new Census, as girls have been outnumbering boys at the secondary level also. As per the National Statistical Organisation report released in 2020, the female literacy rate in rural Bihar stood at 58.7% while it was 75.9% in urban areas.Despite constituting less than 9% of the total number of candidates in the fray, women showed far greater enthusiasm than their male counterparts in voting in Bihar during the Lok Sabha elections. In the moderate overall voter turnout of 57.46% in the state, women’s share was close to 60%, even though Bihar has an adverse sex ratio.In the 2020 assembly elections also, women outnumbered men in voting. While the voting percentage for women was almost 60%, it was just 54.6% for men.“The reservation to women at the panchayat level has certainly contributed to their empowerment, as their voting behaviour has changed since 2006. Women have outnumbered men in voting consistently since 2010. It has strengthened the democratic process through gender participation and equality and now their participation in grassroots politics will created upward pressure and make more room for them with or without reservation,” said former DM Diwakar, former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies.“Such is the level of enthusiasm that many women have resigned from the posts in the self help groups (SHG), formed by JEEVIKA, the Rural Livelihood Project of the rural development department. They want to fight Panchayat elections and so they resigned from the JEEVIKA group before filing nominations,” Nagendra Kumar, a social activist from Nalanda, said. Akhtari, another social activist who has been working among rural women for year, said awareness about the constitutional rights of women and of the power system has grown among women in rural areas. “I feel more enthusiasm among rural women for the Panchayat elections this time in comparison to the previous elections after the reservation of 50% seats for women in Panchayats by Nitish Kumar government in 2006. In the first post reservation Panchayat elections in 2011, not many rural women were aware about the reservations they were given while in the second Panchayat elections in 2016, women were not so confident of being candidates for Mukhiya or ward members,” she said. But the saddest part is that participation of women from the Muslim community in the entire exercise seems to be quite low, she says. Headline: Women in panchayatsIntro: Bihar reserved 50% of panchayat posts for women in 2006, but results have been visible since last panchayat polls five years ago2016 rural bodies’ polls1,36,573: Total number of panchayati representatives 71,046: Number of women representatives Representation : 52.025% 2021 polls1st phase nominations15,328: Total number of candidates9,093: Women candidates Share: 52.79%. 2nd phase76,279: Total number of candidates 40,168: Women candidatesShare: 52.65%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-panchayat-polls-trend-reverses-women-emerge-as-better-half-after-50-quota-101631808129735.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra objects to GST Council meeting in Lucknow||Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday raised objections and asked why the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting was being held in Lucknow instead of online. He said his request to attend the meeting online is yet to be accepted. Pawar, who handles the finance portfolio in Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, also indicated that Maharashtra will oppose any attempt to encroach on the state’s power while adding more provisions to GST. He was speaking in the context of the speculations over inclusion of petrol and diesel in GST. The GST Council is meeting in Lucknow on Friday and is likely to discuss bringing petrol, diesel and other petroleum products under its ambit. If the proposal is accepted, it will lead to a drastic reduction in central and state levies on petrol and diesel, and bring down consumer prices of automobile fuels substantially. The matter will be brought before the council for discussion as per the direction of the Kerala high court that had, in June, issued directions to decide on including petrol and diesel under the ambit of GST, as per reports.“There are reports that petrol and diesel are likely to be brought under GST and only one tax is levied, but we have yet to be officially informed about it (by the GST Council). We have formed our strategy in case any such proposal is coming for discussion. I am of the view that the Centre should do its work and the powers of the states should not be reduced. Stamp duty and excise are revenue sources for the state but maximum revenue comes from GST, thus we want the status quo to be maintained,” Pawar said.“If they want to discuss bringing petrol and diesel under GST ambit then we all will express our opinions. We will take a clear stand if any attempt is made to reduce the state’s power,” he added.“I have also submitted our opinion in writing which was sought by the GST Council, which I will not be able to disclose, but our opinion is clear that the states should not be left to face (financial) losses. The commitment given on the floor of the House (Parliament) while implementing GST should be implemented in letter and spirit,” the minister said.He further said that they have also expressed their stand before Niti Aayog officials who visited Mumbai and had a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and senior ministers including Pawar recently.Objecting to the meeting at Lucknow, Pawar said, “We have demanded that the meeting be held in Delhi but they refused to budge. Later, we demanded permission to attend it online, which we have been doing owing to Covid-19 pandemic. The request was made in the backdrop of Covid-19 and new rules for flights, but they have to give any permission.”The state finance minister said he was hoping to get permission to attend it online as Prime Minister Narendra Modi took online meetings of the chief ministers. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, too, has held many online meetings apart from online meetings of GST Council held during Covid lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-objects-to-gst-council-meeting-in-lucknow-101631807889466.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||NGT admits petition challenging Mumbai’s Versova beach revamp||Mumbai: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) this week admitted the hearing of a petition challenging ongoing development works at Versova Beach, which is alleged to be in violation of coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearances granted by the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA). The petition, filed by environmentalist Zoru Bhatena, also emphasised that the beach has previously been known as a nesting site for protected Olive Ridley turtles while seeking the court’s intervention in stopping the construction work.A two-judge bench led by justices M Sathyanarayanan and Dr Arun Kumar Verma found, prima facie, that merit in the grievances detailed in Bhatena’s petition, and has ordered the respondents to be given notices in the matter. These include the PWD, MCZMA, the state environment impact assessment authority, the municipal corporation and the district collector. The matter will be next heard on September 29. The NGT also cited an October 2020 order of its principal bench which called for the protection of beaches in Goa on account of them being nesting sites for Olive Ridley turtles.Public works department (PWD) officials had anonymously confirmed to HT last month that an elevated walkway is being constructed along Versova beach and will be completed in the next three to four months. The project, however, seemingly violates Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) instructions laid down at the time of recommending the project for Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) clearance in 2017.The minutes of an MCZMA meeting from June 2017 state that PWD has not been allowed to construct an elevated walkway or undertake any work of the scale that is currently happening on site. The sandy beach is a CRZ-I area where construction activities are prohibited, the coastal authority has noted in response to similar proposals by Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) and Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada), which have, at different times, sought to carry out “beautification” of the beachfront.PWD was allowed to go ahead with the ostensible purpose of their proposal to reconstruct an existing 1.2-km anti-erosion bundh from Picnic Cottage to the Hindu crematorium before Versova Koliwada. This bundh, PWD had submitted, was essential for protecting properties along the stretch “from further damage caused by the tidal action”. MCZMA had categorically prohibited any promenade construction or reclamation of the CRZ-1 area and allowed for the bundh to be remodelled into a sea wall.“But the current work of constructing a new wall, eight metres from the original bundh, has neither been recommended nor approved by MCZMA. The eight-metre gap has been backfilled to about 16 feet above sea level and the walkway is to be built over that, according to the plans we have obtained. What is expressly not permitted cannot be done by creative engineering. A walkway cannot be created in the garb of anti-erosion measures,” said Bhatena, who has raised the issue with various authorities in three complaint letters dating to early 2020.Shiv Sena member of Parliament (MP) Gajanan Kirtikar and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of legislative assembly (MLA) Bharati Lavekar have also written to authorities seeking clarification on the project. Their letters also reveal that Aaditya Thackeray, state environment minister and guardian minister for Mumbai suburbs, has ordered a “temporary stay” on the work, which has led to the creation of a 1.2km long wall about eight metres from the original high-tide line, with tetrapods dumped on its seaward side. Earth has been backfilled into an eight-metre space between the original high-tide line and the new anti-erosion wall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ngt-admits-petition-challenging-mumbai-s-versova-beach-revamp-101631807830461.html
16-09-2021||Patna||17 injured in Barauni refinery blast||At least 17 persons, including five employees, were injured in a blast owing to a “technical snag” at the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) refinery at Barauni in Bihar’s Begusarai district on Thursday, officials said. The injured were currently undergoing treatment, and condition of one of them was said to be serious. Fire tenders and jumbo tankers were pressed into service following the mishap. The plant was later sealed, Begusarai district magistrate (DM) Arvind Kumar Verma said, adding that security personnel were deputed there.A team was also constituted to probe the incident, said refinery officials.As per available information, the blast, which took place around 11.45 am, could be heard as far as three to four kilometres from the refinery and shattered the windows of some houses.Enraged over the incident, scores of locals, including family members of the injured, staged a protest against the refinery authorities on its premises, alleging that authorities were not maintaining a proper security system in the plant. DM Verma said of the 17 injured persons, six contract labourers were discharged after preliminary treatment at the refinery’s first-aid centre. Six more labourers were admitted to Sadar hospital, of which one was said to be serious due to head injury. The remaining five were employees who were undergoing treatment at Barauni refinery hospital and all of them were out of danger, he said. When contacted, executive director of the refinery, Shukla Mistry, said the reason behind the incident was said to be a blast in one of the atmospheric vacuum Units. “The plant was shut down for last one month. In last two days, employees and labourers tried to start the plant. On Thursday morning, a blast in the furnace occurred due to technical error, causing injuries to people. A probe team has been constituted in this connection,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/17-injured-in-barauni-refinery-blast-101631807829226.html
16-09-2021||Patna||Sand mining raids: Ex-Bhojpur SP didn’t touch salary in his 11-yr service, says EOU||Former Bhojpur superintendent of police (SP) Rakesh Kumar Dubey, who was suspended in June this year for his alleged links with the sand mining mafia, hardly touched money in his salary account during his 11-year service period, according to sleuths of Bihar Economic Offences Unit (EoU) who carried out simultaneous searches at his properties on Thursday. Dubey was earlier booked in a case of disproportionate assets (DA) worth ₹2.55 crore.The searches were conducted at the suspended SP’s residential house at Gandhi Park in the state capital, a flat in Danapur locality, Sachin Residency Hotel and his ancestral house in Jharkhand’s Jasidih. Dubey joined as a deputy SP in Bihar Police in 2010. During his 11-year tenure, he was posted at Patna, Gaya, Special Task Force, Anti-Terrorism Squad and as an aide-de-camps to state Governors. EoU officials said they were preparing a list of all his properties, including fixed deposits, vehicles and plots, adding that a DA case under Sections 13 (2) and 13 (1) (B) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, was lodged Wednesday with the EoU police station against Dubey. During investigation, EoU found that the suspended SP had invested his money in real state companies across the country, including in Patna. Dubey has allegedly invested in IPC Infrastructure, Ranchi, Kamini Infrastructure Private Limited, Patliputra Builders, Khyati Construction, Max Blif in Noida, Build Con and other real state companies. Additional director general of EoU, Nayyar Husnanin Khan, told HT that a court in Patna had on Wednesday issued a search warrant for locations that were searched. “During the search, EoU found a transaction of ₹25 lakh in the account of one Khyati Construction Company Pvt Ltd. Dubey also amassed properties in the name of his mother and sister. He also has investment in Sachindra Residency Hotel, Sukhdani Restaurant and a marriage hall in Jharkhand,” said Khan, adding that during his tenure as Phulwarisharief DSP, Dubey purchased expensive land. The EoU also seized incriminating documents, including those showing ₹12 lakh investment in mutual funds, the official said.“This is the first major crackdown on a SP rank officer this year,” said a senior police officerThe EoU had carried out searches at houses, flats and other known properties of four other suspended officers since May 1 this year — Dehri subdivisional officer Sunil Kumar Singh, Paliganj subdivisional police officer Tanvir Ahmad, Ara SDPO Pankaj Kumar Rawat and motor vehicles inspector Binod Kumar of Ara. Sources said Dubey was under EoU’s surveillance since May 1 this year after they discovered that Bhojpur was allegedly turning out to be a hub of illegal mining trade. Sand mining is banned in Bihar. On May 17 this year, principal secretary of mining and geological department, Harjot Kaur Bamhrah, had written to Bihar police chief S K Singhal, mentioning that illegal mining, storage and transportation of sand could not be possible without connivance of police. Sources in the home department said that several IPS and IAS officers in charge of districts were also under EoU’s scanner. “Such officers indulging in the illegal trade have stopped using their cell phones and were instead using phones of middlemen to carry out the illegal acts,” sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/sand-mining-raids-ex-bhojpur-sp-didn-t-touch-salary-in-his-11-yr-service-says-eou-101631807709767.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||610 Covid patients in Mumbai given antibody cocktail, get speedy relief: Doctors||A dozen Covid-19 patients have received the monoclonal antibody cocktail on a daycare basis at the civic-run SevenHills Hospital. In all, the hospital has administered the experimental therapy to 610 patients and have found that it offers speedy symptom relief. “The 12 patients underwent mandatory investigations and were then administered the antibody cocktail through an intravenous drip,” said Dr Maharudra Kumbhar, an officer on special duty at the SevenHills Hospital. “It takes about an hour to administer the therapy. Post that, they were observed for an hour or two and sent home. All the patients were called for a follow up after seven days,” he said. Monoclonal antibodies are artificial antibodies injected into a patient to mimic the action of the natural antibodies. They are similar to natural antibodies that are produced in our bodies to fight attacks by viruses or bacteria, except that they are laboratory-made. Monoclonal antibodies are designed to target a specific disease and are often referred to as ‘designer antibodies’. The cocktail drug used at SevenHills Hospital includes two monoclonal antibodies — Casirivimab and Imdevimab. One pack of the drug, containing the two monoclonal antibodies can be used on two patients. India’s drug regulator granted emergency approval to the Casirivimab and Imdevimab cocktail in May. The drug is indicated for adults and paediatric patients (12 years of age or older weighing at least 40 kgs) who are at the risk of progressing to severe Covid-19. These include Covid-19 patients with high-risk factors such as age and comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, existing lung disease among others. Kumbhar said they have observed good outcomes from the antibody cocktail drug and have not recorded any fatality among the 610 patients. “All patients experienced symptom relief within 48 hours. None of the patients’ conditions deteriorated further — they did not require oxygen support; their chest scan did not worsen. Also, their swabs came negative within four to five days, which means that the antibody cocktail helped in reducing the viral load and hindered the process of viral replication,” he said. The medical team at SevenHills has minutely categorised the patients who are eligible to get the cocktail drug. “We are picking up high-risk patients in the early stage of the disease. That’s when the cocktail drug proves effective,” he said.The 610 patients who have received the cocktail drug include additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani who was hospitalised at SevenHills last month after testing positive for the infection. “It is a good drug, but it should be administered with proper medical advice,” Kakani told Hindustan Times. He was fully vaccinated in March. The hospital is in the process of compiling its observations on the cocktail drug in the form of a study. At present, they are in the stage of getting approval from their ethics committee.Infectious disease expert Dr Om Shrivastav agreed that the selection of patients and timing is crucial for the antibody cocktail to work. “If we pick our patients carefully, and time the antibody cocktail well, the results are very good,” said Shrivastav, who has administered the therapy to nearly 100 patients of which about 25 were on a daycare basis. “It is ideal to start the therapy within 72 hours of symptoms. Patients who have already developed full-blown pneumonia or other complications may not benefit from the therapy,” he said. The drug costs about ₹1.20 lakh. Since it can be used for two patients, the cost comes to ₹60,000 each. The vials need to be stored at 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees Celsius. Once opened, the vials should be stored at the same temperature and used within 48 hours. While patients are getting the drug free of cost at the SevenHills Hospital, it can be an expensive therapy for those taking treatment in the private sector. Offering the therapy on a daycare basis saves the cost of hospitalisation. Doctors, however, warn that not all patients can qualify for daycare, as some may require close monitoring. “Even those who are chosen for daycare should be followed up closely,” said Shrivastav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/610-covid-patients-in-mumbai-given-antibody-cocktail-get-speedy-relief-doctors-101631807529064.html
16-09-2021||Pune||Puneite highlights parking woes through ‘bike monument’, pictures go viral||PUNE Sachin Dhankude (50), a resident of the Paud road area, has erected a monument of his two-wheeler near Kothrud depot to highlight parking and traffic woes faced by the residents in the city.The traffic police took away his two-wheeler on June 15 this year, without any parking violation and returned it on September 11, as a mark of protest he has built the monument during the Ganesh festival.The photos of the unique decoration have gone viral online.“On June 15, traffic police took away my two-wheeler, which is the only vehicle I own for parking violation even when it was in no parking zone. They returned my two-wheeler just three days back. Meanwhile, all of these months I had to visit their office to get it back. During this time I studied the issue of the traffic and parking and realised that it has been worsening day by day. So I want to draw the administration’s attention to the problem,” said Dhankude.“I realised that the problem cannot be solved by any single agency. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), urban planning department, traffic police have to work hand in hand to resolve the issue. But unfortunately, this is not happening. If the administration doesn’t take note of this then I will keep the monument permanently on my private land to keep highlighting the traffic and parking woes. Why only residents have to suffer through this?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/puneite-highlights-parking-woes-through-bike-monument-pictures-go-viral-101631807469295.html
16-09-2021||Pune||State issues GR for implementing 7th pay commission for PMC employees||PUNE The state government on Thursday issued a government resolution (GR) for implementing the 7th pay commission for Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) 17,000 employees. The move comes after a decision was taken during a meeting chaired by urban development minister Eknath Shinde and attended by PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar and Pune city mayor Murlidhar Mohol among others.On Wednesday this week, Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar, too, had promised the PMC employees’ union and officers’ union that the government would take a decision on the 7th pay commission by this week. The Hindustan Times had published a report in this regard in its Thursday edition.Accordingly, Shinde held a meeting through video conferencing with Mohol and Kumar along with other state government officials and made the announcement.In Maharashtra, other municipal corporations have already implemented the 7th pay commission for their employees. The urban development department of the state government in its order on August 2, 2019, had asked civic bodies across Maharashtra to start the process of implementing the 7th pay commission. Accordingly, the PMC general body approved the proposal on March 10 this year. The employees, according to the state government, will get the difference in pay from January 1, 2016. S0hinde said that for the last 10 months, the difference will be given in cash whereas the remaining difference will be given in stages.Mohol welcomed the state government’s decision to announce the 7th pay commission for employees saying, “The general body of the PMC had given its nod for implementing the pay commission and submitted the proposal to the urban development ministry for approval. We have followed up several times. This decision will bring a financial burden to the PMC but as municipal employees working for citizens, we need to consider their demands.”It is expected that by coming December, employees will start getting their revised salary as per the 7th pay commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-issues-gr-for-implementing-7th-pay-commission-for-pmc-employees-101631807289122.html
16-09-2021||Lucknow||Rain alert: Lucknow admn starts helpline, urges people not to visit crowded areas||LUCKNOW In wake of the heavy rain, the district administration on Thursday urged citizens not to move out in crowded areas unless it was very important and also launched a helpline to reach out to those in need as the weathermen predicted rainfall of similar magnitude over the next 24 hours. The state capital received a record 222 mm rainfall in 33 hours from Wednesday morning till Thursday evening. The rain was incessant for at least 16 hours, starting during the wee hours of Thursday and continuing till late night, with a few pauses. “The state capital recorded 107 mm rainfall in 24 hours till 8:30 am on Thursday. Our centres recorded an additional 115 mm rainfall till 5:30 pm, totalling to 222 mm of rain,” confirmed director of state MeT department JP Gupta.“Due to bad weather and forecast of more rainfall in the hours to come, we have started a control room\helpline – 6389300137/6389300138/6389300139 to assist people in need,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate. The administration also issued a helpline number -1912 – for people to report power breakdowns related problems. The DM said people can also register their problems with the Integrated Covid Control and Command Centre (ICCCC) by calling on 0522-4523000. “We assure that their problems would be resolved,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rain-alert-lucknow-admn-starts-helpline-urges-people-not-to-visit-crowded-areas-101631806989273.html
16-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan to give ₹5,000 to people who take road accident victims to hospital||JAIPUR: Rajasthan government will give a ₹5,000 reward to good Samaritans who save lives by taking road accident victims to hospitals, a senior government official said on Thursday. The cash reward will be given under the Mukhyamantri Chiranjeevi Jeevan Rakshak Yojna. In addition, the person concerned will also be given a certificate.A senior official of the finance department said the execution of the scheme will be through the health department and expenditure of the scheme will be borne by the road safety fund. The scheme will apply to both private and government hospitals. ‘The scheme is aimed to motivate people so that people injured in road accidents can reach nearby hospitals in golden hour and get treatment,’ he said.A casualty medical officer of the hospital in the emergency room will deal with the person who has brought an injured to the hospital and note down the person’s details. “The cash reward will be given in serious cases only where the injured needed to be admitted or be referred to the hospital for treatment. If there are more than one good Samaritans in a particular case, the cash reward will be divided equally among them, and appreciation letters given to all of them,” said the official. Employees of 108 and 1033 ambulance staff, private ambulance; policemen and relatives of the injured will not be eligible for the scheme.Mridula Bhasin from Muskan, an NGO that promotes road safety, welcomed the new scheme. “The scheme will encourage good Samaritans. The SOP will simplify the rules dealing with police and health department, and the incentive will add on to the cause,” she said. She said a WHO report also says that 50 per cent of road accident fatalities can be avoided if treatment is given on time.Delhi started a similar cash reward scheme for good Samaritans in May 2018 under which, people who take a road accident victim to hospital are entitled to get a cash reward of ₹2,000. The scheme was announced in August 2016 when a man had bled to death after being hit by a tempo in west Delhi and cleared by the state cabinet in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-to-give-rs-5-000-to-people-who-take-road-accident-victims-to-hospital-101631806208981.html
16-09-2021||Lucknow||Heavy rain, water-logging throw life out of gear in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Continuous heavy rain on Thursday threw life out of gear in Lucknow and exposed the tall claims of the municipal corporation. The downpour resulted in water-logging, power disruptions, uprooted trees at several places and caused inconvenience to people.“When it began to rain during the wee hours of Wednesday, it seemed like normal rainfall. But as the day progressed, the showers turned out to be a bane for people,” said Sushmita Singh, a resident of Indira Nagar – the area that witnessed heavy water-logging. POWER BREAKDOWNSEven VVIP areas like Dilkusha Colony, Gomti Nagar and Mahanagar witnessed power breakdowns. Supply to these areas had to be switched off after rainwater entered around 40 sub-stations of Lucknow Electricity Supply Administration (LESA). Water also entered the premises of Lucknow Municipal Corporation’s office.Due to power cuts, a number of students were not able to attend their online classes. Many employees working from home missed online meetings and work.“Due to prolonged power cuts, the inverters didn’t work and generators ran out of fuel,” said Jai Prakash Shukla, a government employee from Gomti Nagar area. RESIDENTS COMPLAINRishikant Gupta, a resident of Alambagh, said: “The phone of LESA sub-station in Chander Nagar was switched off. Residents also complained that their phone calls were not responded by the 1912 helpline of LESA.” LESA chief engineer (Cis Gomti) Madhukar Varma said, “At several places, trees have fallen on the power lines. In Hind Nagar, Ashiana, Cantt, Hardoi road etc, water entered a number of sub-stations and that’s why power supply was switched off in many areas. LESA teams are removing uprooted trees and flushing out water from the sub-stations.”“Our homes are waterlogged and LMC’s phones are busy. The open nullah has overflowed into people’s homes, which poses risk of infection,” said Deeksha Sharma of Sector N, Ashiana. Heavy water-logging was also reported from Faizullaganj, Mahanagar, Aliganj, Alambagh, Barha, Hazratganj, Charbagh, Moulviganj and Balaganj.In front of Inox area in Gomti Nagar, pedestrians were seen wading through knee-deep water while dug-up roads in Qaiserbagh added to the woes of commuters. “Several roads and drains in the city have been dug up. This is one of the reasons for water-logging,” said Sayyed Yawar Hussain ‘Reshu’, leader of opposition in LMC House and corporator of JC Bose ward in Qaiserbagh.Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “All the 48 pumps were running at full capacity to clean the flow of major nullahs into river Gomti. I have directed officials to attend each and every complaint coming to the LMC control room.” The situation was worse in the Old City area where roads are lying dug up in wake of the ongoing smart city project. “Heavy rains have made the ground situation worse. The showers have exposed the tall claims of the municipal corporation,” said Izzat Hussain, a resident of Hussainabad. FLIGHTS AFFECTEDAs a result of the inclement weather and low visibility, three flights to Lucknow were diverted to other destinations. International flights coming from and going to Sharjah was cancelled. “We request all passengers to connect with their respective airline and check the schedule before leaving their homes. Special ferry vehicles have been arranged for transporting passengers. Pumps have been deployed to flush out water from the approach road,” said the spokesperson of Adani Airports Limited.EXORBITANT CAB FARESPeople said cab services were also hit hard by the inclement weather and drivers charged exorbitantly. “Cab providers charged three times more fare even for small distances. The scene was no different for food delivery mobile apps that were charging hefty amounts to deliver the food,” said Mohammad Shahdab, a student. CAR STUCK IN PITA car was stuck in the pit created by a road cave-in near the Press Club while an old Banyan tree fell on an encroached structure in the park in front of Fatima Hospital. Inputs from Faara Nadeem||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/heavy-rain-water-logging-throw-life-out-of-gear-in-lucknow-101631804530041.html
16-09-2021||Other||UAPA invoked against Ludhiana man caught smoking in gurdwara||Rupnagar Police on Thursday invoked the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in the first-information report (FIR) against Paramjit Singh, of Ludhiana, who was caught smoking inside the premises of Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib at Anandpur Sahib on Monday. To date, he had been booked under Section 295A (hurting religious sentiments) of the Indian Penal Code. The volunteers (sewadars) of the gurdwara had caught Paramjit, when he was smoking inside the premises, after he had taken permission for staying overnight in the main hall of the place of worship. Senior superintendent of police Vivek Sheel Soni said Section 18 (punishment for conspiracy) of the UAPA has been added after a preliminary investigation into the matter.“We are conducting our investigation from all angles. It is too early to comment further or disclose details,” Soni added. On Tuesday, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giant Harpreet Singh had claimed that the accused, Paramjit, was a follower of Dera Sacha Sauda, his father was part of seven-member team of this dera. Meanwhile, a statement from the Dera Sacha Sauda said that none of its followers ever took drugs or indulged in smoking, etc, and it supported the most stringent of actions against such miscreants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uapa-invoked-against-ludhiana-man-caught-smoking-in-gurdwara-101631802968644.html
16-09-2021||Pune||Sahakarnagar residents furious as PMC-run gym shuts down||PUNE The residents of the Sahakarnagar area are furious as the Pune Municipal Corporation-run (PMC-run) gym inside the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar sports complex has been shut since September 15.Residents claim that the contract has ended, and the civic body has not renewed it. Also, over 100 people have paid the membership fees in advance.“Many fitness enthusiasts, including young and old, alike come to the gym to workout. From yesterday (September 15) the gym is closed as the contract has ended as per the officials at the gym. And it will take time for the civic body to renew the contract, but many have paid the membership fees in advance,” said Kedar Kamble, a resident of Sahakarnagar.“PMC should renew the contract as soon as possible and allow us to exercise here,” he said.There is a swimming pool, recreational hall among others inside the complex. Currently, a Covid-19 vaccination is also set up here and a Ganesh idol immersion centre.Jayant Bosekar, deputy commissioner (zone 3), PMC, under whose jurisdiction the area comes, said, “The exact reason for the closure of the gym will be investigated and we will try to resolve the issue soon.”“Under the Epidemic Act, such PMC-owned buildings are used for emergency purposes like vaccination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sahakarnagar-residents-furious-as-pmc-run-gym-shuts-down-101631802789296.html
16-09-2021||Patna||17 including five employees injured in blast at Begusarai’s Barauni refinery||Seventeen people including five employees were injured in a blast at Barauni Refinery in Bihar’s Begusarai district on Thursday.The blast occurred at around 11.45 am and its impact was such that window panes of some houses were damaged badly. The sound of the blast was heard at some places as far as 3 to 4 km away from the refinery. Local people thought it was an earthquake and ran outside in panic. People shared pictures, videos of the flames and smoke on social media after the incident. Fire tenders, foam tenders and jumbo tankers were pressed into service to douse the blaze. Enraged over the incident, local villagers including family members of those injured gathered at gate No. 1 of the IOCL refinery and protested against its authorities. They alleged that the refinery authorities were not maintaining a proper security system in the plant and due to their laxity, accidents were occurring. Begusarai DM Arvind Kumar Verma said 17 of the injured; six contract labourers were discharged after preliminary treatment at the refiner’s first-aid centre. Six more labourers were admitted in Sadar Hospital and one of them was believed to be serious due to a head injury. The five employees are undergoing treatment in Barauni Refinery hospital and all of them are out of danger. “The plant has been sealed, CISF, Barauni SDO, SDPO and SHO besides additional police personnel have been deputed there,” said DM. Executive Director of the Barauni Refinery unit of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd, Shukla Mistry told HT that the reason behind the incident is believed to be a blast in one of the Atmospheric Vacuum Units. The plant was shut for the last one month. In the last two days employees and labourers tried to start the plant. On Thursday morning, a blast in the furnace occurred due to a technical error. A team was constituted to probe the incident, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/17-including-five-employees-injured-in-blast-at-begusarai-s-barauni-refinery-101631800748610.html
16-09-2021||Bhopal||IMD issues heavy rain warning for some Madhya Pradesh districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday warned of "heavy to very heavy" rainfall accompanied by lightning and thunder in parts of Madhya Pradesh.An orange alert predicting likely "heavy to very rainfall" (between 64.5 mm to 204.4 mm in 24 hours) was issued for the districts of Datia, Bhind and Morena in north Madhya Pradesh. The region had received heavy showers last month too.A yellow alert warning of heavy rainfall (between 64.5 mm to 115.5 mm) was issued for 28 districts including Rewa, Hoshangabad, Sehore and Mandsaur.Thunder accompanied by lightning was also likely at isolated places across ten divisions of the state including Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Jabalpur, the Met department said.The alerts were valid till Friday morning, said P K Saha, a senior meteorologist at the IMD's Bhopal office.Almost the entire state was receiving rains, he added.Udaipura in Raisen district received the highest 75 mm of rain in western Madhya Pradesh while Patan area in Jabalpur received the highest rainfall of 130.6 mm in eastern parts of the state in the 24 hours ending 8.30 am Thursday, Saha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/imd-issues-heavy-rain-warning-for-some-madhya-pradesh-districts-101631798070935.html
16-09-2021||Lucknow||Illegal blood supply racket busted, doctor and aide in police net||LUCKNOW A doctor and his aide were arrested by the UP Special Task Force (STF) on Thursday for allegedly running an illegal blood supply racket in hospitals of Lucknow and adjoining areas. At least 100 units of blood were seized from their possession, said police.The accused smuggled blood from other states like Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan at the rate of ₹1,200 per unit and sold it at ₹6,000 per unit. The duo also used to mix saline water in blood to increase the quantity, said officials.Those arrested were identified as Dr Abhay Pratap Singh and his aide Abhishek Pathak. The accused doctor had done his MBBS course from the King George’s Medical University in 2000 and later completed his MD in transfusion medicine from the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in 2007, said Amitabh Yash, ADG, STF.“Dr Abhay Pratap Singh is a highly qualified doctor and currently posted at UP University of Medical Sciences, Saifai, Etawah. He was associated with several renowned hospitals in the past but apparently got involved in this illegal business of blood to make a quick buck,” said another senior police official.The doctor and his aide landed in the police net when the UP STF was tracking the links of five people arrested for operating a blood supply racket on October 26, 2018. The doctor was taken into custody from Agra-Lucknow expressway toll plaza and 45 units of blood were seized from his SUV while his aide was arrested from his flat in Awadh Vihar later. The remaining 55 units of blood were recovered from a fridge in the flat, added the official. The official said the doctor initially claimed that he had proper papers for the blood supply from different blood banks and kept on misleading the STF team for a few hours, but it was later discovered that all papers produced by him were forged. He said the doctor even used to organize blood donation camps in Lucknow to pose that he had collected the blood through these. The accused and his aide were booked under multiple IPC sections of fraud and forgery in an FIR registered against them at Sushant Golf City police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/illegal-blood-supply-racket-busted-doctor-and-aide-in-police-net-101631798348462.html
16-09-2021||Other||J&K’s trailblazing doctor extends a helping hand while off-roading||Whatever life throws at Dr Sharmeen Mushtaq Nizami, she takes it as a challenge, overcomes it and moves on. She believes one’s life should be an inspiration for others. Dr Nizami, in her early 40s, works at a Srinagar hospital and runs a trust for cancer patients besides pursuing her hobby of being an extreme mountain trail motor-sport traveller. Since childhood, she has pursued her passion whether it was studying medicine in the 1990s when militancy was at its peak in Jammu and Kashmir or her love for jeeps. Her biggest challenge in life came when her husband was diagnosed with cancer and died in 2007 within six years of their marriage, leaving her to bring up their two children, a three-year-old son and a year-old daughter. “It was a traumatic phase. I struggled but my parents supported me. Initially, being a single parent appeared tough but gradually I came to terms with reality,” she says. As time went by, she decided not to remarry and moved back to her ancestral home in Srinagar from her husband’s house in Jammu. Dr Nizami, who is now the medical officer in-charge at a Srinagar hospital and on Covid duties, says that her experience during her husband’s illness pushed her towards helping patients and the needy. “Though we were relatively well off, we had to go outside for treatment as he was suffering from pancreatic cancer. We realised that the treatment is expensive and drains most families’ savings,” she says. Even before her husband’s death, she would collect money from attendants using charity boxes outside OPDs. Later, friends and colleagues asked her to setup a trust with a separate account where people could donate money. “We get a lot of donations during Ramazan, which are primarily used to help cancer patients and those needing a kidney transplant. The trust also helps widows and orphans who have no source of income,” she says. Nizami, the eldest of four siblings, says that her parents Mushtaq Nizami, a military contractor, and Shahida Parveen, a homemaker, have been her strength. “Any girl can do big things in life when her parents support her,” she says. Ask her what got her interested in jeeps, and she says, “I have imbibed my father’s passion for driving jeeps. In 2018, I came upon some videos of the Kashmir off-road club which organises competitive events and overland expeditions, and decided to participate in a snow-race event (Frozen Rush) at Gulmarg.” Nizami, who always wears a hijab, was the only woman to participate in the adventure sport and created quite a buzz on social media. “I hadn’t realised that I was breaking stereotypes , until I saw people’s reactions,” says Nizami, who has since participated in dangerous events like mud race and river crossing. “Some people tried to dissuade me saying it was risky, but I remained unafraid,” says Nizami, adding that she gets a lot of messages from young girls who admire her. She says her faith in the Almighty has never wavered despite the many challenges in her life. “Not just driving, but life in general throws a lot of challenges at us. We have to accept the challenges and move forward,” she says. Next: Namrata Hakhoo, runs rescue centre for street animals in Jammu||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jkstrailblazing-doctor-extends-a-helping-hand-while-offroading-101631797088474.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Didn’t know about Raj Kundra’s business, says wife Shilpa Shetty||Businessman Raj Kundra tried to hide his activities relating to pornographic filming apps and tried to distance himself from the racket when his wife, actor Shilpa Shetty, confronted him about the arrest of Viaan Industries’ employee Umesh Kamat, statement of the 46-year-old actor to the property cell of the Mumbai crime branch has revealed.Umesh Kamat and Vandana Tiwari aka Gehna Vashisht had independently made and sold some pornographic short films, Kundra told Shilpa in February 2021 when the actor confronted him about Kamat’s arrest by the property cell.In her statement to the property cell, Shetty claimed she wasn’t aware of the purported pornographic racket run by her husband and informed police that she was not aware of the Bollyfame app or that pornographic films were made for Hotshots app through Viaan Industries and sent to Kenrin company of Pradip Bakshi (London-based husband of Kundra’s sister).In the statement recorded on July 23 -- four days after Kundra’s arrest, she also claimed that she was not aware of her husband’s business activities. Also Read | Shilpa visits Vaishno Devi as chargesheet is filed against husband Raj KundraThe statement forms part of the 1,400-page charge sheet filed by the property cell on Wednesday against Kundra, his company’s IT head Ryan Thorpe, and two wanted accused -- Yash Thakur alias Arvind Shrivastava, a Singapore resident, and Kundra’s brother-in-law Pardeep Bakshi, who is accused of uploading pornographic films made in Mumbai and adjoining areas using youngsters who flock Bollywood trying their luck in the film and television industry.The charge sheet also contains some data seized from Thorpe’s laptop, indicating that they were expecting a profit of USD 6.96 lakh this year and USD 53.20 lakh the next year.Both Kundra and Thorpe were arrested on July 19, shortly after the police raided office of Viaan Industries and allegedly seized some incriminating material.Police claimed the businessman set up a company, Armsprime Media Pvt Ltd., which developed a mobile phone application, “Hotshots”, and sold it to London-based Kenrin Pvt Ltd, owned by his brother-in-law. Police claimed that Kundra used the app to upload pornographic videos shot in and around Mumbai for paid viewership of the app.The property cell alleged that Kundra was one who controlled the operation of the app and had earned over ₹1.17 crore between August and December last year by means of subscription fee collected from Apple App Store users of his mobile application. They earned ₹20.24 lakh in three months - from August to October 2019 - from Google play store subscribers of their pornographic app, Hotshots.Police claimed they had found 51 obscene videos at Kundra’s office in Andheri which included 35 videos with Hotspots logo and 16 with logo of BollyFame app, which the businessman had got developed after Apple and Google removed Hotshots from their respective app stores and from YouTube.Property cell of the Mumbai crime branch registered a case in connection with the pornographic racket on February 5, 2021, when it raided a bungalow at Madh area and arrested five persons, including two women engaged in shooting a pornographic film. Police also claimed to have rescued a young woman, who was allegedly lured into acting in short film.The police arrested nine persons in February 2021, shortly after the racket was busted and has filed charge sheet against them on April 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/didnt-know-about-raj-kundra-s-business-says-wife-shilpa-shetty-101631795168192.html
16-09-2021||Pune||Lt Gen Ramasethu is new director-commandant of AFMC, Pune||Pune: Lieutenant General Rajshree Ramasethu took over as the director-commandant of the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC), Pune, on Thursday. An AFMC graduate, Lt Gen Ramasethu was commissioned in the Army Medical Corps on December 17, 1983. She did her specialisation in Nephrology from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi and is a nephrologist with the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS). During a career spanning nearly 38 years, the general officer has held academic and administrative appointments, including consultant medicine and nephrology at INHS Asvini, Mumbai and Command Hospital Eastern Command, Kolkata; Commandant Military Hospital, Chennai; ACIDS Medical in the HQ IDS; senior consultant, Medicine, Armed Forces Medical Service at the office of Director General Armed Forces Medical Services (DGAFMS), New Delhi and Major General Medical at HQ Southern Command of Indian Army. The general officer has been awarded the Chief of Army Staff Commendation in 1995, 2011 and 2017 in recognition for her dedication to patient care. Impact 2021 Impact 2021, an online conference-cum-workshop designed for medical researcher, is hosted by AFMC from September 16-18. The conference has been organised by the Medical Journal Armed Forces India, one of the oldest surviving multi-specialty research journals of the country, since last 10 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lt-gen-ramasethu-is-new-director-commandant-of-afmc-pune-101631794449647.html
16-09-2021||Pune||PMC chief instructs visiting and cross-checking doubtful works under ward development funds||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to strictly monitor development works and has issued directions to ward officers, zonal officers and the additional commissioner to pay visits to doubtful works suggested under the corporator’s ward development funds and cross-check them before paying the requisite amounts to the concerned contractors.With corporators having started using their ward development funds and concerned ward offices floating tenders for the development works ahead of civic polls, the commissioner has taken such a decision to monitor development works, avoid duplication of work, and curtail unnecessary spending on development works.Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The vigilance department raises objection to duplication of work in ward-level development works. Thereafter, we pursue the matter and visit the suggested spots. During the meeting, the PMC commissioner gave verbal orders to ward- and zonal- officals to visit the development works and review doubtful works.”“A few days ago, we found the same drainage work in different areas within the same ward. However, we conducted a series of meetings and cross-checked the details of the work. Thereafter we found that different small works had been combined under one work. In another case, work completed last year was suggested in the same area and investigation revealed that last year, the work area had been changed and that this year, the same work was proposed. In such cases, we check the documents and visit the places. If we find any misleading information or irregularities, the concerned officials are punished,” Khemnar said. There have been a few instances of duplication of work. For example, the gardens’ department issued two tenders for the same work in February 2021, including development works at Unity Park located in ward number 27. While the civic administration assured inquiry, nothing happened. Similarly in July, the Warje-Karvenagar ward office issued two tenders for the same work of shredding in ward number 13 (C) named Erandwane-Happy colonies. In the tender notice, the ward office mentioned two jobs of shredding in ward number 13 (C) at an estimated amount of Rs177,911 (PMC/zone 3/2021-22/Warje-Karvenagar/79) and the other tender worth Rs2 lakh (PMC/zone 3/2021-22/Warje-Karvenagar/77) for the same work.In a third instance in the first week of July, the PMC received complaints of multiple tenders for the same work. At that time, the administration explained that the work was divided into different parts, which included changing drainage pipelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-chief-instructs-visiting-and-cross-checking-doubtful-works-under-ward-development-funds-101631792348092.html
16-09-2021||Pune||Pillion rider killed, 3-year-old injured in hit-and-run accident on Warje bridge||A woman riding pillion on a bike with her husband and grandchild was killed after a speeding tempo rammed into them on Monday night.The accident took place on the Warje bridge at around 9:45pm which is a part of the Mumbai-Bangalore highway.The deceased woman has been identified as Meena Waghmare (45), a resident of Kelewadi, Kothrud and the injured child has been identified as Sayee Waghmare (3).A complaint in the matter was lodged by the rider, the deceased woman’s husband, identified as Rajendra Waghmare (56).“They were heading home after attending Gauri-Ganapati celebration at a relative’s place. They were passing from the Warje bridge when the tempo tried to overtake them and hit them in the process. Due to the darkness and shock, the man took some time to get up and the people who had gathered around him took all of them to the hospital. The child is under treatment and the woman was declared dead on arrival,” said police sub-inspector Rameshwarrao Parve of Warje police station who is investigating the case.The tempo driver is at large as he fled without stopping after the accident, according to the police.A case under Sections 279, 304(a), 337, 338 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 119/177 and Sections 132(1)(c) of the Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Warje Malwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pillion-rider-killed-3-year-old-injured-in-hit-and-run-accident-on-warje-bridge-101631791988679.html
16-09-2021||Lucknow||300 units free electricity to domestic users if voted to power, promises AAP in UP||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday announced that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will provide up to 300 units of free electricity to domestic users in Uttar Pradesh if the party is voted to power in the coming assembly polls due early next year. The AAP has made similar promises in Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa where assembly polls are due early next year.Speaking to media in Lucknow, Sisodia said, “Under chief minister Arvind Kejriwal people in Delhi are getting zero electricity bills. We will do the same in Uttar Pradesh.”He also promised to cancel pending electricity bills of 4.8million families in the state. “There are 4.8million families in Uttar Pradesh that receive hefty electricity bills. There pending bills will be cancelled,” he said.Pointing out the AAP government’s success in Delhi, he said, “Before 2015, Delhi had a huge demand of generators and invertors. But not anymore as people are getting 24*7 uninterrupted power supply.” On the occasion, Sisodia also announced free electricity for farmers of Uttar Pradesh. AAP has announced that it will contesting 100 assembly seats out of 403 in Uttar Pradesh for which it has announced names of probable candidates. The party has also announced that it will not enter into pre-poll alliance with any political party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/300-units-free-electricity-to-domestic-users-if-voted-to-power-promises-aap-in-up-101631791809710.html
16-09-2021||Pune||Laboratories conducting Covid RT-PCR tests to come under radar||In the wake of the festivities lined up in the coming days, the state has instructed districts, including Pune to ensure that the laboratories conducting RT-PCR Covid-19 tests are surveyed and submit a daily report on the number of tests conducted, positive and negative results and also ensure that proper address is mentioned along with the report so that contact tracing can be effectively implemented.The state has also said that in rural areas where RT-PCR tests are not possible then rapid antigen tests must be conducted or even mobile laboratories should be set up.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer, PMC, said, “During the last Covid-19 peak we had informed and even sent notices and banned a few laboratories from conducting RT-PCR tests after we found their repeated negligence which was causing inconvenience to the administration. The system is still in place and a warning will be issued and action will be taken against labs which violate the norms set by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).”As per state officials, the lab results must be scrutinised to ensure ward-wise or taluka-wise results are updated every day so that specific localities where few tests are being conducted could be checked.Also, laboratories must enter all results on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR ) portal daily and through the weekly report if any lab is found to be irregular in updating their data then they must be advised to update the reports regularly.The letter issued by chief secretary Dr Pradip Vyas, dated September 14 to all district health officials, also mentions that the number of tests conducted in the state has gone down.“Within July 10-17 he state saw a weekly average of 2.09 lakh RT-PCR tests which in September has gone down to 1.67 lakh. There has been a 20% fall in the weekly RT-PCR tests conducted in the state. Given the upcoming festivities, we should be on alert even more so. Private hospitals, ILI, SARI labs must be involved in contact tracing to break the chain of infection,” the letter stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/laboratories-conducting-covid-rt-pcr-tests-to-come-under-radar-101631791149659.html
16-09-2021||Kolkata||CBI questions Mamata’s election agent in Nandigram in post-poll violence probe||Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Sheikh Sufiyan, who was chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s election agent in the Nandigram assembly election in East Midnapore in April, was questioned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for more than four hours on Thursday in connection with post-poll violence in the district. Sufiyan was summoned to a central government guest house in Haldia town where a CBI team is camping. He was accompanied by a lawyer. On September 3, the CBI recorded the statement of the family of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Debabrata Maity at Nandigram. Maity was attacked, allegedly by TMC workers on May 3, a day after the Bengal poll results were announced. He died at SSKM Hospital in Kolkata on May 13. The CBI lodged a case in this connection on August 31. Though the CBI has questioned many TMC district leaders during the probe ordered by the Calcutta high court on August 19, this is the first time a leader known to be close to the chief minister was summoned. No CBI officer commented on the development. Also Read | Retired justice refuses honorarium for overseeing probe in Bengal violenceSufiyan told HT that he was unnecessarily harassed. “I was not involved in any violence. Leader of the opposition Suvendu Adhikari made the CBI question me. He is pulling the strings. We are the soldiers of Mamata Banerjee. We are not scared easily,” he said. Adhikari resigned from the TMC government, where he was a cabinet minister, and joined the BJP in December last year. He defeated the chief minister by around 1,500 votes in Nandigram, the seat he bagged in 2016. Banerjee is now contesting the September 30 bypoll from Bhawanipore, her old seat. The Bengal government moved the Supreme Court on September 13, challenging the CBI probe into post-poll violence. The CBI has registered more than 40 cases so far and filed charge sheet in at least three. It has formed several teams, each comprising deputy inspector generals and superintendents from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka and other states. Each team is headed by a joint director. The teams are accompanied by forensic experts and Central Industrial Security Force personnel who are providing security to the officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-questions-mamata-s-election-agent-in-nandigram-in-post-poll-violence-probe-101631791148027.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Man drowns during Ganesh idol immersion in Navi Mumbai, body found day after||A 20-year-old man went missing during the immersion of Ganesh idols near the Gadhi river at Panvel in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on Tuesday. His body was found floating in the river on Wednesday evening. According to the police, Manu Vijay Saroaj, along with a few friends and family members, went to the river to immerse their Ganesh idol on Tuesday afternoon. The place was very crowded. Saroj ventured into the water with some other people, but did not return to the bank. “Assuming that he had drowned in the river, the local villagers searched for him in the water, but to no avail. They later informed us and we registered a missing person’s case. On Wednesday, his body was spotted floating in the water near the incident site,” said an officer from Panvel city police station. “We sent the body to Panvel sub-district hospital for post-mortem and later handed it to his family. The post-mortem reports are yet to come. We have now registered a case of accidental death,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-drowns-during-ganesh-idol-immersion-in-navi-mumbai-body-found-day-after-101631790668023.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Special court rejects CBI’s plea for further probe in Jiah Khan suicide case||A special CBI court on Thursday rejected the plea filed by the central agency for further investigation in Jiah Khan suicide abetment case against actor Suraj Pancholi.CBI filed the plea seeking permission to send the dupatta purportedly used by Khan to end her life, and to retrieve deleted messages exchanged between the deceased and Pancholi through Blackberry messenger.CBI filed the application in December 2019 for permission to send the dupatta to Chandigarh Central Forensic Laboratory and the seized cellphones to the FBI in the USA to retrieve the phone messages.Also Read | Mumbai ranks third in country in cybercrimes in 2020The plea stated that the messages exchanged between deceased and accused immediately before the time of death, along with the GPS location, are relevant for further investigations in the case. So, it is required to sent both the cellphones to the Forensic Unit, Federal Bureau of Investigations, USA for examination and report through Letter Regratory Report (LR).Pancholi’s lawyer Prashant Patil opposed the plea stating that the Bombay high court had rejected a similar plea by Khan’s mother Rabia Khan in 2017.Rabia’s counsel Sairuchita Chowdhary argued that there were loopholes in the investigations carried out by both Juhu police and the CBI. There were eight points that need to be further investigated they had taken legal opinion of big law firm from London that also pointed towards the loopholes.Pancholi was booked for abetment of suicide of Khan who died by suicide at her Juhu apartment on June 3, 2013. He was arrested on June 10, 2013, in the case. The trial of the case begin in March 2019.Rabia has been claiming that her daughter had not killed herself and the investigating agency should probe if she was murdered. But, her plea was turned down by the high court and CBI too maintained that it was a case of suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/special-court-rejects-cbi-s-plea-for-further-probe-in-jiah-khan-suicide-case-101631790308168.html
16-09-2021||Indore||Indore woman in viral dance video at Rasoma Square intersection booked for public nuisance||The Indore police on Thursday registered a case of public nuisance against a young woman, whose video of her dancing at a busy traffic intersection in the city went viral on social media.According to a police official, the woman, Shreya Kalra, has been booked under IPC section 290 (punishment for public nuisance), news agency PTI reported. “A case under IPC section 290 was registered against Shreya Kalra, who danced at the traffic signal at Rasoma Square in the city recently,” PTI quoted Vijay Nagar police station in-charge Tehzeeb Qazi as saying.The police action followed a day after Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra on Wednesday said that action would be taken against the girl, a social media influencer, according to the Motor Vehicles Act. “The issue came to my notice. I am going to direct the officers to take action as per the provisions of Motor Vehicles Act for dancing at traffic signals in Indore so that such acts can be prevented in future,” PTI quoted Mishra as saying. The minister also said that the method the woman had chosen was wrong irrespective of her intention.Kalra, in a separate video released later, had clarified the issue saying that she had made the original video, which garnered widespread attention, to create awareness among the people about traffic rules and wearing masks as a measure against the Covid-19 disease. However, Indore’s additional superintendent of police Anil Patidar said that the Zebra crossing was misused in that video. “Zebra crossing has been misused in this video. The girl is also seen standing on the roof of a car, so the action will be taken against her,” news agency ANI quoted Patidar as saying.A post shared by Shreya Kalra (@shreyakalraa)In the 30-second-long video behind the controversy, Kalra could be seen running to the Rasoma Square in Indore, wearing her face mask as she went, when the traffic signal turned red and started dancing to a song. Several vehicles had lined up behind her in the signal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-woman-in-viral-dance-video-at-rasoma-square-intersection-booked-for-public-nuisance-101631789606517.html
16-09-2021||Pune||Marathe jewellers: Two of family arrested by Pune police in cheating case||Two people from the Marathe family were arrested by the Pune police on Monday in the cheating case registered against them on March 11 at Kothrud police station.The arrested people have been identified as Manjiri Marathe and Kaustubh Marathe, who was referred to as “absconding” in an order rejecting both their anticipatory bails by the Bombay High Court on August 6.Milind alias Balwant Marathe died by suicide in December 2020. His wife Neena Marathe, who was the complainant in the case against an investor for driving her husband to suicide, is also an accused in the cheating case.The cheating case was registered on March 11 at Kothrud police station under Sections 406, 420 with 34 of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and Section 3 and others of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act, 1999.During the argument of the anticipatory bail in the high court, the lawyer for Manjiri and Kaustubh had alleged that the now-deceased jewellery baron had siphoned money from the company and formed another firm to buy hotels and resorts without the knowledge of other partners including Kaustubh and Manjiri.The husband-wife duo’s lawyer accused the deceased man of siphoning off ₹7,75,81,920 between 2013-2014 and 2019-2020.“Manjiri Marathe was asked by the Supreme Court to appear before the sessions court before the stipulated time due to which she appeared before the sessions court on September 13 along with Kaustubh Marathe. They were arrested for further investigation. Pranav Marathe (26) has been arrested earlier in this case and is currently in judicial custody. The extent of the cheating in this case is bound to rise in the future,” read a statement from Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Pune police.It was also argued by the defence lawyers that the two women - Manjiri and Neena - were only partners until November 30, 2018, after which they had resigned from their posts. However, the court observed, only for the purpose of anticipatory bail that the two women were part of the partnership until then.“Prima facie, the applicants Manjiri and Neena, being working as directors and partners of the company which had floated the scheme of investment for luring the depositors continued to hold the position in the partnership firm and the company till December 31, 2018, and the statement of witnesses reveal that the investments are made in the year 2016,” reads the HC order by justice Bharati Dangre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/marathe-jewellers-two-of-family-arrested-by-pune-police-in-cheating-case-101631789947748.html
16-09-2021||Pune||Taste of life: Food for the Gods, steamed, sweet modaks and served with devotion||Neelkanthshastri Lele came to Pune from Kashi sometime in January 1873. He had spent more than 25 years studying various aspects of the Hindu Dharmashastra at Varanasi, and was in Pune upon an invitation by someone from the illustrious Khasagiwale family. His discourses on Hindu religion had been arranged at the Tulshibaug and Belbaug temples. It was his first visit to the city.Though initially he was supposed to spend no more than a couple of months in the city, his discourses became immensely popular and he ended up staying for more than a year.Lele wrote about his experiences in Pune in a series of brief articles which appeared in the newspaper “Jnanaprakash”. The first of the lot appeared in June 1874. As I have been able to find only three articles from the series, I do not know the exact number of articles Lele wrote for the newspaper.In the write-ups, he gripes at the way people carried on with religious rituals in Pune. The priests and their patrons were lazy, he thought, and “did not pay enough attention to details”. One of his complaints was centred on a feast (Brahmanbhojan). The aforementioned feast was a part of the then prevalent Ganesh Chaturthi ritual, where a Ganpati idol was made in the morning and immersed the same day, every day for a month, from Shravan Shukla Chaturthi to Bhadrapad Shukla Chaturthi, i.e. Ganesh Chaturthi. Priests chanted Brahmanaspatisukta daily and fasted during the entire course of the ritual. A feast would be organised at the end of the month on Panchami. Kheer, a dessert made from slow-cooked rice, milk, and sugar, and laddoos would be offered to God and then served to the priests and the common public. It was not unusual for entire towns and villages to participate in these feasts.Lele was the guest of honour at one such feast which took place at Ranjangaon, near Pune. His article suggests that he was beyond pleased by the hospitality of the patron of the event. What irked him was the presence of Gulab-jamuns, a dessert not so common then, along with the customary kheer. “It was preposterous on the part of the patron to include Gulab-jamuns in the meal. Kheer is the favourite dish of the Mooshaka, the vehicle of Lord Ganpati, and it should not be accompanied with any other dessert than laddoos, which are a favourite of Ganpati. One should not deviate from customs, and let the greed to show off wealth overpower the sanctity of religious rituals”, he wrote.The use of food as a ritual is not often too obvious, but food has always been linked with certain occasions and festivals. Specific foods and dishes are associated with specific deities and religious rituals. The Gods have their favourite dishes, which are supposed to be offered to them (naivedya) first. The devotees then consume the leftovers.Special food serves to mark the special occasion and bring home to us its significance. Out of innate conservatism, or because this also provides one with a sense of being the guardian of traditions, or out of the need to differentiate oneself, one is supposed to safeguard these heirloom foods and carry the tradition forward.19th century Pune was one place where food was an integral part of religious rituals, and this would be on display during the Ganeshotsav. Even before the festival went public in the early 1890s, it was celebrated in Pune with extraordinary aplomb. The Peshwas were great devotees of Ganpati, and the tradition of the festival continued during the days of the Raj.While some families chose to perform the rituals for a month during the months of Shravan and Bhadrapad, many affluent families would install the Ganpati idol on Ganesh Chaturthi for one-and-a-half or 10 days. People thronged their wadas to look at the decorations and sometimes, fireworks. And, to feast.A report published on September 12, 1861, in “Jnanaprakash” gives an elaborate account of the festivities held at the residence of Sardar Dajisaheb Kibe – “Ganpati Utsaah is being celebrated all over the city like every year. Today is the fourth day of the festival. Shrimant Dajisaheb Kibe is in Pune especially for the festivities, and thousands of men, women, and children are gathering at the Kibe wada to marvel at the decorations. A spectacular frame made up of colourful pieces of glass has been installed above the idol. The hall where the idol is kept is decorated with glass, flowers, and silk. Every morning there is a vocal recital, while a senior priest has especially been summoned from Kashi to perform kirtan every night. Laddoos, karanjis, and pedhas are being distributed as prasad to everyone every day”.The report also mentions 3,000 Brahmin priests being fed by Kibe daily during the 10 days of the festival.  Besan laddoos were served to the priests and other guests. The priests were given Rs5 each daily.Similar feasts were organised every year by wealthy and influential families like Mehendale, Khasagiwale, Gadre, and Gajre. In 1861, Gajre organised feasts for 10 days from Ganesh Chaturthi to Anant Chaturdashi. Re1 was given to every priest and guest as a mark of obeisance and gratitude. According to “Jnanaprakash”, Gajre spent Rs7,000 every day on feeding his guests. Laddoos and Jalebis were on the menu, along with Masale Bhat (tempered rice with vegetables) and Aluche fadfade (colocasia curry).Vatli kairichi daal (tempered, ground dal mixed with grated raw mango), dadpe pohe (tempered rice flakes), and karanji were usually offered to the deity and to the guests on the last day of the festival, i.e. Anant Chaturdashi.Prof Kerunana Chhatre, the Mathematics teacher par excellence, whose students included VK Chiplunkar, BG Tilak, and GG Agarkar, would have an open house on Anant Chaturdashi where hundreds would come to relish dadpe pohe or dahi pohe (curd and rice flakes), and karanjis.Modak (steamed or fried dumplings with a coconut-jaggery stuffing) started replacing laddoos as Ganpati’s favourite food around the same time. Steamed modaks were considered superior to the fried ones, because the former was assumed to be a mark of affluence, class, and taste. Koknastha Chitpavan Brahmin families who cooked ukadiche modak controlled most of the financial and educational institutions in Pune then. Even though specifics of ritual eating keep changing slowly and inevitably, food continues to define how people interact with each other. It signifies belonging and is a symbol of a community rooted in long-standing traditions.After all, society feeds on symbols, myths, and fantasies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-food-for-the-gods-steamed-sweet-modaks-and-served-with-devotion-101631789228405.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Bodybuilder attempts suicide, accuses social media influencer of harassment||A bodybuilder and a former holder of Mr India title is alleged to have attempted suicide at his Mumbai residence on Wednesday night. He left a note for the police alleging harassment by an actor and prominent social media influencer in the area of physical fitness, said police.The bodybuilder had posted some photos on Instagram on Wednesday which were trolled by the actor. He consumed sleeping pills later that night before his family rushed him to the hospital.The Oshiwara police have seized the suicide note and are investigating the case further. “The bodybuilder has accused an actor and social media influencer of Cyberbullying and mental harassment,” said an officer from Oshiwara police station. He didn’t want to be named.The bodybuilder had lodged a similar police complaint earlier too, alleging harassment by the actor. A police officer said he also posted an audio clip on social media accusing the actor before attempting suicide.“We have registered a case and are now waiting to record the body builder’s statement,” said the officer quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bodybuilder-attempts-suicide-accuses-actor-and-social-media-influencer-of-harassment-101631789167913.html
16-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot returns to work after recovery from Angioplasty||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who recently underwent an Angioplasty procedure on August 27, said on Thursday that he resumed work on the advice of his doctors.Gehlot was earlier discharged from Jaipur’s Sawai Man Singh (SMS) hospital on August 29, with doctors saying the Angioplasty was successful and he was recovering well. During the procedure, a stent was placed in one of Gehlot’s three main arteries that had 90% blockage after severe chest pain since August 26.Sharing the news on Twitter, the Rajasthan chief minister said on Thursday that Dr Vinay Behl, the former head of the department of cardiology at the All India Institute of Medical (AIIMS), Delhi, who also happens to be his doctor in the national capital, met him at the chief ministers’ residence on Wednesday. एम्स, नई दिल्ली के कार्डियोलॉजी विभाग के पूर्व प्रमुख एवं दिल्ली में मेरे कार्डियोलॉजिस्ट रहे डॉक्टर विनय बहल ने कल मुख्यमंत्री निवास पर मुलाकात की।Dr Behl held a discussion with the principal of SMS Medical College Sudhir Bhandari along with Gehlot’s treatment team in Jaipur.“Dr. Behl expressed satisfaction on seeing the test reports and expressed happiness over the timely treatment by the SMS team. According to the advice of doctors, I am currently working and I hope that I will start working as before,” Gehlot said in a subsequent tweet.Ashok Gehlot has been suffering from health issues after he had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in April this year. The 70-year-old senior Congress leader earlier said that he had been working without any rest after he had recovered from the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-returns-to-work-after-recovery-from-angioplasty-101631788063771.html
16-09-2021||Bangalore||CCB raids synthetic drug manufacturing unit in Bengaluru||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Wednesday raided a synthetic drug manufacturing unit in Bengaluru. This is the first time such a manufacturing unit has been located by the police. Following the raid, four kilograms of MDMA, a psychoactive drug, worth approximately ₹2 crore was seized, and a Nigerian national was arrested. Sandeep Patil, Joint commissioner of police (crime), said the arrested man, identified as John, rented a house in Electronics City to manufacture the synthetic drugs. “He used to produce the drugs in the house, using raw materials collected from medical stores in the city, and sold them with the help of a network of associates,” he said.Also Read | Crimes against women lowest in Coimbatore, Chennai, reveals NCRB report The gang used to supply drugs in the various parts of the city by storing it in a hidden compartment in a custom-made shoe. “Apart from selling it in Bengaluru, they sent it to New Zealand as well,” Patil added. Officers in the CCB said that police raided the house based on a tip-off. Following the raid, large quantities of raw materials such as acetone, hypo phosphorous acid, plain acid, sodium hydroxide, etc were found in the house. The police have also seized measuring cylinder plastic, heating mantle, flask boiling, face mask, PH measure stick, hose pipe, panel, and shoes used to transport the crystals. Police are on the lookout for other suspects in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ccb-raids-synthetic-drug-manufacturing-unit-in-bengaluru-101631787847668.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Having a way with words puts one on the write track||It’s more than two decades since I started writing; it seems like a miracle to me. I have had the sublime company of words to keep me safely away from tension or depression. Feels like a dream! Thanks to my father, I developed reading for pleasure, as a hobby quite early in life. I was always a voracious reader as far back as I can recollect; so much so that during the good old days, I never missed reading even the printed paper bags that accompanied the shopped goods. Even now when I go somewhere, I take a newspaper or a good book to keep me occupied, in case I have spare time on my hands. And then to my disbelief and astonishment, the urge to write something myself took over. Things came to such a pass that writing took precedence over all my other hobbies. The company of words became my main source of ecstasy in all situations, giving my life an altogether new meaning. The proximity of words also introduced me to a hitherto unknown aspect of myself. It is truly an enlightening experience, and you learn so much while writing. One becomes answerable to words so as not to ever underestimate their power. They are in fact such an invigorating company, as never stops surprising you! There just needs to be a blank page in front and the magic of apt words materialising on paper gets going. With the passage of time, one starts nurturing the notion that one probably has a way with them. While writing, often I have this feeling that I am arranging flowers in vase or creating some artefact with a medley of multicoloured beads and baubles. At other times, it feels like painting with words. Focus, fortitude and hard work are the prerequisites to achieve the desired results. The satisfaction that comes from a job well done is worth all the effort. You tend to have a different experience with each write-up; one piece calls for a lot of effort and time, while some other might just land up on the paper, decked up in all its finery, ready to leave for the editor’s mailbox. These words have a knack of turning an ordinary being into an accomplished artist. Just how one may thank these enchanted entities, is anyone’s guess. Then writing is not a thankless job; rather the reverse of it. The generous and erudite readers keep the scribbler forever motivated, with their heartening observations. Now my writing has got endorsement from my granddaughters as well. Even they will not let me get off the writing track. A few days ago, my seven-year-old granddaughter Suhavi came back from the market, with her parents and excitedly told me, “Dadi ma, look I brought such a beautiful diary for you, next time you must write in it.” Hargun too brought a special pen for me, “Nani, please use this pen for writing the next story for children.” Of course, all this prompts me to keep going. parambirkaur@gmail.com The writer is a Ludhiana-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/having-a-way-with-words-puts-one-on-the-write-track-101631787548380.html
16-09-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad high court seeks update on Mainpuri girl death case||The Allahabad high court on Thursday directed the Uttar Pradesh government and police to update the court with the progress in the probe into the 2019 mysterious death of a 16-year old Mainpuri girl-- found hanging in a school—alleged to be a case of sexual assault and murder by her family.The court also asked the government to direct officers to complete the investigation of rape cases within two month or within the time limit as per amended provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedures or CrPC.The court also directed the police to ensure that the family members of the girl are not pressured during the investigation and their safety is ensured.The bench comprising acting chief justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and justice AK Ojha passed the order on a public interest litigation filed by one Mahendra Pratap Singh alleging police were not investigating the case fairly and protecting the actual accused. The petitioner had said that the special investigation team (SIT) formed for the investigation was not acting independently.The state government told the court that the concerned investigation officer (IO), assistant superintendent of police (ASP) and the deputy superintendent of police (DSP), who were initially investigating the case, were suspended by the state government and a new SIT has been formed for fresh investigation. The director general of police (DGP), present in the court on Thursday, confirmed the development.Senior advocate Amrendra Nath Singh, also the president of the Bar Association, is helping the court in the case. He suggested that the probe of the case be monitored by the bench. The court then directed concerned authorities to update it with the progress in the investigation on the expiry of one month, when the case will be heard next.Senior advocate Amrendra Nath Singh told the court that the mother of the girl had alleged that her daughter had claimed she was being tortured by the principal as she knew some of the schools’ secrets. Singh added that the girl had called her mother just a day prior to her death to report receiving threats to her life, but when family members spoke to the principal, she paid no heed.The court suggested that the investigating officer must collect the call details of the concerned phone numbers which can be material evidence in the case.During the course of the hearing, the court said shoddy investigations were often the reason behind the poor rate of conviction in India. “We are aware of the fact that the conviction rate in India is just above 6%, the reason is poor or manipulated investigation by the police. Most of the time material evidence is not collected in a scientific manner and hence, experts fail to reach any conclusion resulting in acquittal of accused persons in most of the cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-high-court-seeks-update-on-mainpuri-girl-death-case-101631785387473.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi records highest rainfall since 1964, more expected||This year's monsoon in Delhi is set to become the second-wettest until it withdraws by the end of September. According to data by the India Meteorological Department, Delhi's September rainfall breached the 400mm-mark. At 403mm till Thursday afternoon, it is the highest precipitation in the month since 417.3mm in September 1944. The figures might change as more rainfall is predicted in the city during the day.According to the data, Delhi usually receives 653.6mm of rainfall during the monsoon season. In 2020, the city recorded 648.9mm of precipitation. In 2019, Delhi received 404mm rainfall in the entire 2019 monsoon period.The monsoon will withdraw from Delhi by September 25.According to the IMD, the Safdarjung Observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, has received 1159.4mm of rainfall this season till Thursday afternoon. It had gauged 1,155.6mm of rainfall in 1975 and 1190.9mm in 1964.The all-time record is 1,420.3mm rainfall in 1933.The national capital region is likely to witness moderate to heavy rainfall from Thursday till the end of the weekend, the IMD had forecast. The intensity of the rains will further increase from Friday. "There will be moderate to heavy rains on Thursday. The rain is likely to further intensify on Friday and continue till the weekend, covering large parts of Delhi-NCR," said an IMD official."It is unlikely that the monsoon will withdraw anytime soon. We will have to wait and see how many records are set this year," the Met official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-highest-rainfall-since-1964-more-expected-101631784977135.html
16-09-2021||Patna||Husband follows wife’s footsteps as women change Panchayat politics in Bihar||A former commissioner of Central Vigilance Commission is set to contest election to Raj Singhwahini panchayat in Sonbarsa block of Sitamarhi district in Bihar, following the completion of his wife’s successful stint as the Mukhiya of the same panchayat.As celebrity mukhiya Ritu Jaiswal—winner Champions of Change and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar (DDUPSP) 2019-- aims higher with her ambition to enter state-level politics, her husband Arun Kumar will look to cash-in political currency she earned as a Mukhiya. It is a rare case of a husband following into wife’s footsteps in politics and thereby, also shatters the stereotype of power-wielding men fielding women as proxies in politics.Bihar was the first state to provide 50% reservation to women in 2006 in grassroots politics and Ritu could well be cited as an example of what the empowerment initiative aimed to achieve as she earned plaudits and recognition for her work in an area primarily considered a male bastion.Apart from winning multiple national-level awards, she was also selected by the Central ministry of panchayati raj among five mukhiyas from Bihar for capacity building programme for sarpanch and panchayat secretaries in New Delhi. Her sharp rise led to her being fielded in the last Assembly election on a Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) ticket. While she narrowly lost the polls, she still managed to break through into state-level politics.“She wants to move on to do state-level politics but people of the panchayat do not want her to leave. I have been working with her and that brings me into picture. I think panchayat can be an effective way to bring about lasting change in the society,” said Kumar, who took voluntary retirement and mentors civil services aspirants with his online Magnus IAS programme. He had cleared civil services in 1995.While Ritu and Arun Kumar’s story may be considered an isolated case, it points to a change in mindset. Ritu had won her panchayat election from a non-reserved seat by beating men. The statistics this year also indicate that more women are interested in jumping into the election fray even on non-reserved seats, showing a readiness to go beyond the comfort of the 50% quota to carve political space for themselves.While the demand for 33% reservation for women in Parliament remains stuck, one of India’s economically most backward states is heralding a change through women empowerment at the grassroots.Woman candidates have outnumbered men in the forthcoming panchayat elections by a good margin in the first two phases and the trend is likely to continue, considering the growing awareness among women in the rural areas, which was reflected during the last panchayat elections as well as in Assembly and Lok Sabha voting patterns.In the first phase, 15,328 candidates filed their nomination for different posts, out of which 9,093 were women- about 52.79% of all nominations. Out of the 76,279 nominations filed for the second phase, 40,168 were filed by women, which is 52.65% of all nominations.Bihar has 71,046 women among the 136,573 panchayat representatives after the 2016 panchayat polls. This comes to over 52% representation of women in panchayati institutions.“It shows that the gender imbalance in Bihar’s rural governance has ended and gender stereotypes are breaking. It would gradually end whatever apprehensions regarding women being proxies for their husbands. Women’s empowerment has started making a difference, as it will gradually help change the male-dominated climate, not only in grassroots politics, but also in improving their much-needed participation in the workforce,” said Bihar information and public relations minister Sanjay Kumar Jha.Jha also gives Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar credit for empowering women in every field, including police, teaching and other government jobs.Female literacy in Bihar has gone up from a mere 37% in 2005-06 to 60% in 2015-16. Though still the lowest in the country, it is expected to go further up in the new census, as girls have been outnumbering boys at the secondary level also. As per the National Statistical Organisation report released in 2020, the female literacy rate in rural Bihar stood at 58.7% while it was 75.9% in urban areas.Despite constituting less than 9% of the total number of candidates in the fray, women voters in Bihar showed far greater enthusiasm than their male counterparts during the Lok Sabha elections as 60% of the 57.46% votes were cast by them, even though Bihar has an adverse sex ratio.In the 2020 assembly election too, 60%, women voters exercised their franchise compared to 54.6% for men.“The reservation to women at the panchayat level has certainly contributed to their empowerment, as their voting behaviour has changed since 2006. Women have outnumbered men in voting consistently since 2010. It has strengthened the democratic process through gender participation and equality and now their participation in grassroots politics will created upward pressure and make more room for them with or without reservation,” said former DM Diwakar, former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies.Diwakar said though proxy woman candidates were a reality in the initial stages, things were changing, and now women were coming into panchayat politics with plenty of exposure as teachers or Jeevika volunteers.“If their representation was over 52% last time, don’t be surprised if it touches 55% this time. Some woman mukhiyas have also made a mark for themselves in an otherwise male-dominated field. They are now enthusiastically participating in the political process at the grassroots and will certainly make their way up,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/husband-follows-wife-s-footsteps-as-women-change-panchayat-politics-in-bihar-101631782087254.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal landslides: Manali-Leh highway closed at Nehru Kund||The strategic Manali-Leh highway is blocked for over 24 hours after a massive landslide at Nehru Kund, 5km from Manali town towards Keylong. The landslide occurred late on Wednesday night and the route is blocked since then. The traffic was diverted via Burua-Shanag link road, Manali station house officer (SHO) Sandeep Pathania said. However, a massive traffic jam has been reported on the alternative route. The Border Roads Organisation (BRO), which maintains the highway, has pressed men and machinery into service to clear the blockade due to big boulders. Shimla-Kinnaur highway (NH05) is also blocked for traffic since Wednesday after a massive landslide at Chaura. There has been long queues of vehicles on both sides. Meanwhile, the Chandigarh-Manali highway that was blocked due to a landslide at Aut near Pandoh has been reopened. The Aut-Banjar-Sainj highway was also blocked due to a landslide at Chhait on Wednesday night. It took two hours to restore traffic. No loss of life or damage to private property was reported in the incidents. Kullu deputy commissioner Ashutosh Garg said link roads were also blocked due to multiple landslides and the public works department was working to restore traffic on priority. Solan wettest place in state Since Wednesday afternoon, parts of Himachal Pradesh received light to moderate rainfall. Sujanpur was the wettest place in the state, recording 51mm of rainfall, followed by Solan 34mm, Nahan with 31.2mm and Mandi 28mm and Jogindernagar 24mm. Palampur town got 23mm of rainfall, Kangra 18.2mm, Paonta Sahib 11.4mm, Bhunter 9mm, Chamba 7mm and Dharamshala 6.2mm. The MeT department has forecast rains for next one week. A yellow weather warning for heavy rains, thunderstorm and lightening has been issued on September 19 and 20 in ten district except Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti. People have been warned to avoid unnecessary traveling due to the threat of landslides. Ban on adventure sports lifted The two-month ban on adventure sports, including river rafting and paragliding, was eased on Thursday. Paragliding activities resumed at Bir-Billing in Kangra, providing relief to people who make a living out of adventure tourism. Paragliding and river rafting were banned from July 15 to September 15 due to the monsoon. Paragliding supervisor at Bir-Billing Ran Vijay Singh said that Covid-19 hit adventure tourism in the region. “With the ban on adventure activities lifted, there is hope of revival. Though the footfall of foreign tourists is negligible since last year, the influx of domestic tourists may increase,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-landslides-manali-leh-highway-closed-at-nehru-kund-101631776147278.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra students union seeks nod for ITI students' travel by train||The Maharashtra Students’ Union (MASU) has asked the state government to allow students under 18 years of age to travel on the local trains since they can’t fulfil the mandatory condition of getting vaccinated against Covid-19, and their exclusion from the local train network was resulting in many missing in-person classes at Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs), where a large number of class 10 pass outs study. Currently, only vaccinated commuters are allowed on Mumbai locals.“Since the start of the new academic year, most ITIs have started calling their students for physical classes but repeated demands by students to allow them to travel by train have gone unheard. This has resulted in many students being unable to attend regular lectures due to lack of basic transport facilities,” said Arun Chavan, secretary, MASU. At present, there are 976 ITIs across the state, both government-aided and private, offering 146,000 seats for vocational training in plumbing, welding, motor vehicle repair, electrical repairs etc. Thousands of students opt for these courses every year after passing class 10 examinations.In November last year, ITI students were asked to attend in-person classes at their respective institutes to appear for practical exams. Since a large part of the vocational curriculum at the ITIs depends on practical sessions, in-person attendance is considered important, but many students are finding it difficult to travel to institutes.“I stay in Palghar and my institute is in Parel. I change three buses and then walk 20 minutes to my institute, so I only manage to attend college once in two-three days. I’m missing important lectures but it is physically impossible to travel the distance every day, plus financially it is draining as well,” said an ITI Parel student.“Most students studying in ITIs are below 18 years of age, and are therefore yet to receive their vaccination. This is one of the reasons they aren’t allowed to travel by train. It’s time the government either starts vaccinations for them or makes other arrangements to help these students who already come from very financially strained families,” said the principal of a Vashi based ITI.An official from the Directorate of Vocational Education and Training (DVET) told HT that they have sought help from Railways and the state government in this matter even in the past, but haven’t received a positive response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-students-union-seeks-nod-for-iti-students-to-travel-by-train-101631775787257.html
16-09-2021||Bhopal||Atrocities against tribals increased by 25% in Madhya Pradesh||Madhya Pradesh recorded 2,401 cases of atrocities against tribals in 2020, which was 25% more than 2019. The state was ahead of Rajasthan’s 1,878 cases by some margin, as per National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2020 report. The state also recorded the most rapes of tribal women in the same period. In 2019, 1,922 cases of crime against tribals were registered in the state under SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. MP has the highest tribal population in India and it has been registering most cases of atrocities against the tribal population for the past five years. Tribal and human rights activists feel that a sudden spurt in cases of outrage and harassment of tribals was reported in 2020 since many tribals, who worked as migrant labourers, returned to MP during the Covid-induced nation-wide lockdown. “The condition of scheduled caste and tribes remains the same in rural MP since Independence. Several of these people live as migrant labourers in different states and they were harassed on their return to MP during the lockdown, when many were forced to work as farm labourers without wages,” said Madhuri, a human rights activist, working in MP for the past two decades. Jai Adiwasi Yuva Sangathan alleged the state government had been suppressing the voice of tribals and the NCRB data revealed the reality of their situation. “The state government is not ready to accept the fact that the tribal people are in danger but the data revealed the reality. Tribals are feeling unsafe in MP due to the rise in crime against them. They are being thrashed for land and also being harassed by false cases lodged against them. The recent incident in Khargone, where police thrashed a tribal to force him to confess to a robbery, is a routine way of torturing tribals,” said Dr Anand Rai, spokesperson JAYS.The opposition also attacked the BJP-led state government over an increase in the number of cases of atrocities against tribals. MP Congress committee president Kamal Nath said, “This data is nothing but a report card of 16 years of development plan of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. During the BJP-led state government’s tenure, the cases of atrocities against tribals, Dalits and women have increased by many folds. The morale of anti-social elements and criminals is high and they do not fear the law.” However, home minister Narottam Mishra said, “The data only shows that police records every case in MP and every person gets justice in the state. Now, we are coming with the Gangster Act to curb crime against tribals, scheduled caste, women and poor people.” Recently, cases of atrocities against tribals in MP made headlines. A 40-year-old tribal man named Kanhaiyalal Bheel was beaten and dragged after he was tied to a vehicle in Neemuch by eight men on the suspicion of theft last month. The man died at a hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/atrocities-against-tribals-increased-by-25-in-madhya-pradesh-101631773326952.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court dismisses Param Bir Singh’s petition for quashing of inquiries||The Bombay high court today dismissed the petition filed by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh for quashing of the two preliminary inquiries against him by the Maharashtra government.The court held that the petition was ‘not maintainable’ and directed Singh to approach the appropriate forum, which is the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT).On July 28, the division bench of justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar had reserved its order in Singh’s petitions seeking quashing of the preliminary inquiry initiated against him by the home department pertaining to violation of service rules in light of the Ambani bomb scare case and on allegations of corruption levelled against him by inspector Anup Dange. Also Read | Petition in SC seeks order that HCs don’t dispense with virtual court hearingsIn his petition, Singh claimed that the two inquiries were initiated against him as he had accused former home minister Anil Deshmukh of ordering arrested police officer Sachin Vaze to collect money from bars and restaurants to the tune of ₹100 crore. Singh claimed that the home department resorted to a witch hunt after he refused to withdraw his letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray wherein he had made the corruption allegations. He further alleged that there was an attempt by the state government to hinder the HC-ordered CBI probe into his allegations against Deshmukh. Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, who had appeared for Singh, had said, “It is obvious from the circumstances that it was issued out of confusion and vendetta. Singh complained against Anil Deshmukh and instead of inquiring into that, the state punished the whistleblower... They are trying to shoot the messenger.” However, senior advocate Darius Khambata for the state had questioned the maintainability of the petition as the inquiries came under the purview of the All India Service Rules and as CAT dealt with such issues, Singh’s petition could not be entertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-dismisses-param-bir-singh-s-petition-for-quashing-of-inquiries-101631773086856.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||President Kovind arrives on four-day visit to Himachal Pradesh||President Ram Nath Kovind arrived in Shimla on Thursday on a four-day visit to Himachal Pradesh during which he will address the special session of the state assembly.The President’s helicopter landed at Annadale Ground in the afternoon. He was received by Himachal Pradesh governor Rajendra Arlekar and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar, state parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Shimla mayor Satya Kaundal, ARTRAC army commander Lt General Raj Shukla, chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh, director general of police Sanjay Kundu, general administration department secretary Devesh Kumar, Shimla deputy commissioner Aditya Negi and superintendent of police Monika Bhatungru were also present.Also read: Jai Ram quells speculation of change in leadershipKovind is staying at The Oberoi Cecil near the Himachal Pradesh assembly. Earlier, he was to stay at The Retreat at Chharabra but the arrangement was changed after three employees of the presidential house tested positive for Covid-19.The President will address the special session of the assembly on Friday to mark the golden jubilee of Himachal Pradesh’s statehood.On Saturday, he will grace the valedictory ceremony of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service officer trainees of 2018 and 2019 batches at the National Academy of Audit and Accounts, Yarrows, Shimla.The President will return to Delhi on Sunday.Security tightened in ShimlaThe state government has beefed up security in Shimla town in view of the President’s visit.More than 1,500 police personnel have been deployed in the city to maintain law and order and traffic, besides CID and staff of other security agencies.Vehicular movement on the road between Kennedy House and Boileauganj, where The Oberoi Cecil is located, has been restricted.CM, MLAs undergo RT-PCR testThe state government conducted RT-PCR tests of all staff deployed on the President’s duty, including police, Vidhan Sabha secretariat staff, employees of The Oberoi Cecil and the Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation. All dignitaries, including chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and MLAs who will attend the special session, have also undergone the test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/president-kovind-on-four-day-visit-to-himachal-pradesh-from-today-101631771886836.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Major fire breaks out at factory in west Delhi's Mayapuri||A fire broke out on Thursday morning at a factory in west Delhi's Mayapuri area. According to fire department officials, the emergency response personnel received news of the blaze at around 9:30am this morning, the site being a factory in Mayapuri Phase-2 of the national capital.As many as 18 fire tenders have been pressed into action; however, the fire is yet to be doused, news agency ANI reported.This is a developing story. More details will be added soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/major-fire-breaks-out-at-factory-in-west-delhi-s-mayapuri-101631769505598.html
16-09-2021||Other||CID takes over probe in alleged espionage by DRDO staff in Odisha||A day after the arrest of four contractual employees of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) from its Integrated Test Range facility in Chandipur area of Odisha’s Balasore district for allegedly leaking classified information to a Pakistani agent, the probe was handed over to the state Crime Investigation Department (CID) on Wednesday.Sources said there was evidence that the accused were honey-trapped into spying for Pakistan’s ISI.Also Read | Excess rainfall in September result of climate change in Odisha, say expertsThe four accused have been identified as AC operator Basanta Behera (52), diesel genset operator Hemanta Kumar Mistri (52), employee at ITR main gate Tapas Ranjan Nayak (41) and AC operator Sk. Musafir (32), all from Balasore district. The four were booked on charges of spying and sent to the court which remanded them to a 14-day judicial custody.Police officials said the four allegedly had a link with a woman in Pakistan who had reportedly lured them into passing sensitive information to ISI. A case has been registered against them under Sections 120-B/121-A/34 of the Indian Penal Code. The woman allegedly contacted the four on Facebook messenger and remained in touch on WhatsApp using fake names. The men were allegedly paid in exchange of secret information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cidtakes-over-probe-in-alleged-espionage-by-drdo-staff-in-odisha-101631768166211.html
16-09-2021||Jaipur||BJP’s Alwar MP says law and order in Rajasthan reminds of Taliban rule||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) parliamentarian from Alwar, Baba Balaknath said on Wednesday that the law and order situation in Rajasthan reminded him of Taliban’s rule in Afghanistan. He cited a recent incident of firing in Bhiwadi to back his claim. However, the Congress shot back saying Rajasthan’s law and order was better than any BJP-ruled states.Referring to the firing at a bakery in Bhiwadi, Balaknath alleged that the law-and-order situation was deteriorating in the state but Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government seemed not to see it. “Some miscreants opened fire outside residences and shops…looted a bakery and the government was sleeping,” he said. On Monday, six armed men opened fire at a local bakery in Bhiwadi and threatened the owner and the employees. Police claimed that at least 30 rounds of bullets were fired, and the attackers also vandalised the property before fleeing. However, no injuries were reported from the incident.Balaknath alleged that since the formation of the Congress government in the state, crime had increased, innocents were getting killed, and land was getting encroached. He also claimed that industries were shifting base to safer places from Alwar, Bhiwadi and Neemrana to escape extortions.“The kind of tandav (unruly scene) seen in Rajasthan reminds [me] of Taliban. The way the Taliban is doing tandav in Afghanistan, Rajasthan seems to be moving in the same direction,” he alleged. The BJP MP further alleged that politicians from the ruling party were getting people jailed on false charges and were registering fake cases. He claimed that this was the worst law and order situation in Rajasthan since independence. The MP’s allegations coincided with the release of latest data from National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report 2020, which showed that Rajasthan had overtaken Madhya Pradesh as the state where most cases of rapes were registered in 2020. However, the desert state has witnessed a decline of around 16% in crime against women.Commenting on the allegations, senior Congress leader and transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said Baba Balaknath has proved that he is not a “sanyasi” (ascetic) with the use of such language. The people will now get to know that he is [a] BJP worker and leader [in reality]. The law and order situation in Rajasthan is far better than any BJP-ruled state,” he said. The minister added that the BJP was frustrated with the defeat faced in the recent Panchayat polls. “Now, the BJP leaders are even shying away from taking Modi’s name. They are giving such statements driven by insecurity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjps-alwar-mp-says-law-and-order-in-rajasthan-reminds-of-taliban-rule-101631767445920.html
16-09-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC sets aside rustication of 3 Visva-Bharati University students||Educational institutions are being misused as breeding grounds of political parties as a result of which classes are not being held, exams are not held on time and results do not come out in time, compelling students to move to private institutions where they are treated as customers, the Calcutta high court said on Wednesday even as it set aside the rustication order against three Visva-Bharati University (VBU) postgraduate students. This comes a week after the court asked the university to keep the rustication order “in abeyance”. The students – Somnath Sow and Falguni Pan of economics and Rupa Chakrabortty of Hindustani classical vocal – were expelled for three years on August 23 by the VBU authorities for taking part in a campus protest in January this year. Also Read | SC to hear govt plea against Calcutta HC order on Bengal poll violence“The three student respondents appear to have been used as a front by some vested interests to bring the university to a standstill. The entire lot of students of the university have suffered as a a consequence,” added the single judge bench of Justice Rajasekhar Mantha. Set up in 1921 by Rabindranath Tagore, VBU is Bengal’s only central university, and the Prime Minister is its chancellor. Students’ agitation began on August 28 when the three students were expelled on disciplinary grounds. VBU vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty was confined to his campus residence as the students blocked the gates. The impasse ended following the court’s intervention. “Outsiders and political parties have absolutely no role to play in internal matters of an educational institution,” the order said on Wednesday. Last week, the same bench of the Calcutta high court had observed that a level of education and maturity is required for a student to take an informed decision before accepting or following any ideology. In the absence of such education, the exposure to ideology of any political outfit would amount to indoctrination, which was undesirable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-hc-sets-aside-rustication-of-3-visva-bharati-university-students-101631766906262.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Here's how many weather, rain records Delhi has broken in last 1 year||Having already received a copious amount of rain this month, Delhi is expected to receive another spell of heavy rainfall on Thursday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).An orange alert has been issued for the city. Heavy rain is expected at isolated places.An orange alert is issued as a warning for extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in commute with road and drain closures and interruption of power supply.The past year has seen a lot of records being broken in Delhi, for which the experts point towards climate change and global warming.Here's a list of all the records in past one year as compiled by Hindustan Times:October 2020: With 17.2 degrees Celsius, lowest average minimum temperature in 58 yearsNovember 2020: With 10.2 degrees Celsius, lowest average minimum temperature in 71 yearsDecember 2020: Highest number of cold wave days (8) in 55 yearsJanuary 2021: With 56.6mm, highest rainfall recorded in 21 yearsFebruary 2021: The month recorded an average temperature of 27.9 degrees Celsius, making February the second warmest month in 120 yearsMarch 2021: With mean maximum temperature reaching 40.1 degrees Celsius, it was the hottest March day in 76 yearsApril 2021Lowest minimum temperature in 12 years (11.7 degrees Celsius) recorded on April 4It was also the month when highest single-day rainfall ever was recorded in DelhiMay 2021Lowest maximum temperature (23.8 degrees Celsius) recorded since 1951With 144.8mm, highest rainfall recorded for the month in 13 yearsJune 2021: Lowest ever minimum temperature (17.9 degrees Ceksius) recorded on June 1July 2021Delhi saw the the onset of monsoon on July 13 - the most delayed in 19 yearsHighest maximum temperature (of 43.1 degrees Celsius) recorded in July since 2012The national capital recorded 507.1mm of rainfall, the highest monthly rainfall in the last 18 yearsAugust 2021The longest break monsoon phase of 10 daysWith 138.8mm highest single-day rainfall for the month in last 14 years, and ninth highest single-day rainfall since 1961September 2021: With 390mm rainfall, this is the second wettest September in 121 yearsOther records1146.4mm: Highest seasonal rainfall in the last 46 years7 days: Highest number of heavy rain days ever||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/heres-how-many-weather-rain-records-delhi-has-broken-in-last-1-year-101631762656686.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||8 Maharashtra districts continue to report higher positivity rate than state||Amid the fear of a third Covid-19 wave in the backdrop of the ongoing Ganesh festival, Mumbai reported 515 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Wednesday. The city’s case tally now stands at 736,282, while the death toll is 16,037. The daily test positivity rate is 1.72%. Earlier on September 8, the city had reported above 500 cases, but the positivity rate was lower, at around 1.09%.Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 3,783 new Covid-19 cases and 56 deaths caused by the infection. The state’s Covid case tally now is 6,507,930. There are currently 49,034 active Covid-19 patients across the state and with 13,258 active patients, Pune has the maximum of these followed by Thane, which has 7,249 active patients and Ahmednagar with 6,586.The death toll in state has now reached 138,277 with Pune again leading with 19,361 deaths followed by Mumbai with 16,037 deaths and Thane with 11,334.The Covid-19 pandemic continues to be a cause of concern for Maharashtra as eight of its districts reported a weekly positivity rate greater than the state average. Maharashtra has an average weekly positivity rate of 2.63%, while Pune and Ahmednagar have more than 5% weekly positivity rate. Sangli (3.88%) Nashik (3.76%), Satara (3.56%), Osmanabad (3.24%), Palghar (3.13%) and Sindhudurg (3.24%) are other districts with higher test positivity rates.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said, “In Pune, climatic conditions are responsible for a surge in cases. In Ahmednagar, we are witnessing cases coming from rural parts.” He cautioned that there was a likelihood of a surge due to the ongoing Ganesh festival.In addition to positivity rates, in eight districts of Maharashtra, Covid-19 growth rate is higher than the state average of 0.05%. These include Ahmednagar (0.23%),Satara (0.12%), Solapur (0.12%), Sangli (0.11%), Ratnagiri (0.08%), Pune (0.07%), Beed (0.06%) and Osmanabad (0.06%).Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said they were anticipating a surge in the number of infections owing to the ongoing Ganesh festival and the relaxations announced by the state government in the first week of August.The city’s recovery rate is 96% with 712,307 recoveries and the mortality rate is 2.17%. There are 5,488 active cases in the city. The city, on Wednesday, conducted 29,886 tests.Further, BMC officials have planned to increase the number of daily tests post the festival. The civic body aims to conduct around 60,000 tests daily including rapid antigen tests (RAT) for early identification. On August 20, BMC had conducted 56,566 tests-- the highest number of tests in a single day so far.The city has zero containment zones, however, there are 37 sealed buildings and 1,528 sealed floors.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital said the government needs to be strict with erring citizens. “There is bound to be multiple waves and we need to take strict punitive action against those who do not follow Covid-appropriate behaviour,” said Dr Shaikh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/8-maharashtra-districts-continue-to-report-higher-positivity-rate-than-state-101631762765648.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Rainfall in Delhi-NCR today; to intensify by weekend: IMD||Delhi-NCR is likely to witness moderate to heavy rainfall from Thursday till the end of the weekend, officials in the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Senior IMD officials said there is a forecast of the rainfall intensifying from Friday. Also Read | Delhiwale: The show is going on“There will be moderate to heavy rains on Thursday. The rain is likely to further intensify on Friday and continue till the weekend, covering large parts of Delhi-NCR,” said an IMD official.Delhi this year has seen an erratic monsoon, with the season being one of the wettest since IMD started maintaining weather records. In the month of September, Delhi has also recorded eight rainy days, which is unlikely for this time of the year. Usually, the rainiest months of the season is August. “It is unlikely that the monsoon will withdraw anytime soon. We will have to wait and see how many records are set this year,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rainfall-in-delhi-ncr-today-to-intensify-by-weekendimd-101631761145498.html
16-09-2021||Patna||Bihar Speaker seeks to host 82nd presiding officers conference||Bihar Legislative Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Wednesday expressed his desire to host the 82nd All India Presiding Officers Conference (AIPOC) in the state, as it would coincide with the Bihar Legislative Assembly building centenary function as well as the completion of 100 years of the conference and the 75th year of India’s independence.“I urge you all to give this responsibility to Bihar and accept our invitation,” he said, while speaking virtually at the 81st AIPOC, which was presided over by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. The day also coincided with the International Day of Democracy. The theme of the conference was “Role of Legislature in fostering BG effective and meaningful democracy”.Sinha had earlier met President Ram Nath Kovind at the Rashtrapati Bhawan and invited him for the centenary function. The President gave his consent for it in October after Durga Puja. He had also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the latter’s residence with an invitation.Speaking at the conference, Sinha said the three pillars of democracy, including the legislature, judiciary and the executive, were working within their boundaries for the nation’s development and this was an opportunity to improve the credibility of the legislature.“If the legislature works as per the powers vested in it by the Constitution, it will only increase its dignity and reduce the chances of any intervention from any quarter,” he added.He said the legislature was accountable to the public and with technology’s aid, it was making itself available to the masses through live streaming of the sittings. “The legislature has to act as the bridge between the public and the executives. For it, people’s concerns are supreme and it is our moral duty to maintain its sanctity,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-speaker-seeks-to-host-82nd-presiding-officers-conference-101631760845294.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The show is going on||Tuesday afternoon. The balcony lobby is quiet. An attentive ear may hear the muffled sounds of film dialogues coming from inside the theatre’s thick doors. The day’s first show of Thalaivi is in progress, here in Delite cinema. And Mukti Ram Parajuli, manning the snack counter, is gearing up for the 10-minute interval that will begin shortly.Mr Parajuli, 49, joined this landmark theatre as an attendant in 1992. Since then many film halls in the city have become history, or given way to teeny-weeny multiplexes. But the sprawling world of his Delite with its wood-panelled walls, stately staircases, and heavy chandeliers appears unaltered. The ongoing coronavirus pandemic, however, explains the current attendance of only about two dozen people in the 358-seater balcony. It also explains the white ribbons tied to alternate chairs in the cinema’s canteen (to ensure physical distancing). It also explains Mr Parajuli’s masked face, and the pink plastic badge clipped to his shirt button that says, “Fully vaccinated.”In the pre-pandemic era, the snack counter teemed with people—it serves Delhi’s biggest samosa (called Maha Samosa). Last year, when the theatres were obliged to suspend screenings just before the first coronavirus-triggered lockdown in March, Mr Parajuli immediately left for his village in Nepal “because it’s better to be with your own family in a crisis like this.” That was the first time in many decades that he got the opportunity to stay for six continuous months with wife, two daughters, one son, two buffaloes and three goats. “I spent the period farming my small agricultural land,” even as his conscientious employers in Delhi wired him his salary every month without fail. Mr Parajuli returned to the city in October, but rushed back again following the lockdown during the second wave in April this year. These trips to home have never been simple. “I first have to board the express train, which takes 13 hours to reach Gorakhpur. Then I have to board the roadways bus to Sonauli, which takes three hours. Then I have to cross the international border by foot into Nepal, where I have to board the bus to the hills, which takes six hours to reach Bagnaskali Darpuk, my village.” Mr Parajuli returned in July; the cinema reopened a month later.Meanwhile, the “interval” clocks in. No customary rush of footsteps into the lobby follows. “Things should become better with newer releases,” he mutters optimistically. “In fact, the attendance was good last Sunday.”Mr Parajuli’s shift will end at midnight, he says, explaining the layout of his typical day. He will be back at the counter the next morning at 11. With the times continuing to be abnormal, the snack counter attendant expresses relief that “at least my routine is returning to normalcy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-show-is-going-on-101631756360516.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Plan for 1,300 beds at LHMC’s kalawati saran child hospital||The proposed second phase redevelopment of the Lady Hardinge Medical College (LHMC) will see the number of beds at one of its associated children’s hospitals, Kalawati Saran, triple from its current 380 to nearly 1,300, which will make it the largest children’s hospital in Asia -- a title currently held by the 837-bed Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children in Chennai.Senior officials from the hospital said the plan, which has been submitted to the Union health ministry , will see more beds coming up in a new building in the hospital. “Although redevelopment of the paediatric services was not a part of the initial second phase of the comprehensive redevelopment plan, there has been a lot of support from the government and the number of beds in Kalawati Saran will be increased. A plan for creating a 1,300-bed centre of national importance is in the pipeline,” said a senior official, on the condition of anonymity.The official said that a timeline for the second phase of the redevelopment of the hospital, which is in the heart of the city, is yet to be decided. “Another 100 beds for children and newborns will be added soon to Kalawati Saran Children’s hospital [for now] as the third wave is thought to likely affect children more,” said the official, adding that “the old blocks will be replaced by new blocks under the second phase of redevelopment.”A redevelopment plan for LHMC was created nearly 14 years ago, and the phase-I construction of a new outpatient clinic, in-patient ward, trauma centre for the associated Sucheta Kriplani hospital began in 2012. The construction was, however, halted for years when the private contractor abandoned the project citing lack of funds around 2014.In 2018, the Central Public Works Department declared the old building unsafe for patients and recommended that the services be shifted. The report said that the iron girders supporting the roof were not capable of supporting any weight.The services, however, continued in the dilapidated building despite the doctors going on a strike demanding that the work on the new building be completed.Last year, the then union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan announced that some of the work has already begun and that it will be completed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plan-for-1-300-beds-at-lhmc-s-kalawati-saran-child-hospital-101631754915433.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: HC notes nature of injury, gives bail to 2||he Delhi high court has granted bail to two men accused of firing bullets during the north-east Delhi riots last year, saying the injury received to the victim was not from a gunshot but by a stone.The high court said it deems fit to grant regular bail to the two accused on furnishing a personal bond of ₹50,000 each with two surety bonds of the like amount.According to the prosecution, the two men — identified by their first names Shiva and Nitin — were armed with deadly weapons and attempted to commit culpable homicide under the IPC and under the Arms Act.The accused persons, represented by advocate Pritish Sabharwal, contended that at the place of incident in Brahmapuri, pelting and firing took place between both the sides and that Nitin was not even identified in the CCTV footage.Regarding Shiva, who was allegedly holding the pistol in his hand, Sabharwal said he was only seen firing in the air and no gunshot injury has been received to the complainant or any other victim.The FIR said the incident happened while a mob of 20-25 people was moving towards Matin Masjid during the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-hc-notes-nature-of-injury-gives-bail-to-2-101631753604513.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Public fairs and exhibitions to be allowed in Delhi from today||Fairs and exhibitions will be allowed in Delhi from Thursday under a phased reopening of economic activities as the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease situation eases in the national capital. This is a result of an order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday, which allowed the banquet halls to hold such exhibitions and fairs.The order further said that business-to-consumer exhibitions will be permitted in the city from Thursday, adding that all the stakeholders organisers will have to follow the standard operating procedures (SoPs) issued by the ministry of commerce and industry. In case any violation is found, strict penal or criminal action will be initiated, it added.According to the SOPs, venue providers need to adopt strict measures which include separate entry and exit for visitors, disinfection of halls before giving possession, setting up permanent isolation centres and a well-planned garbage disposal mechanism.Fair organisers will have to stagger the operational hours of the exhibition so that there is an organised gathering, according to DDMA order. They will also have to regularly play recorded messages on precautionary measures and good practices, besides encouraging the use of technology to minimise human interface. The organisers will also require to do a risk assessment prior to the event, considering health and safety situation in the zones, both national and international, from where the participants may belong, the order added.The SOPs stated that the custom of 'Namaste' instead of handshake will be promoted at such fairs and exhibitions, adding that the Aarogya Setu mobile app is recommended for all persons manning stalls and is mandatory for those with smartphones.The order further said that schools in the city will, however, be closed for students up to Class 8. It did not mention any relaxation for holding Ramleelas, although several organising committees in a recently held meeting decided to hold Ramleelas by booking grounds. Various other activities prohibited and allowed by the DDMA will remain so till the intervening night of September 30 and October 1, the order further read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/public-fairs-and-exhibitions-to-be-allowed-in-delhi-from-today-101631750102897.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Farooq Abdullah meets NC leader Wazir’s family||National Conference president and former J&K chief minister Farooq Abdullah on Wednesday visited former MLC and senior party leader TS Wazir’s Gandhi Nagar residence to offer condolences to his family. Wazir, 67, was found dead in a flat in New Delhi’s Moti Nagar area on last Thursday. Farooq, who was accompanied by party leaders including provincial president Devender Singh Rana, attended a special prayer meeting. It may be stated here that Delhi Police have arrested two persons from Jammu on charges of murder and criminal conspiracy. They have been identified as Rajendra Chaudhary alias Raju Ganja, a driver by profession, and Billa. In the wake of multiple theories, National Conference leaders led by Devender Singh Rana have demanded a CBI probe in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farooq-abdullah-meets-nc-leader-wazir-s-family-101631745423068.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Former militant arrested from J&K’s Kishtwar after 12 years||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Wednesday arrested a former militant, who was absconding for the past 12 years, from Kishtwar district. “Kishtwar police have apprehended a former militant, who was evading arrest for the last 12 years,” said a police spokesperson. He was identified as Nazir Ahmed, son of Noor Mohammand Gorsi, a resident of Budhar Bonjwah in Kishtwar. “On a specific information through reliable sources, a special team from Jawalapur police post was constituted. The team led by sub-inspector Moin Khan raided the suspected locations and arrested the absconder,” he added. He was wanted in a case registered under sections 307 of the IPC and 7/27 of the Arms Act. “The former militant was later produced in the Kishtwar session court and accordingly on the orders of the court, was sent to judicial custody,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-militant-arrested-from-j-k-s-kishtwar-after-12-years-101631745182899.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: 88 areas declared containment zones in Srinagar||Srinagar has witnessed a spike in Covid cases in the past one week, prompting the administration to declare 88 areas in the city as containment zones. Out of over 1,300 active Covid cases in the UT, more than half come from Srinagar district. The officials have started taking steps to prevent the surge in cases as they fear unchecked infections could trigger the third wave. Other than Srinagar, cases reported from 19 other districts are either in single digit or no case at all.Medical experts and officials are worried over the spike in the cases in the city and say that by not following the Covid-appropriate behaviour, this surge could lead J&K towards the third wave.Srinagar DC Ajaz Asad said their district has 60% share in the active caseload in J&K.“Currently, we have 88 containment zones in Srinagar, 22 of which were added in the past one week. Due to special congregations, there has been a spike in the cases from certain areas or pockets of the city,” he added. “If we don’t follow safety protocols, then Srinagar could be the reason behind the start of third wave in J&K,” Asad said, adding that the people who haven’t taken vaccine should do it immediately. The administration has, meanwhile, formed special teams in the city to ensure compliance with Covid guidelines. On Tuesday, 15 people were detained by police from different areas for not wearing masks. “Srinagar can again become a hot spot if people show laxity. The lowering of guard in last couple of weeks led to spike in cases. People shouldn’t forget that this is a deadly disease,” said Dr Ahad, a senior consultant at a city hospital.On Wednesday, Jammu and Kashmir recorded 156 fresh coronavirus infections and one death. There were 123 cases in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 32 infections. The summer capital Srinagar saw the highest count of 77 cases. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 131 with active cases reaching 1,349.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,21,532, prompting the recovery rate to climb up to 98.23%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,27,296 and the death toll stands at 4,414.215 infections detected in HimachalHimachal Pradesh recorded 215 fresh Covid infections on Wednesday, which took the state’s tally to 2,16,303 while the death toll mounted to 3,628 after two patients succumbed to the infection. Of the new cases, 42 were reported in Bilaspur, 41 each in Hamirpur and Mandi, 35 in Kangra, 32 in Shimla, 12 in Una, eight in Chamba and two each in Lahaul-Spiti and Solan. The active cases have gone up to 1,650 while recoveries reached 2,11,008 after 95 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 48,238 cases reported to date followed by 30,408 cases in Mandi and 26,972 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-88-areas-declared-containment-zones-in-srinagar-101631744943044.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||NCRB report: Jammu and Kashmir logs 15% jump in criminal cases in 2020||Jammu and Kashmir has recorded a 15% increase in cognisable crimes in 2020 as compared to 2019, the latest report by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) revealed.The report said that Jammu and Kashmir (including Ladakh) registered 29,314 (including 403 cases in Ladakh) criminal cases under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) or under the Special and Local Laws (SLL) in 2020. It was a 15% increase from 2019, when 25,408 crimes were registered. Year 2019 had witnessed a fall of 6% in cases than 2018 with 27,276 such incidences.J&K has witnessed three years of lockdown with the first in 2019 when its special status under Article 370 was revoked and the region was split into two UTs – Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. In 2020 and 2021, J&K remained closed for months due to the Covid pandemic. The report has maintained a separate section for the UT of Ladakh from the year 2020. The report revealed that the crimes against women witnessed around 11% increase from 3,069 cases in 2019 to 3,414 (including nine in Ladakh) in 2020. Year 2019 had witnessed a fall of 10% in such crimes in comparison to 2018 when 3,437 cases were registered. The crime rate against women in 2020 was 53 per lakh of the population across J&K. The statistics show that in 2020, there were nine cases of dowry deaths, 243 rape cases (with 247 victims including three girls), 349 cases of cruelty against women by their husbands or relatives, 1,639 cases of assault on women and 1,744 cases of assault on women with intention to outrage their modesty. The report also showed that the J&K registered 31 stalking cases, 15 incidents of sexual harassment with three cases of sexual harassment at work in 2020.The murder cases saw an increase of 25% with 149 cases in 2020 as against 119 in 2019. There were 487 cases of attempt to murder, 35 cases of abetment of suicide and 24 cases of abetment of suicide of women in 2020. The crimes against children also witnessed an increase of around 29% with 606 incidents in 2020 in comparison to 470 and 473 cases each in 2019 and 2018, respectively.Suicide cases were also a significant part of the crime statistics, including 472 incidences of attempt to commit suicide in 2020. The kidnapping and abductions cases have been witnessing a decline for the past three years in J&K. The region also recorded 10 cases of crimes related to offences against the state besides two cases of sedition in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ncrb-report-jammu-and-kashmir-logs-15-jump-in-criminal-cases-in-2020-101631744763076.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||In brief: Four militants currently active in Srinagar, say J&K Police||J&K Police claimed that four militants are currently active in Srinagar district. IGP, Kashmir Range, Vijay Kumar said, “The militants are being followed.”Florence Nightingale award to nursing college principalDr Shailla Cannie, dean and principal, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi College of Nursing has got the National Florence Nightingale Award 2020. The award was presented by President Ram Nath Kovind in a virtual ceremony held on Wednesday.Himachal minister opposes handover of CTS schools to Tibetan NGOHP’s urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj has shot off a letter to BJP national president JP Nadda, education minister Dharmendra Pradhan and union sports minister Anurag Thakur, urging not to transfer the central Tibetan schools to a Tibetan NGO. He also recommended converting these schools as Kendriya Vidyalayas.Amarnath Yatri Niwas: L-G’s adviser reviews progressAdviser to J&K L-G, Baseer Ahmad Khan, on Wednesday visited Ramban and reviewed the progress of construction work of Amarnath Yatri Niwas at Chanderkote. The project is being constructed by Shri Amarnath Ji Shrine Board for the pilgrims.HPERC chairperson gets lifetime achievement awardDevendra Kumar Sharma, chairperson, Himachal Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (HPERC), has been awarded ‘Dam Safety Lifetime Achievement Award 2021’ by Aqua Foundation. The award was given during a conclave held virtually in New Delhi. Sharma previously served as chairman of the Bhakra Beas Management Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-brief-four-militants-currently-active-in-srinagar-say-j-k-police-101631744522899.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Poor state of Himachal rehab centres: HC puts ACS on notice||The high court of Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday issued notices to the additional chief secretary (ACS) (social justice and empowerment) and director, social justice and empowerment, on the issue of deplorable condition of the Integrated Rehabilitation Centres for Addicts (IRCA) due to financial crunch. The court directed the respondents to submit their reply within a period of two weeks.A division bench comprising acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed these orders on a petition taken up suo motu by the court as a PIL on a news item published in an English daily under title “De-addiction centres battle fund crunch”.It was reported that notwithstanding the claims of the state government to make Himachal a drug-free state, the condition of IRCA tells a different story. While the centres established in Kullu (women), Dharamshala, Chamba, Mandi, Sirmaur, Bilaspur and Solan are yet to become operational despite receipt of first grants, the 15-bed centre started in Shimla in 2019 is facing closure as it has not received grants (over ₹54 lakh) from the Centre in the past two years. The said centre is not in a position to add new patients and it has an occupancy of only three. The staffers have been forced to leave due to the non-payment of salaries for one year. The OPD and IPD facilities have also been discontinued.It was also reported that the centre has shared its concerns with the higher authorities, but no concrete step has been taken. It was further reported that the instances of drug addiction are on the rise and a total of 2,126 cases have been registered from January 1, 2020 to April 30, 2021.It was reported that there are four functional IRCAs in the HP in Shimla, Kullu, Una and Hamirpur with a total capacity of 60 beds. The other three are running at full capacity, but these are also facing financial constraints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poor-state-of-himachal-rehab-centres-hc-puts-acs-on-notice-101631744222849.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram quells speculations of change in leadership||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who returned to Shimla after his two-day visit to Delhi to meet the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) top leaders, spiked the speculation of any leadership change in the state ahead of the byelections. “It is not what was being speculated,” said Thakur on his return. “My visit to Delhi was pre-scheduled. It was not a sudden plan,” the CM said outside the Himachal secretariat. While ruling out the possibility of any leadership change in Himachal, he said, “The meeting primarily focused on preparations for the elections, both bypolls as well as general polls. The Delhi tour was a good one. It was scheduled nearly 25 days ago. There I met the party’s national president along with several key leaders from HP such as incharge, co-incharge, state chief and general secretary.” There were discussions on the core-group meetings in Dharamshala and road map to take forward the policies and programmes of the BJP government was explored, he added. “This will be implemented in letter and spirit,” the CM said, adding that he also discussed in detail the report card of his cabinet colleagues. It has been reliably learnt that the party high command expressed satisfaction over the performance of the cabinet ministers barring three, who were “underperforming”. “There was no scope to discuss the cabinet rejig in the meeting that was totally related to organisational affairs,” Thakur said, setting aside probability of cabinet reshuffle as well. Thakur on Wednesday, meanwhile, presided over a meeting of officers to take stock of President Ram Nath Kovind’s scheduled visit. Kovind will address a special session of the HP Vidhan Sabha on September 17. All-party meeting heldAn all-party meeting was held here on Wednesday to review the arrangements ahead of the Kovind’s visit on Thursday. Presiding over the meeting, CM Thakur said that the HP government had planned to organise year-long celebrations to mark the golden jubilee of the statehood, but due to the pandemic it was not possible to celebrate it on such a large scale. Thakur also sought all possible cooperation from the leaders of all political parties. Speaker of Vidhan Sabha Vipin Singh Parmar said all former MPs and MLAs have been invited to be a part of this “mega event”. He said at least 73 former MPs and MLAs have accepted the invitation. Leader of Opposition in HP assembly Mukesh Agnihotri said this event was above party politics and assured full cooperation from the Congress to the state government.MLA Rakesh Singha said it was an event of the people of the state, who have made immense contributions towards the development of Himachal.Chief whip Bikram Jaryal, MLAs Asha Kumari and Ram Lal Thakur also gave their suggestions in the meeting.Chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh, DGP Sanjay Kundu and Vidhan Sabha secretary Yashpal Sharma were among those who attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-quells-speculations-of-change-in-leadership-101631744043662.html
16-09-2021||Noida||Newly proposed site for multilevel car park in Ghaziabad will cater to Metro, RRTS passengers||The Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation has proposed a site behind the New Bus Adda for the development of a five-storey parking facility, which can accommodate up to 700 vehicles, days after protests at Ambedkar Park in Navyug Market, which is adjacent to the corporation headquarters, stalled the construction of the multilevel parking facility in the area. Construction and Design Services (C&DS), a unit of UP Jal Nigam, will be undertaking the construction of the project and a proposal for the same has been forwarded to the state administration for final approval. The proposed parking facility is in vicinity of the New Bus Adda Metro station and adjacent to the proposed Ghaziabad station, which is being constructed as part of the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS). “We have sent the proposal for the parking facility to the state administration for final approval. The parking facility will be developed at a strategic location so that passengers using the Metro and RRTS trains, which will get operational in future, can easily park their vehicles,” said Rohit Tomar, junior engineer from C&DS. The project will be undertaken at an estimated cost of ₹42 crore over 5,762 sqm. The C&DS has proposed spaces for parking 198 cars and 542 two-wheelers. “We have also decided to allocate space for 12 shops that will offer different goods and services for the convenience of those who will be using the parking facility. Both the Metro station and the upcoming RRTS station will be about 100m away from the proposed parking facility. We have proposed to develop the facility in 24 months,” said Tomar. Municipal commissioner MS Tanwar said the corporation has proposed the site for the parking facility. Municipal councillor Rajendra Tyagi from Raj Nagar said the proposed facility is located next to a densely populated area. “There should be proper security arrangements with boundary walls. Moreover, steps should be taken to ensure locals don’t use the facility for parking their own vehicles. Further, a separate lane/road should also be developed from the main GT Road near Metro station and the proposed RRTS station up to the parking facility,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/newly-proposed-site-for-multilevel-car-park-in-ghaziabad-will-cater-to-metro-rrts-passengers-101631741822364.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||75-year-old Ludhiana woman found dead in her house with hands, feet tied||A 75-year-old woman was found dead with her hands and feet tied in the densely populated Ahluwalia locality of Khanna on Wednesday, in the latest murder to rock Ludhiana district. The victim, identified as Surinder Kaur, was set to leave for Canada in a few days to visit one of her two sons. Her younger son lives in Khanna.According to the police, the murder came to light when the domestic help reached the house on Wednesday morning. She was shocked to find the elderly woman tied up and dead, and the household articles in disarray. She raised the alarm, following which area residents rushed to the house and informed the police.Investigators said the victim lived alone as her husband had passed away and sons lived separately. She was last seen at a religious congregation in the locality on Tuesday night. Prima facie it appeared that she was strangled to death. However, police have sent the body for post-mortem examination to establish the exact cause.A dog squad and fingerprint experts examined the crime scene, and collected samples. Superintendent of police (SP, Detective) Manpreet Singh said investigation was on to ascertain whether the murder was a fallout of a personal rivarly or robbery.Police have recorded the statement of the victim’s son and are awaiting autopsy results to initiate legal proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/75yearold-ludhiana-woman-found-dead-in-her-house-with-hands-feet-tied-101631741711926.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Two held with 750gm heroin, ₹28,000 drug money||The special task force of Ludhiana police arrested two drug peddlers after recovering 750gm heroin and ₹28,000 drug money from them in New Vijay Nagar on Tuesday.An electronic weighing machine and 55 empty packets, besides a motorcycle being used to sell the contraband, were also recovered from the accused, identified as Adarsh, alias Nihal Yadav, 19, of New Vijay Nagar and Mani Garg, 24, of Mohalla Adarsh Nagar.Inspector Harbans Singh, in-charge, special task force, said they received a tip-off about movement of drug suppliers, following which the duo was nabbed from New Vijay Nagar while they were riding a motorcycle from Adarsh’s house to Tibba Road to sell the drug.On frisking the accused, the team recovered 470gm heroin, ₹17,000 drug money, an electronic weighing machine and 55 empty packets from the possession of Adarsh, while 280gm heroin and ₹11,000 were found in Mani’s possession. The motorcycle seized by the police belongs to Mani.The inspector said during questioning, Adarsh revealed that he helped his father in his hosiery business and also supplied heroin to addicts along with Mani, who is unemployed. “Both have been peddling drugs for the past two years. They are being questioned to uncover their network,” he added.A case under Sections 21 and 29 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered at the STF police station in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianatwo-held-with-750gm-heroin-28-000-drug-money-101631741710633.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||JEE Main: Kanav Singla bags AIR 42, tops Ludhiana||Kanav Singla, a student of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, Ludhiana, has bagged all-India rank (AIR) 42 in the JEE-Main exam with 99.99 percentile marks, clinching the top spot in Ludhiana.The 19-year-old credited his brother, Shrey Singla, for inspiring him, as he too secured AIR 49 in JEE-Main and AIR 36 in JEE-Advanced two years ago, also topping the city back then.Starting this year, Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Main was conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. The first phase was held in February and the second in March. The third edition was held from July 20-25 after a delay due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, while the fourth edition was conducted from August 26 to September 2.The National Testing Agency (NTA) has released the ranks of the candidates taking into consideration the best of the four scores in accordance with the policy already made.NTA scores are normalised across the multi-session papers and are based on the relative performance of all those who appeared for the examination in only one session.Kanav also sat for the exam only once, in February. “I was confident that I will rank in the top 100 after the result of my first attempt, so I didn’t appear in any other rounds,” he said.The teenager, who wants to follow in his brother’s footsteps by joining IIT Bombay for computer engineering, is now preparing for JEE-Advanced, scheduled on October 3.“While I studied for around nine hours daily, I also made time to play either cricket or badminton for at least an hour as this balance is essential,” said Kanav, who had scored 97% marks in Class 10 and 12.He said he was grateful to his parents, Dr Ravi Kant Singla and Dr Anju Singla, who were doctors and allowed him to choose his career himself.Keshav second in city with AIR 723 Keshav Gupta, 18, of Guru Nanak Public School, Sarabha Nagar, came second in the city with AIR 723 and 99.946 percentile marks.He sat for all four sessions and scored 99.89, 99.88 and 99.940 percentile in the last three attempts, respectively. Gupta has his eyes set on software engineering through IIT Bombay.“Students should remain calm and dedicated towards their goal. I used to practice yoga for mental strength and studied for around 8-9 hours daily,” said Keshav.While he scored 97% marks in Class 12, he got 94% in Class 10. Keshav’s mother Sapna Dev Gupta, who is a computer engineer by qualification, left her government job to take care of her children, while his father, Kapil Dev Gupta, pursued his career in the merchant navy. Aksh Goyal third with AIR 794 Scoring best in the final session, Aksh Goyal, 17, bagged the third spot in the city with AIR 794 and 99.94 percentile marks.A student of Ryan International School, Jamalpur, Aksh wants to make it to IIT Delhi for textile engineering. He had secured 99.66, 99.74 and 99.53 percentile in his previous three attempts, respectively.His score in Class 12 was 96.6% and 96.5% in Class 10.“I remained focused towards my goal and studied for seven hours daily. There were tough times too, but I was determined to suceed,” he said.For leisure, Aksh likes to play football and listen to music, which help him stay calm. His father, Amandeep Goyal, is a businessman and mother Meena Goyal is a homemaker.Meanwhile, among students from other stations taking coaching in Ludhiana, Shivaye Jain, 17, who hails from Malerkotla, bagged AIR 678 with 99.949 percentile score. A total of 6.58 lakh male candidates had appeared for the exam, while the number of female candidates was 2.80 lakh. Among them, 2.52 lakh candidates sat for all four sessions.Besides acting as screening for JEE-Advanced, for admission to IITs, the JEE Main result paves way for admissions to NITs, IIITs, GFTIs and other top private and government engineering colleges across the country. Registrations for JEE-Advanced for admission to IITs began on Wednesday evening after being postponed twice due to delay in announcement of JEE-Main results.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jee-main-kanav-singla-bags-air-42-tops-ludhiana-101631741709446.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Gunhouse owner, two sons booked for illegal bullet sale||Two weeks after a man was nabbed with a pistol and six bullets near the rally of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal in Sahnewal on September 1, police have booked a gunhouse owner and his two sons for illegally selling bullets to the accused.During interrogation, the accused, Kashish Adiya of Kohinoor Park, had revealed that he had bought the bullets from Verma Gun House, near Bharat Nagar Chowk. According to investigating officer Ranbir Singh, they found that the gunhouse was selling bullets illegally through fake entries in the arms and ammunition sale register, following which the shop owner, Girdhari Lal Verma, and his two sons, Gurcharan Kumar and Shamsher Singh, residents of Gurdev Nagar, were booked. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged 1[document or electronic record]) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, and the Arms Act has been registered against them at the Division Number 8 police station, Singh added.Notably, Gurcharan was booked and arrested in another Arms Act case last week after Adya confessed to have bought the bullets from his gunhouse. Another accused, Manpreet Singh, alias Mani, of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar was also nabbed for helping Adya procure the .32 bore illegal pistol that he was found carrying near Badal’s rally.Gurcharan’s father and brother remain at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianagunhouse-owner-two-sons-booked-for-illegal-bullet-sale-101631741707336.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Lodhi Club Rd carjacking in Ludhiana cracked with arrest of four||Three days after an accountant was robbed of his Mahindra Scorpio, cash and gold at gunpoint on Lodhi Club Road on Sunday, police have cracked the case with the arrest of four members of a gang.According to police, the accused – Surjit Singh, alias Makhan Singh, 49, of Ferozepur; Pooran Singh, alias Pannu, 28, of Ferozepur; Sahib Singh, alias Saba, 30, of Ferozepur; and Sobar Randhawa of Fatehgarh Churia Road – were also involved in the August 25 robbery wherein they took away a couple’s Maruti Suzuki Brezza at gunpoint near J-Block of BRS Nagar.The robbed cars, besides two other stolen cars, a .32-bore pistol, stolen gold jewellery and two mobile phones have been recovered from their possession. Another gang member, Lakhvinder Singh of Ferozepur, remains at large.“During investigation into both robberies, police tracked down the gang members. While Pooran, Sahib and Sobar were arrested on Tuesday, Surjit was caught on Wednesday. Their accomplice Lakhvir managed to flee,” additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-3) Sameer Verma said.To commit these robberies, the gang used two Tata Indigo cars stolen from Jalandhar and Amritsar. These have been recovered, he added. Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lodhi-club-rd-carjacking-in-ludhiana-cracked-with-arrest-of-four-101631741705233.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||HSRPs can help bring down crime: National Road Safety Council member||Highlighting that the absence of high-security registration plates (HSRP) on vehicles was a major reason behind Ludhiana’s rising crime graph, National Road Safety Council member Kamaljeet Soi criticised the enforcement agencies for failing to ensure their installation on every vehicle in the city.Speaking after launching Mission Safe Ludhiana 2021 at a hotel in Feroze Gandhi market on Wednesday, Soi, who is also the chairman of NGO Raahat - The Safe Community Foundation, said the state government had initiated the programme to install HSRPs on vehicles in 2012, but failed to complete it. As a result, around 20 lakh vehicles were plying on roads without HSRPs.He shared that the transport principal secretary, in July 2020, had notified a penalty/challan amount of ₹2,000 for first offence and ₹3,000 for subsequent offence. Besides, expressing concern over compliance, the office of the state transport commissioner had sent a communication to the authorities concerned in August this year.Soi said he will also take up the matter with departments concerned and move court if required.“It is easy to catch violators with HSRPs, as these are registered with the national vehicle registry – Vahan. People involved in organised crime mostly install fake number plates or simply remove the plates. If enforcement agencies make sure that HSRP is installed on every vehicle, the crime graph will automatically come down,” he said.Soi also sought action against dealers who sold cars without HSRPs. “As per rules, a car owner cannot take the car out of the showroom until HSRP is installed on it,” he added.RTA secretary Narinder Singh said the authorities, including the RTA office and traffic police, were continuously creating awareness about HSRP and also issuing challans to violators. “Ludhiana has a large number of vehicles, so it takes time to replace their number plates,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hsrps-can-help-bring-down-crime-national-road-safety-council-member-101631741704037.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Three inmates injured in gang war at Ludhiana Central Jail||Three inmates sustained head injuries and more were hurt after members of the Shubham Mota and Puneet Bains gangs clashed in Ludhiana Central Jail on Wednesday.Leaders of the rival gangs, gangsters Shubham Arora and Puneet Bains, alias Mani, are both lodged in the jail, and their aides were attending an online hearing in a chamber when both groups came to blows, police said.The clash spilled outside as well, as members of the two groups continued to attack each other until jail personnel and additional police force from the city brought the situation under control.A source in the jail said members of both gangs suddenly clashed during an online hearing in a case involving them. While the reason could not be established immediately, jail guards and paramilitary personnel deployed in the jail rushed to the spot to separate the fighting groups.A high alert was sounded and police personnel from Zone 4 of the Ludhiana police commissionerate were also pressed into service to control the situation.After separating the fighting inmates, they were taken to different barracks and the injured were treated at the hospital on the jail premises.While jail superintendent Balkar Singh Bhullar was not available for a comment, deputy superintendent Satnam Singh claimed it was a minor fight between two groups.He said DSP (Security) Ashwani Sharma will conduct an inquiry into the incident and submit a report.While nodal officer Rupinder Kaur Bhatti could not be reached, additional deputy commissioner of police-4 Rupinder Kaur Sra said no formal complaint was received from the jail.This is not the first time that violence erupted in the jail. On June 27, 2019, an inmate was killed and over a dozen people, including five police personnel, were injured after two gangs clashed inside the prison following rioting, forcing the police to open fire. Four prisoners tried to escape amid the commotion, but were apprehended.Rivalry had spilled out on streets in JuneWednesday’s incident comes three months after aides of Shubham went around firing shots and attacking people related to Puneet on June 3. Puneet’s cousin was attacked with sharp-edged weapons and his car was vandalised. They further hurled stones at the house of the gangster, while threatening his mother, before going to the house of his aide Nanna Don, also pelting it with stones. Later, five shots were fired at a woman related to Puneet, but she escaped unhurt.Subsequently, members of Puneet’s gang assaulted an aide of Shubham, Rajvir Singh. Multiple FIRs were lodged into the attacks.The rivalry between the two gangs goes back to February 2020 when Shubham and his aides assaulted Puneet. They both were eventually arrested and lodged in Ludhiana central jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-inmates-injured-in-gang-war-at-ludhiana-central-jail-101631741702501.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||161 dengue cases in Punjab’s Amritsar in 15 days, health department on toes||The rising number of cases of dengue in Punjab’s Amritsar has sent the health department and the district administration into a tizzy as 161 of the 278 confirmed cases this season surfaced in the first half of September. On Wednesday, Punjab medical education and research minister Om Prakash Soni held a meeting with officials of the health department, district administration and the municipal cooperation (MC) to take stock of the situation. Expressing concern over the rising numbers, Soni directed the officials to take all necessary steps to prevent the outbreak and ensure the safety of residents. Fogging should be ensured in at least 20 wards of the city daily, he said. The health department has asked the civic body to conduct regular fogging in all 85 wards of the city besides initiating an extensive inspection in residential areas to detect dengue larvae.“Those infected must increase their fluid intake and take proper rest to avoid complications. We have already issued 546 challans over detecting larvae this year,” said district epidemiologist Dr Madan Mohan. He said dengue-causing mosquitoes usually bite during the day and proper precautions such as mosquito coils, sprays, mosquito repellent creams should be used. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said he was personally monitoring the situation in the city. “Wey have also ordered some new machines to intensify fogging,” he said.Soni said the government will take strict action against officials for negligence in duty while handling the dengue situation. Last year, Amritsar had reported nearly 350 dengue cases. Officials said this year’s the count will surpass the previous year’s figure. The cases are likely to increase in the coming days, they added. Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said it is the responsibility of the MC to not let rainy water accumulate in any area until the situation gets normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/161-dengue-cases-in-punjab-s-amritsar-in-15-days-health-department-on-toes-101631740142045.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Can’t stop farmers’ land records integration with procurement: Punjab government to arhtiyas||The Punjab government on Wednesday told the state arhtiya association that it was “not possible at this juncture” to stop integration of land records with procurement as 50% of the process has been completed and further work is underway. The matter was raised during a meeting of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh with the association office-bearers who claimed to have raised the farmers’ apprehensions about the land records integration process. “We conveyed to everyone present in the meeting that it was not possible as the Centre has mandated all procurement states, including Punjab, to integrate land records (farads) with the procurement portal and the entire process is at an advance stage,” said secretary (food and civil supplies) Rahul Tiwari. A state food and civil supplies department official said of 8.75 farmers registered on the procurement portal, land records of over 4 lakh have been integrated and further verifications are going on. In a meeting between the Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders and political parties on September 10, the farmer unions expressed apprehension that the demand for land records (fards) for details of land ownership before procurement as ordered by the Centre is unjust as a large number of cultivators have taken land on lease and in many cases division is still to be done. On September 12, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu sent a communiqué to the CM, asking him to “fight against the injustice” saying “it was an attack on resilient minimum procurement price (MSP) regime and to push farmers away from the APMC mandis towards private markets, where no such records are maintained. “The CM has already taken the matter with the Centre seeking relaxation. But as of now, the Centre’s directions are clear that there will be no procurement if integration is not implemented. Even if we carry on with the upcoming paddy procurement without integration of land records, the Food Corporation India (FCI) will not accept rice from the state later,” said Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cant-stop-farmers-land-records-integration-with-procurement-punjab-government-to-arhtiyas-101631740022078.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 13% rise in crime cases in 2020, drug FIRs drop by 40%: NCRB data||Punjab registered an increase of 13% in overall cases of crime in 2020 despite strict lockdowns enforced in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak even as there was 40% fall in first information reports (FIRs) related to drugs when compared to the previous year. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, 6,909 cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act were registered in Punjab against 11,536 in 2019, followed by Uttar Pradesh that recorded 10,852 such cases. In 2020, a total of 82,875 cases were registered in Punjab under various sections of the Indian Penal Code besides special and local laws against 72,855 in 2019. But the figures obtained from the police department reveal that despite less cases, the recovery of heroin remained record high at 759 kg in Punjab last year as compared 460 kg in 2019. “The less number of cases was because there was a complete lockdown for nearly three months in the country followed by other restrictions later. The focus remained on implementing these guidelines and the war against drugs could have suffered,” said a senior special task force (STF) officer. In 2020, crimes against women dipped in the state eve as the number rose in 2019 as compared to the previous year. Rise in murders, suicides There was an increase of 10% in cases of murder in Punjab from 679 in 2019 to 757 in 2020. The state also saw an increase in suicide cases from 25 in 2019 to 35 a year later. No case of sedition was registered in the state in 2020. In 2020, as many as 4,838 cases of crimes against women were registered against 5,886 the previous year, with a fall of nearly 18%. The crimes against women also decreased across the country by 21.1%, the NCRB report reveals. Also, 502 cases of rape were registered in the state as compared to 1,002 in 2019. Punjab’s charge-sheeting rate in crimes against women was nearly 77% against the national average of 78.7%. In terms of crimes against children, the number of cases registered also fell to 2,121 in 2020 from 2,625 in 2019. Besides, the state registered 63 cases of dowry deaths in 2020 as compared to 69 in 2019. Chargesheeting rate below national average According to the NCRB report, the rate of filing of chargesheets, the column added for first time to the bureau analysis, in Punjab was 82% against the national average of 85.2%. The neighboring Haryana fared the worst in the category with a “chargesheeting rate” of 39.7%. Punjab is on the 16th spot among the states on this count. Senior police officials attributed an increase in number of cases in Punjab to registration of FIRs of violations related to Covid-related curfew imposed in the state nearly throughout the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-13-rise-in-crime-cases-in-2020-drug-firs-drop-by-40-ncrb-data-101631739842156.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana schools celebrate Hindi Diwas||BCM School, Chandigarh Road The Hindi department of BCM School, Chandigarh Road, Ludhiana, organised various events for the students such as ‘kavita gayan’, ‘Doha gayan’, ‘Kahani buno’, ‘hasya kavita’, ‘shabadmala antakshri’, ‘parichyokti lekhan’, ‘ekal abhinay’, ‘vad vivad’, ‘bhashan pratiyogita’, biographies of authors and poets, etc. To make the event fun-filled, the teachers also organised a round of riddles and puzzles.BVM, Sector 39BVM, Sector 39, Ludhiana, commemorated Hindi Diwas. Teachers told students were told about the importance of the Hindi language. The celebration began with the recitation of ‘Shabdavali’ by students of Classes 1 and 2. Students of Classes 3 to 5 presented a qawwali while children of Classes 6 and 7 took part in ‘Shabd Antakshari’. ‘Hasya kavi sammelan’ was also held.Atam Public SchoolThe staff and students of Atam Public Senior Secondary School ,Ludhiana, celebrated Hindi Diwas. The celebration commenced with Navkar Mantra. Pooja Thakur from the Hindi department delivered a speech on this occasion. She urged the students to read, speak and respect the language. She said that we should be proud of our mother tongue.Green Grove Green Grove Public School, Ludhiana, celebrated Hindi Diwas. The students presented Hindi songs, made posters, and delivered speeches in Hindi to highlight the relevance of the day. Avneet Gursimar, Jasmeet, Kanika, Harvir, Prabhkiran Nagra, Ishmeet, Prabhleen, Aryan Bector, and Arshnoor shared their views about the importance of Hindi and persuaded everyone to use it.Arya CollegeArya College, Ludhiana, celebrated Hindi Diwas. Satisha Sharma, ACMC secretary, was the chief guest and Savita Uppal, college principal, was the special guest. The principal spoke about the importance of celebrating Hindi Diwas. She said that Hindi is our national language, and we should contribute to its development. Sharma said Hindi plays a pivotal role in our lives. Students presented poems and gave lectures on this occasion. BVM, USN student shines in national-level yoga contestShivam Sharma, a student of Class 9 of BVM, USN, Ludhiana, took part in the second online national yoga competition-2021 organised by the Punjab Yoga Committee and Everest Yoga Institute. The contest was open to students between 16-20 years of age from all states. Shivam brought laurels to the school by bagging a bronze medal individually and to the state by winning gold in this competition.Students visit PAU Communication Centre A 10-member delegation of students from department of extension education and communication management, College of Community Science, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, visited the Communication Centre of the university. The visit was held under the guidance of Kiranjot Kaur Sidhu, head, department of extension education and communication management. Mandeep Sharma and Preeti Sharma, assistant professors, department of extension education and communication management, said the visit of BSc final year elective students aimed at gaining knowledge about public relations and social marketing. Gulneet Chahal, assistant director (Publications), coordinated the visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-schools-celebrate-hindi-diwas-101631739725324.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Repeal amendments to APMC Act, Akali Dal dares Navjot Sidhu||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday asked Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu “not to try to befool people by raking up old issues” and dared him to muster courage to repeal the amendments made in the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act by his government if he was serious about helping the cause of farmers. In a press statement, SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said Sidhu’s fresh utterances indicate that he is keen on playing a game of one-upmanship with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and has no intention of doing anything to ensure repeal of the three agriculture laws. The SAD leader said Amarinder woke up and realised the damage the three black laws were doing to Punjab two days back, nearly one year after they were passed by Parliament. “Now, Sidhu has also woken up from his slumber and wants to project himself as a sympathiser of the farmers even though he has done nothing to support their cause in the last one year,” he said. On the 2013 Act passed during the SAD-BJP tenure, Cheema said Sidhu seemed to have forgotten that his wife was a chief parliamentary secretary in the then government.“Sidhu had also failed to dig up files and details of the Congress’ response to the Act. He should tell if he had ever objected to the 2013 Act as minister in the Congress government in 2017 and even later? It is only now with elections months away that you are taking up this issue to cover up your failures,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/repeal-amendments-to-apmc-act-akali-dal-dares-navjot-sidhu-101631739723848.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Amarpuri residents cry foul over contaminated water supply||The residents of street number 4 of Amarpuri, Ward number 31, staged a protest outside Zone C office of the municipal corporation (MC) against contaminated drinking water supply in their area.Area BJP councillor Sonia Sharma’s husband Pankaj Sharma accompanied the protesters. The residents rued that the chemical waste from a few electroplating units located in their street was getting mixed with the area’s water supply due to some leakage.The authorities have failed to resolve the issue despite repeated complaints, and the contaminated water supply is taking a toll on the health of residents, the protesters said.Currently, potable water is being supplied in the area through water tankers.Sharma stated that the MC has dug up the lane to change the water supply lines that had got damaged due to the chemical waste from the industry. But the officials have failed to provide new pipes to the labour deployed there, due to which the area has not had any water supply for two weeks.He further said that the residents are bearing the brunt of the civic body’s failure to get the water supply lines repaired. The concerned officials including, the junior engineer and executive engineer, do not even respond to our phone calls. The protesters including, Baldev Singh, Sunny Sharma, Amarjit Kaur, among others, said it is very difficult to carry buckets full of water in the scorching heat. The civic body should take corrective steps at the earliest, they added.The residents handed over a memorandum to zonal commissioner Neeraj Jain and warned of taking the agitation to the next level if the authorities fail to resolve the issue in a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-amarpuri-residents-cry-foul-over-contaminated-water-supply-101631739722342.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Make farmers aware of ill-effects of stubble burning: Ludhiana DC directs agriculture department||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma directed the agriculture department to initiate a village-level drive to create awareness regarding the hazardous effects of paddy stubble burning among farmers.The DC said the farmers must be made aware of the ill effects of paddy stubble burning. He said farmers must also be sensitised about the risks the practice poses to the health of individuals and the damage it causes to soil and the environment.He added that the progressive farmers of several villages have set an example by efficaciously using paddy stubble as organic manure besides fodder for cattle. These farmers should be honoured in village-level meetings so that others are motivated to follow their lead, he added.He said these meetings must be held daily to encourage the farmers to shun this practice.Sharma said that Covid-19 appropriate behaviour including, wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, and hand-hygiene must be strictly observed during the meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/make-farmers-aware-of-ill-effects-of-stubble-burning-ludhiana-dc-directs-agriculture-department-101631739670381.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: CICU to come up with finishing school||The Chamber of Industry and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) has decided to come up with a finishing school to train the fresh graduates, diploma holders, and MBAs about the latest concepts and needs of the industry.The executive committee of CICU gave the approval for starting the school during its meeting on Tuesday.The project is being taken up to bridge the gap between the industry and fresh engineering students. As per CICU members, the industry has a requirement of skilled labour/workers, but the students are not able to meet the expectations as they are not made aware of the concepts being followed in the industry during their course.CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja stated that it has been decided to introduce a three-month course for the fresh engineering graduates, diploma holders, and MBAs. During the course, the students will be trained in lean manufacturing concepts, daily work management, inspection, testing, basic management systems like ISO 9001:2015, and different engineering processes including forging foundry, machining, fabrication, and welding, heat treatment, and surface coating processes. Working professionals will also guide and help the students to grow in their respective fields.General secretary Pankaj Ahuja said the freshers will get assured placements through this initiative, and the industry will get required candidates. CICU will hire professionals and technically skilled staff to train the freshers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-cicu-to-come-up-with-finishing-school-101631739669142.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana DC inaugurates job mela at SRS Government Polytechnic College for Girls||The District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise organised the third job mela at SRS Government Polytechnic College for Girls under the state government’s Ghar-Ghar Rozgar Mission.After inaugurating the fair, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, accompanied by additional deputy commissioner (development)-cum-DBEE CEO Amit Kumar Panchal and deputy CEO Navdeep Singh, interacted with the youth and the employers.He said that under Ghar-Ghar Rozgar, the state government led by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is providing a common platform to job seekers and job givers so that the former can get a job of their choice and the latter can choose the candidates as per their requirements.Exhorting the students to avail maximum benefits of the job fairs, the DC said that the fourth mega job mela will be organised at CICU, Focal Point, on September 17.He said that the interested youth can apply for the jobs either by registering themselves with the District Bureau of Employment & Enterprise at its office near Partap Chowk or on www.pgrkam.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-dc-inaugurates-job-mela-at-srs-government-polytechnic-college-for-girls-101631739667924.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||PSEB paper leak: Whistleblower asked to submit proof on govt portal||A day after the chief minister’s office directed the secretary, school education, Krishan Kumar to probe the leakage of question papers of the ongoing Punjab State Education Board (PSEB) mid-term examination for Classes 6 to 12; the CMO asked the whistleblower in the case to upload his grievance on the government’s online portal.Complying with the orders, Sukhdarshan Singh, president of the Anti-Cheating Teachers’ Front, Punjab, submitted his complaint on the portal “https:connect.punjab.gov.in”, along with the leaked question papers and proofs for the same.“We had to approach the CM office as no action was taken by the local education department even though the matter concerns the future of the students. I received an e-mail from the CMO asking me to submit my complaint and upload all the proofs on the government grievance portal. I did so today itself,” said Singh.The secretary’s office had further marked the probe to the local education department. Meanwhile, the local education officials are tight-lipped about the matter that was brought to light after a complaint in this regard was lodged with the secretary, school education, and Ludhiana district education officer Lakhvir Singh Samra by Sukhdarshan on Monday.Question papers of the ongoing Punjab State Education Board (PSEB) mid-term examination from Classes 6 to 12 were leaked on a YouTube channel for the second consecutive day on Tuesday.On Tuesday evening, the YouTube channel Virdi Blog also uploaded question papers of exams scheduled for September 16.Exam not cancelledMeanwhile, the education department has not cancelled the examination despite the paper leak.Krishan Kumar on Wednesday issued fresh guidelines to the local education department regarding the examination. According to his order, the school heads will now receive the question papers on the morning of the scheduled exam.As per the order, the exams will be conducted in two shifts. The first shift will commence at 10 am and the second shift at noon.The secretary also stated, “If school heads want to prepare students of Classes 8 and 10 for NAS, they can teach the students for the same after taking their bi-monthly examination as per their convenience”.Meanwhile, Sukhdarshan Singh criticised the order stated that it won’t be easy for the school heads to get the question paper photocopied for over 1,000 students an hour before the exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pseb-paper-leak-whistleblower-asked-to-submit-proof-on-govt-portal-101631739666808.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||PAU vegetable varieties identified for cultivation at national level||As many as three vegetable varieties of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) have been identified for cultivation at the national level.These include hybrid PBHL 56 of brinjal for cultivation in Zone IV (Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Jharkhand) and Zone VI (Rajasthan, Gujarat, Haryana, and Delhi); variety Punjab Bharpoor of brinjal for Zone I (Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttarakhand), Zone III (Sikkim, Meghalaya, Manipur, Nagaland, Mizoram, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, Andaman, and Nicobar) and Zone VIII (Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Pondicherry); and hybrid TH 1214 (PTH 2) of tomato for Zone IV (Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Jharkhand).TS Dhillon, head of the department of vegetable science, said PBHL 56 is a long-fruited hybrid of brinjal having purple-black fruits and gave an average yield of 274 q/acre.“Punjab Bharpoor is a brinjal variety of small round group in which fruits bear in clusters. Its fruits are small-oblong, shining, deep purple with green calyx, having yield potential of 224 q/acre,” he added.“TH 1214 (PTH 2) is a high yielding (270 q/acre) determinate hybrid of tomato which gives first picking in 114 days after transplanting. Its fruits are round, deep red, medium-sized, and firm. This hybrid is resistant to late blight as well as root-knot nematodes and suitable for processing,” he informed.Dhillon further informed that the All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP - Vegetable Crops) of the department of vegetable science has also been declared the best AICRP (VC) Centre for the year 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-vegetable-varieties-identified-for-cultivation-at-national-level-101631739665839.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC officials on toes ahead of MoHUA secretary’s visit to city||The municipal corporation (MC) officials have been on their toes ahead of the visit of Durga Shankar Mishra, secretary of ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), government of India, to the city.The secretary, MoHUA, is scheduled to visit the city on Friday to review the status of different flagship schemes launched by the union government including, Smart City Mission, National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM), Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) etc. He will also review the projects in Patiala, Jalandhar and Amritsar during his three-day visit to the state.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with the MC officials and directed them to ensure cleanliness and repair of roads. He also reviewed various projects and schemes and directed the officials to expedite them, especially those taken up under the Smart City Mission.As per information, Mishra is expected to visit Malhar Road and Sarabha Nagar main market, which are both being developed under Smart City Mission. Further, he is also expected to visit the sewer treatment plants (STP) in the city and a few Buddha Nullah sites to review the steps being taken to reduce pollution in the drain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-officials-on-toes-ahead-of-mohua-secretary-s-visit-to-city-101631739664714.html
16-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Cops arrest 4 snatchers, recover 15 mobile phones||The city police arrested four snatchers in two separate cases and recovered a total of 15 mobile phones from their possession.In the first case, the Sahnewal police arrested accused identified as Dharampal alias Nura and Harpreet alias Lakha — both residents of Dhandari Kalan and recovered 10 mobile phones and a sharp-edged weapon from their possession.Dugri police arrested two accused identified as Jagjit Singh alias Jagga of New Azad Nagar in Shimlapuri and Aniket Kumar of Daba. As many as five mobile phones were recovered from their possession.In this case, the police also booked the duo’s accomplice identified as Pawan Kumar of Daba, who was already arrested by Daba police and is currently lodged in central jail.ADCP-II Jaskaran Singh Teja claimed that with the arrest of the accused, the police has traced all the mobile phones snatchings that had taken place in the recent past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-cops-arrest-4-snatchers-recover-15-mobile-phones-101631739663545.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: District achieves zero-case milestone again||For the first time in 17 days, that saw the district’s daily pandemic figures fluctuating, Ludhiana reported no fresh Covid-19 case on Wednesday.It was on August 29 last that the daily case count was zero, following which the cases had reached nine twice on September 2 and 12.Also, no fresh casualty was reported, keeping the toll unchanged at 2,099. Of the 87,512 cases reported in the district so far, as many as 85,384 patients have recovered and 29 are still under treatment.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma appealed to residents to not lower their guard and continue to wear masks and maintain social distancing in public.Mega vaccination drive todayThe district on Wednesday received a fresh stock of 1.29 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine, which is expected to help Ludhiana zoom past the 25 lakh vaccination mark on Thursday.Interacting with residents during his weekly Facebook live session via the official page of the Ludhiana DPRO, the deputy commissioner said till now, 24,23,128 people had been inoculated in the district.“On Thursday, a mega vaccination drive is being held at 270 sites across the district, which will help the district cross the 25 lakh milestone by the end of the day. The aim is to utilise the entire supply of doses within 24 hours,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-district-achieves-zero-case-milestone-again-101631739662098.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||JEE Mains: Bathinda boy Pulkit Goyal shares top spot with 17 others||Pulkit Goyal (18), a resident of Namdev Road locality in Bathinda, emerged as the national topper in the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) 2021, the result of which was declared on Wednesday. A record 44 students scored 100 percentile, including 18 who secured the first rank. Pulkit, who scored 100 percentile, appeared in all four sessions in an attempt to improve his previous percentile of 99. The 18-year-old credited his teachers and family for his success. “They helped me focus on my studies with all dedication, hard work and perseverance. Mathematics is my most favourite subject and I want to be a computer engineer. In the JEE Main 2021 February session, I had 99.88 percentile but I was not satisfied with the score. I made two more attempts and scored 99.99 but finally managed to achieve the 100 percentile. I was confident of it,” he said.Pulkit’s father Vijay Kumar Goyal is a businessman and mother Neelam a homemaker.His elder sister is a computer engineer.Goyal passed Class 12 from Sanawar School on the Bathinda-Muktsar highway.“The Covid-19 restrictions gave me enough time to concentrate on virtual classes offered by my private tuition institute. I was studying 7-8 hours daily, including attending regular classes online,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jee-mains-bathinda-boy-pulkit-goyal-shared-top-spot-with-17-others-101631738941770.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchayat members seeking more financial powers protest outside Punjab CM Capt Amarinder’s Patiala residence||Members of panchayats, including sarpanches, demanding more financial powers to execute development works at village level on Wednesday staged a protest outside the Patiala residence of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The protesters, drawn from across Punjab, said they faced obstacles in getting basic works done for want of financial powers. Gurmeet Singh, state president of the panchayat members’ union, said the villages are backbone of the state’s economy but the government had completely ignored them. “We have to bank on the government to carry even the smallest works. According to the existing rules, the panchayats are allowed to utilise funds to the tune of ₹25,000 for development purposes on their own. We need the panchayat secretary to sign on the cheque to sanction ₹1 lakh. We want government to allow sarpanchs to use ₹1 lakh on their own,” he said.The union also asked the government to increase the monthly salary of sarpanches from ₹15,000 to ₹25,000. Gurmeet Singh said the government should fix certain deadline for making payments of work carried under the MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) and should allow them to use 40% of the funds allocated under the scheme. They also demand an insurance cover of ₹50 lakh and ₹20 lakh for sarpanchs and panchayat members.Ravinder Singh, secretary of the union, said they have handed over their demand charter to the district administration which has fixed their meeting with the Punjab Mandi Board chairman on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchayat-members-seeking-more-financial-powers-protest-outside-punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-s-patiala-residence-101631738345020.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Alert sounded in Punjab’s cotton belt after pink bollworm attack in Haryana||The Punjab agriculture department on Wednesday directed all eight cotton-growing districts to immediately start a drive to check the spread of pink bollworm after an extensive infestation of the deadly disease was reported in adjoining districts of Haryana and parts of Rajasthan.Agriculture director Sukhdev Sidhu said the next three weeks are crucial to containing the further spread of the infestation. After Bathinda and Mansa, pink bollworm infestation has now been reported in Sunam and Lehragaga subdivisions of Sangrur, he added.“Official inputs say a few pockets of Sriganganagar have spotted the deadly moths in cotton fields and agriculture teams in the adjoining Fazilka district have been alerted. All cotton-sowing villages in southern Punjab will be surveyed twice in the next three weeks. Farmers need not worry and follow the guidelines issued by the department,” said Sidhu.Experts say in the infested fields, the cotton bolls look absolutely normal from outside. But each infected boll has a pink bollworm inside. The worm eats cotton seeds and prevents the development of cotton staple fibre around it well before the cotton boll opens.Infestation is found double in Bathinda and Mansa, the largest cotton-growing belt after last week’s estimation of 5% of nearly 1.61 lakh hectare area. It is for the first time that the disease has been found at this magnitude in Punjab and infestation is spotted even in villages where there are no cotton ginning units, considered among the two reasons behind it.The first picking of cotton bolls is expected to begin from next week.According to chief agriculture officer for Bathinda and Mansa Manjit Singh, nearly 10% of the crop in the twin districts was found hit with pink bollworm.“The situation is in control as fields are under surveillance. Our teams are sensitising the farmers about the use of spay and keeping a constant watch on crop,” he said.SK Verma, head of Sirsa-based Central Institute for Cotton Research (CICR), a central organisation, said Bollgard 2, or BG-2, Monsanto’s second-generation insecticidal technology for cotton, is now found susceptible to pink bollworm. He said 12 districts of Haryana, including Jind, Sirsa, Hisar and Palwal, have been infected with the bollworm.“It is a deadly pest that appears in cotton at its later stage. It cannot be prevented but is easy to avoid and manage with active support of stakeholders. Farmers must ensure that cotton residue, which is commonly used as firewood, is not kept in fields. This moth can survive in any climatic condition and lives only on cotton plants or its residue,” said Verma.Haryana joint director, agriculture, RP Sihag said the pest larvae is reaching the north Indian states with cottonseed consignments brought from south-west states, including Maharashtra and Karnataka, for processing by millers.“The current situation is not alarming but a comprehensive plan is needed to implement to manage it before next sowing season,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/alert-sounded-in-punjab-s-cotton-belt-after-pink-bollworm-attack-in-haryana-101631737921735.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ameer Singh elected Pakistan gurdwara body president||Nankana Sahib-based Sikh leader Ameer Singh was unanimously elected as the president of the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) on Wednesday, while Vikash Singh has been appointed as the general secretary.The move comes after Satwant Singh resigned as the president of the gurdwara body, a year before his term was to end, citing “personal engagements”.A meeting of the PSGPC was held in Lahore in presence of the authorities of the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB), a statutory body that manages religious properties and shrines of Hindus and Sikhs who had migrated to India following Partition, during which election for two top posts was held, said a spokesperson of the ETPB.Ameer Singh, who was the general secretary of the gurdwara body before his elevation, is a cloth trader in Nankana Sahib, while Vikash Singh belongs to Shikarpur in Sindh province and his family looks after the historic shrine Gurdwara Sachkhand Sahib (Patshahi Pehli) at Shikarpur.In a tweet, the PSGPC said: “On September 15, 2021, PSGPC unanimously elected Sardar Ameer Singh as its new pardhan and Vikash Singh as secretary general for next term.” Asked if the president and the secretary general have been elected for the next term of three years, ETPB spokesperson Amir Hashmi said: “No… they are for the remaining one-year term.” Speaking on his new assignment, Ameer Singh said he had been vocal on Sikh issues in past and he would accomplish the new duty with commitment and dedication. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ameer-singh-elected-pakistan-gurdwara-body-president-101631737561524.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab health minister Balbir Sidhu inaugurates 50-bed hospital in Moga||Health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu inaugurated Mai Daultan Maternal and Child Hospital at Moga on Wednesday.He said the 50-bed facility has been constructed at a cost of ₹5.48 crore. The minister said 29 such hospitals have been built across the state and construction work of another eight hospitals was under progress. Seven more hospitals will be commissioned later this year, he added.Sidhu said that 13,000 staffers have been recruited during his tenure as the health minister. “Appointment of specialist doctors and health workers is still ongoing. Around 600 more doctors will be recruited soon,” said the minister.The minister assured that existing staff under the National Health Mission (NHM) will be given priority at the time of appointing regular staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-health-minister-balbir-sidhu-inaugurates-50-bed-hospital-in-moga-101631737321785.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Nine more test positive in Chandigarh tricity||The tricity on Wednesday reported nine fresh cases of Covid-19, a dip from 11 cases on Tuesday. Six cases surfaced in Mohali, two in Chandigarh and only one in Panchkula. However, no Covid-related death was reported.In Mohali district, one case each surfaced in Mohali and Dera Bassi, while four cases were reported from Dhakoli. In Chandigarh, one case each surfaced in Sector 48 and Manimajra. In Panchkula, the lone patient is from the ITBP camp.The tricity’s active caseload stands at 88, with 42 patients in Mohali, 29 in Chandigarh and 17 in Panchkula. So far, 65,164 people have tested positive for the virus in Chandigarh. While 64,317 have successfully recovered, 818 have succumbed to the disease. Of 68,679 positive patients in Mohali, 67,576 have been cured while 1,061 have died. Panchkula’s total case tally stands at 30,708, of which 30,314 have been cured and 377 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-nine-more-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-101631737263291.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Van Mahotsav: 100 saplings planted at Defence Services Officers’ Institute||The Defence Services Officers Institute (DSOI), Sector 36, celebrated Van Mahostav on Wednesday. More than 100 saplings were planted during a tree plantation drive, which was held under the aegis of the North Zone Chapter of the National Safety Council.Lt General JS Dhillon (retired), the chief guest on the occasion, said that growing more trees the safest way to combat global warming. Lt General GD Singh (retired), vice-chairman of DSOI, was also present.Dhanbir Singh Bains, chairman of the NZC and former Punjab home secretary, said, “Trees neutralise the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, enabling the heat to escape into space. The goal is to keep the rise in the planet’s temperature below 1.5%. The NZC will soon be expanding its footprint in Chandigarh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/van-mahotsav-100-saplings-planted-at-defence-services-officers-institute-101631737261891.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Government hospitals told to assess outsourced staff||Chandigarh health secretary Yashpal Garg on Wednesday asked Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and Government Multi-Speciality Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, to conduct proficiency tests of staff provided by the outsourcing agency to check their quality of work.While directing hospital authorities, Garg said, “After inspection at the hospitals on the intervening night of September 12 and 13, it was learnt that there is need to keep a check on the quality of staff provided by the outsourcing agency. Accordingly, a computerised proficiency test will be conducted through SPIC for all outsourced data entry operators in the next 10 days. The proficiency test should be scheduled in a way that there is no disruption of the work.”“Other outsourced staff, whose proficiency is not satisfactory or are deputed on assignment basis and not within the purview of the health department, need to be disengaged immediately”, Garg said, while adding that the department will review the assessment of proficiency or suitability of other categories of the outsourced staff in the review meeting.The UT health secretary will convene review meetings, sometime in next week, separately with GMCH 32 and the directorate of health services, to understand the functioning of the health facilities in the UT.The agenda, which will be discussed at the meeting include rationalisation of deployment of all categories of staff in the hospitals, introduction of ‘face recognition”’ based attendance system, measures taken on the basis of his night inspection, introduction of e-office modules and other issues relating to computerisation.Garg also asked hospital authorities to send him a report in three to four days of facilities under GMCH and DHS, department or category wise duty rosters for the month of September 2021, number of outsourced staff hired under different categories or services, detail of the outsourcing agencies and the amount of the total bill paid for the month of July and August 2021 to each of the agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-government-hospitals-told-to-assess-outsourced-staff-101631737083941.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn exploring land pooling options to develop villages||The UT administration is considering a number of land pooling models for the development of villages and periphery land pockets.One of the models being considered is giving land development rights instead of land rights. Under it, villagers opting for land pooling will form a consortium and then be allowed to develop the land as per the laid down building bylaws and other rules and regulations. Common facilities like roads and water supply will be provided.Such models were taken up in a meeting that was convened at the level of the UT adviser here on Wednesday. Different aspects of the Land Aggregation Policy for Chandigarh and proposed development of villages and peripheral areas as notified in the Chandigarh Master Plan 2031 were also discussed.“Mohali has a Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) and Panchkula has Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikarn (HSVP), but Chandigarh doesn’t have any such authority. The administration will be exploring the option of giving this role to Chandigarh Housing Board,” said a senior UT official who attended the meeting.On the controversial issue of the Lal Dora extension, the administration has decided that it will be marked on villages using LIDIR technology. The deputy commissioner’s office will provide the same to the urban planning department, said the official. “The urban planning department has been directed to prepare a comprehensive strategy for village development plan,” the official added.Earlier, the consultant of Indian Institute for Human Settlement (IIHS), Bangaluru, presented a draft policy for aggregation of land for villages and peri urban areas in Chandigarh, after studying best practices of this area in Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat and Maharashtra.The UT adviser said that provisions of RERA and other Acts/guidelines prevalent for such development may also be incorporated. Other officials present in the meeting also made suggestions on the issue. The consultant has been given a month’s time to rework the initial draft and submit a report within a month.Kapil Setia, chief architect, thereafter made a presentation on study undertaken for development plan of villages in Chandigarh, highlighting existing physical situation and proposals and possible options for both sectoral and non-sectoral villages in conformity with the notified CMP 2031.Based on recommendations of the Chandigarh Master Plan 2031, focused development of villages shall be undertaken by the municipal corporation/CHB as per the above policy to be notified by the Chandigarh administration in consultation with the competent authority. These development plans shall be undertaken through a special village planning cell in close coordination between MC, CHB and the department of urban planning in a time-bound manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-exploring-land-pooling-options-to-develop-villages-101631737024278.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh has achieved 100% first dose vaccination target: Centre||Chandigarh is now in the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s list of states and UTs which have inoculated 100% of its eligible population (18+age group) with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, after the Centre revised the UT’s target population. Now, the Union ministry has finalised Chandigarh’s eligible population at 8,43,000. Earlier, the central government had fixed Chandigarh’s target at 15,75,709 people.However, the UT administration had said the city’s eligible population was 7,29,822, according to the 2011 Census and considering the decadal growth of 17.2%. Also, the administration had on August 14 claimed that it had jabbed 100% of its eligible population after administering the vaccine to 7,32,368 people.The ministry had on September 13 released a list of six states and UTs with 100% first dose coverage, but had not included Chandigarh. Those included in the list were Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Daman and Diu, Sikkim, Ladakh and Lakshadweep. The UT administration had then raised the issue of “mismatched population targets” with the Centre several times in the last few weeks. Dr MK Aggarwal, additional commissioner (UIP), of Union health ministry, on Wednesday wrote a letter to the UT administration which stated, “As per recommendations of the office of the Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India, the population target of Chandigarh has been revised in various age groups. The revised population target of 18 years and above category is 8,43,000, of which 5,84,000 people are in the 18-44 years group, 1,81,000 in 45-59 years and 78,000 people are 60 years and above.”So far, 8,61,359 people, including migrants, have taken their first shot in Chandigarh, while 3,74,787 (45%) were fully vaccinated. In the last seven days, around 8,015 people were vaccinated in Chandigarh daily on an average.UT adviser Dharam Pal said, “Even with the revised data of targeted population, UT Chandigarh is among the states or UTs which have administered at least one vaccine dose to 100% of the targeted population I want to congratulate all doctors, nurses and healthcare workers for their contribution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-has-achieved-100-first-dose-vaccination-target-centre-101631736904691.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Pakistan-aided Khalistani groups banned by India gaining ground in US: Report||Pakistan-backed Khalistani separatist groups, banned by the Indian government, are quietly gaining ground in the US, a top American think tank has warned, ruing that Washington has so far remained indifferent to the appeals made by New Delhi to curb their destabilising anti-India activities.The US-based Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), a pro-Khalistan group, was banned by the Indian government in 2019 for its alleged anti-national activities.The SFJ had pushed for “Sikh Referendum 2020” as part of its separatist agenda. It openly espouses the cause of Khalistan and in that process challenges the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India. The outlawed group’s primary objective is to establish an “independent and sovereign country” in Punjab.In its “Pakistan’s Destabilization Playbook: Khalistani Activism in the US” report published on Tuesday, the Hudson Institute examines the conduct of “Khalistan and Kashmir separatist groups within the United States” to investigate their support by Pakistan.The report looks at these groups’ ties to militant and terrorist outfits in India, and the possible detrimental effects of their activities on US foreign policy in South Asia.The report demonstrates that “like Pakistan-based Islamist terrorist groups, the Khalistan groups can emerge under new names.” “Unfortunately, the United States has shown no interest in violence committed by Khalistan activists, even though the Khalistan campaign’s most ardent supporters are located in western countries such as the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States. Unless the US government prioritises oversight of Khalistan-related militancy and terrorism, it is unlikely to identify groups that are currently engaged in violence in Punjab in India or are preparing to do so. One seldom finds what one is not looking for,” it said.Anticipation constitutes a crucial part of national security planning and therefore investigating within the limits prescribed by law, the activities of Khalistani groups located in North America is important to preventing a reoccurrence of the violence orchestrated by the Khalistan movement in the 1980s, it said.Importantly, the recent spurt in Khalistan-related anti-India activism within America is occurring as the United States and India are collaborating to confront the rise of China, especially in the Indo-Pacific, it said.“The Khalistan movement’s history and recent mobilisation should serve as a reminder that unless the threat it poses is somehow pre-empted, it could expand to a level where action might be too late to prevent large-scale loss of life,” it said.The report calls upon the US government to take India’s concerns seriously and dedicate the requisite intelligence and law enforcement resources to help India address these concerns.The report said the US government should include all groups responsible for terrorist attacks in India in its list of designated global terrorist groups and designate as terrorists the various individuals that India and US intelligence and law enforcement have established as being connected to designated terrorist entities.Observing that Sikh radical groups are active in New York and in California, the report said that in addition to disseminating anti-India propaganda, the focus of these organisations is advocating the Khalistan cause and to secure support they target local politicians, US think tanks and human rights activists.“Khalistan activists also use Sikh places of worship, gurdwaras to attract followers, organising special events to commemorate the ‘martyrdom’ of terrorists in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pakistanaided-khalistani-groups-banned-by-india-gaining-ground-in-us-report-101631736902079.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PEC gets nod to recruit 50 teachers||Punjab Engineering College’s (PEC) newly-constituted board of governors (BoG) approved the filling up of around 50 teaching posts at the institute during a meeting on Wednesday.“The board has allowed the filling of these posts after the existing recruitment procedure is reviewed, which was formulated around six years back,” said PEC director Baldev Setia. The posts that will be filled mostly include assistant professors and some associate professors and professors as well.However, there is no fixed timeline yet. Members of the BoG have outlined that only meritorious candidates should be recruited, preferably with post-doctorate qualification.PEC will also reassess the requirement of faculty posts at the department level again as a final check. “While hiring regular faculty, there are good chances of getting highly-qualified candidates, not only from India but abroad as well,” said Setia.Meanwhile, PEC has also invited applications to fill up the post of registrar. The applications in the prescribed format along with supporting documents should be submitted with the office of dean faculty affairs by 5pm on October 14.NIRF rankings discussedDuring the meeting, the recently announced NIRF-2021 rankings were discussed, in which PEC had achieved the 70th position among engineering institutes of the country. Last year, the institute had come 68th. The members made many suggestions to improve the college’s performance.PU panel to deliberate on recruitment normsFor the direct recruitment of teachers, Panjab University (PU) is in the process of framing templates and application forms as per University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations issued in July 2018.The varsity has constituted a 13-member panel to deliberate on the matter and frame the template and application forms for the direct recruitment of associate professors, professors and principals. UGC in 2018 had issued the regulations on minimum qualifications for the appointment of teachers and other academic staff in universities and colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pec-gets-nod-to-recruit-50-teachers-101631736782952.html
16-09-2021||Lucknow||Nirmala Sitharaman to chair GST Council meeting in Lucknow||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will preside over the 45th meeting of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council in Lucknow on Friday. During the meeting in Lucknow, the GST Council is scheduled to discuss a number of important issues that may include a proposal to bring petrol and diesel under the GST regime.A meeting of senior officers of the Union government and the participating states will give a final shape to the preparations for the meeting here on Thursday.Union minister of state for finance Pankaj Chaudhary and ministers from different states nominated to the council will also attend the meeting being held physically after a gap of 16 months. It last met physically in New Delhi on March 14, 2020.“We understand a number of issues are going to be there on GST Council’s agenda. Various issues that participating states may like to raise are likely to find a place on the GST Council’s agenda. This issue (petrol and diesel) may also come up. The Kerala high court in June 2021 directed the GST Council to take a call on the issue,” said two persons aware of the developments. Uttar Pradesh finance minister Suresh Khanna refused to comment on the issue.“We are the host state. We are making arrangements for comfortable stay of our guests. We are not aware of the GST Council’s agenda. We have got confirmation about participation from 24 states so far. Besides, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Union minister of state for finance Pankaj Chaudhary, those reaching Lucknow to participate in the GST Council meeting include deputy chief ministers and finance ministers of many states,” Khanna said.“Value Added Tax (VAT) on petroleum products is a major source of revenue for states. No state will like to lose the main source of revenue though bringing the petroleum products under the GST regime will give a big relief to the public as this will reduce the tax incidence and consequently the prices of these products,” said professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of the department of economics, Lucknow University.Other participants include several deputy chief ministers —Chowna Mein (Arunachal Pradesh), Raj Kishore Prasad (Bihar), Manish Sisodia (Delhi), Dushyant Chautala (Haryana) and Yumnam Joykumar Singh (Manipur) and Jishnu Debbarma (Tripura).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nirmala-sitharaman-to-chair-gst-council-meeting-in-lucknow-101631735760908.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula police find motive behind Morni murder||The two Dera Bassi men arrested for a murder in Morni had committed the crime as one of them owed ₹2 lakh to the victim, who wanted his money back.The accused, identified as Gurbinder Singh and Jaspal, reportedly admitted to the crime and revealed the motive during questioning after police got their one-day remand on Wednesday.The victim has been identified as Rajiv, 34, who was unemployed and also resided in Dera Bassi. According to the FIR, cops were on patrol duty on the Morni road on Monday night, when they spotted the two men standing next to a car around 11:30pm. The men managed to flee, while also trying to run over the cops. Later, police found a body in the bushes. The accused were arrested at the Barwala toll plaza on Tuesday. A case has been registered under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-police-find-motive-behind-morni-murder-101631735341062.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Congress, BJP looted Chandigarh, says AAP’s Harmohan Dhawan||After remaining politically dormant for nearly two years, former Chandigarh MP and Union minister Harmohan Dhawan returned to active party activities with municipal elections just two months away.Harmohan Dhawan, who unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha elections on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket in 2019, hosted a discussion of party works on the completion of 25 years of the Chandigarh municipal corporation on Wednesday.The meeting held at Dhawan’s house was attended by Chandigarh AAP in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh, party co-incharge Pradeep Chhabra, convener Prem Garg, election committee in-charge Chander Mukhi Sharma and other party workers.Harmohan Dhawan said the MC since its inception has been ruled by only two parties – Congress and BJP. He said the city continues to grapple with the garbage collection issue, development of villages remains poor and condition of colonies has deteriorated.“The City Beautiful has been turned into hell. These two parties have looted Chandigarh. This time, we will fight even more strongly in the municipal elections and defeating them,” said Dhawan. BJP will win all MC seats: SoodMeanwhile, addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood said the party will win all 35 seats in the MC elections. “Both Congress and AAP are busy playing kho-kho, wherein some Congress workers join AAP, and some AAP leaders join Congress,” he said.Sood also shared details of 21-day celebrations to mark the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his 20 years as public representative.The party will be organising exhibitions, blood donation camps, medical camps, cleanliness programmes and vaccination camps among other social service activities, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-bjp-looted-chandigarh-says-aap-s-harmohan-dhawan-101631735161133.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Amid lockdown, crime graph went down in 2020||The pandemic brought down the overall crime in Chandigarh in 2020, while leading to a spike in the number of people disobeying government orders — apparently for lockdown in this case — according to the latest Crime in India report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Wednesday. As many as 3,254 FIRs for various criminal offences were registered by Chandigarh Police in 2020, as compared to 4,518 in 2019, a drop of 28%. Of these 771 were registered under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. In comparison, the number stood at just 148 in 2019, pointing to rise of 420% in 2020. Also read: Minors account for 75% rape victims in ChandigarhSection 188 implies disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant. If convicted, the violator may be imprisoned up to six months. The country remained under complete lockdown from March 25 to May 31 last year. Even after that, various restrictions on movement and gatherings continued. The residents were expected to adhere to safety protocols while stepping out and any violation invited challan and even registration of a case under Section 188. Smuggling down, arms cases upMeanwhile, overall crime showed a dip due to increased police presence on roads, night curfew and closing down of various commercial establishments and public places. The restrictions on interstate movement also brought down the number of cases of liquor and drug smuggling. As many as 173 and 134 cases, respectively, were registered in 2020, as compared to 182 and 226, respectively, in 2019. However, police presence led to a rise in recovery of illegal arms. In 33 cases registered under the Arms Act, 29 illegal arms were recovered in 2020. In comparison, only 12 cases were registered in 2019. 46% drop in fatal road mishapsThe lockdown also led to a 46% drop in fatal road accidents. In 2020, 43 people were killed in 41 road accidents. The numbers stood at 78 and 77, respectively, in 2019. The accidents included 16 hit-and-run cases, which claimed 17 lives. In 2019, 21 such cases were reported. Senior citizens vulnerable to cheating Even though crime against senior citizens registered 14% dip, from 50 cases in 2019 to 43 in 2020, they became more vulnerable to getting duped. As Covid-19 restrictions confined senior citizens in their houses, they became dependent on others, and apparently fell victim to swindlers. In 2020, in 17 cases of cheating, the victim was aged above 60. The number stood at eight in 2019. Meanwhile, theft cases reported by the elderly came down from 20 in 2019 to just two in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-amid-lockdown-crime-graph-went-down-in-2020-101631734741053.html
16-09-2021||Other||Cooperative agricultural development bank gets new lease of life||Fatehgarh Sahib The Punjab State Cooperative Agricultural Development Bank (PADB) organised a credit outreach programmes in 57 PADBs across Punjab on Wednesday at Fatehgarh Sahib. Four PADBs of Fatehgarh Sahib district participated in the state level programme in Sirhind. Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said 21 PADBs of Patiala Division, 25 PADBs of Jalandhar Division and 7 PADBs of Ferozepur Division held such programmes in their respective PADBs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cooperative-agricultural-development-bank-gets-new-lease-of-life-101631734500855.html
16-09-2021||Noida||Noida residents welcome pet registration app||Residents have welcomed the pet registration app launched on Wednesday by the Noida authority, saying that the digital service is a good step towards raising awareness among owners.The Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations (NOFAA), an umbrella body of over 70 high-rise societies in the city, said that the mobile application will promote responsibility among the pet owners and could lead to better coordination between them and the administration. “Now, we will have some data on hand regarding the number of pets in the city. Apart from making a pet friendly environment, the app may also help deal with abandonment issues,” said Rajiva Singh, president, NOFAA.Col (retd) IP Singh, chairman of Arun Vihar RWA, said, “The idea is very good as at least there would be a record of pets in the city. However, there is a need to ensure that the pet owners understand their responsibilities. Many owners use public area as their dogs’ poop area, and such instances lead to conflicts.”Meanwhile, Noida authority officials have urged people to register their pets (dogs and cats), along with their photographs and rabies vaccination documents, through the ‘Noida pet registration’ app for a fee of ₹500 per annum. According to the officials, the registration of pets would help keep a record of the pets in the city and could lead to better resolution of common conflicts between pet owners and their neighbours. “A number of times we receive complaints from the residents against pet owners. With the registration data in hand, it would be easier to resolve such issues. We are planning to give a grace period of six months, after which we may impose penalty on the owners who fail to register their pets,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer, Noida authority.Animal activists said while this is a positive step, more needs to be done to deal with issues arising out of pets.“It is good that they are encouraging people to register their pets which is a responsible step. However, more is required to be done to make the programme effective, like installing microchips in the bodies of pets to reduce the abandonment issues. Also, there should be more benefits for the pet owners such as random check-ups, else it’s just a revenue generating exercise,” said Sampriti, a Noida-based animal activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-residents-welcome-pet-registration-app-101631734380797.html
16-09-2021||Other||PSPCL introduces on-site testing of meters||Jalandhar Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has introduced on-site checking facility of metering equipment for the first time in the state to inspire confidence in its major customers. “The enforcement wing has been provided with two portable secondary injection sets, specially imported from Australia for checking the accuracy of the equipment installed on the premises of consumers,” said Jasbir Singh, chief engineer, enforcement, in a press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pspcl-introduces-on-site-testing-of-meters-101631734202119.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: Cholera confirmed at Peermuchalla village||After 282 diarrhoea cases surfaced at Peermuchalla village in Zirakpur in the past four days, the Mohali health department confirmed that its a cholera outbreak. While 21 patients have acute symptoms, the condition of six is stated to be serious at the civil hospital in Dhakoli. Other patients are either being treated at their homes or are admitted to civil hospitals in Dera Bassi and Panchkula. The village has a population of around 1,500.Meanwhile, seven water samples out of 10 taken from the village have been found unfit for drinking. The Zirakpur municipal council (MC) will now carry out a drive to disconnect all private submersible pumps installed by village residents.Cholera is a bacterial disease causing severe diarrhoea and dehydration, usually spread through contaminated water. The infection is often mild or without symptoms but can sometimes be severe and life-threatening.A cholera outbreak in Zirakpur’s Baltana area last month had claimed lives of a three-year-old girl and 30-year-old man while around 400 people were infected. “We got reports on Wednesday evening, which confirmed cholera outbreak,” said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur, adding that supply of water from tubewells had been stopped completely.Girish Verma, executive officer, Zirakpur MC, said: “There are two tubewells in the village, and we had taken a sample from one of them. It was found contaminated.” The other six samples that failed the test were from private submersible pumps.“We will add more chorine to water in tubewells on Thursday. A special drive will also be carried out to disconnect private submersible pumps,” said Verma. Additional deputy commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal, who visited the spot, said: “Medical camps have been set up at various localities and the situation is under control. However, orders to conduct house-to-house survey have been issued.” Infected people and their family members are being given tablets and oral rehydration salts. Their water, stool and blood samples are also being taken, he said.Udayvir Singh Dhillon, president, Zirakpur MC, said: “Instructions have been given to the officials concerned, and the outbreak will be contained in a couple of days.”Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma, who visited the area, said: “It is unfortunate that the Congress has completely failed to do its job. In the past two months, two people have lost their lives due to cholera in Zirakpur.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-cholera-confirmed-at-peermuchalla-village-101631734200770.html
16-09-2021||Noida||Men create ruckus at transport office in Noida||A group of men created a ruckus at the assistant regional transport office (ARTO) in Noida and misbehaved with the officials on Tuesday. A video of the incident, circulated on social media, showed the men identifying themselves as members of Bajrang Dal. AK Pandey, ARTO (administration) Gautam Budh Nagar, said that three clerks were working at the office when six to eight suspects barged in and misbehaved with them. “The suspects also damaged official records and threatened the clerks with dire consequences. We have filed a complaint and demand the police take action in this case,” he said. The ARTO, in a complaint, alleged that the suspects frequently visit the transport office and misbehave with the officials and pressurise them for favours. Lalit Bharadwaj, Bajrang Dal Noida convenor, said a Bajrang Dal member had visited the ARTO office to get a registration certificate (RC) for his vehicle. “There were no senior officials at the office at the time. He had been going to the transport office for four days but the work was not getting done. He met some clerks in the transport office who talked to him rudely and asked him to get out of the room. This led to an argument and some more Bajrang Dal members reached the spot, which led to an unpleasant scene,” he said. Sudhir Kumar, the station house officer of Sector 24 police station, said Neeraj Kumar Shukla, a Bajrang Dal member, had filed a complaint in this regard in the morning. “Shukla said the clerks were angry at him because he had complained about the presence of touts at the transport office. The ARTO has also filed a complaint against Shukla and others in this regard. We are investigating the matter from all angles,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/men-create-ruckus-at-transport-office-in-noida-101631734080780.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Omaxe housing projects in Mohali under NGT lens||The National Green Tribunal has formed a committee to submit a report on a plea challenging the legality of constructions raised by the real estate firm Omaxe Limited in Mohali.A bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel constituted a five-member joint committee comprising officials from the environment ministry, Central Pollution Control Board, Punjab State Environment Impact Assessment Authority, Punjab State Pollution Control Board and Mohali district magistrate. “It appears to be necessary to ascertain the factual situation as well as the stand of the statutory regulators and the project proponent,” the NGT said in its September 13 order, adding that the joint committee may meet within 15 days and report within two months by e-mail. The panel may undertake visit to the site and interact with the stakeholders, including the project proponent. It will also be free to consult any other expert/institution, the bench said. The matter is listed for next hearing on January 4, 2022.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Punjab resident Sandeep Singh challenging the legality of constructions raised by Omaxe Limited and Omaxe Chandigarh Extension Developers Private Limited through their projects at Kansal, Rani Majra, Dhode Majra and Mullanpur in Mohali. The projects include Omaxe The Lake and Omaxe Cassia among others. According to the plea, the constructions are in violation of Environment Impact Assessment Notification, 2006, as well as provisions of the Water Act, 1974, and Environment Act, 1986. Reacting to the development, Amitabh Joshi, additional vice-president, Omaxe, said the Supreme Court has already ordered a stay on the issue. Omaxe Cassia residents decry poor facilitiesMeanwhile, members of Omaxe Cassia Residents Welfare Association, Mullanpur, on Wednesday alleged that despite paying the full amount, the builder has failed to provide them the promised facilities.Addressing the media, association president GS Gill said according to an agreement signed in December 2018, residents have been paying 50% common area maintenance charges, but the builder has failed to meet the time frame for providing various civic amenities, including market, dispensary, chemist shop, uninterrupted power supply and hi-tech security. “If our demands are not fulfilled, we will gherao the Punjab chief minister next month,” he said.Amitabh Joshi said: “We are committed to fulfilling the demands of residents. There were some issues due to the countrywide lockdown, but we will soon hold a meeting with residents and resolve the issues.” (with inputs from HT correspondent in Mohali)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/omaxe-housing-projects-in-mohali-under-ngt-lens-101631733962280.html
16-09-2021||Other||Paralympics bronze medallist receives rousing welcome in Patiala||Patiala Archer Harvinder Singh Dhanju, a bronze medallist at the Paralympics in Tokyo received a rousing welcome at Punjabi University, Patiala, on Wednesday. Harvinder is a research scholar in the department of economics and was trained at the varsity’s archery wing. Vice-chancellor Arvind said Harvinder has become role model for the youth as he has not excelled only in sports but proved his mettle in academics also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/paralympics-bronze-medallist-receives-rousing-welcome-in-patiala-101631733961003.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Hurting religious sentiments: HC grants anticipatory bail to Gurdas Maan||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday granted anticipatory bail to singer Gurdas Maan in a case of hurting religious sentiments. On September 8, a Jalandhar court had dismissed Maan’s plea for the same. Maan was booked under Sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code at the Nakodar city police station in Jalandhar on August 26. The high court bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan granted the bail, observing that custody is not required as nothing is to be recovered. Maan asked to join probe within week The bench said that the issue as to whether words used by the petitioner while performing on stage were deliberate/malicious so as to invoke Section 295A would be subject to investigation, Maan’s counsel Arshdeep Singh Cheema said. The court also observed that Maan is a noted singer and is not a personality who will abscond from investigation. He has been asked to join investigation in a week. A detailed order is awaited. The plea will now be taken up on September 30. Maan’s remark at Nakodar fair triggered row During a religious fair in Nakodar on August 24, Maan had described Ladi Shah of Dera Baba Murad Shah as a descendant of the third Sikh master, Guru Amar Das. When a social media campaign started against his statement, Maan put out a video online, offering an apology for his statement. However, a case was registered against him. Maan has argued that no offence under Section 295A of the IPC can be said to be made out against him. To be booked under the section, it has to be demonstrated that an act has been committed with deliberate and malicious intention to outrage the religious feelings of any class of citizens and such act insults or attempts to insult the religion or the religious beliefs of that class. In the present case, the first information report (FIR) prima facie fails to disclose that the essential ingredients of offence were made out, it has been argued. The plea says the trial court judge apparently got “influenced by the show of public outcry, generated by some sections through a sustained campaign”. “As a humble Sikh and a sensitive citizen, the petitioner made a widely circulated public apology. His words ought to be interpreted in the total background of his lifelong devotion to Sikh Gurus and to the principles of Sikhism,” the plea says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hurting-religious-sentiments-hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-gurdas-maan-101631733900765.html
16-09-2021||Noida||Noida cancels allotment of two realtors over commercial land dues of ₹1,384 crore||The Noida authority on Wednesday said it has started taking ‘stern action’ against those realtors and individual financial defaulters who failed to make payments despite repeated notices. The authority has issued recovery notices to several such defaulters and cancelled the allotment of commercial plots in the past one month, including that of a commercial plot in Sector 105 and another in Sector 124.According to the authority, the developer in Sector 124 has ₹796 crore dues, while the developer in Sector 105 has dues amounting to ₹588 crore.“We cancelled the allotment of these two developers because they defaulted on land cost payments and also ignored our repeated notices. We have issued recovery notices against four other realtors, who failed to pay land cost dues, but we did not cancel the commercial land allotment of these four, as these projects are operational and third party rights are in place. Now recovery proceedings will take place as per rules to collect our dues,” said Kumar Sanjay, officer on special duty, Noida authority.The authority has issued recovery notices against a realtor of a commercial project in Sector 98, which owed ₹350 crore to the authority. Notices have also been issued to a realtor in Sector 52 with ₹869 crore dues, developer in Sector 16 with ₹63 crore dues and another one in Sector 61 with dues of over ₹26 crore. “Only one project -- a commercial shopping mall in Sector 61 is operational; the rest are in the construction stage as the developers failed to finish the projects on time,” said Sanjay.Apart from these, the authority also issued seven recovery notices to small defaulters to recover ₹4.26 crore dues and also cancelled allotment of individual allottees of four commercial plots, owing ₹54 crore in dues.“We have taken action against these 17 allottees in the past two months, after following the due notice procedure,” said Sanjay.From January 2020 to March 2021, the Noida authority cancelled allotment of nine allottees that failed to pay a total dues of ₹4,905.68 crore and it also issued recovery notices against one individual plot owner for failing to pay ₹94.35 lakh.As the realty sector is witnessing a slump, with dip in sales of commercial space, industry analysts said most realtors are unable to pay land dues to the authority.“There are two key reasons why a few commercial projects in Noida could not become a success and repay dues. One is that banks always remain reluctant to finance a commercial project unlike residential ones. The second reason is that the Noida authority or the state government is yet to reduce the interest rate imposed on commercial plots. Without the government reducing the interest rates, a commercial project cannot become financially viable,” said Sunny Katyal, director, Investors Clinic, a consultancy firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-cancels-allotment-of-two-realtors-over-commercial-land-dues-of-1-384-crore-101631733840808.html
16-09-2021||Lucknow||BJP to hold parallel meeting of farmers in Lucknow on September 19||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will hold a parallel farmers’ meet in Lucknow on September 19 when the Yogi Adityanath government completes four-and-a-half years in Uttar Pradesh. The farmers’ wing of the party intends to felicitate chief minister Yogi Adityanath on the occasion. The meeting in Lucknow is part of the BJP plan to step up the initiative to connect with those whom the party has described as “real farmers”. The move comes amid indications that the ongoing Opposition-backed farmer agitation against the Centre’s three farm reform laws will intensify ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly election. BJP farmer wing chief in UP Kameshwar Singh said an estimated 20,000 farmers are expected at the Lucknow meeting. “Fifty farmers would come from each of the 403 assembly constituencies of UP to thank the chief minister for various pro-farmer measures,” Singh said. The BJP’s farmer-connect campaign comes days after the September 5 Muzaffarnagar Mahapanchayat that was organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (joint farmers’ union) and ahead of the September 27 Bharat Bandh call given by all the farmers’ union backing the agitation. A day before the Bharat Bandh, yet another farmers’ mahapanchayat has been convened on September 26 at the same GIC ground in Muzaffarnagar where the one supported by Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) was held on September 5. BKU won’t be part of the proposed September 26 mahapanchayat which its leader Rakesh Tikait has described as one “sponsored by the government.” The ruling BJP has sought to distinguish between the “real farmers and ones agitating for political reasons.“Theirs is not a farmers’ agitation, it’s a political agitation,” said the state’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya while referring to the ongoing agitation demanding rollback of the Centre’s three farm reform laws. The BJP has already concluded farmers’ meeting at 298 places in 95 assembly constituencies.“We selected those assembly segments which had a substantial presence of sugarcane farmers. In these meetings, we interacted with nearly 60,000 farmers,” the UP BJP farmers’ wing chief said.The farmers’ wing intends to felicitate 71 farmers at each district centre on September 17, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 71st birthday. “We have so many achievements to talk about. As many as 2.50 crore farmers in UP are benefitting through the Kisan Samman Nidhi, soil health cards, crop insurance, kisan credit card, 50 per cent discount of farm equipment. These are some of the many achievements that we will talk about,” the farmers’ wing chief said.In a major pro-farmer outreach initiative in August, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced cases against farmers for burning crop residue would be withdrawn and a decision would be taken to reimburse monetary penalties levied on such farmers. Also, orders were issued to not disconnect the power connections of farmers due to pending bills. However, these announcements failed to impress BKU leader Rakesh Tikait who cited his list of demands, primary of them being the withdrawal of farm laws. “Scams have been conducted in the name of MSP (minimum support price) and there are districts where procurement has been done in the name of fake farmers. The BJP government had promised that farmers’ income would be doubled. Well, the government should ideally have declared sugarcane MSP at ₹650 per quintal, paddy at ₹3700 per quintal and wheat at ₹4100 per quintal,” Rakesh Tikait said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-to-hold-parallel-meeting-of-farmers-in-lucknow-on-september-19-101631733780752.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Badals laid foundation of farm laws, alleges Sidhu||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday hit out at the Badals, accusing the previous led Shiromani Akali Dad-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD) of laying the foundation of the three farm laws. Calling former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal the “niti nirmata” (policymaker) for the agriculture laws, he claimed that the central laws were a “photostat copy” of the Punjab Contract Farming Act enacted during the previous government in 2013. He said that Badal had tabled the Contract Farming Bill in the Punjab assembly in 2013 and it was later enacted as the Act. “I say with conviction and clarity that the Badals laid the foundation of the central laws,” Sidhu said at his first press conference after becoming the state unit head of the Congress, describing them as the real culprits behind the anti-farmer legislation. The Punjab Congress chief was flanked by four working presidents Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Kuljit Singh Nagra and Pawan Goel, state general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh and principal strategic adviser Mohammad Mustafa. Sidhu said the Badals had initially supported the central laws and then recanted after the farmers started protesting. “The SAD and the BJP are two sides of the same coin. The alliance break-up was a ruse. They will be back together after the elections,” he claimed. A video showing former CM Parkash Singh Badal, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal praising the central laws was also played. Sidhu agreed to field questions on the subject, but ducked most queries. He also refused to answer questions related to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s statement asking the farmers to move their agitation out of Punjab. On farmer unions’ appeal to political parties not to hold election rallies till the poll schedule is announced, he said: “The matter is under consideration of party leadership.” Giving clause-by-clause details of the Punjab Contract Farming Act, Sidhu said that there was no mention of minimum support price in the state law which also allowed corporates to purchase produce below the MSPs. In case of a dispute, the power to settle it under the 2013 law was vested with the bureaucracy and farmers were barred from approaching the court, he added. Sidhu also compared provisions of the Punjab Contract Farming Act with the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Private Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, enacted by the Centre last year, calling the latter a facsimile of the state law. Claiming that these laws were enacted to benefit the corporates, the PPCC president said that both laws have no MSP guarantee, allowed direct procurement, provided for dispute resolution by bureaucracy and the farmers could not file suit. “The Punjab law also had a provision that if a farmers defaults, he could be sent to jail for a month and made to pay a fine ranging from ₹5,000 to ₹5 lakh,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badals-laid-foundation-of-farm-laws-alleges-sidhu-101631733720837.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Minors account for 75% rape victims in Chandigarh||Minors remain most vulnerable in Chandigarh as 75% rape cases registered in 2020 had victims under the age of 18 years. At 61.1%, even crime rate against children in the city is much higher than the national average of 17.4%. These are the findings of the Crime in India 2020 report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Wednesday.Amid lockdown, the overall crime graph came down last year. As compared to 515 cases of crime against women registered in 2019, 301 cases surfaced in 2020. The number of rapes also dropped from 112 to 60.However, there was a rise in the proportion of rape cases involving minor victims. From 60% (65 of 112), it went up to 75% (46 of 60). Majority of the victims were in the age group of 16-18 years (24) followed by 12-16 years (16).Accused known to victim in 93% casesAccording to the NCRB data, in 93% of rape cases, the accused was known to the victims. While 32 rapes were committed on the pretext of marriage, the accused was a family member in eight cases and a family friend, employer or neighbour in 16 cases. Only four of the 60 cases reported in 2020 involved a stranger.Also read: Amid lockdown, crime graph went down in 2020“The accused is mostly a known person as they are the ones who can easily approach the victims. Many a times parents don’t doubt their intentions and leave children in their custody,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. Sangeeta Jund, project director, Childline, said the drop in the overall number of crimes against minors could be because of the lockdown and underreporting. “Earlier, cases of sexual assault surfaced when children confided in counsellors or their friends, but the pandemic forced children to remain restrained in their houses,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/minors-account-for-75-rape-victims-in-chandigarh-101631733661533.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 44 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Wednesday registered 44 fresh Covid cases taking the infection count to 6,01,150. With no Covid-related fatality reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll stood at 16,464, according to a medical bulletin released by the state government. The state’s positivity rate was 0.10 %, the bulletin said, adding that the number of active cases also came down to 325. Among fresh cases, maximum six each were reported in Pathankot and Mohali, followed by five in Jalandhar. With 35 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,84,361, the bulletin said. A total of 1,40,08,154 samples have so far been collected for testing in the state of which 43,459 were tested on Wednesday. As many as 52,306 doses of vaccine were administered on Wednesday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-44-fresh-covid-cases-101631733541228.html
16-09-2021||Noida||Man killed after speeding car hits motorcycle in Noida||A 27-year-old man from Delhi died when the motorcycle he was riding was allegedly hit by a speeding car on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway near Sector 98 on Tuesday morning. The motorcycle was mangled in the accident, said police. The deceased was identified as Alok Dubey. According to police, a speeding sedan hit the two-wheeler from behind. “After the collision, the car driver took Dubey to a nearby private hospital on the insistence of the passersby who had gathered near the spot. However, the driver fled after dropping Dubey at the hospital. Eyewitnesses called the police helpline, following which a team was rushed to the spot,” said Rajeev Balyan, station house officer at Sector 39 police station.Dubey died later in the day during treatment, said police. His body was sent for an autopsy and later handed over to his family. “With the help of the car’s registration number, we have traced the vehicle to Delhi. Efforts are underway to nab the suspect and seize the vehicle,” said the SHO.Based on the complaint by Dubey’s family, a case has been registered against the car driver under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-killed-after-speeding-car-hits-motorcycle-in-noida-101631733480773.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Road mishap in Mohali: 60-yr-old man killed, wife injured||A 60-year-old man was killed while his wife suffered serious injuries after a tractor trolley laden with bricks hit their scooter near Sector 39-west on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Rajeev Chopra, a resident of Jujahar Nagar in Mohali. His wife Kiran Bala suffered serious injuries.Station house officer (SHO) of Balongi, Rajpal Singh Gill, said the accident took place at around 10am, when the couple was going to Maloya. As they reached Mohali–Chandigarh border near Sector 39 west, the tractor-trolley hit their scooter. Rajeev suffered head injuries, while Kiran’s leg was crushed under the tractor’s tyre. They were rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where Rajeev was declared brought dead.Gill said that the driver of the tractor fled the scene and they have confiscated the tractor trolley and have booked the driver. After the postmortem, the body has been handed over to the family members. Bus mows down 23-year-old man in Dera BassiA 22-year man was killed while his friend was injured after a private bus hit their tractor from behind at Ghaggar bridge near Bhankarpur in Dera Bassi on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Shatrudhan, who lives in Mubarakpur and hails from Bihar. His friend, Guwan, suffered injuries and is admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh.Police post-in-charge of Mubarakpur, Narpinder Singh, said the incident took place at around 5.15 am on Wednesday, when the two men were sitting on a tractor and a private bus going to Chandigarh hit it from the back. Shatrudhan was tossed out and came under the tyre of the bus and he died on the spot while Guwan, who was driving the tractor, suffered serious injuries.The bus driver fled from the scene and has been booked. After the postmortem, the body has been handed over to the family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/road-mishap-in-mohali-60-yr-old-man-killed-wife-injured-101631733426599.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Excise transition: Private liquor vends to stay shut next month||All private liquor vends in Delhi will shut next month and only government stores will function until the Capital transitions to a new excise policy on November 17, the administration said on Wednesday, adding that it earned R8,900 crore from auctioning retail licences in the Capital’s newly created 32 zones.Delhi has 849 liquor stores, of which 276 are privately-run and the rest are operated by the Delhi government through its agencies. On November 17, the government will fully withdraw from the alcohol business in an attempt to usher in greater transparency, revenue and service quality.“All private vends having L-7 and L-10 licenses, both of which deal with retail sale of Indian and foreign liquor, will operate only till September 30. This is to ensure a smooth transition for the new licensees to take over. Government vends will continue till November 16. Government vends selling country liquor will be allowed to operate till March 2022. Restaurants, bars and clubs will face no problem in keeping up their stocks as wholesale sale of liquor is not being stopped,” said a senior excise official.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s excise minister, said that the government expects to earn another ₹3,500 crore revenue in the first year once the new liquor stores begin operations.“The bidding took place in a very fair manner. We received roughly 250 bids for the 32 zones. The highest bid in each zone won in a very transparent manner. Soon, the customer experience of buying liquor in Delhi will change drastically,” Sisodia said, adding that the experience of buying alcohol in the capital was very restrictive earlier as people had to go to shady shops with “jail-like grilles”.The Delhi Excise Policy, 2021 mandates the government’s exit from the liquor business in an attempt to shore up liquor availability, customer experience, service and eradicate brand suppression.Of the 32 zones, the draw for 20 zones was done on August 5 and 6; the remaining 12 were allotted this week. The excise department had kept a total reserve price for all the 32 zones at around ₹7,041 crore, but it managed to earn ₹8,917.59 crore through bidding, documents show.Excise department reports showed that Zone 28 covering areas such as Dwarka-A, Deoli, Bhajanpura, Kardampuri and Quraish Nagar, had the highest bid at Rs357 crore. But when analysed in terms of the highest profit earned by the government against the base price, Zone 32, which is the airport zone, topped the list as it went for ₹235 crore against the reserve price of Rs105 crore — about 124% higher than the reserve price.In addition to the bid value for the 32 zones, the excise department will also earn about ₹650 crore from excise duty, import fees, value-added tax and other licence fees, an excise official said on condition of anonymity. Another ₹900-1,000 crore is expected to come from licensing of new brands, distributor licenses, etc.The government is optimistic that this will mark a new record for the capital, and push annual earnings growth rate from the current 5-7% to over 30%. Data showed that the average annual revenue of the city from liquor sales over the past three years stood at around ₹6,300 crore.The new excise policy was implemented on June 11. Under it, retailers are free to decide the selling prices in a competitive environment and not be limited by a maximum retail price fixed by the government. Each zone will have at least 27 liquor vends — all of which will go to one successful bidder.The new policy aims to reform the city’s liquor business by improving user experience, cleaning up the liquor mafia and eradicating pilferage.The licensees will have to build bigger and modern liquor vends where customers could just walk in and choose their preferred brands. Business hours will be from 10am to 10pm while those at the airport may stay open round-the-clock.The policy, among other things, envisages five new super-premium liquor shops for high-value products. It includes a rule that any liquor shop in the city should be at least 500 square feet in size and not have iron grilles at the front, giving customers the freedom to pick their own brands.For that, the shops have to be spacious, well-lit and air-conditioned and must be under camera surveillance. Shop owners will have to ensure that liquor sale and pick-up takes place properly inside the shop premises. Home delivery of liquor is also allowed through websites and apps.But those in the liquor business felt the government should have set the reserve price higher.Naresh Goyal, president of Delhi Liquor Traders’ Association,said the ₹8,917.59 crore for the 32 zones is a “commitment” made by the new licensees which they will have to pay in instalments for a year. “Ideally, the government should have kept the reserve price higher, factoring in 10% annual hike which did not happen since 2019 due to the pandemic. So, the amount it has managed through the bidding process is not exceptionally high. We can say that the government just managed to recover the excise revenue losses it faced due to the pandemic,” Goyal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/excise-transition-private-liquor-vends-to-stay-shut-next-month-101631732880545.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Sisodia: Covid dealt a body blow to Delhi’s economy, revenue down 23%||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said the Delhi government has received about 23% less than the estimated revenue in the current financial year due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, which also reduced the state’s collection by nearly 41% in 2020-21.Addressing a press conference, Sisodia, who is also the national Capital’s minister of trade and taxes, said the Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection of the Delhi government in the current financial year decreased by 23%. “Not just that, Delhi’s VAT (value added tax) collection came down by 25%, excise collection by 30%, stamp collection by 16%, and motor vehicle tax collection by 19%. Fiscal years 2020-21 and 2021-22 have been highly affected by Covid-19 from the perspective of revenue,” he said.The Delhi government, however, did not share absolute numbers for the collected tax.The minister said that despite Delhi contributing ₹1,40,000 crore as Central taxes, it gets only ₹325 crore in return from the Central government. “While we get peanuts, other states get 42% of their share. In fact, Delhi government’s revenue will be further reduced by ₹8,000 crore as the Central government will stop GST compensation from next year,” he said. Economic activity in the entire country came to a standstill when the Central government imposed the first nationwide lockdown in March last year. In April-May this year, as Delhi became one of the worst-hit states during the second Covid-19 wave in the country, the Aam Aadmi Party government imposed another round of strict lockdown to curb contact between people and bring the daily case count down.“In 2020-21, we received revenue that was 41% less than our budget estimate, and because of this, except for salaries and Covid-related expenses, we put most other expenses on hold. If we look at this fiscal year (2021-22), we are currently 23% below the budget estimate. We had estimated a very moderate budget this year. The budget estimate was much less than last year, yet the tax collection is less than what it should have been by now. It is a very concerning situation,” he said.Sisodia said the government is still withholding most expenses except salaries and Covid-related expenses. “The government is trying to cut down on expenses wherever possible. The only relief we expect is now from the new excise policy which is likely to give the government about ₹3,500 crore more annually. As part of the new excise regime, we merged excise duty and VAT that people usually evaded, into licence fees. Till now the license fee was very nominal-- ₹8 lakh--and then there were 250%-300% excise fees and VAT, which were evaded by many,” he said.“In Delhi, after 2016, under the Kejriwal government, no new liquor shops have been opened. In some municipal wards, there were 10-15 liquor shops, while in some wards, there were none. The pattern was such that in the wards where there were no shops, illegal liquor shops would function. There were approximately 850 legal shops and 2,000 illegal shops operating out of people’s houses and godowns. We tried to stop this through the excise department. We caught approximately 700,000 bottles of liquor in one year. About 1,864 FIRs were lodged and 1,000 vehicles were confiscated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-received-23-less-revenue-than-estimated-this-year-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-101631732700384.html
16-09-2021||Other||Committee on progress of poll manifesto promises holds meeting||Chandigarh A special committee set up by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, which met here on Wednesday, will give a roadmap for the implementation of pending poll promises and reaching out to people with achievements of the state government. The committee headed by senior Congress leader Lal Singh met the CM at his residence and took stock of the progress made on poll manifesto. The committee includes MLAs Surinder Kumar Dawar, Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal and Kushaldeep Dhillon, the CM’s political secretary Capt Sandeep Sandhu and military historian Mandeep Bawa. “The state government has already implemented 90% of poll promises. As the election countdown has begun, we will give a push to all pending promises except 14 related to value-added tax (VAT) etc that cannot be implemented,” one of the committee members said. The state government is also planning to assign duties to ministers and MLAs to visit districts to listen to grievances of people and party workers. “The plan is to ask the ministers to visit their districts. In districts that are not represented in the cabinet, the senior most MLA may be assigned this duty,” sources said. Another committee comprising Lal Singh, Dr Chabbewal, Dhillon and Dawar has also started taking turns to listen to public grievances raised by party workers who visit the CM’s residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/committee-on-progress-of-poll-manifesto-promises-holds-meeting-101631732580232.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Process plea for green nod to hospital: HC||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday pulled up the city government for not processing the forest clearance required for finishing the construction of a 100-bed hospital in Najafgarh despite repeated reminders by the Centre, noting that the “lethargic approach” of the Delhi government is the misfortune of the public .A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh said that the city government should do something and “not sit tight” over processing the Centre’s request seeking permission for the transplantation of the trees.“It is the misfortune of the public at large that a 100-bed hospital could not be completed because of the lethargic approach on part of the Delhi government. Union of India is writing letter after letter and no reply is given by the Delhi government. No counter has been filed (by Delhi government),” said the bench.“Do something so that the construction is over. You can say no also but don’t sit tight. You decide as per law,” the bench said.The bench granted time to the Delhi government and asked them to point out the “least possible time” within which the permission/sanction can be granted.The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) by Rajesh Kaushik, a lawyer, seeking a direction to the two governments to complete the establishment of the hospital at the site of Rural Health Training Centre in Najafgarh in south west Delhi.The petition, filed through lawyer Sameer Chandra, said that the structure of the building was already completed, and that it was “utmost essential for the public at large” that the hospital starts running before the onset of the third wave of Covid-19.The plea had said there are no good hospitals in the area and that the establishment of the 100-bed facility will help “15 lakh people spread over 73 villages in the radius of 10 km”.On Wednesday, the central government standing counsel advocate Anurag Ahluwalia, appearing for the union government, informed the court that the project was 80% complete and is awaiting clearance from the forest department of the Delhi government in December 2018 as the site required a sanction for “transplantation of trees”.In an affidavit, the Union government said only the peripheral part of the facility remains to be finished, adding that the hospital can be completed by the year end subject to permission from the Delhi government.The Delhi government counsel sought time from the court to file its reply, following which the court posted the matter for hearing on November 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-pulled-up-for-holding-forest-clearance-for-100-bed-hospital-in-najafgarh-101631732460279.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Day after Pak-linked terror module bust, 3 more held from UP||A day after Delhi Police’s Special Cell and Uttar Pradesh Anti-terrorism Squad arrested six terror suspects allegedly backed by Pakistan in a joint operation, UP ATS arrested three more men on Wednesday in connection with the case. UP Police said in a press statement that the three were stocking up explosives for terror strikes in the country and were also in touch with foreign agencies.In a press statement, the UP Police identified the three as Mohammad Jameel of Unchahar, Rae Bareli; Mohammad Imtiaz of Maheshganj, Pratapgarh; and Mohammad Tahir alias Madni of Kareli, Prayagraj. Without giving details, they also claimed to have seized a large number of explosives and weapons from their possession.Meanwhile, officers in the know of the interrogation of the six suspects arrested on Tuesday said the RDX (rapid detonating explosive) that Delhi Police seized from one of them may have been pushed into India using a drone.The six men were arrested from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, and were identified as Jaan Mohammad Shaikh (47), Osama alias Sami (22), Moolchand Srivastav alias Saaju (47), Zeeshan Qamar (28), Mohamed Abu Bakr (23), and Mohammed Amir Javed (31). Police had seized 1.7k RDX from Zeeshan’s house in Kareli, Allahabad, and a live improvised explosive device (IED) was found in Prayagraj and defused.HT spoke with at least three officers privy to the investigation, who confirmed that Zeeshan claimed he was given the RDX by a man named Baidur. Police are on the lookout for Baidur, also a resident of Uttar Pradesh, who is currently absconding.“Zeeshan was told by his handlers that Baidur would collect the RDX, which was dropped into India from Pakistan. It is unclear whether the border in Punjab or the line of control in Kashmir was used for it. It is also possible that they may have dropped more explosives in the past. We have just started interrogating Zeeshan and the other suspects,” said an officer, requesting anonymity.He added that Zeeshan, who had recently started a date business in his hometown, was also trained by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence or ISI along with Delhi resident Osama, who lives with his family in Jamia Nagar’s Abul Fazal Enclave and also runs a business of importing dates. They met in Muscat in April from where they took the sea route and changed boats several times to reach Joini, a town near the Gwadar port in Pakistan. There they were trained for 15 days by three men, two of whom wore military uniforms.On Tuesday, Delhi Police had said that the plot was to carry out terror strikes in Delhi, UP and Maharashtra during the festival season for which ISI had instructed Zeeshan and Osama to survey locations to plant IEDs.Police had also said that Anees Ibrahim, brother of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, was connected to this module and was tasked to smuggle arms and ammunition into India.“The operations of this module is similar to that of the Mumbai underworld in the 1993 Bombay serial blasts. In that case, Dawood was involved in getting RDX inside the country by sea through the coastal areas of Maharashtra. In this case, his brother Anees used contacts in ISI and may have smuggled explosives using drones,” added a second official, who asked not to be named.A third officer, also requesting anonymity, echoed the second. “This module involves people associated with the Mumbai underworld. It looks like they were directly in touch with the ISI and planning the attacks here. So far, we have not come across any other terror group or militant organisation behind them. This is an entirely ISI-backed module for which they used the underworld,” he said, adding that Sameer alias Jaan Mohammed was part of Anees Ibrahim’s gang earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/day-after-pak-linked-terror-module-bust-three-more-held-from-up-101631732340266.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||After long Covid break, DU campus reopens for final year, postgrad students||New Delhi: Twenty-year-old Nitika Dabas, a final year student of BSc Zoology at Ramjas College, walked into a socially distanced college campus for the first time since educational institutes were first closed last year amid the covid pandemic. The science student whose course includes a crucial practical component said that she had been waiting for the campus to reopen for the past many months. “The class today was incredible. It was amazing to be back in the lab and on the field. I didn’t ever think that working on experiments and conducting practicals would become such a luxury when colleges were closed last year. So, doing every activity in person in college was exhilarating,” said Dabas, who was a first-year student when the college was shut last year. Delhi University colleges were closed last year in March amid the pandemic. While colleges had started practical sessions earlier this year in February, sessions were called off in March amid the onset of the fourth covid wave in Delhi. Earlier this month, Delhi University issued the notification allowing final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students back to campus for practical and laboratory work as part of a phased reopening plan. On the first day of reopening, colleges saw small groups of students. Dabas was among the four students who came for the practical session on Wednesday at Ramjas College. “All the preventive measures and SOPs did make the experience a little different but as long as we get to study in a safe environment, there is nothing to complain about. We can’t live in the virtual world forever without having any practical experience or training. The theory is not enough for the practical world especially in the course that I am pursuing.,” said Dabas, who plans to visit college regularly for the practical sessions. She shared that the feeling of meeting her friends and teachers after over a year was explicable even though many of her classmates are yet to join in-person sessions since they were not in the city.Ojit Kumar Singh, Dabas’s professor, took the class on fieldwork on Thursday. He said that practical sessions and fieldwork were crucial for the completion of the learning experience. “Since we need to comply with SOPs, I called students in a batch of 10 and around 6 of them came today. I took them for fieldwork and most of them were happy to be back,” said Kumar. He said that in-person sessions were more conducive for learning since online classes were often fraught with challenges pertaining to network connectivity and access to devices. Interactions with students were also marred by such issues, he said. “During online classes, it almost feels like we are talking to the wall. Despite all our efforts to keep students engaged, there are challenges of digital divide and connectivity. Today was the first day of reopening and I am hoping that the number of students will increase in the coming days,” said Singh. Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said that the attendance of students was low on Wednesday since it was the first day. He shared that around 40 students came to the college. “Around 30-40 students came today. The response was a little feeble but there is an expectation that the number of students will increase in the coming days as students see their friends turning up for sessions,” said Khanna. Many principals and teachers also attributed the lukewarm response to the absence of outstation students who make up for a significant section in courses. Owing to uncertainty around the third wave of covid that has been predicted by experts, many students are yet to return back to the city. Manoj Sinha, principal of Aryabhatta College and general secretary of DU Principals’ Association said that two small groups of students came to the college for practical sessions on Wednesday. The college has two science courses and three lab-based courses. “We have started calling students in small batches. In computer science, we called around four students and all of them came. In psychology, we called a batch of around ten students. All students were excited to be back. We familiarized them with training and teachers. These are students who came back after the first year and hence the need for re-familiarisation,” said Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-long-covid-break-du-campus-reopens-for-final-year-postgrad-students-101631732100337.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi to treat 155MGD wastewater reaching Yamuna from neighbouring states||The Delhi government will treat 155 million gallons per day (MGD) of wastewater reaching the Yamuna from neighbouring states, Delhi water minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday. In a meeting with senior officials of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and the irrigation and flood control department, to discuss the interstate pollution of the Yamuna, Jain said cleaning the Yamuna was the “topmost priority” of the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government. According to a Delhi government statement, currently, the Yamuna receives 105MGD and 50MGD wastewater from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, respectively. “The Yamuna does not belong to one particular state but the whole country. And to achieve the target of cleaning it, we will do whatever is needed. On the instructions of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the DJB and the irrigation department have undertaken the task of cleaning the Yamuna on priority,” Jain said. He further said, “The drainage from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh will be treated either by diverting it to STPs (sewage treatment plants) or in situ. This treated water will be used for rejuvenating lakes and water bodies, groundwater recharge and the rest will be discharged into river Yamuna.” He said the Delhi government had taken upon itself to clean “all sources that pollute the river”. “The Delhi government has started working on war footing to clean all of these drains. Innovative techniques are being used for this purpose. In situ techniques as well existing STPs will be used to treat these drains that carry wastewater from other states and join the drains in Delhi,” Jain said. In June this year, the Delhi government had banned fishing in the Yamuna waters on account of pollution and the appearance of toxic foam on the river stretch near Kalinidi Kunj.High phosphate content in the wastewater, from detergents used in dyeing industries, dhobi ghats and households, was cited as the main reason for the formation of toxic foam in the Yamuna, an official of the Central Pollution Control Board had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-treat-155mgd-wastewater-reaching-yamuna-from-neighbouring-states-101631732041432.html
16-09-2021||Other||Criminal cases against MPs/ MLAs: Probe in 42 criminal cases of 82 cases pending in Punjab: Police tell HC||Chandigarh Punjab Police have told the Punjab and Haryana high court that of 82 criminal cases registered against sitting and former MPs and MLAs in the state, the probe has been completed only in 40 cases. Police have also told the court that to expedite probe in a rape case against MLA Simarjit Bains, a Special Investigation (SIT) team has been constituted. An affidavit filed by Gursharan Singh Sandhu, Inspector General of Police (Crime-3) says the challan has been presented in the 40 cases only, including untraced and cancellation reports in eight cases, and 42 cases are pending investigation. The report shared does not name most of the law makers and also does not give dates and details of alleged offences in most cases. The details were submitted during the hearing of a plea in which the court is monitoring criminal cases against law makers upon orders from the apex court since February 2021. In MLA Simarjit Bains’ case, where the court had pulled up the state authorities upon finding that 17 FIRs are under investigation against him, the police have told the court that it has constituted an SIT headed by Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, ADCP (Investigation) to expedite probe in the rape case registered in Ludhiana. Bhatti, who was present in the court assured that she would complete the investigation within four weeks. Prosecution sanction has been sought in rape case against Bains, the court was informed. She also assured the court that she would also look into the allegations of intimidation of witnesses by Bains. Proceedings of a meeting conducted to review cases against MPs/ MLAs reveal that in the Ropar Range, six cases have been registered, of which five are in Mohali. Five cases are registered against MLAs of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and one case is against the SAD MLA. In two cases, cancellation reports have been filed. The report does not give details of persons against whom these cases were registered. In Ludhiana range, eight cases are registered, of which seven are of law and order related situations. In Amritsar range, seven cases stand registered and in two cases, untraced reports have been filed and challan presented in two cases. The report adds that in Patiala range, six cases are registered, two in Patiala district and four of Sangrur district. All cases are related to law and order situation. As of Faridkot range, the report reveals that 10 cases are registered, of which five are in Muktsar Sahib, three in Faridkot and two in Moga. The matter stands adjourned now for October 13||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/criminal-cases-against-mps-mlas-probe-in-42-criminal-cases-of-82-cases-pending-in-punjab-police-tell-hc-101631731920690.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Woman, friend held for killing her husband||The city police have arrested a woman and her male friend for allegedly killing her 21-year-old husband, who opposed their relationship, in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar a week ago.According to police, the victim, Munish, and the suspects, Bhuri Devi and Dinesh, were all labourers and the murder was committed at the construction site where they worked last Wednesday. Police said Devi and Dinesh were arrested from Malviya Nagar area on Tuesday.Police said Munish’s autopsy showed that he was strangulated, and his father, Nandlal, also raised suspicions on some others in a complaint.“A case was registered and investigations were taken up in the matter,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.Police unearthed that a few days prior to the murder, Munish and his father had beaten up Dinesh after they got to know about his friendship with Devi. He also reportedly warned Devi to stay away from Dinesh.Police said on September 7, Dinesh snuck into the construction site with the help of another worker and strangled Munish around 2.30am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-friend-held-for-killing-her-husband-101631731859627.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Connect Karo-2021: ‘India to have improved urban infra in next 30 years’||In the next 30 years, Indian cities will have improved urban infrastructure and will be better equipped to accommodate the population migrating from rural pockets, said Durga Shankar Mishra, secretary of Union ministry of housing and urban affairs at the India-Latin America urbanisation dialogue on Wednesday, which was part of the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) annual flagship event ‘Connect Karo’. Discussing the growth and challenges of urban development that both India and Latin America are facing, Shankar said that in the coming years, the size of cities in India will grow, and so will opportunities for development and challenges attached to it. “The Covid-19 pandemic has slowed down the speed of economic development globally, and it has also hit India. We are channelling all our resources to meet the targets we have set for our developmental projects,” said Shankar. He added India has been working on several developmental programmes to tackle various aspects of urban growth, such as sanitation, infrastructure development and management. These programmes have already started yielding results, said Shankar. A report by the WRI (India) shows 66% urban growth in the country is outside municipal limits, which indicates the need for better metropolitan planning, said experts. “Urbanization in India is at about 35% currently, though studies suggest that if a Latin American definition for urban population (such as Mexico’s) was applied, it would be around 65%. Rapid urbanisation in India is pushing the need for supply of land and infrastructure, affordable housing and the requirement of finance across metropolitan areas,” said Madhav Pai, executive director, WRI India Ross Centre. While exchanging ideas, Adriana Lobo, executive director of WRI (Mexico and Columbia), said one of the greatest challenges that the region is facing is the inequity in the distribution of population based on their economic background. “In the last 30 years, Mexico’s population, for instance, has doubled, but there is no equity in the way this population is distributed. One of the ways to tackle urban inequity that we have seen is the increase in mass transportation networks,” said Lobo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/connect-karo-2021-india-to-have-improved-urban-infra-in-next-30-years-101631731681246.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi court sends Lashkar terrorist to seven years in jail||New Delhi: A Delhi court has sentenced a Pakistani national and trained militant of the Lashkar-e- Taiba to seven years of rigorous imprisonment for carrying out terror activities in India, saying that the country is facing relentless terror attacks which is a concern for humanity as not only lives are lost, but the economy is also destabilized.Principal District and Sessions Judge Dinesh Sharma awarded the sentence on September 10 to 23-year-old Mohammad Amir, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in 2017. The court ordered that he should be deported back to Pakistan as his sentence. “The country is relentlessly facing violence on account of terror activities. Thousands of innocent people are killed in such activities. The terrorist activities not only cause loss of lives of innocent public but it also de-stabilises the economy of the country. The terrorist activity is a cause of concern for the entire humanity. The present case involves extremely serious offence,” the judge said in his order of September 10.According to the agency, Amir, along with three others had illegally infiltrated into Indian Territory from Pakistan along with weapons, ammunition, and other war-like stores with an intention to carry out a terrorist attack at different locations in India on the directions of their handlers based in Pakistan.Amir’s other three associates were killed in an encounter with security forces on November 21, 2017, while he was arrested on November 24, 2017, from Magam, Handwara in Jammu and Kashmir in a joint operation of the Indian Army and the Jammu and Kashmir police.The NIA sleuths later filed a charge sheet stating that a conspiracy was hatched by Lashkar-e-Taiba in Pakistan involving number of persons, who were members of proscribed organization and to execute those acts, Amir illegally infiltrated into the soil of this country along with his accomplices. However, the accomplices of the accused were gunned down in an ambush and Amir was apprehended.Appearing for the convict, his counsel Kahorngam Zimik, submitted that his client is a young man and is already repenting his mistake.The court noted that in its interaction with the convict, he informed the judge that his father had expired during this period and his mother is handicapped.Amir expressed his desire to go back to his country and live a normal life and therefore he may be awarded so as to enable him to ble go back to his home and live peacefully, the court noted in its order.It said that the convict is admittedly a Pakistan national and he infiltrated into the territory of this country with advance weapons and other equipments. It said that the convict was arrested with advance weapons along with communication equipments. However, the plea of the convict that he is a young person and a lenient view may be taken, the judge said.The charges were framed against the convict under Sections 120-B, 121-A of IPC. Sections 18, 20 & 38 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Sections 7 read with Section 25(1-A) of Arms Act, Section 5 of the Explosive Substances Act, Section 14 of Foreigners Act and Section 6(1-A) Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-sends-lashkar-terrorist-to-seven-years-in-jail-101631731680159.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Funeral procession forced to wade through knee-deep water in Badlapur||A photo of several residents wading through knee-deep water during a funeral procession at Belavali village railway underpass has been going viral for the past two days. The photo reflects the pathetic condition of the underpass that connects Badlapur East and West, leading to traffic congestion in the city.Moreover, the underpass is the only way to the crematorium and mourners have to wade through the water to pay their last respects to the departed.Social workers from this area have used a pumping machine to direct the water to a nearby nullah but neither the railway nor the Badlapur municipal council have come forward to help them.Kishor Patil, a 48-year-old resident of Belavali, lost his uncle Ramchandra Patil, 68, on September 13. Patil said, “The crematorium is just 500m away from my house. We have to only cross this railway underpass. Since it was flooded, we contemplated going by road but there was heavy traffic and it turned out to be 6km from my house. My relative, who lives in Badlapur (East), took an hour to cross the bridge. When we first entered the underpass, the water was up to our chest, so we called for a pumping machine and pulled out minimum water and marched ahead.”“We have been facing this issue every year. If there is no rain, the underground pass gets filled with drainage water. To complete a five-minute trip, we have to cover more than 5km and spend half-an-hour for the same. The authorities should solve this problem.”School children, too, had to take the underpass to reach their schools. There is no alternative route for them.Kulgaon Badlapur Municipal Council CEO Yogesh Godse said, “We have sent a letter to the railway to solve this issue and are awaiting a reply.”A railway engineer from Badlapur region said, “We are talking to our senior officials about the issue. We will find some solution soon.”Water levels rise at 3 dams in Thane districtWith good rainfall in the catchment areas over the past few days, water stock in Barvi, Andra and Bhatsa dams have increased to 97%, 77% and 98%, respectively. The district authority has issued a warning to the villages surrounding these dams, as a normal discharge of dam water has begun and if the rains continue, the dams will cross the overflow level. The irrigation department said that there would be no immediate water cuts in the district. At this time last year, the water level at Barvi dam was at 96%, Andra at 71% while it was 99% in Bhatsa.An officer from the irrigation department said, “While both Bhatsa and Barvi dams have started discharge at 21.957 cusec and 34.790 cusec water, respectively, Andra lake situated in Pune is yet to receive enough rainfall to overflow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/funeral-procession-forced-to-wade-through-knee-deep-water-in-badlapur-101631731620221.html
16-09-2021||Pune||BJP stages agitations over losing OBC quota for ZP, panchayat polls||PUNE: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Gopichand Padalkar and other backward classes (OBC) wing state president Yogesh Tilekar staged agitations against the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) state government, holding it responsible for OBC representatives not getting quota in the Zilla Parishad and panchayat samiti elections.Padalkar said, “Due to the inefficiency of the Maharashtra government, the OBC community lost political reservation. The state government did not prepare the data for OBCs.”Tilekar said, “The Maharashtra government is putting hurdles in the reservation of the Maratha and OBC community. Before the civic elections at least, the state government should restore reservation for OBCs.”Not only Pune, the BJP staged agitations all over the state.The state election commission announced the zilla parishad elections in Dhule, Nandurbar, Washim, Akola and Nagpur which will be held without OBC reservation.Recently, the Supreme Court asked the government and the state election commission to continue local self-elections for five zilla parishads and 33 panchayat samitis without waiting for OBC reservation. As the Supreme Court scrapped OBC reservation in Maharashtra, all parties unanimously decided to postpone zilla parishad elections. But after the court’s instructions, the process for elections started and the BJP became aggressive on the OBC quota and targeting the MVA government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-stages-agitations-over-losing-obc-quota-for-zp-panchayat-polls-101631731560248.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||NCB busts major drug racket in Mumbai, Pune; arrests seven||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested seven persons from Mumbai and Pune and allegedly seized 2.112 kilograms (kg) of Mephedrone, 3.9kgs of Ephedrine, and 45 grams of Charas. Based on the specific information, the Mumbai NCB team raided a house at Kausa in Mumbra and found 1.75kgs of Mephedrone and 3.9kgs of Ephedrine. We nabbed Sahil Hamid Mulla Aji, who is the owner of the house, and his associate Ibrahim Ismail Jhangir. The third accused, Irfan Parmar, was also nabbed from the same house. Parmar, who hails from Gujarat, bought 300 grams of Mephedrone from Aji. The contraband was also recovered from his possession, said NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede.“After interrogating Aji and Jhangir, we got a lead about the main conspirator of the case and a team immediately went to Pune and arrested one Nadeem Shaikh from Kharadi. During search, NCB found 45 grams of charas from his possession,” added Wankhede. The four accused were arrested under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and further investigation is going on.In the second operation, NCB arrested Rehan Shaikh from Goregon area and allegedly seized 62 grams of Mephedrone. During interrogation, the agency learnt that he was a consumer and a drug peddler from the past four to five years. NCB Mumbai registered a separate case against him under NDPS Act. While looking for more accused in a previous case, NCB arrested Jay Prakash Bhat alias Jitu from Andheri and Vijay Kumar Singh alias Rehan Chicken alias Monty from Bandra. Both were wanted in a previous drug case registered in July in which they have arrested three accused including a woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-busts-major-drug-racket-in-mumbai-pune-arrests-seven-101631731500176.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra clears Rs3,200-crore disaster management programme for Konkan||As the coastal districts in Maharashtra were battered with natural calamities over the past two years, the Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday cleared a proposal to set up a ₹3,200-crore Konkan disaster management programme. The special programme — Konkan disaster mitigation project — will take up several measures in the region to safeguard the people in case of any calamity such as cyclone, floods, landslides, etc.Over the past two years, the Konkan strip has faced two cyclones — Nisarga in 2020 and Tauktae this year. Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg district have also seen severe flooding after extremely heavy rainfall, landslide and other disasters. Under the project, a comprehensive four-year plan for capacity building, pre-planning measures to safeguard people, as well as proper utilisation of mitigation funds will be prepared.“Cyclone and floods have continuously damaged the coastal districts. After the natural calamity, locals face issues of power outage for days, availability of potable water, etc. The people, who are in danger areas, have to be moved to safer locations. Through the project, we will take mitigation steps such as laying underground power cables, construct permanent and resilient shelters in these districts where people can be moved, fortify coastline which is eroded due to waves, etc,” state relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said.As part of the project, a system will be set up for early warning to ensure better preparedness to deal with natural disasters, senior officials said. They added, the impact on locals will be less and response time will also be improved. It would not only save lives, but also reduce damage to critical infrastructure. The state has earmarked ₹3,200 crore for the project, of which ₹2,000 crore will be provided by the state disaster management department and the remaining ₹1,200 crore will be provided by the state government over the next four years, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-clears-rs3-200-crore-disaster-management-programme-for-konkan-101631731443644.html
16-09-2021||Noida||Farmers lie in pits in UP’s Ghaziabad to press for farm law amendments||Dozens of farmers launched an indefinite hunger strike on Wednesday, and lay in 3-4-foot deep pits that they dug up at Mandola in Ghaziabad’s Loni to press for amendments to the three new farm laws introduced by the Centre and also to get more compensation for their lands acquired under the UP Housing and Development Board’s (UPHDB) Mandola housing scheme. Some 250 farmers gathered in Mandola for the protest. Terming their way of protest as ‘Zameen Samadhi’, the farmers, led by their leader Manveer Teotia, dug up 17 pits and lay there to press for their demands. “We want amendments in the three new farm laws and provisions related to mandis and contract farming. Protests are underway at various borders of Delhi, we demand that the government hold talks and make amendments. We also demand that the 23 crops, for which the government has fixed the minimum support price, should be purchased throughout the year and not only for a particular season,” said Teotia, who was seen leading the protest through the Kisan Satyagrah Andolan at Mandola. Other farmers, led by the Samyukta Kisan Mocha, have been going on with the protests at various borders of Delhi since November last year and demanding a new law on the minimum support price and the rollback of the three new farm laws. “We are not part of the protests going on at the borders of Delhi. We want changes in the provisions of contract farming, including considering the landowner under the category of farmer. Today’s protest will go on... We are resorting to peaceful means to press our demands; our protest is also to support farmers of Mandola, who have given their land for the housing scheme,” said Teotia. Farmers also said they have been demanding hiked compensation for their land which was given for the housing scheme. “We have been carrying out an indefinite protest at Mandola to press our demand for hiked compensation under the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation & Resettlement Act, 2013. The administration gave us ₹1,100 per square metres in 2010. We demand rates as per the new Land Acquisition Act. We do not want farmers to stay on roads to protest...we want the government to hold talks,” said Neeraj Tyagi, convener of the farmers’ association. Six farmers stayed put in the pits and continued with their hunger strike till the time of going to print. Tyagi said they will continue with the protest till the time their demands regarding the amendments to the three farm laws and the housing scheme are not met. DB Singh, superintending engineer from UPHDB, said the administration is looking into the issues of the farmers. “Our administration officials are addressing the issues of the farmers,” said Singh. Ritu Suhas, additional district magistrate (administration), said two days ago, the farmers gave a memorandum of demands, which did not include their new demand in connection with the three new farm laws. “The written memorandum they gave to us concerned issues related to the Mandola housing scheme. There are some new people who have joined the protest today (Wednesday), who are not even residents of Ghaziabad. With regard to the farmers in Mandola, their issues are being looked into and they have been asked to come for a meeting on Thursday,” said Suhas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-lie-in-pits-in-up-s-ghaziabad-to-press-for-farm-law-amendments-101631731441444.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai ranks second among 19 metros in crimes against women||The National Crime Record Bureau’s (NCRB) Crime in India report 2020 indicates that even in the pandemic, the city was witness to a high number of instances of crimes against women with Mumbai ranking only second to Delhi among 19 metropolitan cities. Two Covid waves and long periods of lockdown notwithstanding, the city reported 4,583 crimes against women as against the National Capital which recorded 9,782 instances. The NCRB report referred to a metropolitan city as one which had a population of 2 million or more. Crimes against women incorporates multiple sections under state level laws as well as the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including Section 354 (assault on woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 370 (human trafficking), 326A (acid attack), 498A (cruelty by husband and relatives) and 376 (rape), among others. While Delhi topped in several categories of crimes registered, including assault on women, rape and even sexual harassment (with Mumbai coming second), the state capital recorded the highest instances of stalking and human trafficking among all cities. However, while Mumbai recorded the most incidences of stalking, Hyderabad had the highest crime rate in this category. Crime rate is calculated per lakh of population. In cases of cybercrime related to women, Mumbai with 58 cases ranked third, coming after Bengaluru which recorded 63 cases last year and Chennai, which recorded 40 such instances. In 2018 Delhi had recorded 11,724 crimes against women compared to 6,058 cases in Mumbai. In 2019 the number of cases in Delhi increased to 12,902, whereas the cases in Mumbai had dropped to almost half of it - 6,519. Last year Mumbai reported 332 rape cases (sexual assault on women above the age of 18 years), as compared to 967 in Delhi. Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said the drop in crimes in 2020 in comparison with 2019 could be majorly attributed to the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 outbreak. He said, “Due to lockdown, 2020 saw a decline in cases of crime.”Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu said, “Mumbai enjoys the reputation of being a safe city for women. The Mumbai Police has always been sensitive to crimes against women and children. All the recent developments in the law regarding crimes against women and children, especially in the past nine-10 years, are implemented seriously.”In order to improve women’s safety in Mumbai, the Mumbai Police is undertaking a new initiative in the form of Nirbhaya squads. “There will be one Nirbhaya squad for each police station, manned by a female officer of the rank of assistant police inspector or police sub inspector and assisted by two constables and a driver with dedicated vehicle. Nirbhaya squads will identify and patrol hotspots in their jurisdiction that may be prone to incidences of crime against women. Errant persons will be brought to book,” the IPS officer said.Nirbhaya squads will also undertake public awareness campaigns by visiting schools, colleges and other establishments.Nagrale said, “The Mumbai Police has taken a slew of measures to prevent crimes against women and children in the city and provide them a safer environment. Some of these measures are intensifying patrolling in crowded as well as deserted places, taking stern preventive actions against habitual criminals to keep effective check on them, covering maximum areas of the city with the help of CCTV cameras, creating awareness among school and college students, making citizens more vigilant and alert with the best use of social media, early detection of cases of crimes against women, and carrying out quality investigation to ensure convictions, etc.”The pendency of caseload sent to courts also indicated a heavy burden on the judiciary in all metropolitan cities. In Mumbai, 22,368 cases pertaining to crimes against women were pending trial from the previous year to which 2,895 were added in 2020. The total cases pending trial in Delhi was 61,648. Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Pune and Lucknow also had a high judicial pendency. The pendency percentage in the state capital was 97.8, in Delhi, it was 98. Lucknow, Surat, Patna and even Nagpur had higher pendency percentages. Last year, both Delhi and Mumbai recorded maximum number of offences under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012. In 2020, Mumbai reported 950 cases under the Pocso Act — essentially cases of sexual assault on children, boys and girls below 18 years of age. In 2019, the Mumbai Police had registered 1,319 cases. While the corresponding figure for the similar offence in Delhi was 1,662 cases that had involved minor victims in 2019 compared to 1,088 cases in 2020. Delhi and Mumbai are ranked in the top metro cities for reporting the maximum number of cases of crimes against children as well. The NCRB data supports the recent outcry following rape and murder of a Dalit woman in Sakinaka on September 10. The woman was sexually assaulted and brutalised by the arrested accused by inserted a rod in her body. Following this, the Mumbai police decided to form “Nirbhaya Squads” in police stations across the city, which would be tasked with patrolling duty. Each squad would have a lady sub-inspector, a woman constable, a male constable and a driver. Every police station in Mumbai has five patrolling mobile teams. The squad is tasked with preventing incidents of harassment and crimes against women and children. Activist lawyer Abha Singh, however, felt that the numbers did not reflect the correct picture. “Many women do not report crimes or abuse on them as they are scared to approach the police due to police corruption,” said advocate Singh. “The ones that do register the crime have to wait for a long time for justice. Moreover, conviction rate is low and the criminal knows that he would get away due to shoddy police work. And as there is no victim protection program in Maharashtra, identities of the victims are revealed, resulting in many of them turning hostile in the due course of the trial, leaving the accused to be in acquitted,” she added. Singh also said that policing in Maharashtra is poor. “The Sakinaka rape victim apparently kept screaming but the police reached the scene only after the crime was committed. The police should not just investigate, but should also be able to prevent a crime from happening. A comprehensive women’s protection program should be in place,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ranks-second-among-19-metros-in-crimes-against-women-101631731380150.html
16-09-2021||Pune||Collector orders probe into ₹200 crore forest land scam in Hadapsar||PUNE Rajesh Deshmukh, district collector, has ordered a probe into the ₹200 crore forest land scam in Hadapsar, wherein 18 acres of prime urban forest land was deserved for sale on the open market. As per the directions of the District Collector, an SDO (sub-divisional officer) has been instructed to conduct the inquiry which will be completed in two weeks.The matter came to light after the forest department objected to the civil transfer of the land and informed the collector about the incident. Later a complaint was lodged by the revenue department officials against Hadapsar resident Popat Pandurang Shitkal, who has been named in the FIR lodged by the Vishrambaug police station. Shitkarlhas been accused of furnishing bogus documents to process his deed. According to the forest department, the accused Shitkal had allegedly got his name registered on the 7/12 extract by forging the signature of state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president and former revenue minister President Chandrakant Patil.Deshmukhsaid, “The state government has sought a detailed probe and submission of a written report regarding the case. The necessary directions have been issued to us and based on the directives, we have initiated action and a probe is being conducted in the case.” The forest department in its petition stated that the accused had shown an 18-acre plot on survey No. 62 in Hadapsar as his private land which is, in fact, forest land. He unsuccessfully tried to register the said plot in his name. Thereafter he went to High Court wherein the court directed the state government to take an appropriate decision. Meanwhile, his application before the revenue department of the government was rejected by the district collector and the divisional commissioner.Shitkal then approached revenue minister Patil in 2018 who also directed that his application be rejected. But he allegedly forged Patil’s signature and issued a fraudulent gazette notification of transferring the land parcel in his name. The officials at the land records department found it to be bonafide and correct, so they initiated the process of registering his name on the 7/12 extract, the FIR stated.Later, the case was transferred to the forest department where deputy forest officer Rahul Patil ordered a forest committee probe all the papers. The forest department protested that forest land cannot be transferred for civilian use.Trupti Kolte, tehsildar, Haveli, lodged the FIR. “Before 1980, the government had transferred some land in the name of those who had been tilling it for years or those who had been evicted for construction of dams and other projects. However, after 1980, the rules have become stringent and transfer of forest land is not easy,” Deshmukh said.According to the Forest Act, a reserve forest cannot be deserved for civilian/ commercial/ residential use||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/collector-orders-probe-into-200-crore-forest-land-scam-in-hadapsar-101631731323718.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana forms panel to persuade farmers to clear blockade on highways||The Haryana government on Wednesday constituted a state-level high-powered committee headed by additional chief secretary (home) Rajeev Arora to hold talks with the protesting farmers for clearing the blockade at the Kundli-Singhu and Tikri borders.State home minister Anil Vij said the committee has been constituted to comply with the Supreme Court orders to open the passage on the national highways leading to Delhi.He said director general of police PK Agrawal and ADGP (law and order) Navdeep Virk will be a part of the committee. Vij said this committee will hold talks to persuade the Samyukt Kisan Morcha for opening the border in public interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-forms-panel-to-persuade-farmers-to-clear-blockade-on-highways-101631731322216.html
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to amend laws for OBC reservation for local body polls||The Maharashtra government has decided to promulgate an ordinance to make amendment to two legislations to provide reservation to the other backward classes (OBC) in local bodies without breaching the 50% reservation cap mandated by the Supreme Court. The decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. State food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal said the decision was taken in view of the bypolls in six district councils (zilla parishads) declared by the state election commission on October 5. With the move, they will be able to secure 90% seats of the OBC community in the local bodies as in some districts, their seats are going to be reduced, said Bhujbal. He also added that their fight for the OBC reservation in Apex Court will continue. According to an estimation prepared by the state government, of the total 5,200 seats reserved for the OBC community in the state, around 4,500 seats can be saved by bringing the amendment. HT on August 28 reported that the state is likely to bring in an amendment to the legislations to restore OBC reservation in local bodies, without violating the 50% ceiling imposed by the Apex Court. As of now, the state rural development department will issue an ordinance to bring in an amendment to two legislations — Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 and Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act for zilla parishads, panchayat samiti and gram panchayats. A similar ordinance was issued by the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis government on July 31, 2019. The functioning of local bodies in the state is covered with the help of five legislations. The other three are — The Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act and Maharashtra Municipal Councils, Nagar Panchayats and. (iii). Industrial Townships Act. The amendment in the above three acts can be brought by the state urban development department. “The urban development department will bring in the amendments for the other local bodies in the next cabinet meeting and a decision will be taken accordingly,” said a senior minister. “Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and a few other states too have made such an amendment. We also admit that the reservation quota limit of 50% will not be violated while holding the elections of local bodies. The same was also discussed in all-party meetings called by the chief minister twice. However, even after this, seats of the OBC community will dip by 10% to 15% in local bodies,” Bhujbal said after the state cabinet meeting at Sahyadri guest house. The legislation for the local bodies in Maharashtra provides reservation to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities based on their population in those particular bodies. In case of the OBC community, they were getting direct 27% reservation as their population data is not available and their last census was conducted in 1931. Consequently, there are many districts where the combined reservation of all the communities — SC, ST and OBC — exceeds 50% cap. After the new amendment, the SC and ST communities will continue to get the reservation quota based on their population but the OBC community will get the remaining within the 50% ceiling. It means in tribal populated districts such as Palghar and Nandurbar, the OBC community will not get any reservation because their ST community has a sizable population. Tribals come under the Scheduled Tribe (ST) community. On March 4, the Supreme Court ruled that the reservation in favour of the OBC in local bodies should not result in exceeding the 50% cap in reservation quota mandated by it. It has directed the state government to appoint a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data, based on which, the reservation quota of the community be fixed and also allowed the state election commission to hold local bodies polls without having reservations for OBCs. Quota in ST districts The state cabinet on Wednesday revised the reservation in eight Scheduled Tribe-dominated districts for direct recruitment in Class 3 and Class 4 jobs in the districts. Earlier, since the tribal population was high in these areas the quota in jobs given to ST, Vimukta Jati (VJ), Nomadic Tribe (NT), etc was increased, while quota for OBC was reduced. The decision on Wednesday increased quota for OBC in jobs, without hurting the reservation for ST, VJ, NT, etc, state minister Vijay Wadettiwar said. The OBC will get more quota for Class 3 and Class 4 jobs in these districts, including Palghar, Nashik, Dhule, Nandurbar, Yavatmal, Chandrapur, Gadhchiroli, and Raigad, the minister said. The tribal population in the state gets 7% reservation in jobs in Maharashtra, but in these districts were given reservation between 15% and 24% in 2001, an official said. “After Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) or PESA came into force here in 2001, the ST reservation for Class 3 and Class 4 jobs was increased. In that, the quota was reduced only from the OBCs. The stand of the sub-committee was that if reservation is being reduced then it must be done equally for others as well,” said Wadettiwar. “Today, the OBC reservation in Gadhchiroli was increased to 17% from 6%, 19% in Chandrapur from 9%, 15% in Nashik, Nandurbar, Palghar and Dhule,” he said. “The state government took the decision only after BJP held statewide protests,” said Keshav Upadhye, spokesperson of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Earlier during the day the party held protests at Thane, Pune, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Solapur, Jalgaon, Kolhapur and Nashik across the state against the MVA government. It had declared to hold statewide protests at 1,000 places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-amend-laws-for-obc-reservation-for-local-body-polls-101631731320121.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Hindu Rashtra call not causing enmity: Accused in Jantar Mantar hate slogan case||The Delhi high court on Wednesday reserved its order on the bail application of Preet Singh, an accused in the Jantar Mantar hate sloganeering case, even as his counsel argued that demanding a Hindu Rashtra (nation) would not amount to promoting enmity between religious groups in a democratic setup.Arguing for Singh, counsel Vishnu Shankar Jain told Justice Mukta Gupta that he would not press his bail if the court held a contrary opinion.“I say with the greatest sense of responsibility, if the court holds that the demand (of Hindu Rashtra) comes under Section 153 IPC , I will not press my bail application. In a democratic set up, if it (the demand) is promoting enmity, I will not press my bail,” Jain, said for Preet Singh, who was one of the organizers of a march against “colonial laws’ at Jantar Mantar on August 8. “Nothing is said by my client that attracts section 153A IPC. They are filing a case of Section 34 IPC (common intention) but the event ended at 11:45am and sloganeering happened at 3:45pm. My client was not present at the time,” he stated.The court was also informed that the main organiser, lawyer Ashwini Upadhyay, has already been granted bail.Counsel Tarang Srivastava, representing the prosecution, stated that all accused persons acted in concert and Singh’s absence at the time of chanting allegedly communal slogans would not absolve him from any liability.He added that even in his interview, Singh referred to a specific community, which was “part of a series of the same transaction.”“The main organiser and the accused gave a common interview and said statements (attracting) Section 153A IPC. Thereafter, a co-accused gave another interview. Another leads the chants and another uploads a Facebook live. All acted in furtherance of common intention,” said Srivastava. Singh is accused of creating enmity between different groups and inciting the youth to propagate against a particular religion at the rally held at Jantar Mantar on August 8.On August 27, additional sessions judge Anil Antil refused bail to Singh, who was by then arrested in the case by Delhi Police, saying that the right to assemble and freedom to air one’s thoughts are cherished under the Constitution; however, these are not absolute and have to be exercised with inherent reasonable restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hindu-rashtra-call-not-promoting-enemity-accused-in-jantar-mantar-hate-slogan-case-seeks-bail-101631731262030.html
16-09-2021||Other||Old-age pensioners yet to get monthly allowance after merger of banks||Over one lakh elderly people in Haryana are yet to get their monthly old-age Samman allowance amount of ₹2,500 for the last three months after the merger of public-sector banks.As per the department of social justice and empowerment, 17.87 lakh people aged above 60 receive ₹2,500 each per month under the old-age allowance scheme, of which, nearly one lakh people whose bank accounts were merged from Oriental Bank of Commerce into Punjab National Bank and Dena Bank holders with Bank of Baroda are waiting their monthly amount.Chander Devi, 85, of Balyana village in Rohtak, said it is difficult for her to make rounds to the bank to get the monthly sum.“In the last three months, I have visited the bank around seven to eight times and every time I come back empty-handed. This monthly allowance is a allowance for the elderly and we were forced to beg for it. I fear that the government has deducted my name from the pensioners’ list,” she added.Ratni Devi, a resident of Jasaur Kheri village in Jhajjar, whose son Pradeep Deswal fought the 2019 parliamentary election from Rohtak seat on the Jannayak Janata Party’s ticket, is making rounds of banks to get her monthly old-age allowance since the last three months.“The bank officials told us that the government has not deposited old-age allowance money in the account due to some technical issues. We are waiting for our monthly pension of ₹2,500 but neither the administration nor the bank officials paid heed to our demands. The government has promised us to provide a monthly pension in villages but its faulty policies have forced old-age pensioners to make rounds to banks,” she added.Two senior JJP leaders, who wished not to be named, said they will bring the issue into deputy chief minister Dushyant Singh Chautala’s knowledge.“Our party had promised to hike the old-age pension to ₹5,100 per month in our election manifesto. It is our duty to rectify any problem which relates to old-age pensioners,” they added.A senior official of the social justice and empowerment department, pleading anonymity, said more than one lakh elderly people are waiting for their monthly pension of ₹2,500 and they have received many complaints in this regard.Jhajjar social welfare officer Virender Singh said the matter had come into his notice and he has appraised the higher authorities.“The monthly allowance of elderly people is stuck after some banks were merged. These people will get their pending and this month’s pension by September 20,” he added.Rohtak deputy commissioner Captain Manoj Sheoran said he has deployed lead district manager to short out the pension issue of old-age pensioners.“We are hoping that the issue will be resolved soon and the elderly will be able to get their dues,” the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oldage-pensioners-yet-to-get-monthly-allowance-after-merger-of-banks-101631731200187.html
16-09-2021||Other||BJP leaders protest Punjab CM’s remarks||Agitated over Punjab chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh’s remark that farmers should shift their agitation against the three central farm laws either to Haryana or the Delhi borders, BJP leaders from Karnal held a protest.The protesters, led by BJP Karnal chief Yogender Rana, also burnt an effigy of the Punjab CM. They slammed the Congress party and Captain for making such statements and sought his resignation.Addressing the protesters, Rana said the Punjab CM’s statement exposed that he wants to disturb peace in Haryana which is shameful. He demanded that the centre government should impose President’s rule in Punjab.He said the BJP-led central and state governments are committed for economic development of farmers and may schemes have been introduced for their welfare.He said Haryana is the first state in country where the highest price of sugarcane is being given and 11 crops are being procured on MSP in Haryana.Meanwhile, BJP workers, led by Yamunanagar MLA Ghanshyamdas Arora and district chief Rajesh Sapra, protested against the Punjab CM on Ambala-Jagadhri highway and burnt his effigy.Sapra said it is clear that Captain wants to destroy the economy of Haryana.Similar protests took place in Ambala Cantt, the assembly constituency of state home minister Anil Vij.Party’s Sadar Mandal president Rajiv Dimple and VIj’s media coordinator Vijender Chauhan organised a demonstration at the Sadar Chowk of Ambala Cantt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-leaders-protest-punjab-cm-s-remarks-101631731145478.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana commissions 90% of allotted oxygen plants||The Haryana government has commissioned 90% of the pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants allotted by the central government to tackle the fallout of the surge in coronavirus (Covid-19) infection.A health department spokesperson said the state has commissioned 36 PSA plants of the 40 allotted to them and is categorised in the green zone by the central government.The spokesperson said the state government will also set up PSA oxygen plants at the community health centres (CHC). With the availability of oxygen at medical institutions becoming imperative due to the pandemic, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has assured that the PSA plants will be installed at CHC-level as per the allotment made by the Centre, and the remaining institutions will get plants from the state government, the spokesperson said.The state government has set up 36 PSA plants in a span of nine months and every civil hospital has one such plant now, the spokesperson said.The Centre has categorised the country into red, yellow and green zones which is directly proportional to the progress of the installation of PSA plants. The states which have commissioned most of the plants allotted are in the green zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-commissions-90-of-allotted-oxygen-plants-101631731022698.html
16-09-2021||Bangalore||Rahul Gandhi to attend last rites of Oscar Fernandes in Bengaluru||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will visit Bengaluru on Thursday morning to attend the last rites of senior party Oscar Fernandes who passed away earlier this week.The programme is scheduled for Thursday which will begin with paying respect to Fernandes at Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) office. He will also participate in the final blessing at St. Patrick's Church and Burial at Hosur Cemetery scheduled from 3:30 pm onwards.Veteran Congress leader and former Union Minister Oscar Fernandes died at a private hospital in Bengaluru on Monday afternoon.Fernandes was hospitalised in July after suffering a fall at his house while doing his regular exercise. As he was found to have an internal injury, surgery was carried out by doctors. A close confidante of the Gandhi family, Oscar Fernandes had always remained a disciplined party man throughout his political life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/rahul-gandhi-to-attend-last-rites-of-oscar-fernandes-in-bengaluru-101631730539193.html
16-09-2021||Pune||Relocated auto stand at Pune airport has flyers peeved||PUNE: Despite increasing footfall of flyers at the Pune airport, a number of them continue to complain about crowded security check areas and the relocated prepaid auto-rickshaw stand. However, airport authorities claim that the problem is short-term and will be sorted out soon after the airport’s new infrastructure is developed namely, the new terminal in September 2022 and the multilevel car parking in April 2022.Radhika Chadha,tweeted that the Pune airport needs to rethink its infrastructure and queue management systems. “Crowds, confusion, pushing, yelling - it was a fraught experience yesterday (September 12),” she said in her tweet.Another passenger, Abhijit L, tweeted, “The prepaid auto-rickshaw stand has been deactivated on flimsy grounds. I have used rickshaws to and from the airport for at least 15 years. My usual auto driver has requested me to send an email to the Airport Authority of India (AAI) on his behalf.”However, an airport official on condition of anonymity said, “If you look at the problem of overcrowding, it will be resolved once the new terminal is ready. Our staff is managing things neatly. It is only sometime that things become more chaotic otherwise they are very well managed at the airport.”“The prepaid autorickshaw stand was removed from August 15 as it is not in the guidelines. Flyers just have to walk a little more as it has been shifted to the other side of the road. One will not find an auto stand at international airports like Mumbai and Delhi. In Pune, it is still very nearby,” the official said.Meanwhile Vishal Tripathi, who flew in to Pune from Delhi on Tuesday, said, “It is not a problem shifting the auto-rickshaw stand because it is still nearby and one can walk and take the auto. At least we have to walk less at Pune airport than at airports such as Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. I don’t look at it as a big problem.”The autorickshaws are now parked along the new airport road, which runs parallel to the airport building. Airport authorities have not denied auto-rickshaws for dropping flyers.An autorickshaw driver, Sunil S, said, “We should be provided some space like the airport authority has for private company-run cabs.”As per data made available by airport authorities, Pune airport registered the highest traffic in August with 308,602 flyer footfalls recorded. “The number is the highest in 2021 till now. The traffic is expected to increase with the festive season approaching. The weekend rush is more than on weekdays. The facilities that the airport currently has will improve once upcoming projects are completed,” said the official. Airport footfall in the last three monthsActual passengers taking or arriving by flightMonth - number of flyersJune - 133,661July - 218,268August - 308,602||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/relocated-auto-stand-at-pune-airport-has-flyers-peeved-101631730961443.html
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||NCRB data: At 39.7%, Haryana’s chargesheeting rate among worst in country||The chargesheet filing rate of the Haryana Police last year was third from the bottom in country after Meghalaya and Manipur, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report.Even though the combined all-India chargesheeting rate of 28 states pertaining to cases registered under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Special and Local Laws (SLL) stood at 82.5%, Haryana’s cumulative chargesheeting rate in this slot was 39.7%, the Crime in India-2020 data shows.The NCRB has introduced this chargesheeting rate feature in its latest report running over 500-page for the first time, saying it is a “better indicator of police performance”. The chargesheeting rate shows the percentage of total cases police have disposed of.Apart from Haryana, two other worst performing states in this category are Meghalaya (23.8%) and Manipur (23.5%).However, the chargesheeting rate of neighbouring Punjab and Himachal Pradesh in IPC and SLL cases together was 82% and 87.5%, respectively.The data shows that the chargesheeting rate in cases pertaining to crime against women of Haryana was 58%, 49% in crime against children cases and 72% in murder cases.Haryana director general of police (DGP) PK Agrawal was not available for comments.A former Haryana DGP, who wished not to be identified, expressed surprise over “such a low chargesheeting rate” in Haryana.“The case registration rate of Haryana is much better than that of Punjab, but chargesheeting rate going down is puzzling. The reasons must be plenty, apart from the Covid-19 pandemic,” the former DGP said.As per the data, Punjab had registered total 82,875 cases (49,870 cases under the IPC and 33,005 under the SLL in 2020), which was much less than that of Haryana’s total 1.92 lakh cases, indicating that crime in Haryana is on the rise.Dip in IPC casesHaryana saw a marginal dip in the number of cases registered under Sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in 2020 as compared to 2019, even though there has been a sharp rise in the cases registered under the Special and Local Laws (SLL).As many as 1,03,276 cases were registered in Haryana under various Sections of the IPC in the Covid pandemic year of 2020, which is 8,047 less than those reported (1,11,323) in 2019.However, the total cases lodged under the SLL in 2020 stood at 89,119 (34,106 more than 2019) against 55,013 reported in 2019 and 83,017 in 2018.Haryana’s chargesheeting rate in cases lodged under the IPC was 47.4% against all India’s 76%. And this rate in SLL cases of Haryana stood at 30% in comparison to 94% of the country.The NCRB says it only compiled and collated the data received from the states. “Increase in crime numbers in a state police data may in fact be on account of certain citizen-centric police initiatives such as launching of e-FIR facility or women helpdesks, etc,” says the report.The NCRB has said that certain states including Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, have provided citizen-friendly service of online registration of FIR under certain categories of offences such as vehicle theft and other thefts.“As this may have increased the crime reporting under such heads in these states, they become statistically non‐comparable with other states not having such online registration facility,” the NCRB has pointed out.Crime against womenOf total 13,000 cases registered last year (14,683 in 2019) under the crime against women, 1,373 pertained to rape, 251 were dowry deaths and 204 abetment to suicide cases.There were 2,423 cases of kidnapping and abduction and 4,119 cases pertained to cruelty by husband or relatives.The data shows that 5,048 cases of crime against women turned out to be false in the state; in 6,184 cases of 2020 chargesheets were filed; and 7,662 cases were sent for trial.As many as 31,118 cases of crime against women are pending trial in the courts of Haryana where the conviction rate of the crime against women cases was 16% and the cases pendency percentage stood at 97%, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ncrb-data-at-39-7-haryana-s-chargesheeting-rate-among-worst-in-country-101631730900670.html
16-09-2021||Other||Prayagraj airport becomes UP’s 3rd airport to cross million passenger mark||Less than three years since it became operational, the Bamrauli airport in Prayagraj has catered to over a million air passengers, becoming only the third airport in Uttar Pradesh (UP), after Lucknow and Varanasi to achieve this milestone, officials said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated this airport on December 16, 2018, weeks ahead of Kumbh-2019 but the new terminal was opened for passengers only on January 1, 2019. Since then, till September 13 this year, the airport has catered to 10,05,955 passengers. During this period, more than 12,000 flights operated from the airport including flights of private chartered planes along with the major air service providers. “The first wave of Covid lockdown from March 25 to May 24, 2020, hit flight operations. Covid second wave also witnessed relatively fewer flights in the month of May and June. Had the pandemic not occurred, the airport could have achieved the feat of crossing the mark of 10 lakh passengers eventually reached on September 8 in January itself,” officials said. By August 31, the number of passengers travelling by air through the airport had touched 9.91 lakh and by September 7, the number reached 9,99,407 eventually crossing the 10 lakh mark on September 8. Till September 13, the total passenger movement at Prayagraj Airport had touched 10.05 lakh, a senior Prayagraj airport official said. Eleven flights are available from Prayagraj airport to 10 different cities. Flight to Delhi and Bilaspur is being operated by Air India’s Alliance Air. Private airline Indigo is operating direct flights for Bangalore, Pune, Raipur, Gorakhpur, Delhi, Mumbai, Dehradun, Bhopal and Bhubaneshwar. “It was the dream of our PM that every common man should be able to afford air travel and the state government is fulfilling his dream. Till 2017, only 25 flights were operating from four airports in the state. Now, 73 flights are being operated regularly from eight airports of UP including Prayagraj. Soon Jewar, Ayodhya, Chitrakoot, Aligarh and Moradabad airports will also be included in the air service map”, said state minister of civil aviation Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’. Photo Caption: Prayagraj airport at Bamrauli (HT File Photo)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-airport-becomes-up-s-3rd-airport-to-cross-million-passenger-mark-101631730783171.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt opposes plea by restaurants seeking nod to serve herbal hookah||The Delhi government on Wednesday opposed a plea by several restaurants and bars urging the Delhi high court to direct the city government and the police to not interfere with the sale of herbal flavoured hookahs or take coercive steps against them.Delhi government standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi said the use of hookah, be it with or without tobacco, in all public places, including hotels, restaurants, eateries, bars, pubs and discotheques, in the national capital is strictly prohibited as use or sharing of hookah may further increase spread of Covid-19.He submitted that on August 3, 2020, an order was passed by the health department which has observed that in public places, use and sharing of hookah with or without tobacco (herbal hookah) may further increase spread of coronavirus infection.Justice Rekha Palli listed the matter for further hearing to September 20 as the counsel for petitioner restaurants and bars said he would file an additional affidavit.“They (Delhi government) have a problem with shared hookah which could lead to spread of Covid-19. If 40 people are using 10 hookahs, it is a problem,” the court said, adding that this is an entirely different situation.Senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, representing the petitioner entities, said as long as restaurants undertake not to use nicotine in hookah, they cannot be prohibited from carrying out their businesses.Separate petitions were filed by Breath Fine Lounge and Bar, TOS, R High Speedbar and Lounge, Verandah Moonshine and Sixth Empirica Lounge in west Punjabi Bagh, challenging the order of joint commissioner of police (licensing unit) prohibiting and excluding the sale or service of herbal flavoured hookahs in restaurants/ bars.The pleas said the petitioners are serving herbal hookahs for which no licence is required as they are totally without tobacco but the police are still conducting searches and seizing equipment and fining establishments.It pointed out that the definition of “smoking” under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA), does not cover herbal flavoured hookahs and asked the court to direct the authorities not to take any extreme step such as suspension or cancellation of registration certificate of petitioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-opposes-plea-by-restaurants-seeking-nod-to-serve-herbal-hookah-101631730725650.html
16-09-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar promises to implement 7th pay commission for 17,000 PMC employees||PUNE: Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar has promised to implement the 7th pay commission foor the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) employees and officers very soon, and is hoping for a decision in the coming week. “As employees are working for the better of the city, the government will definitely consider their demand,” Pawar said.Representatives of the PMC employees’ union and officers’ union met Pawar in Mumbai along with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) city unit president Prashant Jagtap and opposition leader Deepali Dhumal. Pawar, who is also the state finance minister, promised the employees that the state government will give its nod within a week.The general body of the PMC has already given the green signal to the proposal which now requires the state government’s sanction. A total 17,000 employees working with the PMC will get the benefits of the seventh pay commission. Employees of the central and state governments got the pay commission from January 1, 2016. If PMC employees get pay commission, they will also get the arrears from 2016. The PMC will need to bear the arrears’ burden which is more than Rs500 crore.As per PMC statistics, there are 91 class one; 448 class 2; 4,262 class three; and more than 13,000 class four employees in the municipal corporation. All parties have agreed to giving the pay commission to employees and approving the resolution unanimously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ajit-pawar-promises-to-implement-7th-pay-commission-for-17-000-pmc-employees-101631730720431.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||‘City of cars’ Delhi reports maximum vehicle thefts, 95 stolen everyday: NCRB||At least 95 vehicles were stolen every day last year in the national capital, the maximum across all states and Union Territories, according to the National Crime Records Bureau’s latest report.According to the report, Crime in India, which was released on Tuesday, last year Delhi reported 35,019 cases of vehicle thefts. The rate of the crime, case per million population, at 17.2 was also the highest in Delhi.Maharashtra was second on the list with 21,203 cases at a rate of 1.7. However, in terms of crime rate, Haryana was second on the list with 5.0, though it reported 14,636 cases. In absolute numbers, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan reported 19,019 and 19,063 cases.Delhi reported the highest cases in this crime category in 2019 too with 46,725 vehicles stolen that year.The crime rate that year was 23.1, also the highest among states and union territories. In 2019, Delhi was followed by Uttar Pradesh at 28,417 cases and Maharashtra with 25,780 thefts.Cars and two-wheelers are the most common items stolen across the city after mobile phones (at least 175 mobile phones were stolen every day in Delhi between January and February 2017, the Union government had told the Lok Sabha that year).Delhi Police data shows that, in the last 10 years (between 2011 and 2020), a total of 307,000 vehicles were stolen in the Capital.This number is more than the number of registered vehicles in all of Srinagar on March 31, 2017 (according to a report mentioned in the road transport year book 2016-17 of the ministry of road transport and highways).According to the Delhi Economic Survey report, there were 11.8 million motorised vehicles in Delhi as of March 31, 2020. Cars and jeeps make around 28% of the total registered vehicles, and two-wheelers about 67%.Delhi Police officers say that vehicle thefts constitute about 14% of all the crimes in the city. Even during the first hard lockdown, which restricted the movement of people, about 83 vehicles (more than three an hour) were stolen every day in Delhi between March 15 and 30, 2020.Retired Delhi Police’s deputy commissioner LN Rao, who worked in the force for over three decades, attributed the reasons for the high number of motor vehicle thefts to a number of factors such as – organised gangs spread across different states, high volume of cars in Delhi and lack of parking space and carelessness of several vehicle owners.Rao said, “There are too many cars and no proper space to park. People park their vehicles on roads and footpaths. The network of vehicles thieves is spread across different states, where the stolen vehicle are sold or dismantled. There is a lucrative market for stolen vehicles. Also, solving vehicle thefts is not a priority for most police officers on the ground because the owners also do not pursue the case since they get insurance. However, since the number of cases have been so high, it has remained a focus for the Delhi Police. The police have busted several inter-state rackets but the situation is different in other states.”Delhi Police have traced stolen vehicles and pursued gangs to as far as Nagaland and Sikkim. Two months ago, police busted a gang that stole vehicles in Delhi and sold it in Kashmir. Investigation showed that the gang had stolen at least 100 vehicles since 2015.Delhi police spokesperson, Chinmoy Biswal, said they have launched a persistent crackdown on gangs of vehicle thieves.“Our teams at the police stations level, the crime branch and other units have launched a crackdown on vehicle thieves. This is the reason why we have busted many gangs and recovered large number of stolen vehicles from different states. The number of cases is peculiarly high in Delhi also because the city has the maximum number of vehicles.”Biswal added, “Our police teams also work with RWAs to lock specific gates of a colony at night so the entry/ exits are restricted and monitored by the beat staff and security guards. While we are working round the clock to arrest vehicle thieves, we request citizens not park vehicles or two wheelers in safer places, check the lock and follow basic security practices. Also, citizens in Delhi have the facility of registering online FIRs for car thefts. Unlike other places, this is a free and fair registration system that may have also led to higher number of cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/city-of-cars-delhi-reports-maximum-vehicle-thefts-95-stolen-everyday-ncrb-report-101631730601005.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Ramping up existing bus services crucial for affordable transportation: Experts||While the Metro rail network is gradually expanding in the country, transport experts say there is a need to ramp up existing bus services in Indian cities to provide an affordable mode of transportation. To do this, a Public Private Partnership (PPP) model can help make up for the deficit of 130,000 (approximately) buses in urban areas and provide efficient service.“Metros are not the only solution to India’s transportation demand. Buses are not seen as attractive. While India has a successful model to develop and deliver capital infrastructure for roads and Metros, a successful and scalable service delivery model, which forms the basis of the public bus service, is missing,” Shashi Verma, director of strategy and Chief Technology Officer, Transport for London, said at World Resources Institute-India’s (WRI India) Connect Karo-2021 event on Wednesday.The five-day conference seeks to highlight ways and the need for making cities inclusive and resilient, have access to water, sanitation, hygiene and healthy spaces. Hindustan Times is the media partner of the conference.Verma said that if cities developed a bus lane or BRTS, then they need to “flood these lanes” with buses and improve the quality of bus services. He cited the case of London where bus routes are planned in such a way that buses are available almost every minute.For this, running bus services on the PPP model is a step forward. OP Agarwal, CEO, WRI India, said, “We must change the narrative from delivering low quality services for those who have no other option but to use the bus. It should be an option for those using private modes of transport as well, and I think PPP is a critical instrument to get there.”In a bid to strengthen the bus service network in smaller cities, the ministry of housing and urban affairs is launching a scheme to support cities to procure buses. “The PPP model offers state transport undertakings (STUs) an opportunity to achieve improved efficiency at a lower initial cost….(Under the scheme) the funding will be offered over a longer period too, so cities can leverage the funding for the PPP model and bring down costs. The bus funding scheme will also help smaller cities adopt public bus services and improve bus operations,” said Surendra Bagde, additional secretary, ministry of housing and urban affairs.According to private bus service providers, delay in payments is a major issue. Prasanna Patwardhan, chairman and managing director of Prasanna Purple, a private bus service provider, said “There is a delay in payments from some STUs. As a result, it is difficult for us to manage monthly bank payments. Timely dispute resolution is very important.”Transport experts agree that dispute resolution is critical for a successful PPP bus system. “Setting up an arbitration panel or a regulatory authority that clears these payments will play a huge role in promoting PPP success,” said Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ramping-up-existing-bus-services-crucial-to-provide-affordable-transportation-say-experts-101631730360134.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||3,770 minors kidnapped in Delhi, number of those traced higher: NCRB report||In August, police stations across the city received a notice from the police headquarters about a new scheme in the force that promised quick promotions to constables and head constables who find missing children. The initiative was aimed at reversing the trend of children going missing from the streets of the national capital every day.According to the National Crime Records Bureau’s latest data for 2020, Delhi reported 3,770 minors (aged below 18) being kidnapped or abducted -- the highest across 19 metropolitan cities with a population of more than two million.Bengaluru reported 654 such cases and Kolkata 266. The number of such cases in Mumbai and Chennai was 1,150 and 14 respectively, according to the NCRB report that was released on Tuesday.To be sure, the NCRB has said that the comparison of crime rate of kidnapping or missing children among cities was not possible because there was no data available on the population of minors in the 19 cities that were analysed.According to the age-wise break up of Delhi data, 69 cases involved children below the age of six. The number of cases registered in the age bracket of 6-12 and 12-16 stood at 368 and 1,929 respectively. Around 1,404 cases involved minors in the age group of 16-18 years. Gender-wise, most victims were girls. A total of 2,749 girls were kidnapped and 1,021 victims were boys, according to the data.According to Delhi Police data, between January 1 and December 31, 2019, 5412 children were reported missing, of which 3336 were traced --a recovery rate of 61.64 %.In 2020, at least 4297 children were reported missing, while 4052 were recovered – a recovery rate of 94.29 % and an improvement of 32.65 percentage points compared to 2019.These cases included those in which kidnapping/abduction cases were registered and those in cases were not registered, but children were reported missing.Delhi’s problem of children getting kidnapped and lured to other cities was best seen after a woman head constable Seema Dhaka, became the first cop to win an out of turn promotion for tracing 76 children. Dhaka had found “children missing in Delhi police records” to places in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. In one case, she had found a 15-year-old girl, who was kidnapped and forcibly married in Assam.Explaining the reasons for the high number of cases increased Sanjay Gupta, director of NGO Chetna (childhood enhancement through training and action), said that the attention of authorities was directed towards covid-related concerns and compliance of norms due to which the number of cases could have possibly increased.“Also, while it will be difficult to state the areas from where the children might have gone missing, in my estimation, a significant number of children often go missing from slum areas. In cities like Delhi, both parents are often working due to which they are unable to give significant time and attention to children,” Gupta said.He said that the lack of resources among the economically weaker section of the society was also a factor due to which many times, they could not get their complaints registered timely. “People who are well-off are able to divert time and resources and exert pressure on the police. Whereas, when a poor family’s child goes missing, no one knows if the child will be traced or not,” said Gupta.A senior crime branch officer, who asked not to be named, said, “Finding missing children is a priority with or without any incentive. We have what we call Operation Milaap, where we try to find missing children and connect them with their families. Our teams visit different shelter homes and find missing children. No one is neglected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3770-minors-kidnapped-in-delhi-number-of-those-traced-higher-ncrb-report-101631730301240.html
16-09-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow’s Lok Bhawan: 2 held for entering sans passes, CM stresses on strengthening security||A major security breach at Lok Bhawan was averted when a security personnel held two suspected men trying to enter the Lok Bhawan premises while posing as representatives of a MP on Tuesday, said senior police officials on Wednesday.The officials said that the two accused were later arrested by the Lucknow police after registering a case of breach of security at the Hazratganj police station on Wednesday.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday stressed on strengthening security system at Lok Bhawan and other VIP installations. He even asked senior officials to mull over handing over the security of VIP installations to UP Special Security Force. Inspector in-charge of Hazratganj, Anil Singh, said that the accused, identified as Pankaj Gupta and Mazhar Azid Farooqi, tried to enter the Lok Bhawan while claiming to be representatives of MP from Mohanlalganj constituency, Kaushal Kishore. He said the accused are said to be residents of Lucknow and their intention of entering the building is not clear.He said the accused were not carrying passes essential for entering the premises. He said an FIR under relevant sections was lodged against them at the Hazratganj police station on the complaint of the reserve inspector (RI) of Lok Bhawan.Recently, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had also expressed concern over security issues after a personal secretary shot himself inside his office in Bapu Bhawan. A high-powered committee has been formed to review security arrangements of buildings in the secretariat complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknows-lok-bhawan-2-held-for-entering-sans-passes-cm-stresses-on-strengthening-security-101631729819931.html
16-09-2021||Kolkata||‘Complete lie’: BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal to EC on notice on Covid norm violation||Following the notice sent by the Election Commission for her alleged violation of Covid-19 norms during the nomination, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Priyanka Tibrewal has issued her reply and quashed the blame as a “complete lie".“I have given my reply to the Election Commission. In the notice, they have alleged that I did not follow the methods and Covid-19 rules of the Election Commission during the time of my nomination but this is a complete lie,” she told news agency ANI.She said that she only participated in a ‘kirtan’ that was organised not by her, but by the locals. “They (EC) said a number of cars were following me for nomination, but I cannot stop the general public vehicles as the chief minister does,” Tibrewal was quoted as saying.The vice president of West Bengal BJP’s youth wing further claimed that Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee has made the “complaint to harass” the former. Tibrewal said that the complaint was made as she had “challenged” Banerjee’s nomination. “It doesn’t matter as they won’t be able to prove anything because I didn’t do anything,” the BJP candidate told ANI.Earlier in the day, the returning officer of the Bhabanipur constituency sent a notice to Tibrewal, seeking her reply on why her future campaigns for the upcoming bypolls should not be stopped. The lawyer was given time till 5pm to respond to the notice.Tibrewal filed her nomination on September 13, three days after Banerjee. After filing the nomination, the BJP candidate said that her fight would be “against injustice” and for the “people of West Bengal.”The voting for Bhabanipur bypolls will take place on September 30, and the counting of the votes and declaration of results will be held on October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/complete-lie-bjp-s-priyanka-tibrewal-replies-to-ec-notice-on-covid-violation-101631728906179.html
16-09-2021||Pune||Dabholkar murder case: Court frames charges against 5 accused||A special court in Pune, on Wednesday, framed charges against five accused in the murder case of Narendra Dabholkar, after all of them pleaded not guilty.While four will be tried for murder, criminal conspiracy, and terrorism, one will be tried for destruction of evidence.Additional Sessions Judge SR Navandar (special judge for UAPA cases) asked the five accused – Virendra Sinh Tawde, Sachin Andure, Sharad Kalaskar, Sanjeev Punalekar and Vikram Bhave – if they pleaded guilty, to which all replied in the negative.With charges framed against these accused, a criminal trial can now begin.Tawade appeared from Yerawada Central Jail via video conference. Andure appeared from Aurangabad jail and Kalaskar, appeared from Arthur Road jail in Mumbai, also via video conference. The two others - Vikram Bhave and advocate Sanjeev Punalekar, who are currently out on bail, were present in court.Narendra Dabholkar, a rationalist who was against superstition, was on a walk on the morning of August 20, 2013, near Omkareshwar bridge in Pune when two bike-borne men shot him. In the initial chargesheet filed by the Central bureau of investigation (CBI), who took over the investigation from the state police, Sarang Akolkar and Vinay Pawar were identified as the shooters. In a second chargesheet filed by the CBI, Andure and Kalaskar were identified as shooters.In both the chargesheets Tawade was found to be the main conspirator. Bhave was accused of helping the two shooters with the reconnaissance, vehicles, and escape route.Punalekar was found to have advised one of the shooters to dispose of the weapon, after which Kalaskar allegedly threw parts of the weapons in the Thane creek. This information was provided by Kalaskar to the Karnataka police special investigation team (SIT) investigating the 2017 Gauri Lankesh murder in Bengaluru, Karnataka.“As trial has begun, it would be appropriate that the accused are lodged in the nearest jail i.e., Yerawada Central Jail. The transfer should be done immediately. The SP of Yerawada Central Jail should facilitate the transfer. One week transit time will be allowed,” said Judge Navandar.“The charges have been framed and the further proceedings will take place starting September 30,” said special public prosecutor Prakash Suryavanshi.“We request you to please have them be physically present as we are not able to take confidential orders from the client,” said advocate Prakash Shalsingikar, who was appearing for Andure. Kalaskar also expressed his desire to appear in court.“Five years have passed because of requests of CBI as they had first asked for intervention of Scotland Yard and then by FSL Gandhinagar, Gujarat. And now neither of those things have happened and five years have passed by,” said advocate Virendra Ichalkaranjikar, representing Kalaskar and Tawade.The three accused lodged in different jails have all expressed anguish about being allegedly kept in the dark about the court proceedings. The court order on September 7, which gave time for the accused to contact family and lawyers, was only worked upon in the last 24 hours, according to two of the accused. Additionally, the discharge applications for Bhave and Punalekar are pending.Kalaskar and Andure have also been named in the 2017 murder of journalist Gauri Lankesh. Kalaskar was also found to have been involved in the August 2018 Nalasopara arms haul by the Maharashtra Anti-terrorism squad. Bhave has been convicted in a bomb blast case for possession of explosives.The CBI has also alleged a larger conspiracy by the Sanatan Sanstha, to which all the present accused belong, to kill Dabholkar, Lankesh, and scholar MM Kalburgi in Dharwad, Karnataka in August 2015.Trial location restrictions due to Covid19- The court has kept options open for the mode of trial.- All the jailed accused will be brought to Yerawada Central jail.- The judge may go to the jail premises…. or- Accused will appear through video conferencing… or- Accused will be physically produced in court.Framing of charges delayed at hearings in past 2 months- On September 3, for demand of Gujarat FSL- On Setpember 7, accused asked for time to meet with family and lawyers- On September 15, accused said meeting was scheduled late so more time was required for discussion* The judge refused requests by all accused and their lawyer for an extension||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dabholkar-murder-case-court-frames-charges-against-5-accused-101631729340378.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||NCRB data: In Delhi, A long way to go for women’s safety||While crimes against women in Delhi declined by 24.65% in 2020 as compared to 2019, possibly on account of the Covid-19 pandemic that kept people mostly indoors last year, the national capital still topped the Union Territories (UTs) in the number of rapes reported, showed the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report released on Tuesday.
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cancellation/untraced reports filed in 23 cases against 8: Haryana to HC||A report filed by the Haryana Police in the Punjab and Haryana high court has revealed that the state police has filed either cancellation or untraced reports in 23 criminal cases registered against eight sitting or former MLAs this year.Untraced reports have been filed in 15 FIRs against Sukhbir Kataria, a former MLA, and one FIR each against former MLA Karan Dalal and Palwal BJP MLA Deepak Mangla.The affidavit states that cancellation reports have been filed in one FIR against Congress MLA Rao Dan Singh, former Guhla MLA Kulwant; two FIRs against Meham MLA Balraj Kundu, and one FIR each against former Meham MLA Balbir, former Congress minister Manish Grover and Daulatabad MLA Rakesh.The report was submitted before the bench of justice Rajan Gupta and justice Karamjit Singh during resumed hearing of a suo motu plea in which upon the Supreme Court’s directions, the high court is monitoring criminal cases against MLAs and MPs.The affidavit filed by Sanjay Kumar, inspector general of police, administration and law and order, Haryana, Panchkula says in the 44 criminal cases pending against MLAs and MPs so far, investigation has been completed in 30 cases.Of these 30 cases, challans have been submitted before trial courts concerned in seven cases. These include five challans against former MLA Sukhbir Kataria and one each against former MLA Umesh Aggarwal and Rakesh.In seven cases, cancellation reports have been submitted and in 16 cases, untraced reports have been filed. Of the 16 cases, 15 are against former MLA Sukhbir Kataria.The court was also told that the number of criminal cases pending in the state is now at 47 as three more cases have come to light against one sitting MLA and two against a former MLA. Hence, after including above three cases, 17 cases against sitting or former MPs or MLAs in total are under investigation. In 47 cases, allegations are against 23 MLAs and MPs.The court was also informed that in those cases where stay is operating, applications for vacation of stay are being filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/reports-filed-in-23-cases-against-8-ex-present-mlas-haryana-to-hc-101631729040076.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Among 19 metro cities, crime rate in Delhi highest in 2020||For the second consecutive year in 2020, Delhi reported the maximum crime rate among 19 metropolitan cities with more than 2 million population, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau report.
16-09-2021||Delhi||2-day conclave to explore role of tech in transforming education in India||With the Covid-19 pandemic leading to the physical closure of educational institutes, it has become imperative to reimagine learning and align it with the innovations in digital education in the country. In line with the same goal, policymakers and thought leaders across a wide spectrum are coming together for a two-day conclave starting from Thursday, where they will delve into the role technology can play in transforming education in India.Organised by Hindustan Times, the Lenovo Smarter Ed Conclave will centre on the theme: Smarter Technology - The New Order of Education. It will bring together thought leaders, policymakers, educators and industry experts, who will drive conversations on the future of learning and education amid a proliferation of technological innovations. The two-day conclave will touch upon the three key areas of the education sector – technology advancements in education, digital inequality, and reskilling or upskilling of the educator workforce. It will put the spotlight on the new education policy, digital divide, technology developments in education, teacher upskilling, and encourage interaction with tech decision-makers across school and higher education institutes. Those interested in attending the virtual conference can visit https://lenovosmarteredconclave.virtualeventexp.com/or scan the QR code below.The conclave will begin with the address of Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who will speak on the National Education Policy 2020 and the role of technology in the future of education. While the managing director of Lenovo India, Shailendra Katyal, will share insights on how technology can help in bridging the digital divide, Rajeev Chandrashekhar, the minister of state for skill development, will talk about the importance of skill education and how it can be attained in the coming years. On the second day of the conclave on Friday, IT minister Dr Chikkakalya Narayanappa Ashwath Narayan and education secretary Amit Khare will share their insights along with a line up of educators and experts. The conclave will cover an entire gamut of issues that are pertinent to the adoption of technology in education including concerns around the emerging digital inequality and exclusion. Experts and stakeholders will also discuss the lack of infrastructure in rural India, address the gender bias in households, digital readiness of government educational institutes while offering solutions through which communities can play their part in bridging these gaps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2day-conclave-to-explore-role-of-tech-in-transforming-education-in-india-101631727660290.html
16-09-2021||Pune||State govt asks Pune, other districts to bridge gender gap in Covid vaccination||The state health department has asked district health officials to take measures to reduce the gender gap in the Covid-19 vaccination drive as multiple districts, including Pune and Mumbai have reported a much higher gap than the state average of eight per cent as of September 8.The districts with higher vaccination gender gap are Raigad (15%), Mumbai (14%), Aurangabad (12%), Pune (11%), Ahmednagar (10%), Nashik (10%), Thane (10%), Palghar (10%) and Solapur (9%).As of September 8, 35.53 million men (54%) have got the vaccine as compared to 30.03 million women (46%) in the state. The gap is even more among the third gender as only 12,047 people or 0.2% in the third gender category have got the vaccine in the last nine months since the vaccination drive began in Maharashtra.Lack of access to the vaccine and hesitancy are some of the problems leading to the vaccine gender gap between men and women, say experts.Dr Archana Salve, a gynaecologist with Pune based Apollo Hospital, said, “Many women patients come to me when they are pregnant, lactating or even those who are trying to get pregnant. There is a certain misconception among these women that the vaccine may have a negative impact on their fertility or milk production. The government has repeatedly said that the vaccine is completely safe for everyone to take.”“Some women are sceptical of taking the vaccine during their menstrual cycle and so they delay taking the vaccine,” she said.“Also, while most men take it because it has been made mandatory for work purposes, women who are housewives do not have it mandatory as such to take the vaccine,” she said.Another primary reason for fever women beneficiaries is the fact that women give second priority to their own health over their families health.Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer, PMC, said, “Women always wait until the last moment when their family members get their vaccines. They keep delaying it.”“The perception that vaccines could lead to side effects like fever and body pain which would delay their household chores for a day or two and so we sometimes have to force them to take another vaccine if one is causing more side effects. Until all the men in the house get vaccinated and the women are assured that the family would not suffer due to after effect following immunisation (AEFI), women would continue to remain out of the vaccination drive,” she said.Only two districts in the state - Bhandara and Gondia - have seen more women being inoculated than men with a negative difference of -1% and -2% respectively.The two districts have a higher tribal population compared to the rest of the districts in the state while metropolitan districts like Mumbai and Pune have seen a wider gap among women and men beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-govt-asks-pune-other-districts-to-bridge-gender-gap-in-covid-vaccination-101631719918282.html
16-09-2021||Pune||10,745 ticketless travellers fined ₹43.82 lakh by Pune railways in August||The Pune railway division has fined 10,745 persons for travelling on a train without a ticket in August this year. The overall fine collected from these passengers is ₹43.82 lakh. On the other hand, 217 passengers were fined a total of ₹27,000 for transporting luggage not booked with the railways. “Ticket checkers on the train and on platforms check passengers and action is taken. Between April and August month this year, a total of 38,491 passengers were found travelling without a ticket. Our appeal to all passengers is to please travel by buying a ticket or face action,” said Manoj Jhawar, spokesperson, Pune railway division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/10745-ticketless-travellers-fined-43-82-lakh-by-pune-rlys-in-aug-101631719018119.html
16-09-2021||Pune||3,998 seats vacant under RTE in Pune district||As the admission process under the Right to Education (RTE) act enters its last leg, Pune district has 3,998 seats vacant at the entry level. Officials and parents have noted that a delay in the admission process and a delay to the start of the academic year, are the primary reasons seats are vacant. As per the Primary education department, there are 35,011 vacant seats in the state. Under RTE, private schools have to admit 25 per cent of students at the entry level, which is pre-school and Class 1. These students are selected by a lottery system and their education is free of cost. These 25 per cent of seats are reserved for students from economically backward sections. As per the RTE admission portal, a total of 985 schools have registered under RTE in Pune district. For these schools, there are a total of 14,773 seats available. Of these, 10,775 parents have sought admission and 3,998 seats are still vacant. Speaking about vacant seats, Pune-based education activist and spokesperson of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Pune unit, Mukund Kirdat, said that due to the pandemic many parents are also out of station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3998-seats-vacant-under-rte-in-pune-district-101631718898086.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Lt-Governor asks NTPC to ready Eco Park in Badarpur by 2022||Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Wednesday reviewed the progress of the Eco Park at Badarpur, which is being developed by National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). The L-G has asked NTPC to complete the project by 2022, which is the proposed deadline for the project.Delhi L-G office tweeted, “NTPC presented activity wise timelines for the project along with the physical progress of the work. While appreciating the work done so far, advised officials from NTPC to ensure implementation of the project as per laid down timelines. VC, DDA was advised to facilitate coordination between NTPC and the other Departments/ Agencies for timely completion of the project.”The project, officials said, was conceptualised in 2017 by the L-G after a visit to the ash dykes of the NTPC. In 2018, the thermal power plant at Badarpur was closed and the work to redevelop the site began in 2019.Spread over 885 acres, it is going to be one of India’s biggest parks with provisions for a jungle safari, a zoo, a golf course, boating facilities, etc.Large-scale plantation will be done on the periphery of the park. “Once completed, the project is expected to bring about an unprecedented change in the Capital’s landscape. It will serve as a ‘getaway’ destination for the people of Delhi and neighbouring areas,” said an official aware of the development.The L-G has also advised NTPC to explore the economic viability of the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lt-governor-asks-ntpc-to-ready-eco-park-in-badarpur-by-2022-101631713198149.html
16-09-2021||Lucknow||‘Could be anyone’s daughter’: Allahabad high court’s grim message to UP cops||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Wednesday expressed its displeasure at the Uttar Pradesh police’s handling of the 2019 death of a 16-year-old girl in Mainpuri, telling the police brass present in the court that the girl came from a poor family but the “administration must not forget it could be anyone’s daughter”.The teenager was found hanging in her school on September 16, 2019. Her family alleged that she was sexually assaulted and killed. The case, initially handled by the Mainpuri police, was later handed over to a special investigation team (SIT). Public interest litigation filed in the high court, however, accused the police of trying to protect the accused.At a hearing on Tuesday, the bench comprising acting chief justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and justice AK Ojha ordered Uttar Pradesh police chief Mukul Goel to be present in the court. The judges, who took up the case on Wednesday, scheduled another hearing on Thursday morning and ordered the UP director general of police (DGP) to go through the records of the case and apprise the bench of the matter.“We take such matters very seriously. Don’t think that she was a poor man’s daughter, she was the nation’s daughter. The investigation was transferred from the police to SIT but SIT also did nothing to ensure fair investigation that’s why the petitioner had to approach this court,” the bench said.The judges pointed out that the police did not interrogate the accused for almost three months after lodging the First Information Report (FIR). Turning to the UP DGP, the court asked, “In the normal course, how do police investigate such cases?”“We hope that good sense prevails and appropriate action is taken against the erring officers who neither interrogated the matter properly nor collected the medical evidence and sent it to the forensic lab within time,” the bench added.“Despite the seriousness shown by the court to the case and the manner of the investigation coupled with direction against the defaulting police officer, no follow-up action has been taken rather the matter is not being briefed to the Director-General of Police, Uttar Pradesh to know the sensitivity of the case,” the bench said.“In view of the above, we are left with no option but to keep this matter tomorrow, i.e. 16.09.2021 at 10am as the first case when Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh and members of SIT would remain present in the court to clarify about the action of the police authorities in conducting the investigation and further as to why the disciplinary action against the then superintendent of police, Mainpuri could not be completed before his retirement almost six months back, as stated,” the bench added while fixing the next date.On Tuesday, the bench, after going through the case record, underlined that the police interrogated the accused almost after three months of registration of the FIR.“The investigating officer present in court could not explain the delay in interrogating the accused in a case where a girl, aged about 16 years, was found hanging in her school and the mother had made allegations of harassment, beating and assault of the girl child,” the bench added. The court said it seemed the SIT team investigating the case was not acting independently and sought the presence of the police chief in the court.Police officers suspendedFollowing the high court’s reprimand, an additional superintendent of police (ASP) and a circle officer (CO), who is now posted as Dy SP, were suspended with immediate effect and a departmental inquiry ordered against them by the Uttar Pradesh home department on Wednesday in connection with the death of a girl student of Navodya Vidyalaya in Mainpuri in 2019.According to home department officials, the then ASP (Mainpuri) Om Prakash Singh and the then CO Prayank Jain were suspended with immediate effect over their work and conduct under the UP Government Servants (Discipline and Appeal) Rules 1999. Departmental proceedings have also been instituted against them.Prayank Jain is currently posted as deputy superintendent of police (DySP) in Bhadohi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/could-be-anyone-s-daughter-allahabad-high-court-s-grim-message-to-up-cops-101631713138340.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Connect Karo-2021: Cities that work for children can work for all, say experts||New Delhi: It is increasingly becoming difficult to find safe, open, accessible spaces for children, specially in residential neighbourhoods due to rampant commercialisation, experts said while stressing on the need to plan city infrastructure from perspective of children, as “cities that work for the very young are likely to work for all”.They said though this aspect was missing from urban planning process for a very long time, it was gaining importance with several cities such as Udaipur, Pune, Bhubaneswar and Rajkot planning projects to make neighbourhoods child-friendly.Rushda Majeed, India representative, Bernard Van Leer Foundation, said as part of their Urban 95 project the foundation is working with governments to make cities child-friendly.“It is not just children, but their caregivers, especially mothers, who find it difficult to access neighbourhood facilities,” said Majeed. She said slight modification in existing policies and urban development plans keeping children in mind can make all the difference.Speaking at WRI India’s Connect Karo-2021 on Wednesday, Majeed said, “Cities that work for the very young are likely to work for all.”Hindustan Times is the media partner of the event. This has become even more important due to the coronavirus pandemic, said Tim Gill, independent scholar, consultant, and author of ‘Urban Playground: How Child-Friendly Planning and Design Can Save Cities’.Gill said, “We have become aware of the importance of local spaces, of being able to travel locally and spend time outdoors (during this pandemic). While children were barely affected by the disease itself, they probably are the worst impacted. They have suffered the worst due to the measures (staying indoors) we had to take to control the disease. We owe them or have to compensate them for the sacrifice they have made in the last year.”He said providing accessible, green, joyful spaces in the neighbourhood is a way forward. “If you see children of different age groups, with or without their parents, being active and visible in a city, then that’s the sign of the health of that human habitat,” Gill said. Last year, the ministry of housing and urban affairs launched the nurturing neighbourhood challenge in collaboration with Bernard Van Leer Foundation and WRI India. The ministry has shortlisted 25 out of 65 cities to implement pilot projects to make them child-friendly.To make neighbourhood child-friendly, there is a need to create a sense of ownership in the community, said Swati Janu, architect and founder of Social design Collaborative. “Community engagement is crucial while developing child-friendly neighbourhoods, as it is they who will have to be involved in its maintenance. Communities have to be involved in the projects right from the beginning so that there is a sense of ownership,” said Janu.It is not just accessibility to neighbourhood facilities or parks which has to be improved, making streets children-friendly is equally important, said Sarika Panda, associate director and co-founder of Nagarro and Raahgiri Foundation.Panda, who has been actively working with government agencies to make streets more accessible to all, said, “Streets are a public space, and most inclusive spaces. Therefore, it should be safe for all. The streets should be for everyone and not just for cars. There is a need to rethink our streets. As part of Raahgiri day, we cordon off a portion of the streets and allow people to reclaim it.”An important aspect of making cities child-friendly is to ensure road safety. Dedicated cycle lanes, pedestrian pathways etc are needed to make streets safer and minimise road accidents. Also, the use of artificial intelligence (AI) can help in minimising road accidents, said Anand Mishra, professor of computer science and engineering at IIT Jodhpur.“AI has several interesting solutions. There is need for more research, engineering efforts and India specific datasets, as the challenges on Indian roads are different (from western countries),” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/connect-karo-2021-cities-that-work-for-the-very-young-are-likely-to-work-for-all-say-experts-101631712958042.html
16-09-2021||Pune||Online lecture series on Upanishads by Bhandarkar Institute receives good response||A 12-part online lecture series on the introduction of the Upanishads (philosophical-religious ancient texts) organised by Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute (BORI) is receiving a good response from participants across the globe.Through the series, scholars from BORI are decoding the ancient texts through their digital initiative.“The launch of the YouTube channel is the logical next step in the digital initiatives of the institute. It is a powerful medium with a tremendous reach,” said Bhupal Patwardhan, chairman of the executive board of the institute.“We have already conducted popular introductory online courses on topics such as Vedas and Mahabharata. During such interactions, we recognised the great curiosity people have about Upanishads,” he said.“Upanishads is one of the origins of the Indian Astika philosophy. Upanishads are significant in their resonance. They encourage one to be inquisitive and creative. So we have designed the series in such a way, that it gives a basic introduction to each of the ten Upanishads and their key concepts,” said Dr Gauri Moghe, series coordinator.“The series is based on the original texts. Our goal is to encourage a deeper study of Upanishads,” she said.To date five videos have been uploaded, two introductory and three on Upanishads, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/online-lecture-series-on-upanishads-by-bhandarkar-institute-receives-good-response-101631712537422.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi bans sale, use, storage of firecrackers this Diwali||Delhi government on Wednesday announced a “complete ban” on the sale, use and storage of firecrackers in the Capital this Diwali. This pre-emptive ban was imposed in view of the city’s deteriorating air quality over the past three years, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a series of tweets.“Taking into consideration the deteriorating pollution levels in Delhi over the last three years around Diwali time, like last year it has been decided that the storage, sale and use of firecrackers has been completely banned. This has been done to save people’s lives,” he tweeted on Wednesday. In another tweet, the Delhi CM added that the decision has been taken early this year to help traders avoid losses. “Last year, the complete ban was imposed late, after looking at the rising pollution levels in the city. Because of this traders had already bought stock and they had to face losses. This time, traders are requested not to stock up on crackers,” he added. Also Read | Delhi govt completes liquor licence allotment in all zones; earns ₹8,900 croreIt was unclear if the ban would be in place only during Diwali or would stretch for the entire winter season, when pollution levels peak. Last year, the Delhi government faced heavy criticism from cracker traders in the city for imposing the ban just days ahead of Diwali, when licences had been procured and crackers had already been stocked up for sale, resulting in losses for traders. The government had imposed a complete ban on the sale and use of crackers, including the green varient in November last year. Later this ban was also reiterated by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which said that sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in Delhi and adjoining areas will be prohibited starting midnight of November 9 to midnight of November 30, 2020. Looking at the deterioration air quality of the national capital in December last year, the NGT extended the ban to Christmas and New Year’s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-bans-sale-use-storage-of-firecrackers-this-diwali-101631694356261.html
16-09-2021||Delhi||DDMA allows exhibitions in Delhi; schools to remain closed for classes up to 8||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday allowed exhibitions to be organised in the city, further scaling down Covid-19 restrictions. Meanwhile schools will continue to remain closed for classes below 9, the order said. “Business to business and business to customer exhibitions will be allowed. The exhibition organisers will be responsible for strict adherence to prescribed SOP... and compliance to Covid appropriate behaviour (viz. wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, regular hand washing, use of sanitisers, etc) to contain the spread of Covid-19 virus (Sars-CoV-2). In case any violation is found, strict penal/criminal action shall be taken against the organizer of the exhibition,” said the DDMA order, a copy of which HT has seen.Also Read | Kejriwal bans sale, bursting, storage of firecrackers in Delhi during DiwaliBrijesh Goyal, chairman of the Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI), said, “Weekly markets, cinemas, schools, Metro, malls, markets etc. have opened in Delhi. Exhibitions and events should also be exempted. The exhibition industry has suffered during Covid-19. Lifting of restrictions means nearly 40,000 people will get back to work. There are more than 100 exhibition business to customer (B2C) organisers in Delhi. There are no such restrictions in Noida, Gurugram and Ghaziabad because of which many events shifted to neighbouring cities and Delhi lost on revenue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-allows-exhibitions-in-delhi-schools-to-remain-closed-for-classes-up-to-8-101631691296025.html
