17-09-2021||Pune||Special daily bus service for athletes going to Balewadi stadium||PUNE To facilitate transport from the city to the Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex at Balewadi, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has announced aPune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) bus service that will operate from Swargate, Shivajinagar, Pune Railway Station and Katraj.Cost of a round trip on the bus is ₹10 and these specific passes will be available at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Swargate.The service is expected to start after the Ganesh festival, which concludes on Sunday.“We have discussed it in the standing committee and the decision is approved. The bus service for athletes will start soon. There is a little delay due to the Ganesh festival. Buses will do two trips a day from the centres. It will be very beneficial for athletes from the city,” said Ajay Khedekar, president Sports Committee, PMC.Om Prakash Bakoria, commissioner of sports in Maharashtra said, “Bus facility from any part of the city for the athletes will be very beneficial. Many athletes visit Balewadi stadium every day and their parents have to accompany them. If the bus service starts parents will be relieved and more athletes will easily get access to the world class facilities,”Priyanka Chavarkar, a long-distance runner said, “The service will be very beneficial not only for athletes from the city, but also for outstation athletes.” Abhishek Ubhe, who competes in the 110-metre hurdles said, “Bus service is very important and ₹10 is affordable. There are many athletes who because of transport, cannot go to Balewadi, which impacts their performance.”Bus to Balewadi sports stadium-Ticket: ₹10-Bus centres: Swargate, Shivajinagar, Pune Railway Station, Katraj.-Two buses from each centre, each doing two trips a day||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/special-daily-bus-service-for-athletes-going-to-balewadi-stadium-101631903366732.html
17-09-2021||Other||Class 12 supplementary Arabic exam rescheduled to Oct 12||PUNE The supplementary examination for the Arabic language subject for Class 12 has been rescheduled to October 12. Ashok Bhosale, secretary, MSBSHSE (Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education), said, “The examination was earlier scheduled on September 21 between 3pm and 6pm. However, now the examination is rescheduled for October 12 between 10:30am and 1:30pm.” “The time table for other subjects remains the same. Only the Arabic language exam has been rescheduled. Students can access the official website to recheck the updated schedule,” said Bhosale.Complaints by Sept 25The board, on Friday, also issued a notification, where students who want to file a complaint regarding evaluation can do so by September 25.“If students have a complaint or objection regarding the class 12 evaluation, they can file the same with the board till September 25. No objection or complaint after that will be entertained,” said Dr Bhosale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/class-12-supplementary-arabic-exam-rescheduled-to-oct-12-101631903066142.html
17-09-2021||Pune||PCB seals two Camp restaurants for operating without a licence||PUNE The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) on Friday afternoon sealed two prominent business establishments in Camp for operating without the mandatory trade licenceHotel Delhi Darbar and Sujata Mastani were sealed. PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “The health department has sealed two business establishments for violation of the Cantonment Act which requires that the establishments operate with the necessary trade licence. A similar fate awaits other establishments who have failed to obtain the necessary licences for their functioning. The sealed establishments will remain shut until further orders.” PCB, a week aago, had announced that starting September 15, it would seal shops and business establishments that do not have the mandatory trade licence. PCB CEO Amit Kumar stated that there are 700 such establishments operating in Camp.The PCB has already issued notices to some violators. The PCB charges between ₹800 and ₹3,000 per licence. Applicants have to apply through the board website and submit necessary documents online. The licence will be given on completion of the procedure and an applicant does not need to visit the Cantonment office physically. It is mandatory for the applicant to submit a fire safety and hygiene certificate while applying for the licence.As per the Cantonment Act 2006, the board can also charge fines of Rs50,000.Traders, who have trade licences before 2006, do not have to apply, barring certain exceptions, states the Cantonment Act, 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcb-seals-two-camp-restaurants-for-operating-without-a-licence-101631903014056.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 80% commercial vehicles using RFID tags to enter the Capital, say SDMC officials||New Delhi: The number of commercial vehicles using the radio frequency identification (RFID) system to enter the city has gone up to 80%, with officials of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) claiming that it will have a marked effect on reducing pollution in the city, especially during winter, as it has resulted in shorter queues at toll booths.“We had been carrying out dedicated drives over the past two months to make vehicles comply with RFID, more so because winter is near. As a result, now vehicles paying toll fee using RFID has touched 80%, up from around 25% over the last year because of the ongoing pandemic. This will go a long way in reducing pollution in the city. While most drivers had got tags, they were lax in recharging it,” said a senior corporation official, who didn’t wish to be named. Every winter, air pollution in Delhi rises to hazardous levels owing to a combination of factors, including adverse weather conditions, vehicular and dust emissions, waste burning, and fumes from crop stubble burning in neighbouring states. The RFID tags, which are pasted on the windshield of vehicles, allows automatic deduction of toll tax and environment compensation charge (ECC), and does away with the need for vehicles to halt at toll plazas.Officials said that 509,938 RFID tags have been sold so far since 2019, when the system was implemented in the national capital. Officials said they are issuing 100-150 challans to errant vehicles on a daily basis. “Also, we have written to the Delhi transport department to cancel permits of vehicles that are repeatedly defaulting. They are working out a strategy for the same,” the official said. Civic officials said that an estimated 100,000 commercial vehicles enter the city on a daily basis. “Of this, approximately 12-14% are heavy duty vehicles such as trucks that are liable to pay ECC. Around 50% are taxis including private cab aggregators. Then there are other vehicles such as tempos, goods carriers etc as well as CNG vehicles,” the official said. Special teams have been deployed by the civic body at the toll plazas for monitoring and better enforcement. Since March-end this year, all the 124 toll plazas have been equipped with the RFID system.RFID system was introduced to decongest city borders and smoothen traffic movement so as to cut down air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi80-commercial-vehicles-using-rfid-tags-to-enter-the-capital-say-sdmc-officials-101631902826705.html
17-09-2021||Pune||Shaniwarwada, Aga Khan palace reopen for tourists||PUNE The doors to Shaniwarwada and Aga Khan Palace, archeological sites, reopened on Friday, after six months, post the second wave of Covid-19.The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has been maintaining all sites under its care during the Covid restrictions, including Shaniwarwada .Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh on September 16 released an order allowing all ASI monuments in Pune district to reopen with immediate effect.“I received a request from ASI and I allowed the sites to be open, but they have to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the ministry of health and family welfare, and the health and cultural affairs departments,” said Deshmukh.“We opened the doors of Shaniwarwada and Aga Khan Palace at 9 am and it will remain open until 5pm. There is no change in the ticket price for tourists, although they will have to book online and follow the protocol which, includes maintaining required physical distance, wearing a mask, hand-washing and sanitisation while at the monuments,” said Gajanan Mandaware, conservation assistant, ASI.The city boasts of three archeological sites, Pataleshwar temple, Aga Khan Palace and Shaniwarwada. The footfall recorded at Shaniwarwada on Friday was 40 tourists, while Aga Khan Palace had 30 visitors. Dattratay Kolhapure from Chinchwad said, “It is indeed good to see the massive doors to Shaniwarwada open. Especially when we make this trip into Pune for Ganpati darsha, we also stop to see the wada.”Sachin Kshirsagar from Jalna said, “There is no santitiser kept at the entrance of Shaniwarwada and the security should be checking people entering the site. I see people not using masks after entry.”Pataleshwar temple is still closed and the officials at the site said that since the order was released late last night the temple will open on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shaniwarwada-aga-khan-palace-reopen-for-tourists-101631902527020.html
17-09-2021||Pune||FIR against youth flying drone near INS Shivaji||PUNE The Lonavla Police, on Friday, lodged an FIR against a youth for flying a drone in a restricted area near the Indian Naval Station (INS) Shivaji in Lonavla. The youth has been named by rural police as Sourabh Kakade and relevant sections had been invoked against him as per the law, police said. The complaint with the Lonavla police station was lodged by the naval authorities. The complaint stated: “On September 16, an unidentified drone was sighted flying over the area between the unit main gate and the site in Lonavla. Naval officials were deployed to search the whole area but the drone fled. INS Shivaji is a premiere defence training establishment and has been categorised as a no-flying zone. Also, flying drones in the area of the said defence installation is in violation of the drone policy of the Ministry of Home Affairs.” Abhinav Deshmukh, Superintendent of police (SP), Pune Rural, said, “We will be taking action against unauthorised flying of drones. The drone has been seized. As per his version, he and his friend were filming scenery with a camera attached to the drone. We have also seized the footage.” Inspector Dilip Pawar , in-charge Lonavla city police station, said, “Sourabh Kakade is a professional photographer and had received an order for a pre wedding shoot. He had completed some of the shooting in Alibaug and some of it was done in Lonavla. He had not taken permission from the police. We arrested, and released him on bail . He was booked under IPC 188. He did not fly the drone into the defence area, but near it ,” he said.Key features of MoCA’s drone rulesIn March 2021, the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) published its Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) rules. Based on feedback, the government replaced the UAS rules with new Drone rules. Yellow zone reduced from 45km to 12km from airport perimeters. No remote pilot licence required for micro drones (non-commercial) and nano drones. No requirement for security clearance before issuance of any registration or licence. No requirement of type certificate, unique identification number and remote pilot licence by R&D entities operating drones in own or rented premises, located in a green zone. No restriction on foreign ownership of Indian drone companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fir-against-youth-flying-drone-near-ins-shivaji-101631902046656.html
17-09-2021||Lucknow||We have to be careful of EVMs, DMs in UP polls, says Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party ( SP ) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was running a training centre for spreading lies across the country.Yadav, while attending Vishwakarma Puja celebration at SP’s state headquarters in Lucknow, said: “This government will be wiped out. It has insulted every person and has spoken more lies than any other government. It seems that the BJP is running a training centre for lies. Rumours are being circulated among the public to mislead them.”“The Samajwadi Party always supports and helps every section of the society. During our government, we granted a holiday for Vishwakarma Puja but this government stopped it and insulted the people and Lord Vishwakarma,” Yadav added.Alleging foul play during the last Bihar assembly elections, he said, “This time (in UP polls), we have to be careful of electronic voting machines (EVMs) and district magistrates (DMs) and we have to give an answer to the BJP by raising awareness among the public. It is a question of future and democracy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/we-have-to-be-careful-of-evms-dms-in-up-polls-says-akhilesh-101631901988948.html
17-09-2021||Other||Pune railway police working on masterplan to enhance security at station premises||PUNE Taking serious cognisance of the kidnapping of a minor from the Pune railway station, and the subsequent gang-rape, the Government Railway Police (GRP), Pune division, has started working on a masterplan to enhance security at the railway station premises. “We are working on a masterplan for the patrolling of the entire Pune railway station and its surroundings, under which there will be 20 policemen deployed round the clock to monitor crowds circulating outside the station. Also, our staff will be deployed at both entry and exist points of all platforms and we have demanded 50 body-worn cameras for enhanced security. A special committee with women members is soon going to be formed, addressing issues of women passengers,” said superintendent of police (SP), Pune GRP, Sadanand Wayse Patil. “To have better communication with local police, we held meetings with senior police inspectors of Bund Garden, Shivajinagar and Yerawada police stations. Also, will be working hand-in-hand with traffic policemen who will be checking autorickshaw drivers at the station premises. Strict checking drivers, and even their photos will be taken for record. We have also proposed night-vision cameras around the station premises,” he added, On August 31 back a minor girl was kidnapped by rickshaw drivers from the station and then sexually assaulted by several people, including two railway staffers. “I travelled from Pune railway station last month, boarding a train at around 11 pm and it was a scary experience. There is not much security to make women passengers feel safe to travel alon,” said Vasudha Kenkare, a passenger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-railway-police-working-on-masterplan-to-enhance-security-at-station-premises-101631901986977.html
17-09-2021||Lucknow||Mega vax drive: Over 27 lakh inoculated in UP, 85K in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh administered over 27 lakh doses of Covid vaccine (27,15,718) including 85,700 in Lucknow on Friday. The vaccination count in the state and the state capital since January 16 crossed over 9.31 crore and over 33.28 lakh, respectively, during the day when a mega vaccination drive was conducted on the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “About 50% of the eligible people have been given at least the first dose in the state. It is an achievement by Uttar Pradesh,” said Navneet Sehgal, ACS information. According to health department data, the highest single-day vaccination numbers were achieved on September 6 when UP administered 34,90,056 doses of Covid vaccine, including 1,05,981 in Lucknow. Among the total doses administered in the state, over 5.24 crore were administered to beneficiaries between 18 and 45 years of age, 2.53 doses to those between 45 and 60 years and 1.49 crore doses to beneficiaries above 60 years of age. Several organisations conducted vaccination camps in Lucknow. In Gosainganj, Shri Ram Jankiji Maharaj Nyas in association with Karuneshwar Sarvoday Sansthan conducted a vaccination camp. District level hospitals including Civil, Balrampur, Lok Bandhu, CHCs and PHCs also conducted held camps. “With 9.45 lakh beneficiaries given their second vaccine dose, over 27% are now fully vaccinated in Lucknow. The state capital has the capacity to vaccinate over one lakh people in a single day, hence people should come forward to raise vaccination coverage,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. The mega vaccination drive continued till late evening and many centres administered doses to beneficiaries till 9pm. “We had made arrangements to inoculate each beneficiary coming to the vaccination centre. No vaccinator was supposed to send any beneficiary back,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, CMO, Lucknow. The state administration had set a target to administer 20,00,000 doses of the vaccine while health department in Lucknow arranged 1,41,850 doses at 242 vaccination centres. “Heavy rains on Thursday and overcast conditions o Friday restricted some people from taking the jab,” said a senior health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mega-vax-drive-over-27-lakh-inoculated-in-up-85k-in-lucknow-101631901266854.html
17-09-2021||Pune||Pune admin to reopen swimming pools for fully vaccinated athletes: Ajit Pawar||PUNE Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister, said that swimming pools would be reopened for the fully vaccinated professional players in the city.An official order from the administration is expected soon.“Permission has been given to reopen the swimming pools so that players can practice. The only condition is that they should be fully vaccinated,” said Pawar.As 42% people of the eligible beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated in the city and 94% have got at least one jab, city representatives had demanded to reopen swimming pools for those who are fully vaccinated. Swimming pools have been shut for the longest time given the more probable cause of transmission within the pool.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Siddharth Shirole who raised this issue at the weekly Covid-19 review meet said, “In the meeting, I urged the government to reopen swimming pools across Pune for fully vaccinated citizens. Deputy CM has positively responded to our request and a formal order will be issued soon.”Bhupendra Achrekar, coach at Harmony Aquatic Club Kothrud, “We had written multiple letters to Ajit Pawar and Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol for the same. The association had also sent a letter to the CM and PMC commissioner as well. The pools were first shut in March 2020 when the national lockdown was out in place and we were allowed to open it for those in July, just two days after the selection trials for the national tournament took place. Even when other sports were allowed, swimming was not allowed. Now in October, we have the national tournament for the sub-junior, junior and open categories, however, players have been out of practice for many months now. If only fully vaccinated people are allowed to enter swimming pools then under 18 people would not be allowed to practice.”“In addition to players, even senior citizens who come to the pool for practice for rehabilitation in case of knee injury or back injury can also benefit if the pools are reopened,” he said.In addition to this Achrekar also said that many who are dependent on the swimming pools for their livelihood will also benefit if the pools open. He said, “Many coaches, housekeeping staff, lifeguards and others are dependent on the re-opening of the pools.”Out of the over three million eligible beneficiaries in the city, 2.8 million have already got the first dose which accounts for 94% in the city and over 1.1 million have been fully vaccinated which is about 42%.In the district totally, 6.5 million or 77% have got the first dose and 2.67 million have got both doses which accounts for 41% have been fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-admin-to-reopen-swimming-pools-for-fully-vaccinated-athletes-ajit-pawar-101631901206550.html
17-09-2021||Pune||4,574 Covid violators booked in Pune dist; Rs21 lakh collected in fines in one week||PUNE In the past week starting from September 9 to September 15, the Pune district administration has fined at least 4,574 people for violating Covid-19 norms and has collected ₹20,95,950 in fines.In the wake of the upcoming festive season, the number of people violating the norms like wearing a mask and spitting in public places and not following social distancing has gone up, said, officials.As per the health department, the Pune administration including Pune police has collected penalties of ₹20,95,950 from the violators in the district who were found not wearing masks in public places, spitting in public places or not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in public places.Out of the total fine collected in the district, ₹1,061,000 was collected by the police department in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area alone while on the contrary police department collected only ₹4,500 in PCMC.A total of 9,80,860 people have been penalised and ₹449 million has been recovered from these offenders since the beginning.Despite repeated warnings by the central team that the third wave could hit the city by September end, people have been showing lackadaisical towards following Covid-19 appropriate norms.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Covid-19 advisor for state government, said, “Across the world, we have seen that the third wave had hit within four months of the second wave and in Pune, we saw the second wave hit 6.5 months after the first wave. We have seen that the third wave has been milder than the second wave when the death rate and new cases were lower than the second wave. However, the vaccination percentage in our country is still lower to let the guard down and multiple festivals can act as super spreader events and so it is important to be even more careful during these times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/4574-covid-violators-booked-in-pune-dist-rs21-lakh-collected-in-fines-in-one-week-101631900967052.html
17-09-2021||Lucknow||Rain continues to lash UP, 18 districts report above average rainfall||Heavy rain continued to pound the state for a second consecutive day with at least 18 districts receiving above average rainfall in the last 24 hours, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Lucknow recorded few showers on Friday. The pause in rain provided respite to residents as they battled water-logged roads and power cuts. Lucknow may experience scattered showers on Saturday, the state MeT department said.Districts including Kannauj, Azamgarh, Ambedkarnagar, Ayodhya, Barabanki, Gonda and Sitapur received very heavy rain that continued from Thursday evening into the wee hours of Friday. A brief shower in over a dozen districts was also reported.“Uttar Pradesh districts received 41.4 mm rainfall between September 16 and September 17, which is considerably more than the rainfall of 5.5 mm expected. The rain was caused by existing low pressure zones over Uttar Pradesh,” said JP Gupta, director, state MeT department. Uttar Pradesh recorded an average of 30 mm rainfall on Thursday that led to severe rain-related incidents across several districts of the state. “Currently 49 out of 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh have received normal or above normal rainfall this monsoon season. The number of these districts is expected to reach close to 60 over the weekend,” said Gupta. “In terms of actual rain, UP has received 706 mm rainfall this monsoon till September 17 which is slightly less than normal. The deficit is also expected to be covered before the monsoon departs,” he added.According to an IMD forecast, the rain in Uttar Pradesh will subside in the next 24 hours as the low pressure over areas subsides gradually and moves towards western India. Considering the forecast, the state MeT department has alerted district magistrates asking them to take measures to prevent damage caused by the rain.According to agriculture experts, paddy farmers will benefit from the rain but water-logging in fields may harm vegetable crops and maize in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rain-continues-to-lash-up-18-districts-report-above-average-rainfall-101631900666867.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||HT Code-A-Thon to boost analytical thinking in children||At a time when technology is shaping the world around us in significant ways and coding has become an important skill for the current generation of students, Hindustan Times has initiated the second edition of India’s biggest coding Olympiad, Hindustan Times Code-A-Thon, with the aim of skilling students in coding and polishing their computing and analytical skills.Launched on August 31, the event provides an opportunity to students in classes 4 to 9 to learn to code and boost algorithmic thinking, mathematical and computing skills, and analytical thinking, to prepare them for careers of tomorrow in science and technology. HT Code-a-thon offers a platform to students to pick up basics of coding, and showcase their code writing skills at a national level. The four-month programme is divided into three rounds, with the learning round continuing till the last week of November. This will be followed by the qualifier round, which will take place in the last week of November and open the competition. The final is scheduled for the third week of December. Those interested in signing up for the Code-A-Thon can visit https://htschool.hindustantimes.com/code-a-thon. After registration, the participants can access their age-appropriate modules and course materials. For the coding Olympiad, HT has partnered with IBM and SpeEdLabs, an AI-based practice and learning platform which boosts foundational concept-based learning.Vivek Varshney, founder, SpeEdLabs, said that the aim of the Code-A-Thon was to reach young students across the country and encourage them to learn coding and build initial interest at the right age. “Coding is more than a technique or a subject, it is fast evolving into the chosen approach for problem-solving right from school age and needs to be encouraged at every level of learning. Code-A-Thon is a powerful mission in that direction, and SpeEdLabs is proud to be a partner in this endeavour. We believe the extracurricular learning in this competition will make a strong positive impact on the students,” said Varshney. Manoj Balachandran, CSR Head, IBM India and South Asia, said that IBM’s collaboration with HT Code-A-Thon had been a great success in helping students to unlock their creative potential by using technology. “We are happy to take this initiative a step further by extending the HT Code-A-Thon engagement to meritorious girls from classes 9 to 12 as part of the Vigyan Jyoti programme launched by the Department of Science and Technology (DST). These initiatives further strengthen our STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) for Girls Programme,” said Balachandran. The Code-A-Thon will train participants as they chart their path towards a tech-enabled future. All participants will receive mentorship from technical experts and certificates, while the top three will also receive prizes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/htcodeathon-to-boost-analytical-thinking-in-children-101631900607950.html
17-09-2021||Pune||Manache Ganpati mandals in Pune to perform immersion in artificial tanks within mandap||PUNE Amid the Covid-19 restrictions, the five Manache (revered) Ganpati mandals in the city will perform the immersion of idols within the erected mandap in artificial water tanks.The ten-day festival will end on September 19 (Sunday) with the Ganesh Visarjan.The prominent Ganpati mandals in the city are following the instructions of state and civic authorities to hold functions with minimum devotee participation to avoid crowding. The organisers have decided to hold immersions of the Ganpati idol within the temple premises or mandap.“As per tradition the five Manache Ganpati mandals take out a procession from the Laxmi road on the last day of the festival, but as this year there is no procession we will maintain the timings of immersion,” said Nitin Pandit, secretary of Tulshibaug Ganpati mandal.“Accordingly, Kasba Ganpati mandal will immerse their idol at 11 am, followed by Tambadi Jogeshwari Ganpati at 11.45 am, followed by the immersion of Guruji Talim mandal Ganpati at 12.30 pm, and Tulshibaug Ganpati at 1.15 pm and Kesari Wada Ganpati at 2 pm,” he said.“Another prominent Bhausaheb Rangari Ganpati will be immersed at 2.45 pm,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/manache-ganpati-mandals-in-pune-to-perform-immersion-in-artificial-tanks-within-mandap-101631900606507.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||Nearly 90% of Mumbai citizens have antibodies against Covid-19: Fifth serosurvey||Around 90 per cent of citizens in Maharashtra’s capital Mumbai have been found with antibodies against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to the report of the fifth serosurvey conducted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The serosurvey was conducted between August and early September this year, and as many as 8,674 adults had participated. Of them, almost 65 per cent subjects were vaccinated against Covid-19.The survey report revealed that sero-prevalence was significantly higher among people who were either fully or partially vaccinated against the infection. While 90.26 per cent of the vaccinated citizens were found to have antibodies, 79.86 per cent of the unvaccinated population was revealed to have the same.According to the BMC survey, coronavirus antibodies were found in more female citizens of the city as opposed to their male counterparts with the distribution split at 88.29 per cent and 85.07 per cent, respectively.Also Read | Over 50% of children in Mumbai have Covid-19 antibodies, shows sero surveyHighlighting the presence of more antibodies among vaccinated people, the civic body pointed out in the serosurvey report that it is “essential to strengthen the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination programme.”Maharashtra on Friday reported 3,586 fresh Covid-19 cases, of which, Mumbai accounted for 472, according to the data shared by the health department. A total of 67 fatalities were recorded, with Mumbai contributing for three of them, thereby taking the death toll in the state to 1,38,389. The overall tally of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra stands at 65,15,111 and the same in Mumbai is at 7,37,200.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nearly-90-of-mumbai-citizens-have-antibodies-against-covid-19-fifth-serosurvey-101631897341928.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||Submit white paper on road works done in Mumbai in 25 years, BJP demands||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the civic standing committee has demanded a white paper detailing the work done on roads and the maintenance of roads in the past 25 years, at the hands of contractors. The party also demanded that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) administration should scrap road work tenders where contractors have bid up to 33% lower than BMC’s estimated cost for the road work.Prabhakar Shinde, BJP leader said in a statement on Friday, “As a part of the tendering process, this year, 31 tenders were floated totalling to ₹1,200 crore. It has been observed that in this process, the contractors have quoted about 26-33% lower than the estimated costs in the tenders. Similarly for the tenders to fill in the trenches, this difference is 27-36.6% lower than the estimated costs. As a policy, if contractors quote an amount that goes below 12% lower than the estimated cost, they are required to deposit an additional security deposit amount to the civic body. If we look at the overall calculation, contractors have quoted amounts that are 40-45% lower than the estimated costs.Alongside the whitepaper, BJP has also demanded an audit of all road works at the hands of an external auditor under the BMC. Shinde said, “Contractors which quote way lower than the estimated costs can not assure quality work as far as repairs, maintenance and fresh roadworks is concerned. We demand that such tenders should be cancelled and the process of re-tendering strictly as per the prescribed guidelines should be initiated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/submit-white-paper-on-road-works-done-in-mumbai-in-25-years-bjp-demands-101631898026407.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||86.64% Mumbaiites have Covid antibodies, 5th sero survey of 8,674 samples reveals||Overall, 86.64% of Mumbaiites have Covid-19 antibodies out of 8,674 samples tested in the fifth sero-survey conducted by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The results of the survey were declared by the civic body on Friday. The fifth sero survey was started by BMC on August 12 across all 24 administrative wards in the city.Its results have indicated that 90.2% of fully or partially vaccinated citizens had antibodies, and 79.8% of those who were not vaccinated had antibodies. Sero-prevalence in slums is 87%, while in non-slums it is 86%. About 65% of the sample size was citizens who have been fully or partially vaccinated, and 35% of the sample size were citizens who have not been vaccinated yet, according to BMC. This is significant in the context of the possibility of a third wave of the pandemic. The presence of antibodies in a significant number of surveyed population means the city might handle the next wave in a better way.Of the 8,674 samples collected, approximately 50% were from slum areas and 50% were from non-slum areas.The results of the latest survey indicate almost equal sero-prevalence among Mumbaiites living in slum and non-slum areas, contrary to the results of the first three surveys, which shows a relatively higher sero-prevalence among residents of slums. The fourth was a sero-survey for the paediatric age group.Sero prevalence studies are conducted to understand past exposure of an individual to a virus and to know the extent of the spread of infection in the population, with the prevalence of antibodies.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s public health department said, “The results of this fifth sero-survey are promising. However, this does not mean we can let our guards down. We must strictly adhere to safety protocols in public places, wear masks, maintain social distancing. This survey was a significant one as it was conducted across all 24 wards in the city.”A senior civic officer from BMC’s public health department said, “Since there is greater sero-prevalence among those who have been fully or partially vaccinated, it appears promising as the number of fully vaccinated citizens is increasing by the day.”While 85.07% sero-prevalence was noted among males, it was higher among females, at 88.29%. Around 20% of the samples were collected from healthcare workers, and the results show that 87.14% sero-prevalence among them.In a statement on Friday, BMC said, “There is no statistical difference in sero-prevalance in the island city and in Mumbai’s suburbs. The results correspond with the recent trend in cases in Mumbai observed by BMC. However, this in no way indicates the level of immunity to the virus among citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/8664-mumbaiites-have-covid-antibodies-5th-sero-survey-of-8-674-samples-reveals-101631897066257.html
17-09-2021||Lucknow||PM’s birthday: 71,000 diyas lit, special prayers offered in Kashi||Bharat Mata Mandir in Kashi (Varanasi) was illuminated with 71,000 earthen lamps (diyas) by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers to celebrate PM Narendra Modi’s 71st birthday on Friday. Prime Minister Modi is also the Lok Sabha MP from Varanasi MP.Besides the lighting of diyas, a series of other events was also organised in Kashi during the day to mark PM’s birthday. For instance, amid the chanting of Vedic Mantras, Uttar Pradesh religious affairs minister Neelkanth Tiwari, along with 71 batuks (religious scholars), offered milk and kesar to the Ganga at Ahilyabai Ghat. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has deep faith in Maa Ganga. In view of that, Maa Ganga’s worship was done on his birthday,” Tiwari said. A 71-metre-long chunari (scarf) was offered to the Ganga at the iconic Dashashwamedh Ghat. Deepotsav and aarti were performed at 71 prominent temples of the city, said Mahesh Chandra Srivastava, the BJP’s Kashi region president.Special prayers were offered at the Kashi Vishwanath ( KV) temple at noon. Rudrahavan was also done there. UP minister Neelkanth Tiwari offered 171 litre milk to the deity at the KV temple on the occasion. The rituals of panchamrit abhishek and jalabhishek (bathing the deity with Ganga water) were also conducted there. The minister performed arti of the deity at the temple. After the prayers, the minister presented a Rudraksha rosary, angvastram (stole) and prasad to each priest.Varanasi divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal, Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board chief executive officer Sunil Kumar Verma, deputy collector Vinod Singh, officer on special duty Umesh Kumar Singh, additional chief executive Nikhilesh Mishra, BJP city unit chief Vidyasagar Rai and many others were present at this programme.71 kg laddoos were distributed in each of the eight assembly constituencies of Varanasi, said Kashi region BJP spokesperson Navratan Rathi.He added the party was observing the Seva Aur Samarpan Abhiyan (serve and dedicate campaign) from September 17 to October 7 and various programmes would be organised as part of it.Vijay Yadav Ballu, who runs the NaMo tea stall in the Pandeypur area of Varanasi, offered free tea to over 100 poor people free of cost.Ballu said that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership, several developmental works had been done in Kashi. “I wish longevity and good health to PM Modi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pms-birthday-71-000-diyas-lit-special-prayers-offered-in-kashi-101631897006125.html
17-09-2021||Dehradun||In new Char Dham SoPs, Covid -ve report is must for pilgrims from 3 states||Dehradun: Pilgrims headed to Uttarakhand for the Char Dham yatra will have to produce a Covid-19 negative test report unless they have a certificate to demonstrate that they received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, the Uttarakhand government said in a fresh set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the pilgrimage starting Saturday. The SOPs were issued days after the high court lifted its June 28 stay on the yatra but cautioned the state to conduct the annual pilgrimage with strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines.The Covid negative test report will, however, be mandatory for pilgrims from Kerala, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, three states that account for 75 per cent of the country’s 3,39,056 active Covid cases on Friday, irrespective of their vaccination status.The tests should have been conducted within 72 hours of the Char Dham yatra.In case of people who produce a vaccination certificate, the SOP requires that at least 15 days should have passed after receiving their second dose.Outstation pilgrims are also required to register on the state government’s portal for the Char Dham yatra. Pilgrims from within the state can straightaway apply for the yatra e-pass from the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board website.The daily limit of pilgrims will be 1,000 for Badrinath, 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for Yamunotri shrines.Kedarnath, along with Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri, collectively called Char Dham, attract lakhs of pilgrims each year. Traditionally, Char Dham pilgrimage begins from the west from Yamunotri, then proceeding to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east. Kedarnath shrine is located in Rudraprayag district, while Badrinath is in Chamoli district. Yamunotri and Gangotri shrines are located in Uttarkashi district.Pilgrims suspected to be infected or have symptoms of Covid will be tested at the designated testing facilities in the state and if found positive, they will be isolated and referred to the designated Covid treatment facilities in the state.The SOPs mandate that the Char Dham shrines and their surrounding areas will be sanitised thrice a day.At Char Dham shrines, CCTVs will also be used for checking whether pilgrims are following social distancing and wearing facemasks, apart from continuous checking by law enforcement agencies, according to the SOPs.There will be Covid testing facilities, availability of medicines, medical oxygen on Char Dham routes. For natural disasters along the routes, heli-ambulance will be available for Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath areas.Employees of hotels, resorts, dharamshala, homestay and guesthouses where pilgrims can stay should be vaccinated.Pilgrims cannot touch the idols or bells at the temples. Also, they cannot take ritualistic baths at the temple kunds (springs or holy water sources).Six people can come for pilgrimage through one registration certificate and they have to visit the shrines within two days (starting from the day for which they have registered for the darshan). Pilgrims will not be allowed inside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrines. They also can’t offer any type of prasad (sanctified food) in the temples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/in-new-sops-covid-ve-report-must-for-char-dham-pilgrims-from-3-states-101631896586011.html
17-09-2021||Other||Saifai medical university’s blood bank incharge suspended||The Saifai University of Medical Sciences has suspended assistant professor and incharge of the blood bank prof Abhay Singh after the Special Task Force (STF) arrested him for black marketing of blood units. Vice chancellor of university Dr Ramakant Yadav said the documents in the blood bank had been sealed. A committee had been formed to investigate the charges that had come to light, he said. Dr Roopak Agarwal, associate professor of pathology, has been given the charge of the blood bank. Prof Abhay Singh was arrested on Thursday evening and the STF had recovered more than 100 units of blood and a number of incriminating documents, according to an STF statement. However, the university has maintained that the STF did not officially intimate it about the arrest. The decision to suspend prof Singh was taken in the morning after Dr Yadav convened a meeting of the disciplinary committee, which validated the decision. The university has also issued a show cause notice to prof Singh over his absence from the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/saifai-medical-university-s-blood-bank-incharge-suspended-101631896466128.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar invites PM to lay foundation stone of Haryana Orbital Rail Corridor||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lay the foundation stone of the Haryana Orbital Rail Corridor (HORC), which will be constructed at ₹5,600 crores and is expected to be completed over five years.According to an official statement, Khattar after meeting Prime Minister Modi in New Delhi on Thursday told reporters the foundation stone laying programme would be organised at Manesar or Palwal or any other place on the Orbital Rail Corridor route in Haryana. He added that all approvals for the railway project have been completed.According to the state government’s website, the HORC, which connects Palwal to Sonipat via Sohna, Manesar and Kharkhouda, is a broad gauge double railway line for passenger and freight traffic.The HORC will provide seamless connectivity to Dedicated Freight Corridors (DFC) at the Prithla station and Indian Railways at Palwal, Patli and Sultanpur stations among others. It is also said that the project will be of great benefit to Sohna, Manesar and Kharkhouda, which are Haryana’s industrial hubs.In September last year, the Centre had approved the construction of the HORC. Considered as an important project by the Indian Railways, the HORC will see rail lines bypassing Delhi. It will have connectivity with all the existing railway routes originating from the national capital and passing through Haryana.Meanwhile, during Thursday’s meeting, Haryana CM Khattar informed PM Modi about the status of the protests going on against the Centre’s three farm laws in Haryana and the steps being taken by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) -led state government to reopen highways blocked because of the stir.Modi was also apprised about the Karnal incident last month, where police had lathi-charged a group of farmers heading towards the city to protest against a meeting of the BJP attended by Khattar and other party leaders. Last Saturday, the protesting farmers called off their stir in Karnal after the state government ordered a judicial probe into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-invites-pm-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-haryana-orbital-rail-corridor-101631890224420.html
17-09-2021||Other||Air Chief: Ensure readiness of all weapon systems and assets||Chief of Air Staff (CAS) Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria on Thursday emphasised the need for critical analysis to enhance operational preparedness besides focus on maintenance practices to ensure robust physical and cyber security of the Indian Air Force (IAF).He called on the IAF station commanders to ensure readiness of all platforms, weapon systems and assets and to keep them at the highest level of preparedness. Air Chief Marshal was addressing annual commanders’ conference of the Central Air Command (CAC) at its headquarters in Prayagraj.In his address to the commanders, the CAS appreciated the role of CAC in the recent flood relief efforts and aid to civil administration, said Shantanu Pratap Singh, Regional PRO (defence), Prayagraj here on Friday. Chief of the Air Staff also urged the commanders to continue their efforts in ensuring a safe operational flying environment and stressed on the need to augment the combat capability of IAF through innovation, self-reliance and indigenisation.Earlier, he arrived at CAC headquarters on Thursday and was received by Air Marshal RJ Duckworth, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief (AOC-in-C) of CAC. A ceremonial guard of honour was also presented to the CAS on the occasion.The annual commanders’ conference was attended by the commanders of all the Air Force stations within the jurisdiction of CAC. The aim of the conference is to provide a forum for commanders to exchange views on operation, maintenance and administrative matters requiring deliberations with senior officials at the Command headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/air-chief-ensure-readiness-of-all-weapon-systems-and-assets-101631895746088.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||NIA opposes Sachin Vaze’s default bail plea||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a response to dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze’s default bail application. Vaze has filed the default bail plea through advocates Sajal Yadav and Aarti Kalekar, claiming that the charge sheet in the case was filed belatedly and its cognisance was taken only after the due date. He also claimed there was no order to extend his judicial custody beyond September 6.Vaze’s co-accused in Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases, Sunil Mane, has also file a bail plea on similar grounds.NIA said that the charge sheet has been filed against Vaze on September 3 — three days ahead of the due date of September 6. The agency further claimed that on September 3, Vaze’s judicial custody was extended for 14 days.Special NIA judge AT Wankhede on Friday allowed a plea of Vaze’s counsels Sajal Yadav and Aarti Kalekar to allow them meet Vaze once a week for 15 minutes during his hospitalisation. The court was informed on Friday that Vaze has undergone an open heart surgery at a private hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nia-opposes-sachin-vaze-s-default-bail-plea-101631895686156.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||Corruption by public servants a huge problem: Special CBI court||Corruption by public servants has become a gigantic problem and now no facet of public life has been left unaffected by the stink of corruption, a special CBI court observed while convicting a clerk working with Poddar Mills, a unit of National Textiles Corporation. Additional sessions judge AS Sayyad sentenced the clerk, Milind Birje, to four years of imprisonment for accepting ₹1,500 as bribe for clearing pension of a senior citizen. The special court also imposed fine of ₹10,000 on the clerk.The court observed that “corruption by public servants has become a gigantic problem. It has spread everywhere. No facet of public life has been left unaffected by the stink of corruption. It has deep and pervasive impact on the functioning of the entire country. Large scale corruption retards the nation building activity and everyone suffers due to it.”The court said the minimum sentence of four years imprisonment, as provided under section 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, would be a just and proper sentence for the accused in view the nature and gravity of offence.Special prosecutor Sandeep Singh said a trap was laid on January 28, 2016 and Birje was arrested while accepting bribe of ₹1,500. Initially, the demand was for ₹2,000 to expedite and clear the pension file of the complainant, which was reduced after bargaining.The accused had not disputed that he was a public servant for being an employee of a unit of the National Textiles Corporation. Sanction was accordingly taken to prosecute him from competent authority. The evidence of prosecution witness clearly established the demand, acceptance and the recovery at the instance of the accused, said the prosecutor. There is overwhelming evidence on record which establishes the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt, he added.The accused was charged under sections 7 (public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act) and 13(1) (public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.The accused through his counsel VN Shingnapurkar argued that the pre-trap and post-trap process was defective, and there was no witness to prove that the accused had actually demanded the money. He argued that the complaint was filed out of personal vendetta. He said that the first information report in the case was filed on January 27 whereas the demand was made on January 21, and thus there was inordinate delay in registering the case. The accused had argued that there was no evidence to show that the demand was made.The special court, however, noted that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had recorded the conversation with the help of a DVR in a SD card that was a part of the case records and sentenced him to prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/corruption-by-public-servants-a-huge-problem-special-cbi-court-101631895565869.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||Bomb squad defuses marine location marker at Palghar coast||The bomb disposal and detection squad (BDDS), Thane, defused a three-feet-long marine location marker (MLM) usually used by the Indian Navy and other navies across the world, at Kore coast in Palghar district on Wednesday evening. The smoke from the MLM created panic amongst the locals.Assistant inspector Bhimsen Gaikwad of Kelwe Coast police station said, “Locals informed us about the instrument. The BDDS, Thane, reached the spot and within few minutes and diffused the MLM.”The MLMs are pyrotechnic devices designed to be dispensed from helicopters and rescue aircraft to indicate ship or crew positions in the sea. The system is triggered by a batteryless percussion device and is effective night and day. The MLMs are extensively used by the Indian Navy and Coast Guard for search and rescue operations in the sea. The markers generate smoke, flare or fluorescent dye, with a duration of up to 90 minutes and are visible up to 9km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bomb-squad-defuses-marine-location-marker-at-palghar-coast-101631895506210.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||35% drop in new Covid cases in Maharashtra in Sept than Aug; deaths down by 54%||Indicating a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, the daily new cases in Maharashtra have dropped by 35% in the first 15 days of September as compared to the same period in August.The state recorded 57,120 cases from September 1 to 15, compared to 88,664 recorded during the same period last month. The number of deaths has dropped by 54%, as they have reduced to 964 from 2,103 last month.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor, government of Maharashtra on Covid-19 management said, “There is currently a false sense of normalcy which can be counter-productive. There was a similar situation after the first Covid-19 wave and we were hit hard by the second wave.”“However this time, we are better prepared due to mass vaccination and also because many citizens have developed antibodies,” said Salunkhe.He added that the real picture will be known only after October 5 when the impact of the transmission during the Ganpati festival will be known.Dr Ishwar Gilada. secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said these figures indicate the waning of the second wave. “Maharashtra has done a remarkable job in vaccination, especially in the urban pockets. The problem will be mainly in the rural parts where the vaccination numbers are poor. In addition, we are seeing a substantial population with antibodies. These factors will blunt the virulency of Covid-19 significantly,” said Dr Gilada.Maharashtra on Friday recorded 3,586 new Covid cases with 67 deaths, while Mumbai saw 472 new cases with three deaths.There are currently 48,451 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 13,432 patients followed by Thane with 7240 active patients and Ahmednagar with 6607.The state’s case tally has now reached 65,15,111, while the toll stands at 138,389.There were 179,246 tests done on Friday in state, while the number of recoveries clocked 4410.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/35-drop-in-new-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-in-sept-than-aug-deaths-down-by-54-101631895386025.html
17-09-2021||Lucknow||After Tokyo Paralympics, silver medallist Praveen Kumar hungry for more success||In childhood, para athlete Praveen Kumar was always discouraged from taking up sport but he went on to become a silver medallist at the Tokyo Paralympics. Back then, people would say sport wasn’t his cup of tea due to physical issues. But his love of athleticism kept him going, and he never missed a chance to play volleyball.Praveen Kumar, son of a poor farmer from a village near Jewar in Gautam Buddha Nagar district, has a congenital impairment that affects the bones that connect his hip to his left leg. He surprised everyone by bagging a silver medal in the men’s high jump T64 category at the Tokyo Paralympics early this month.“Those words of discouragement always inspired me to keep working hard in sport. That’s the reason I made it. I am thankful to the people who, in fact, gave me courage to excel,” said Praveen Kumar, who cleared 2.07 metre at the Tokyo Games to set a new Asian record.Praveen Kumar fell short of the gold medal by a whisker. Great Britain’s Jonathan Broom-Edwards, who notched up his season’s best of 2.10m, claimed the gold.“I am just 18 now and have a long way to go. The 2022 Asian Para Games would be an opportunity for me to change the colour of my Tokyo Games medal. I am sure to win a gold medal at the 2024 Paris Paralympics,” said Praveen Kumar, who begins his training from Monday at the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium in New Delhi.Even after winning the silver medal at the Paralympics, his life hasn’t changed much.“My perception towards my life, especially targets, hasn’t changed, but people’s perspective on me has altered a lot. Now, people around me want to spend time with me, discuss sport and even request selfies,” he said.“I know how tempting this change is but I am focused on bigger targets in life, including a gold medal at the Paris Paralympics in 2024,” he said.World no. 3 in men’s high jump T44 category, Praveen Kumar had his first international medal, also a silver, in men’s high jump T44 in the World Para Athletics Junior Championship at Nottwil, Switzerland, in 2019 before winning a gold medal with a new Asian Record in World Para Athletics FAZZA Grand Prix at Dubai early this year.“Both the medals boosted my confidence ahead of the Tokyo Games and I was very sure of a podium finish even before my first jump there,” said Praveen Kumar, who is pursuing the Bachelor of Arts course from Motilal College at Delhi University.“Politics and history are my favourite subjects, but my first love in sport is still volleyball. In fact, Satyapal Sir changed my life as he was the one who asked me to take up high jump and even coached me to this level.”He said he took part in a district-level competition where he met one Ashok Saini who gave him the phone number of Satyapal Sir. Praveen Kumar, who is just in his second year in the international circuit, said the ₹4 crore cash award, which he would get from the Uttar Pradesh government next week, would be spent wisely.“I have no fixed plans on how I am going to spend the cash award, but it would be used wisely. I have seen my family struggling for everything and being a member of a joint family I have certain responsibilities too on my shoulders,” he said.“Right now, money isn’t my focus area. I’m hungry for more success at the international level.”“The silver medal in Tokyo Games has just kick-started my sporting career and I have a long way to go,” said Praveen Kumar, who appreciates the support of his parents, the sports ministry and Paralympic Committee of India in achieving this success.“They all stood behind me like rocks and only then I could achieve this medal.”His coach Satyapal said he initially had some reservations about Praveen’s short stature but found he had very strong muscles on his right leg.“His left leg is the impaired one but his right leg has very strong muscles. So, despite his short stature, I took him under my wings,” Satyapal said.He also said Praveen Kumar was a sure shot gold medal candidate at the Asian Para Games next year in Hangzhou in China.“He started competing in international events only two years back and now he has won a silver medal at Paralympics. He is quite young and will be the country’s top Paralympian in future,” the coach added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-tokyo-paralympics-silver-medallist-praveen-kumar-hungry-for-more-success-101631895086016.html
17-09-2021||Lucknow||Boy’s body exhumed 23 days after death, 5 including tantrik arrested||GORAKHPUR Five people were arrested after a viral video showed a tantrik engaging in overnight occult practices, making a futile attempt to bring back a dead boy to life after the deceased’s parents exhumed the body from the grave and brought it to their home in Pharenda city of Maharajganj district on Thursday, said police. The 12-year-old boy, Shivam, had died 23 days ago and his body wasdug out at the tantrik’s behest. Those arrested were identified as Ashok Kumar, Lilavati (the parents), tantrik Raj Bahadur Sahni and his wife Usha, and their associate Rajan, said cops.Shivam, who was suffering from some serious ailment, had died during treatment at the government hospital on August 26 and being a minor Hindu his body was buried alongside the forest, some 3km away from his home. On September 14, the tantrik couple approached Shivam’s parents and convinced them that the power of ‘tantra vidya’ could bring the dead back to life. The parents of the deceased boy agreed to exhume the body. An FIR under Sections 294 (obscene words in public) and 297 (trespassing in burial place) of the IPC was registered against the accused and they were sent to jail, said Yashvant Singh, sub-inspector, Pharenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/boys-body-exhumed-23-days-after-death-5-including-tantrik-arrested-101631893046259.html
17-09-2021||Pune||Maha governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari courts controversy after he takes mask off woman for photoshoot||PUNE Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Maharashtra governor, courted a controversy after he took off the face mask of a woman whom he felicitated at an event in the city on Friday.The event ‘Pune on pedals’ was organised in Kothrud by former MLA Medha Kulkarni.Koshyari flagged off a cycle rally on the occasion of the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kothrud. The cycle rally was organised by Kulkarni, who is also the vice-president of Rashtriya Mahila Morcha.At the time of felicitating the cyclist, the governor in the viral video is seen removing her face mask for a photo session.The governor’s action comes at a time when the state and central government are implementing a severe public protocol to curb the spread of Covid-19.HT reached out to the governor but did not receive a response.When asked about the incident by media persons, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar took a dig at the governor and said, “It would be inappropriate to comment at this stage. But governors have special rights, and if someone takes oath while wearing a mask, then the governor can ask him to remove the mask and retake the oath of office.”Later, Koshyari felicitated citizens who worked to save lives during the pandemic at a function held at Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute (BORI) auditorium.During the event, Koshyari said, “People with integrity have a voice of their own which makes an impact in the society. An individual cannot say that don’t steal when he is doing it himself. There is a perception in society that work is done through corruption. This thinking has to end for bringing about development in the society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maha-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-courts-controversy-after-he-takes-mask-off-woman-for-photoshoot-101631892806131.html
17-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 803 new Covid cases, 8 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 803 new Covid-19 cases and eight deaths in 24 hours on Friday. This took the progressive count to 1.13 million of which 1.11 million have recovered, 19,721 deaths and 13,432 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 0.143 million vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 495 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 353,755 and the death toll went up to 6,748 as six more deaths were added. Pune city reported 177 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 515,166 and the death toll went up to 9,130 as two more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 131 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 264,995 and the toll stood at 3,494. Pune also saw 143,827 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday and in total 9,529,894. Of which 6,724,538 are first doses and 2,805,356 are second doses. A total of 811 sites saw vaccination of which 525 were government centres and 286 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-803-new-covid-cases-8-deaths-101631892145767.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Hospitals in Delhi see surge in seasonal flu cases among children||Amid the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in Delhi which has infected 1,438,428 people till now, hospitals in the national capital are also seeing a surge in cases of seasonal flu among children, news agency PTI reported on Friday. The symptoms of seasonal flu are similar to that of Covid-19 including fever, cough, sore throat, headache.Amid the threats of a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, experts suggested during a recent meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government should continue with robust testing to contain the spread of Covid-19 during the flu season.Speaking to PTI, doctors at the PSRI Hospital said that 70% of the children coming to the outpatient department (OPD) were having flu-like symptoms. Dr Sarita Sharma, a senior consultant of paediatrics at the hospital, said children have been coming with high fever of up to 102 to 103 for the past three to four days. At least 15-20% of them require hospitalisation, the doctor said.“Besides cough, cold, poor oral intake, vomiting has also been seen among the children. Cough is dry and spasmodic for small children below five years of age. Few children are also having wheezing problems. This is seasonal flu caused by a virus affecting the respiratory tract like RSV and Influenza,” Dr Sharma further said.On the other hand, another medical practitioner, Dr Meena from Aakash Healthcare in Delhi’s Dwarka, said there has been a sharp rise in cases of fever along with cough, cold and vomiting.Infants below the age of one have been showing severe symptoms and few of them had to be admitted, Dr Meena said. “Many of them suffer from temperatures as high as 103-104 degrees and the fever does not decrease after oral medication sometimes,” she added. Advising people to exercise proper respiratory hygiene and avoid going to crowded places, Dr Meena said that children should be kept at a distance from a person who is experiencing cold or fever.The doctor also pointed out that this time cases of dengue in Delhi are also being reported among children. “We are seeing three to five positive cases of dengue among children daily for almost two weeks. Children are symptomatic, show fever, body ache, fatigue symptoms and are diagnosed later after tests,” Dr Meena further told the news agency. She said that her hospital has admitted three to four children with the vector-borne disease.Till now, the Delhi government has not expressed fears over the dengue outbreak, with health minister Satyendar Jain saying that the 158 cases recorded are in control and the government is ready to deal with any situation arising out of the disease.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospitals-in-delhi-see-surge-in-seasonal-flu-cases-among-children-101631890846507.html
17-09-2021||Kolkata||Bengal man stabs mother, brother over ₹1 lakh loan; drowns her in water tank||Kolkata: A 35-year-old man stabbed his younger brother and mother before drowning her in a water tank over a ₹1 lakh loan that he gave his brother last year, police said. The accused, Md Alam, later went to the police and surrendered.The incident took place on Thursday in West Bengal’s Paschim Bardhaman district, around 200km northwest of Kolkata.The victims, Akhtari Khatun, 65, lived with her three sons in a house; her fourth son Aftab Alam stayed separately a short distance away.On Thursday afternoon, the accused went to his mother’s house on the pretext of giving her some fruits. While his two brothers stepped out, a police officer said, “Md Alam locked up the female family members in their room and stabbed his brother. He then stabbed his mother and drowned her in a water tank inside the house and fled,” said a police officer.The female members, meanwhile, raised an alarm, and the neighbours rushed to the spot. The police were also informed.“I lent ₹1 lakh to Aftab on the request of my mother. But both were dilly dallying when I demanded the money as I needed it. So I killed them,” Alam told reporters while being taken to court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-man-stabs-mother-brother-over-rs-1-lakh-loan-drowns-her-in-water-tank-101631890405588.html
17-09-2021||Lucknow||Star-studded Ayodhya ki Ramlila to be live-streamed on DD||LUCKNOW Ayodhya’s Ramlila will be grander this year as it is set to reach out to 25 crore people across the country in 26 languages. This year too, the 10-day cultural extravaganza, to be organised from October 6 to 15 (Dussehra) on the Lakshman Quila campus in the temple city, will be live-streamed on Doordarshan, YouTube and other social media platforms from 7pm to 10pm every day. Like last year, viewers will not be allowed to attend the event due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Bollywood actors Bhagyashree and Rahul Bhuchar will play the roles of Goddess Sita and Lord Ram, respectively. To make the show more attractive, 3-D technology will be used. Around 30 local artistes of Ayodhya will also enact roles of various characters of Ramayan. “Last year, the event reached out to 16 crore people. This year, our target is to reach out to 25 crore people and in 26 languages, said Subhash Malik, chairman, Ayodhya ki Ramlila. The dress of Lord Ram is being prepared in Janakpur, Nepal, which is considered to be the birthplace of Goddess Sita and Sita’s dress is being prepared in Ayodhya.But the royal attire of Ram is being prepared in Mumbai and is being designed by fashion designer Vishnu Patil, stated the Ramlila committee. The committee also informed that Ravan’s attire is being prepared in Sri Lanka. BJP MP Manoj Tewari will perform many roles, BJP MP from Gorakhpur, Ravi Kisan, will play the role of Parshuram, Vindu Dara Singh will essay the role of Lord Hanuman, Shahbaz Khan of Ravan, Sheeba Khan of Mandodri, and Raza Murad will also play a prominent role. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will preside over Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya on November 3, on the eve of Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/starstudded-ayodhya-ki-ramlila-to-be-live-streamed-on-dd-101631890225781.html
17-09-2021||Pune||PMPML e-buses to ferry tourists to Sinhagad fort soon||PUNE After a meeting with the civic officials and the people’s representatives about the development of Sinhagad fort and surrounding premises, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said a parking lot would be constructed at the base of the fort and e-buses of Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd ( PMPML) will ferry tourists atop the fort.“Two-wheeler and four-wheeler vehicles of the tourist would be parked at the entrance of the fort. PMPML e-buses will be provided to ferry tourists which will be a paid facility, and passes would also be issued,” he said.“Local youth will be engaged in the services. Instructions have been given to the forest department to train the youth as guides in Marathi, Hindi and English,” said Pawar.Snacks items are also a popular attraction for tourists. Pawar said that better arrangements should be made to set up a few shops.“There are small stalls in the fort premises. I have also asked the forest department officials to construct two to three shops at various locations as per norms which would then be leased out the locals to operate on a contract basis,” he said.MIDC to give 5-acre land to set up garbage processing unit at Hinjewadi: PawarA meeting of the officials was also held to discuss the problems in Hinjewadi and pending development work in the area. Pawar said that there should be better coordination among the agencies operating in that area and Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) has agreed to give five-acre land for the Hinjewadi garbage processing.“Some works have been pending, and some issues are still there. Instructions have been given to complete some work by December 31 and some of it by March 31 next year. I will take follow up from time to time,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tourists-to-be-banned-from-using-plastic-at-sinhagad-fort-ajit-pawar-101631888906925.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||Target festival returnees for Covid tests, BMC tells field staff||As Covid-19 cases continue to soar in some regions of Maharashtra, the civic body has sent out special instructions to target people returning to the city after travelling for the Ganesh festival. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) fears that the number of infections may increase with the inflow of people and this testing strategy aims at combatting the spread. The state’s weekly positivity rate as of September 14 stood at 2.6%. Mumbai had a much lower positivity rate at 1.3%. However, some districts like Pune (5.8%), Ahmednagar (5.5%), Sangli (3.8%), Nashik (3.7%), Satara (3.5%), Osmanabad (3.2%), Palghar (3.1%) and Sindhudurg (3%) have higher positivity rate compared to the states average. “Many people travel to their villages or hometown for the Ganesh festival and any such travel can lead to a spurt in the city’s Covid-19 infections,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. “We have therefore asked our field staff to target people with travel history for testing in order the catch the infections early,” he said. Kakani said that the civic body is also setting up testing camps in localities. Healthcare workers are going door-to-door asking people who have returned after travelling to come and get tested. Emphasis is put on those who have the slightest of symptoms or those who have come in contact when someone who has tested positive. The daily caseload in Mumbai has been under 500 for the past two months, crossing the 500-mark in a few days. The state’s daily caseload has been fluctuating between 3,000 to 4,000 over the past fortnight. Health officials have predicted the possibility of a surge with the lockdown restrictions eased and excessive travel between districts. “Screening at the points of entry into the city and targetted testing of people with travel history is a good idea,” said Soumitra Ghosh, associate professor at the Centre for Health Policy, planning and management, Tata Institute of Social Sciences.“Another important intervention should be to target areas that are reporting more cases,” he said. Most recently, the civic body tweaked its testing policy and asked all the wards to test symptomatic individuals and high-risk contacts within the first or second day itself, instead of waiting for the fifth or sixth day as mandated earlier. The civic body has now asked the wards to do a follow-up test on the fifth or sixth day in case the first one is negative. “Our circular issued about 10-day sago stated that individuals should be tested immediately, and one must not wait till the symptoms are more pronounced or for the symptoms to arise in case of high-risk contacts,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/target-festival-returnees-for-covid-tests-bmc-tells-field-staff-101631888905420.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||MPCB tells Mumbai civic body to stop spraying herbicides in Powai lake||Acting on a complaint by a city-based environment group, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) on Thursday sent a notice to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) asking the latter to stop spraying herbicides containing glyphosate in Powai lake to control the growth of water hyacinths, until further notice. MPCB has also asked BMC to “submit any technical say towards use of this herbicide in lake area”.The civic body had in August floated a tender for removal of water hyacinths at Ganesh Ghat, Pawarwadi and other areas to make space for immersion activities during Ganesh Chaturthi. The work was later awarded to an organisation called Saguna Rural Foundation. According to a preliminary inquiry and site visit conducted by a field officer on September 15, “The said contractor has sprayed glyphosate as herbicide on Powai lake area from September 3 to September 8.”Glyphosate, a staple ingredient in herbicides, can pose adverse toxicological effects on flora and fauna, especially in aquatic ecosystems. Depending on the extent of use, it may lead to an increase in the water body’s phosphorus content, which in turn will lead to the proliferation of algae and exacerbate eutrophication. This can reduce the ability of zooplankton to reproduce for other biodiversity to thrive.MPCB in their notice to BMC’s assistant commissioner of S ward also pointed out that the lake is a habitat for the Indian marsh crocodile, a species protected under the Wildlife (Protection) Act. Despite requests, assistant municipal commissioner of S ward, Ajit Kumar Ambi, and BMC’s chief engineer of hydraulics department Ajay Rathore did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment on Friday.This action by MPCB comes on the heels of complaints raised by NGO Vanashakti, which had, on September 13, written to the pollution control board, BMC and forest department objecting to the use of herbicides in Powai lake. The next day, citizens living in the vicinity had reported that drones were being used to spray herbicide into far reaches of the lake, which MPCB officials corroborated during their visit on September 15. However, MPCB pointed out that the work was not underway on the specific date of their site visit.Stalin D, director of Vanashakti, said simply removing these weeds is not enough to restore the health of the lake. “The water hyacinths no doubt reduce the levels of the lake and reduce its boundaries, but at the same time they also remove organic pollutants and heavy metals in the lake. If the hyacinths are removed without tackling the issue of pollution due to discharge of sewage, the move will be counterproductive,” Stalin said. He advocated for the area to be handed over to the forest department for safekeeping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mpcb-tells-mumbai-civic-body-to-stop-spraying-herbicides-in-powai-lake-101631888605451.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||1 Ganesh idol immersion at a time from same building; BMC issues guidelines for 10th day||In view of the 10th-day immersion of the ongoing Ganesh festival on Sunday, the Brihanmumnai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday said 25,000 of its workers will be on duty. The BMC has issued guidelines restricting of immersion of more than one Ganesh idol together, in the case of same building or chawl. According to BMC, if there are more than one idol immersions, they have to keep a safe time gap between the two.The civic body has appealed that children and senior citizens should avoid going to the immersion site. Further, the BMC has ruled out that not more than five people (preferably fully vaccinated), will be allowed at immersion site for household idols, followed by not more than 10 people (preferably fully vaccinated) will be allowed at immersion site for idols of Ganesh mandals.In a statement issued on Friday, the BMC said, “Around 715 lifeguards have been appointed at various natural and artificial immersion sites. We have also arranged for 338 nirmlaya kalash to dispose of flowers, followed by 182 mobile nirmalay kalash. Around 185 mobile control rooms have been set up; 144 first aid centres, 39 ambulances also have been arranged.”The statement further added, “The BMC has arranged for 145 reception rooms, 84 temporary mobile toilets, 3,707 floodlights, 116 searchlights, 48 observation towers, 36 motorboats, 30 German rafts at natural immersion sites have also been provided.”Further, the BMC has appealed that the citizens should carry out immersion at their homes, in case of an eco-friendly idol. The BMC has appealed that citizen should also avoid going to natural immersion sites and should conduct immersion at the artificial ponds set up by the civic body. Lastly, the BMC has also not allowed any procession or usage of loudspeakers on the last day of immersion. The citizens are requested to prohibit rituals at immersion spots. Citizens are asked to wear masks, carry sanitisers and follow social distancing norms.Meanwhile, a 31% dip was recorded in the immersion of Ganesh idols in 2020 compared to 2019. The BMC attributed this fall to Covid-19, as many preferred to conduct immersion at their home or inside their buildings. According to the figures provided by the BMC, around 1.35 lakh Ganesh idols were immersed in 2020 compared to 1.96 lakh idols immersed in 2019. However, usage of artificial ponds for immersion doubled from 33,000 in 2019 to 70,000 in 2020. The increased usage of artificial ponds the BMC said was owing to the 2km limit imposed for immersion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1-ganesh-idol-immersion-at-a-time-from-same-building-bmc-issues-guidelines-for-10th-day-101631888425448.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: A Modern-Day Mumbai Miracle||What does one say to a woman who has donated land worth ₹120 crore (approximately USD 16 million) to a hospital without wanting anyone to know about her act of staggering altruism? A woman who hails from an ordinary middle-class family, one which is certainly not steeped in wealth, who says that she does not expect anything in return for her largesse, not even any personal acclaim? A woman, who having performed this amazing act of generosity almost three years ago, has since then, laid low, lived anonymously, carried on her life quietly, not breathed a word about it to any one besides her inner circle, and what’s more, has sought neither praise nor publicity for it; in fact a woman who agrees to an interview with me as long as her privacy is respected and her name strictly does not figure anywhere? What indeed can one say to such a person, except to tell her that at a time when self-interest, greed and materialism appear to have spread their tentacles everywhere and colonised every heart — her story is nothing short of a modern-day Mumbai miracle and must be told, for the simple reason that it restores one’s faith in humanity and in the goodness of ordinary people. **************************************A few days ago, a rare ray of sunshine broke through the usual doom and gloom that dominate our present-day news cycle; ricocheting through WhatsApp chats and online sites, before one could say Melinda Gates and MacKenzie Scott, came the news that a 61-year-old Mumbai lady had donated her ancestral property worth around ₹120 crore to Tata Memorial Hospital — India’s largest cancer hospital, where 60% of the patients who come for first aid are treated free of cost — for the construction of a new chemo centre which will greatly alleviate the colossal demand for beds and suffering of patients. “Could this be even true?” was the query on everyone’s lips, when the news began to sink in. A Mumbai woman. Who no one had even heard of. Had given away ₹120 crore worth of. Prime Mumbai real estate… And along with the incredulity came the curiosity about the mystery lady… **************************************“All the credit for making me who I am goes first and foremost to my parents, who gave me my sense of values and taught me to stay grounded. I also credit my teachers at The JB Vachha School at Kings Circle who further inculcated those values, and of course my husband and his family who have supported my decision all along,” said the mystery lady, when, with a seasoned newshound’s nose, I manage to track her down, a couple of hours later. “I don’t know how the news with my name came out last week, even after I had requested that it shouldn’t. And I was hugely embarrassed by it,” she said. As she tells it, DM (for those are her initials) who grew up at Dadar’s King Circle, the daughter of an unassuming Gujarati father and Parsi mother, inherited 30,000 square feet of property, on which her father’s printing press stood in Parel, on his passing in 2005. Being an only child and, as she says, having been brought up in an atmosphere of giving, she thought that the best way she could honour her parents’ memory was to donate the entire property to Tata Memorial Hospital, which lies just 400 metres away, so that it could construct an additional chemotherapy centre. Currently, the hospital, which is said to treat one-third of the country’s total population of cancer patients, has 100 beds for chemotherapy, vastly inadequate for the over 500 patients who require the lifesaving intervention. “I used to see the condition of patients when I used to visit my dad’s press, many of them were in a pitiful state, sometimes waiting even on the roads and pavements outside the hospital in extremely harsh conditions,” she tells me by way of explanation of what led her to her act of unbound magnanimity and selflessness. “Later, through my aunt Dr Zarin Bharucha, who was a leading figure in the Red Cross and the establishment of blood banks in India, I had many opportunities to visit the hospital to donate blood and see first-hand the immense suffering faced by patients due to the shortage of beds. So, when I inherited the property, I had no doubt that this was the right thing to do,” she says. Here, I interject with the 120 crore questions on everyone’s mind: Was there no opposition from her family to the idea? No one who discouraged her saying there could be more pressing, personal compunctions to be considered? After all, how many people would turn down the opportunity to enjoy the windfall of such a large fortune? “Fortunately, with God’s grace, my husband who is a successful chartered accountant and hails from a solid middle-class Maharashtrian family that believes in giving, encouraged me to do so. And touch wood, even my son who is working as a techie in Bengaluru did not have any objections. I guess we were all brought up to know the difference between one’s needs and one’s wants,” she says, adding “Also, my parents taught me that when it comes to charity, one’s right hand must not know what one’s left hand does.” As she tells me, it was her aunt Dr Bharucha, her mother’s sister-in-law, who had been instrumental in making her wish to donate her land to the hospital a reality. “My aunt introduced me to the hospital trust, got the ball rolling and encouraged me through the entire process of dealing with authorities in the hospital and the civic body which took around two-and-a-half years,” she says. **************************************Ironically, it is a day after Dr Bharucha’s funeral that I have my conversation with DM. “She will not be there to see the opening of the new wing,” says the doting niece about her aunt who passed away last Sunday, due to age-related illnesses, after a life spent in service and selflessness. Finally, I ask DM, if in the absence of her name, she would at least like to share a photograph of her late parents, to be carried along with this article and she says she will reflect on it and let me know. The next day, I receive the following message from her, as always, polite and to the point, but firm. “Good morning,” it reads, “Slept on your suggestion for the photograph, but I feel my parents would have also wanted it to be kept quiet…” And that gentle readers, concludes my conversation with the amazing Mumbai lady who, in an age of rampant greed and self-interest where few acts of kindness and selflessness get done and then too never without accompanying hype and hyperbole, has proven that empathy, decency and humanity still exist. And that you do not have to be rich or famous to be generous, just an ordinary citizen of Mumbai whose heart beats for the city and its people. And yes, although I know DM’s name and have her number, I have every intention of respecting her wish for anonymity and privacy and not revealing her personal details. After all, that’s the least she deserves — don’t you think?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-a-modern-day-mumbai-miracle-101631888365667.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||This Kashmiri Pandit has dedicated her life to saving animals||A 10-year-old girl, who had to flee the Valley with her parents and younger brother back in the 1989, is in her 40s today, who chose not to marry so that she can devote her time to take care of her 331 ‘children’. Meet Namrata Hakhoo, a Kashmiri Pandit migrant, who has dedicated her life to look after abandoned and injured street animals as “she can feel their pain and suffering”. “I am a single woman living with my elderly parents in Jammu since 1989 when we had to flee our home in Kashmir to escape radicals and terrorists. I am the founder of Hakhoo Street Animals Foundation Trust (registered) and we are taking care of street animals since 1993,” she says. Namrata runs the shelter inside her home on three and a half kanals in Hakkal village near Chatha on the outskirts of Jammu city. “Right now, we are living with 331 street animals on whom we spend ₹14,000 daily,” she says. Being a Kashmiri Pandit migrant, her father gets a cash relief of ₹9,750 every month, which is not enough for the family. “We have sold everything, including gold ornaments of my mother. We don’t have any source of income. We want to do more for animals on the streets, but financial crisis is giving us a tough time,” she adds. Future plans“We want to build a 100-kennel rehabilitation shelter for street animals. But without the support of the society, the goal can’t be achieved. We want that more and more street animals get timely treatment, surgeries, shelter and food,” she says. Available 24x7 for rescue and rehabilitation of street animals for the past 28 years, Namrata’s trust currently has 331 animals, including oxen, cows, pigs, monkeys, eagles, pigeons, cats, dogs, owl, parrots, horses, and calves. Notably, all the animals have been vaccinated. “We are also very particular about deworming procedure of animals and follow every suggestion of veterinary doctor,” she says. Namrata, who had to shut her computer institute in a bid to house animals, tries to provide proper diet to the animals but has lately cut her meals to twice a day. “We are in debt of ₹6 lakh as we had to buy food, medicines and other things needed for the rescued animals,” she says. “We are facing severe financial crunch, but to treat an injured voiceless animal and bring him home gives us immense satisfaction. I am doing it for myself and not for others,” she adds. She recalls how ‘Hakhoo Ghar’, which started with two pet dogs, has become a big family of 331 animals. “We, in the meantime, also feed 1,000 animals on the street,” she says. The ever-swelling number of animals has compelled Namrata to sleep on a mattress in her kitchen while her parents sleep in a small room. “We have dedicated our lives to animal welfare and have given up on luxuries,” she says. Namrata passed her Class 12 from Kendriya Vidyalaya before getting an NCSC degree in networking essentials. She has so far received no help either from the government or any NGO. “Since 1993 till 2019, we were doing it on our own but now we are seeking support from the people. I approached J&K L-G Manoj Sinha on his grievances cell, wrote to the PM on his official account and contacted actor Sonu Sood in Mumbai, but am yet receive any response,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/this-kashmiri-pandit-has-dedicated-her-life-to-saving-animals-101631887525422.html
17-09-2021||Pune||Noted physicist Thanu Padmanabhan passes away in Pune||Pune: Renowned physicist and professor at the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA), Thanu Padmanabhan passed away after suffering a heart attack at his official residence in Pune on Friday. The theoretical physicist was rushed to a hospital, where he died during treatment, according to his former colleague. The 64-year-old scientist is survived by his wife Dr Vasanthi Padmanabhan and daughter Hamsa. A Padma Shri recipient in 2007, Padmanabhan has authored over 300 research papers and several books on gravitation, quantum gravity, and structure and formation of the universe. He was ranked 24th amongst top scientists in the world by the Stanford University for his research in Theoretical Physics. Born in Thiruvananthapuram (Kerala) on March 10, 1957, Padmanabhan completed his graduation and post-graduation from the University College of Kerala with gold medals. He joined the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) in Mumbai in 1979, and later pursued a postdoctoral degree from the Institute of Astronomy under the University of Cambridge, UK. In 1992, he moved to Pune to join as dean of IUCAA and has been working here since then. Professor Ajit Kembhavi, former IUCAA director, who worked along with Prof Padmanabhan for the past more than 30 years, said, “He was an outstanding physicist, astronomer and scholar. He has written a series of highly acclaimed and technical books on different aspects of Theoretical Astrophysics and Theoretical Physics. It is a great loss to the astronomical community.” “He was not only my colleague in IUCAA, but we first worked together in TIFR in Mumbai prior to 1989. Then I moved to IUCAA Pune and he also later joined the institute. Though we were both working in the same institute for so many years, we did not do any research together but our bond as colleagues was strong,” said Kembhavi. Kembhavi said that Prof Padmanabhan was a quiet person engaged in his work along with his team of students, post-doctorates and co-workers. “He was busy with his research in his field and used to regularly publish his works,” Kembhavi said. Staff, colleagues and students paid homage to Prof Padmanabhan at the IUCAA campus and he was taken to the crematorium in Aundh for last rites at around 2 pm. “This is one of the saddest days in the history of IUCAA, Pune and the Indian scientific community today. Professor Thanu Padmanabhan Padma Shri passed away this morning as a result of a cardiac arrest. Padmanabhan known as Paddy to us all, leaves behind his wife and daughter, innumerable friends, admirers, colleagues, teachers and his monumental legacy of research and textbooks.” said IUCAA director Prof Somak Raychaudhury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/noted-physicist-thanu-padmanabhan-passed-away-in-pune-101631884585211.html
17-09-2021||Lucknow||Eye on UP battle, Congress forms screening committee headed by Jitendra Singh||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday constituted the party’s screening committee for the upcoming high-stakes assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh next year. Jitendra Singh has been named as the chairman of the committee, while Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda and Maharashtra MLA Varsha Gaikwad have been chosen as its members.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, state unit president Ajay Kumar Lallu and legislature party leader in state Aradna Misra have been appointed as ex-officio members of the screening committee. The ex-officio members also comprise all AICC secretaries for Uttar Pradesh.Also Read| UP polls 2022: Expelled Congress leaders question Priyanka Vadra's leadershipThe committee will be responsible for shortlisting candidates for the elections. The Congress is eyeing to make a comeback in Uttar Pradesh after over three decades and is gearing up to contest the next year’s election without forming any alliance. In the 2017 polls, the Congress secured only seven of the 403 Assembly seats having joined hands with the Samajwadi Party (SP).#NewsAlert | Congress constitutes Screening Committee for forthcoming Uttar Pradesh #AssemblyElections Jitendra Singh to be chairman, Deepender S Hooda, Varsha Gaikwad members pic.twitter.com/a7NmMER97ELast week, the Congress had invited applications from prospective candidates and days later, the party’s Uttar Pradesh unit asked those seeking tickets for next year’s election to deposit ₹11,000 with their applications.“All applicants should submit their applications with the authorised persons at the district/state level along with a ‘sahyog rashi (contribution amount)’ of ₹11,000 by September 25, 2021,” an order issued by Lallu read. The party said this step was taken to keep away candidates who were not serious about the election.Also Read| UP polls: With ‘Ram Rajya’ in focus, AAP holds Tiranga Yatra in AyodhyaOn Wednesday, the Congress started the second phase of its training programme, titled ‘Prashikshan Se Parakram Mahaabhiyan’, to train party workers. According to a PTI report, 100 camps will be organised to make 30,000 workers battle-ready ahead of the crucial election. The programme will continue till the end of September.During the first phase of the campaign, continuing for 11 days, the party trained 25,000 of its workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/eye-on-up-battle-congress-forms-screening-committee-headed-by-jitendra-singh-101631882012531.html
17-09-2021||Pune||Non-essential shops to remain shut in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Cantonment areas on September 19||PUNE All non-essential shops in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Cantonment areas will remain shut on Sunday (September 19) on the occasion of Ganesh Visarjan.The announcement was made by Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister, following the Covid-19 review meeting held at the divisional commissioner office in Pune on Friday.However, essential services and hotels, restaurants will remain open on Sunday.“In the review meeting it came to light that the Covid-19 situation has slightly improved,” said Pawar.“There was consensus that all non-essential shops should remain closed for Ganesh Visarjan. Essential services such as medical services will not be affected,” said Pawar.Vikram Kumar, Pune municipal commissioner, said that non-essential shops including malls will remain closed on Sunday.Pawar also announced that swimming tanks would be reopened for the fully vaccinated people.“Permission has been given to reopen the swimming tanks so that players can practice. The only condition is that they should be fully vaccinated,” said Pawar.Though most of the Covid-19 induced curbs have been eased in the state, some establishments such as theatres, multiplexes, religious places are still not allowed to operate.Pawar hinted at more crucial decisions if the Covid situation in the state remains under control till October 2.“In Maharashtra, there was a difference of six and half months between the peak of the first wave and second wave. Now it has been six-and-half-months since the peak of the second wave. We are on alert and monitoring the situation. If the situation remains under control then some crucial decisions would be taken on October 2. We will wait till then,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nonessential-shops-to-remain-shut-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad-cantonment-areas-on-september-19-101631881645209.html
17-09-2021||Other||Telangana HC orders probe into death of Hyderabad rape-murder suspect||The Telangana high court on Friday ordered a judicial inquiry into the death of the 30-year-old man suspected in the alleged rape and murder of a six-year-old tribal girl in Hyderabad last week.The man’s mutilated body was found on the railway tracks near Station Ghanpur of Jangaon district on Thursday morning. While the Telangana police said it was a clear case of suicide, the family of the deceased alleged it was a murder by the police.On Friday, Telangana state civil liberties committee secretary G Laxman moved a lunch-motion petition before the state high court expressing doubts over the manner in which the accused died. He alleged that the police killed the man and called it a suicide.The high court bench, comprising acting chief justice MS Ramachandar Rao and justice T Amarnath Goud then ordered a judicial inquiry.The high court appointed Third Metropolitan Magistrate of Warangal court as the judicial officer to conduct the inquiry and submit his report in a sealed cover within four weeks.The high court bench ordered that all the videos be submitted to the judicial officer in Warangal by 8pm on Saturday.Also Read | Dead Maoist leader’s wife Sammakka surrenders to Telangana PoliceAt a press conference earlier, director general of police M Mahender Reddy said there was no foul play. “There were witnesses to the incident, including railway workers and locals. Even the versions of the Konark Express loco pilots were recorded. It is not correct to make baseless allegations against the police,” he said.The deceased was on the run since the night of September 9, when the Hyderabad police found the body of the six-year-old girl in his room at Saidabad, following a complaint lodged by her parents that she was missing. Post-mortem report revealed that she was raped and strangled to death.The Hyderabad Police, which booked a case of murder and rape case, besides under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, formed 15 special teams to track down the suspect.They also widely circulated his details, particularly the tattoos on his arms. They also announced a cash reward of ₹10 lakh for those giving information about him. A week later, his body was found on railway tracks near Station Ghanpur. The body was cremated by his family late on Thursday following a post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/telangana-hc-orders-probe-into-death-of-hyderabad-rape-murder-suspect-101631880144810.html
17-09-2021||Kolkata||Following Rajya Sabha exit, Arpita Ghosh appointed TMC Bengal general secretary||Two days after resigning as the Member of Parliament (MP) of Rajya Sabha, Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Arpita Ghosh has been appointed as the general secretary of the party’s West Bengal committee.In a letter, TMC president Subrata Bakshi informed the party’s decision to appoint Ghosh in the role. “As desired by West Bengal Trinamool Congress Committee, I would like to inform you that you have been nominated as general secretary… with immediate effect. I trust and hope you will work sincerely for the betterment of the organisation,” the letter read.Following her resignation and the acceptance of the same by Vice President and chairman of House, M Venkaiah Naidu, on Wednesday, Ghosh said that she now wants to work for TMC’s organisation.Ghosh thanked TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, who is also the nephew of party supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, for giving the artiste-turned politician the opportunity to serve the people in different capacities.In a letter explaining her thoughts regarding the exit from Parliament, Ghosh said she had been pondering over her continuing role in TMC following the party’s landslide victory in the West Bengal Assembly elections. “My goal is clear: I wish to continue to serve the people of Bengal under the leadership of chief minister Mamata Banerjee,” she said, adding that she would be in a “better position” to achieve her goals by resigning from the Rajya Sabha.However, people familiar with the development of the matter reportedly hinted that Ghosh’s move was prompted by the TMC. BJP West Bengal president Dilip Ghosh said that the TMC leader was “forced to resign” by the “dictatorial leadership” of the party. “It shows the party does not believe in democracy within the organisation,” he added.However, TMC leader and West Bengal minister Firhad Hakim asserted that the TMC “granted” Ghosh’s “wish” of working for the organisation. “Dilip Ghosh should not meddle into internal affairs of the Trinamool Congress,” Hakim added.Ghosh echoed Hakim’s statement and stuck to her earlier point to work for the organisation, adding that staying in West Bengal would also allow her to devote “more time” to her “passion – theatre.”Arpita Ghosh had won the 2014 Lok Sabha polls as a TMC candidate from the Balurghat constituency in West Bengal. She was elected as the Rajya Sabha MP following her defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from the same constituency.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/following-rajya-sabha-exit-arpita-ghosh-appointed-tmc-bengal-general-secretary-101631878023214.html
17-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan government considering opening camel shelters amid declining population||In view of the sharp decline in camel population in Rajasthan and for its effective conservation, the Rajasthan government is considering starting oonth shala (camel shelters), similar to cow shelters, officials. According to the state government, the camel population has witnessed a sharp decline of 34%. From 3.5 lakh in 2015 the numbers of camels across the state stood at 2.13 lakh in 2019. On 16 September 2014, camel was declared as the state animal in Rajasthan. According to the Animal Census 2019, about 84.43% of the total number of camels in the country are in Rajasthan. The census shows that the number of camels is on the decline for the last 30 years. Minister of the animal husbandry department, Lal Chand Kataria, said the main reason for the decline in the number of camels is the continuous development of mechanical resources and availability of a high level of transport facility up to the village level. Under the Rajasthan Camel (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) Act 2015, there is a ban on the slaughter of camels and taking them out of the state without competent permission, due to which the use of camels is continuously decreasing. “It is true that ever since the law for camel protection has been enacted in the state, the number of camels in the state has decreased since then. I am a farmer and can understand the problems being faced by the camel owners,” he said replying to the attention motion raised by MLA Rajendra Rathod during the zero hour in the state assembly. He said the suggestion by assembly members, such as deputy opposition leader Rajendra Rathore and others, to build a camel shelter like a gaushala (cow shelter) is justified. ‘We also want that a camel shelter should be considered like a gaushala,” he added. The minister said in the absence of effective efforts to stop camel smuggling and its conservation, in the coming time, may risk their survival. Kataria said the government is committed to the protection of camels. “There is a need for partial amendment in the law made in the year 2015 for camel protection. A draft has been prepared to amend this law and it will be passed in the next session of the assembly,” he said. It is learned that the government in the amendments might allow the sale of camels outside the state. The sale of camels outside the state and their use as transport medium are banned Under the Rajasthan Camel (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) Act 2015, which affected the revenue model of the camel owners. The state police, to date, has recovered over 230 camels, which were being smuggled. As many as 21 were arrested in associated cases. The decline is not new, as per official livestock census figures available with the animal husbandry department of the state government. Between 1951 and 1992, the number of camels in Rajasthan continued to increase, barring a small decline in 1988. The first major decline was registered between 1992 and 1997 when the number of camels declined from 7.46 lakh to 6.69 lakh. The highest-ever camel population in the state was 7.56 lakh in the year 1983. However, the current figure of 2.13 lakh camels in the state is lower than 3.41 lakh camels in the year 1951. On the idea of camel shelters, Hanwant Singh, president of Lokhit Pashu Palak Sansthan, an NGO which works with camel pastoralists, said, “The shelter can be for old, injured, stray, and ill camels, but the healthy and useful ones should not be kept there.” He suggested developing a camel sanctuary. “Cows can be kept in hundreds but five camels cannot be kept together during the breeding season,” he reasoned. On declining population, he said the price of camels is continuously dropping – in the recent Tilwara fair held in Barmer district a camel between 4 to 5 years old was sold at ₹5000 to ₹7000. Before 2015, pastoralists used to get up to ₹50,000 for a camel but the law has resulted in a fall in prices, he added. Singh said earlier, the buyers used to come from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and other states, they used camels for agriculture purposes. “After the Rajasthan Camel (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) Act, 2015 came into force, the process to take a camel out of state has become a tedious one. It takes months to years to get a clearance. The law was to protect the camel but instead, the number is decreasing,” he said. He demanded that the government should allow its sale outside the state and even abroad – the camel prices in Pakistan are between ₹2 to ₹2.5 lakh. And here in the state, there is a ban on its transport and sale. Meanwhile, the Rajasthan high court has taken suo-moto note of the sharp decline of the camel population in the state and appointed Advocate Prateek Kasliwal as amicus curiae to suggest changes in the law enacted in 2015 to regulate slaughter and transport of the state animal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-government-considering-opening-camel-shelters-amid-declining-population-101631879246680.html
17-09-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: When Anarchy gets a seat at the Democratic table||September 15 was International Day of Democracy, so I got to thinking and eventually realised that I love half-baked knowledge, just love it. It allows me to make bold statements, paint grand visions, construct surface-level premises with no depth and generally spare no effort in making a fool of myself.Thankfully we are living in times where no one is really listening to what I am saying. That’s because everyone can - and is - expressing their own opinion. We are all equal.Imagine if I were to be elected to a committee or become a member of a group for people. Or, if I were to start a community… or a technology company backed by investors. Then the matter would be different. Because there would be others who would have a vested interest in my opinion and its popularity and dissemination, and would, probably, support and even defend my opinions and positions.Now let’s alter a variable and say that my bold statements were not about making a fool of myself, but something that would alter society‘s status quo if they gained support from others. Or change the way business is done. Or change the negotiating leverage of a section of society. The stakes are now a little higher. Because I have support of others, it makes me an influencer. And with the support of my newfound community, and their hard work and intelligence and passion, slowly but steadily, my sphere of influence will increase, putting me in competition with other influencers, which in turn increases the chances of neighbourhood or local (definitely some social) media attention. Thus, my unimportant opinions now grow into some value. From here, depending on the momentum (all of the stakeholders generate) it can grow into a movement, a force, maybe even a policy if someone gets elected to a public body or office.Now let’s specify the knowledge I am spewing and call it “data”. Let us also acknowledge that data is a resource. For any given resource, there are many different interests and therefore, many different positioning statements for each interest and therefore many different stakeholders for each of those positioning statements. Once a viewpoint gains momentum it becomes a force (small or big) and then it has political clout. And each political clout negotiates with all other political clouts, which works as a check and balance for overall society on most matters.That’s how democracy functions. Laws are made around this concept and the idea of justice is defined within this understanding. It’s like a free-market economy. This is also how nations of the world work with each other. In times past, there has been the age of monarchies, there has been the age of oligarchies. This is the age of democratic negotiations. But all nations are not democratic, just as all power-centres are not governments.We often assume that the opposite of democracy is autocracy (as in communist or theocratic or monarchial states). That’s a fallacy. At one end of the spectrum is organised rule and at the other end of that spectrum is anarchy. Organised rule is the existence of control groups within a society of individuals - democracy, socialism, communism, monarchy, theocracy, oligarchy are different forms of organised rule. The objective of organised rule is to maintain order through negotiated homogeneity, or acceptance of a common uniformity. Anarchy is the existence of individuals and small disorganised groups. The objective of anarchy is absence of controlling authority and absolute individual freedom. (If we replace the “individual” with nation, and “controlling authority” with world order, we can read this as: The objective of anarchy is absence of control from the world order and absolute freedom for the nation to conduct itself as it pleases.)The history of human civilisation is the history of development of different forms of organised rule. For not so obvious reasons, anarchies have rarely survived since they have been usually assimilated by neighbouring organised-rule nations. But like with all ages, there are always voices of anarchic dissent. And with the right environment and some astute alliances, dissenting voices can easily become a movement, then a force and maybe even get a seat at the table.The conflict in the current age is a conflict between religion and organised government for control of the human masses, their mind-spaces and their productivity. We have been through several ages and types of rule, and in each the control of human productivity was with the ruler of the times - religious leaders, monarchs, tyrants, governments - end result in each was the same for the individual - subjugation.Democracy has emerged as the most effective of the types of rule because it provides an impression of freedom, and systematically dismantles the influence of religion and other power centres till the common wo(man) willingly conforms to the progressive life prescribed by the alliance between political parties and business organisations. That’s because the rhetoric of democracy is inclusion, equal treatment and participation.What happens if an anarchic wave finds support from religious totalitarian and autocratic allies in an overwhelmingly large democratic environment? By nature, democracies first quote procedure, law, and rights, then they sanction (economic always, economic), embargo and use armed deterrent; then they talk, discuss, negotiate and eventually, if the dissenter has potential to damage the world order, they make space and accommodate with terms and conditions and start releasing resources to the new entrant. But what is likely to happen when a primarily violent anarchic state with no common ground with democratic ideals, is accommodated in a democratic setup? Democratic nations will hope that the anarchists will come into the fold. History, however, shows that anarchists do not deviate from their agenda, especially religious anarchies. A violent theocracy is usually what emerges.What does this mean for the displaced people of the erstwhile nation? What does it mean for the democracies of the world? And what does it mean for the democracy of the region? Is an appeasing democratic approach capable of addressing the threat of an alliance of autocratic, military dictatorship and theocratic nations? Is it responsible of democratic institutions to fork out billions of dollars in aid into the hands of violent regimes?It is unfair and unjust (in a democracy) to suspect and persecute people on grounds of religion or caste or colour or creed or socio-economic background. Similarly, it is naive and dangerous to think of religious anarchic extremism as a form of plurality within the democratic vocabulary. These are twains that are unlikely to ever meet. Thankfully, there are enough wise people to think about all of this and protect the world at large. Hopefully, our future and safety will not rest in the hands of the same wise people who have brought us to where we stand today. Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-when-anarchy-gets-a-seat-at-the-democratic-table-101631877326363.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Govt comes up with 14-point guidelines for construction firms||The Delhi government on Friday issued a set of 14 guidelines that construction companies would have to follow to prevent dust pollution in the national capital.Chairing a review meeting with all state-run agencies engaged in construction work in Delhi, environment minister Gopal Rai asked the firms to submit their action plans to combat dust pollution by next Tuesday (September 21).According to news agency PTI, Rai said several private agencies were also involved in construction work and a meeting was conducted with over 50 of them, including Shapoorji and Larsen and Toubro. “These private construction sites have been asked to comply with the 14-point guidelines to prevent dust pollution within 15 days,” Rai said.Also Read| Delhi govt to ready winter pollution plan by Sept 30According to the guidelines, construction sites should be covered from all sides with tin sheds. Sites that measure over 20,000 square metres would have to deploy anti-smog guns. Vehicles carrying construction materials have to be covered and cleaned and such stuff should not fall on the road. Also, only Pakki and Blacktop roads are to be used for transporting such materials.The guidelines also stated that there should be no collection of construction and demolition waste on the roadside and a record of all generated waste has to be kept by the companies. A dust mask is mandatory for all workers on the site and companies also have to ensure medical facilities for them.▪️Ban on stockpile on roads▪️Ban on uncovered sand, etc▪️No cutting/grinding in open▪️Water spraying must▪️Pakki, Black top roads to transport materials▪️Record of all generated waste▪️Dust mask for workers mandatory▪️Medical facility for workers must (2/2) pic.twitter.com/tc4TFolosdThe guidelines came weeks ahead of an impending spike in air pollution during the festival season and winter.Also Read| Police, anti-pollution body to enforce Delhi’s cracker banOn September 9, Rai said his government was preparing a 10-point winter action plan to combat air pollution.The plan would focus on internal and external factors responsible for pollution. Rai said some of these factors included road and construction dust and stubble and waste burning.On Wednesday, the government announced a “complete ban” on the sale, use and storage of firecrackers in the city during the festival of Diwali. Police and teams of the Delhi Pollution Control Board (DPCB) would keep a close check on markets to ensure strict adherence to the government’s ban on firecrackers.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-govt-comes-up-with-14-point-guidelines-for-construction-firms-101631876055772.html
17-09-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: September 17- September 23||Visual art Give your child an edge by enrolling them in an online art class to unlock your child’s creative potential. Register for a free demo class for insight into what these classes are like and why your child should sign up. To register go to: https://brainart.co/online-trial-art-class/ or call 9972944894When: Friday, September 17; 4:30 pm to 5:30 pmWhere: OnlineSaturday Night Live at High Spirits Groove Junktion is the band in attendance this week at High’s SNL event. For bookings call 9890845878. All safety precautions adhered to When: Saturday, September 18; 7pm onwards Where: High Spirits, Koregaon Park Wrap it up!Learn to wrap presents faster than the traditional method with Japanese gift wrapping techniques. Learn different types of bow making as well. Registrations are based on a first-come first-served basisTo register call +91-9818442805 or +91-8766226974When: Friday, September 17 and Saturday, September 18; 2:30 pm-5pmWhere: OnlineMusic workshopThe Antarnaad Kala Academy has organised an online musical workshop for music enthusiasts. The workshop will be presented by playback singer Mahalakshmi Iyer. The workshop will include voice culture, voice modulation, and how to choose a career in music.Fees: Rs99 To register go to http://antarnaadacademy.com/workshop or call +91 8530636655When: Saturday, September 18; 4pm to 7pm Where: Online Right Here Write NowCurious about how to put together fiction and non-fiction stories from the ground up? How to build a rock-solid foundation on which your story will stand and grow? How to build characters that readers and audiences will never forget? How to create moments of love and breakthroughs? It’s India’s most popular creative writing event.To register please email: story@talltales.inWhen: September 18, 19; 10am to 2pm Where: Online Singing a storyWhat does it take to tell a story? Why not sing the story?The workshop will explore a simple way to look at the tone of folk singing, and derive energy from our collective memories to create simple stories in a way that can be sung in both English and our local languages. There will be simple voice-based exercises, improv story creation and participants will have a story song by the end of the workshop.To register call 8971492903.When: Saturday, September 18;11am-1pmWhere: OnlineVirtual story telling Who doesn’t love a good story? We may not remember the facts or names but it’s the stories that stay with us forever! A story telling session with Dr Pavithra Priyadarshoni. After the story telling session we will also be playing some fun interactive games Fees: Rs1,500 per head (includes story telling session + interactive games)To register email oninfo@heartandsoulevents.in When: Sunday, September 19; 6:00pm to 8:30pmWhere: OnlineContent writing In this workshop, you’ll learn the basics combined with techniques of content writing to give you an overview of different types of content writing. This is a beginner-friendly workshop for participants who wants to learn the basics and techniques of content writing.To register call 080-954 77 222 / 09606858851 When: Sunday, September 19, 10am to 1pmWhere: Online||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-september-17-september-23-101631876546067.html
17-09-2021||Dehradun||Char Dham yatra to start from Saturday with capping on number of pilgrims||After the Uttarakhand high the court lifted its stay on Char Dham yatra, it will officially start from Saturday with a capping on the number of pilgrims that will be allowed daily to the four revered Himalayan shrines., officials said.Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, said, the yatra will start on Saturday and the SOPs related to it will be released by the evening. “The pilgrims from anywhere who want to visit Char Dham will have to register themselves on the website of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board (https://badrinath-kedarnath.gov.in/) where a sub-link will be provided for the same after the state government issues the SOPs. Also, they will have to bring a negative Covid-19 report with them or a certificate of having received both the doses of Covid-19 vaccination,” he said. On Thursday, the HC lifted its June 28 stay on Char Dham yatra. The number of pilgrims to be allowed daily will be 800 for Kedarnath, 1000 for Badrinath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for Yamunotri. Following the development, chief secretary SS Sandhu chaired a high-level meeting with senior officials from various departments on Thursday evening, issuing important directions to the district magistrates of Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Uttarkashi, where four revered shrines are located, regarding various arrangements and preparations for Char Dham yatra. Kedarnath shrine is located in Rudraprayag district, while Badrinath is in Chamoli district. Yamunotri and Gangotri shrines are located in Uttarkashi district. Singh directed the district magistrates (DMs) that proper arrangements be made on the Char Dham route with regard to road safety, sanitation, crowd management, transport management, Covid testing. Singh also issued directions that road stretches on the Char Dham route, which need repair work, should be repaired on a war footing. He also directed them to ensure sensitive points on Char Dham routes where pilgrims walk on foot to be sanitised, have drinking water and toilet facility and so on. The chief secretary also directed the DMs to ensure that SOPs on Char Dham are followed by the pilgrims and that they are tested for Covid-19 and follow all norms. He also directed for Covid-19 to be announced on loudspeakers along the routes. Other directions included ensuring the availability of enough doctors, ambulances on the routes, registration of pilgrims, providing important information to pilgrims on their mobile phones and through banners along the Char Dham routes. Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri, collectively, are called the Char Dham. The shrines attract lakhs of pilgrims each year. Traditionally, the Char Dham pilgrimage begins from the west from Yamunotri, proceeding to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east. Last year in June, the state government restricted the number of local pilgrims for Char Dham pilgrimage. The authorities had capped the daily influx of local pilgrims, allowing only 1200 per day for Badrinath, 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for the Yamunotri shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/char-dham-yatra-to-start-from-saturday-with-capping-on-number-of-pilgrims-101631876248304.html
17-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan LPG distributor arrested on charges of espionage||An owner of an LPG distribution agency was arrested on charges of espionage in a joint operation of the intelligence wing of Rajasthan police and military intelligence, officials said. The accused, Sandeep Kumar (30), resident of Narhad village in Jhunjhunu district was arrested on Thursday evening for leaking strategic information and photographs related to the Indian Army while delivering LPG cylinders in army premises. Director-General of Police, intelligence, Umesh Mishra in a statement said the accused was lured for money by Pakistani handlers to leak sensitive information and photographs of the Narhad army base. The accused was detained on September 12 for interrogation. He said that Pakistani handlers asked for sensitive information in July. A case was registered against the accused and he was arrested. Mishra said that in July this year, a Pakistani handling officer had called on the mobile of the accused, seeking photographs and sensitive confidential information of Army Camp in Narhad. Under the lure of money, the accused shared his account information through WhatsApp and got the money in his bank account.It is learnt that the accused was preparing for the sub-inspector’s examination. His brother is also in the state police.In October 2020, the special branch of Rajasthan police detained a 28-year-old man from Barmer on suspicion of spying for Pakistan. The accused worked as a JCB driver in the Bharat Mala Project on the India-Pakistan border areas in Barmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-lpg-distributor-arrested-on-charges-of-espionage-101631873295869.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai flyover collapse: Aaditya Thackeray says inquiry on, all workers safe||A 15-day inquiry was underway to probe into the collapse of an under-construction flyover in Mumbai’s Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) earlier in the day. The information was shared on Twitter by Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray who further said the immediate priority was to ensure the safety of workers and all 14 of them were doing fine at the moment.“The MMRDA has instituted a 15-day inquiry and those responsible for the negligence or any other reason for this section collapse, will not be spared,” he said in a tweet.With regards to the collapsed section of an under construction flyover, I have been in touch with @MMRDAOfficial . The immediate priority was to ensure safety of workers, all 14 are safe and fine.(1/2)At least 14 workers were injured after the girder of the flyover at the MTNL junction in BKC collapsed early on Friday.Officials said the mishap occurred at 4.41am and the injured were shifted to the Vile Parle-based VN Desai Hospital. All of their condition was stable. “There is no life loss and no person is missing,” Manjunath Singe, deputy commissioner of police, told news agency ANI.Also Watch| Under-construction flyover collapses in Bandra, Mumbai; 14 workers injuredThe flyover is being constructed on the Santacruz-Chembur Link Road to reduce the traffic burden on the east-west link, besides decongesting the BKC area.Officials said a preliminary report suggested the workers, aged between 21-49 years, were carrying out some work on the girder when it collapsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-flyover-collapse-aaditya-thackeray-says-inquiry-on-all-workers-safe-101631871539622.html
17-09-2021||Other||Goa Guv announces financial aid to 71 orphanages, old age homes on PM's birthday||Goa Governor PS Sreedharan Pillai on Friday announced financial assistance to 71 orphanages and old age homes from the Governor's fund to mark the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 71st birthday. The governor has also announced financial aid for 71 dialysis patients from the Governor's discretionary fund, a statement issued by Raj Bhavan said. "Wishing Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the occasion of his birthday, the governor has announced financial aid for 71 old age homes, orphanages and other such institutions. Further, the governor has declared that 71 persons will receive financial assistance from Raj Bhavan for dialysis treatment," the statement read.
17-09-2021||Pune||All shops in Pune to stay shut on Sunday for Ganesh Visarjan: Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday all shops in Pune would remain closed on September 19 on the occasion of Ganesh Visarjan. However, essential services will remain exempted, Pawar said.According to news agency ANI, the senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) also said that restaurants and hotels will remain open. The shutdown will be effective across Pune city, Pune cantonment and rural areas.The 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi festival, which usually sees millions crowding the city streets, is being celebrated across Maharashtra in a low-key manner with several curbs in place amid the unrelenting Covid-19 pandemic.In the wake of a ban on physical visits of devotees to community pandals (marquees), a lot of mandals in the state have arranged online ‘darshan’ or telecast of their idols through their official websites.The government has been urging for a muted celebration of the key festival as fears of an imminent third wave of the virus writ large.Earlier, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had said people's health was more important than any festival and appealed to citizens to launch a strong movement against coronavirus. He said he prayed to Lord Ganesh to destroy all "evil and negativity".In Mumbai, police have imposed orders under CrPC section 144 prohibiting assembly of five or more persons between September 10 and 19.No procession of any kind would be allowed in the city during this period and devotees would not be allowed to visit Ganesh pandals either.While the home department has issued a circular banning visits to pandals, the height of Lord Ganesh idols to be installed has been restricted as well.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/all-shops-in-pune-to-stay-shut-on-sunday-for-ganesh-visarjan-ajit-pawar-101631868987480.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||President lauds democratic traditions set by Himachal assembly||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday hailed Himachal Pradesh for the milestones it achieved in its 50-year journey as a state. He was addressing the special session of the Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha to mark the golden jubilee celebrations of Himachal’s statehood. Himachal was declared the 18th state of Union of India on January 25, 1971. Also read: PM Modi says radicalisation key challenge to peace, points at AfghanistanIn his address, President Kovind said he felt honoured to address the state assembly in the Council Chamber building which has been witness to many historic moments. “It was here in 1925 that Vithal Bhai Patel defeated the British nominee to win the election and become president of central legislative assembly,” said the President. Congratulating the people of the state, Kovind said this was a year of delight as India was celebrating the 75th anniversary of Independence, while Himachal Pradesh was commemorating the golden jubilee of its statehood. Democratic consciousness of people Appreciating the democratic traditions set by the Himachal assembly, the President said the address of the leader of opposition was a perfect example of the mature democratic setup of the Vidhan Sabha. He remembered the efforts made by leaders, including former chief minister Yashwant Singh Parmar and Pandit Padam Dev, in the integration of hill states. “It’s due to democratic consciousness of people of this state that the credit of being the first voter of independent India goes to Himachal’s Shyam Saran Negi hails from here,” he said. 101-year-old Ram Sharan Negi of Kinnaur is the first voter of independent India and is now the brand ambassador of the Election Commission. Hill state a hydel powerhouse The President said Himachal had been ranked second in Sustainable Development Goals India Index 2020-21. Lauding the contribution of Himachal in defence forces, the President paid tributes to valiant soldiers, including Param Vir Chakra awardees Som Nath Sharma, Captain Vikram Batra and Rifleman Subedar Sanjay Kumar and Kargil martyr Saurabh Kalia. He appreciated Himachal for its efforts for the conservation of the environment. “Today, Himachal has become a model hill state,” he said, adding it generates one-fourth of the country’s total 45,000MW hydel generation capacity and is a power surplus state. He said the total road length has gone up to 37,808km as compared to 7,370km in 1971. Call for setting up Himachal Regiment Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said the state has imposed a ban on forest felling but has not been compensated yet. He urged the President for setting up a Himachal Regiment in the Indian Army in view the contribution of the state in defence forces. “Being a small state, we also lack in railway and air connectivity. Himachal’s apple economy is worth ₹5000 crore but the apple growers are not getting remunerable prices for their produce,” said Aghnihotri. He demanded to stop the import of apple or hike the import tax so that farmers of Himachal get a fair price for their crop. In his address, Himachal governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar said the Vidhan Sabha is a temple of democracy as MLAs raise issues concerning the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/president-lauds-democratic-traditions-set-by-himachal-assembly-101631867834726.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Akali Dal’s Sukhbir Badal, Harsmirat Kaur detained in Delhi over farm stir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and Lok Sabha lawmaker Harsmirat Kaur Badal were among several leaders detained by the Delhi Police amid their protests against the three farm laws in the national capital. “Leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal have been detained and are being taken to Sansad Marg Police Station,” news agency ANI cited a Delhi Police official as saying.Sukhbir Singh Badal accused the Modi and Haryana government of stopping SAD workers. “They resorted to baton charge and broke our vehicles. A peaceful protest was stopped. We've come here to give a message to PM Modi that not only Punjab but the entire country is against his government,” he said, according to ANI.The SAD is holding a protest march in Delhi to observe a ‘Black Day' to mark a year of the enactment of the three farm laws with the police sealing the borders of the national capital. SAD general secretary Prem Singh Chandumajra said on Thursday that the party will hold a protest march from Gurudwara Rakabganj to Parliament in Delhi and will demand repealing of the three farm laws. However, the Delhi Police issued a notice to SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema stating that the protest march will not be allowed in the national capital in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Also read | Farmers' protest: Entry and exit gates closed at these Delhi Metro station“A number of farmers have died and many are still sitting at the state borders but this government (Centre) is indifferent. We will continue our fight until the three farm laws are repealed,” Harsimrat Kaur Badal was quoted as saying by ANI.Harsimrat Badal, who resigned as a minister in the Union cabinet over the issue of farm laws, tweeted earlier, condemning the Delhi Police for stopping protesters from entering the city. "Strongly condemn Delhi police for sealing entry points to national capital & detaining Akali Dal workers reaching Gurdwara Rakabganj Sahib. Receiving phone calls & videos telling how Police trying to foil protest march to Parl against 3 Farm Laws. It's an undeclared emergency," she posted on Twitter.Farmer leaders and the Centre have held several rounds of talks over the three farm laws but the impasse remains. Farmers have been protesting since November 26 last year against the farm laws.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/akali-dal-s-sukhbir-badal-harsmirat-kaur-detained-in-delhi-over-farm-stir-101631867045947.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Scrap farm laws, talk to farmers for way forward: Punjab CM to Centre||Chandigarh: As farmers protested to mark one year of the farm laws, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday demanded the immediate scrapping of the legislation by the Centre and called for detailed discussions with farmers to find a way forward.Claiming that many farmers had died in these protests, the chief minister said it was high time the Centre withdrew the three laws in their interest.Also read: Farmers’ protest: Entry and exit gates closed at these Delhi Metro stationsThe chief minister, wearing a #nofarmers_nofood badge, was inaugurating the 3rd state-level virtual Kisan Mela organised by Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. The two-day mela is centered on the theme: ‘Karie parali di sambhal, dharti maa hove khushhal’, in line with the state government’s focus on eliminating crop stubble burning.“Till date, the Indian Constitution has been amended 127 times, so why can it not be amended once again to scrap the farm laws and resolve the imbroglio resulting from them,” asked the chief minister. “What is the problem in doing it a 128th time,” he demanded to know from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Narendra Modi government at the Centre.Says protest democratic right of farmersRecalling that he had been asked by the Centre to stop Punjab’s farmers from going to Delhi last November, the chief minister said he had refused to do so, as protest is the democratic right of farmers. “Why should they not protest? How can I stop them?” he asked.Capt Amarinder said Punjab, with only 1.53% of total geographical area of India, produces about 18% of the country’s wheat, 11% paddy, 4.4% cotton and 10% milk. For the past many decades, Punjab has been contributing about 35-40% of wheat and 25-30% of rice to the central pool, he said.The chief minister pointed out that the state had attained a record wheat productivity (5188 kg/ha) and production (182.6 lakh tonnes) during 2018-19. It also achieved a record rice productivity (4366 kg/ha) and production (133.8 lakh tons) during 2017-18. Record cotton productivity (827 kg lint/ha) was also achieved during 2019-20, he added.Checking stubble burning, promoting diversificationIn his welcome address earlier, Anirudh Tewari, ACS(D)-cum-vice chancellor, PAU, said that during the Covid pandemic, the chief minister had asked all departments to be innovative to ensure continuance of work and extension service to farmers and the virtual Kisan Mela was a step in this direction.Referring to the Kisan Mela’s theme, Tewari pointed out that Punjab had been demanding ₹100 per quintal assistance for farmers for stubble management from the Centre, with the Chief Minister raising the issue with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He referred to the promotion of horticulture and exotic vegetables to wean farmers away from the wheat-paddy cycle.Platform to support farmersDr Jaskaran Singh Mehal, director of extension education, PAU, spoke about the reach of the Kisan Mela, which farmers from across the country had been joining. The live telecast of the mela and the interactions with the farmers on YouTube and Facebook helped in a bigger outreach and impact, he added.Dr Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, described the Mela as an important platform to support farmers. These Kisan Melas are a source of information on advances in agriculture.The Kisan Mela will witness panel discussions on: Crop residue management, scope of horticultural and forestry crops, natural resource management, livestock production and subsidiary occupations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/scrap-farm-laws-talk-to-farmers-for-way-forward-punjab-cm-to-centre-101631866094660.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sports ministry asks NRAI to initiate fresh election process||Just a day before the National Rifle Association of India’s (NRAI) elections in Mohali, the sports ministry has directed the shooting body to initiate the process afresh after presidential candidate Shyam Singh Yadav cited “perceptible conflict of interest” in the appointment of the returning officer for the polls. The NRAI will, however, go ahead with the elections on Saturday as the matter is pending before the Delhi high court with the next date of hearing in December. Incumbent president Raninder Singh is seeking re-election and is being challenged by Yadav. Also read: Tenure issue raised ahead of NRAI pollIn view of the ministry order, the elections are set to be declared null and void. Acting on a petition filed by Uttar Pradesh State Rifle Association president Yadav, the ministry ordered that the returning officer should be changed to ensure that the national sports code, 2011, is not violated. Yadav is a Bahujan Samaj Party Lok Sabha MP from UP’s Jaunpur constituency, while Raninder Singh, serving his third term in the top job, is the son of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Returning officer is Punjab vigilance head The returning officer for the elections is Justice (retd) Mehtab Singh Gill, whose appointment, the petitioner alleged, was not done in a fair manner. “It has also been contended by the petitioner that the returning officer was appointed as the chief vigilance commissioner (CVC) of the state of Punjab under the Punjab State Vigilance Commission Act;....and that name for the said post has been recommended by a three-member committee headed by a close relative of the present president of the NRAI,” the ministry said in the letter which is in possession of PTI. “A perceptible conflict of interest arising out of imputed personal and professional relations among the RO and the concerned stakeholders has been drawn by the petitioner. Therefore, NRAI is directed to appoint a new returning officer and initiate a fresh election process for conducting elections to its governing body in a fair, objective and transparent manner by adhering to the provisions of National Sports Development Code of India, 2011,” the letter added. Raninder completes 12 years by 2022-end The ministry also looked into the objections raised by Yadav regarding Raninder Singh’s tenure but found the incumbent to have a legitimate claim at re-election. According to the sports code, “The president of any recognised NSF, including the IOA, can hold the office for a maximum of 12 years, with or without a break.” Going by the technicalities, Raninder Singh remains a valid candidate as he will complete 12 years in the post at the end of 2022. “The petitioner has raised the issue of the present president of NRAI seeking his re-election as president for the fourth term, whereas this ministry, letter No. 52-66/2009 SP-I (Vol.II) dated 30.10.2017, provides that he is serving his third term as president of NRAI for 2017-21,” the ministry noted. Raninder Singh had defeated Yadav for the president’s post in the NRAI’s 2010 and 2017 elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sports-ministry-asks-nrai-to-initiate-fresh-election-process-101631861234116.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||600 activists, academics collectively condemn raids on Harsh Mander’s premises||In a public statement released on Thursday, at least 600 activists, academics, and artists have condemned Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) raids on Harsh Mander’s premises in Delhi earlier in the day. Signatories of the statement include figures such as Medha Patkar, Indira Jaising, Nandini Sundar, Akash Banerjee, and Dev Benegal. The ED carried out searches on Mander’s residence in Vasant Kunj and the offices of the Centre of Equity Studies (CES) Delhi, which he heads, in connection with a money laundering investigation.The searches were carried out hours after Mander left for Germany for a six-month fellowship programme at the Robert Bosch Academy.Also Read | WB police trying to derail coal scam probe: ED“Over the past year, Harsh Mander and the CES have been subjected to continued harassment by multiple state agencies. The false and malicious allegations by the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) were definitively countered by the Delhi Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR), a statutory body, which has filed a strong affidavit in the Delhi high court, putting an end to the false allegations against CES,” the statement read.It said that the raids were conducted to harass Mander, a leading human rights and peace activist who has worked actively for peace and harmony, and has consistently upheld the “highest moral standards of honesty and probity”.The statement said, “We stand with Harsh Mander and with each person associated with the Centre for Equity Studies. The Constitution of India and the law of the land shall prevail, exposing these intimidatory tactics exactly for what they are – an abuse of state institutions to try and curtail all our rights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/600-activists-academics-collectively-condemn-raids-on-harsh-mander-s-premises-101631860274196.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Farmers' protest: Entry and exit gates closed at these Delhi Metro stations||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Friday closed the entry and exit gates at two of its stations in view of the security situation over farmers' agitation. "Entry and exit for Pandit Shree Ram Sharma and Bahadurgarh City have been closed," Delhi Metro tweeted.The two stations are near Tikri border with Haryana, one of the sites of the ongoing farmers protests. These station fall on the Green Line of the network.Vehicular movement was also affected at Jhandewalan-Panchkuian road in the national capital ahead of protests led by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) over the farm laws. In a traffic advisory, Delhi Traffic Police said both the routes on the Jharoda Kalan border will remain closed because of the protests. Traffic from the Pusa roundabout going towards Shankar Road has also been diverted towards Pusa Road.SAD leaders Sukhbir Singh Badal and Harsimrat Kaur Badal have decided to hold a protest march to Parliament on Friday as the party is observing September 17 as 'Black Day' on completion of one year of enactment of the three contentious farm laws. The protest march will be held from Delhi's Gurdwara Rakabganj to the Parliament, demanding repeal of the three laws.The three farm laws that were passed last year include the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020.The three legislation opened the agriculture sector to the private players of the country, prompting countrywide protests by farmers' unions. The agitators claim that the laws are anti farmers and it would erode a longstanding mechanism that ensures farmers a minimum guaranteed price for their produce. However, the government says this will help growers get better prices.Since the agitation began in November last year, the Union government has had several rounds of discussions but failed to bring any resolution to the impasse. Farmers are firm on their demands of complete repeal of laws and say they will not back down until the government agrees. In November, the farmers' agitation will complete one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-entry-and-exit-gates-closed-at-these-delhi-metro-stations-101631857393842.html
17-09-2021||Other||Odisha stations 46 disaster response teams as flood situation turns grim||Odisha government has stationed 46 teams of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Odisha Fire Service teams to flood-hit Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara, Puri, Khurda, Cuttack, and Jajpur districts even as it prepared for a medium flood in Mahanadi river system on Saturday morning following heavy rains in Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh over the last three days.Special relief commissioner of Odisha, Pradip Jena said hundreds of villages in low-lying areas in Khurda, Puri, Balasore and Bhadrak have been marooned by floodwater while Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur districts are likely to be affected by a medium flood in Mahanadi by Saturday morning due to incessant rains triggered by the depression caused over the Bay of Bengal last week.“On Saturday evening and Sunday morning, a swollen Mahanadi is likely to trigger a medium flood in Puri and Kendrapara with 8 lakh cusec of water expected to flow in Mahanadi at Mundali,” said Jena. With the Mahanadi basin recording a massive 27.6 mm rainfall on Wednesday, which is 341 per cent more than the normal, the water inflow to Hirakud reservoir has crossed the 10500 cubic meters per second on Friday morning hours forcing the officials to open 28 gates of the reservoir.The flood situation in Balasore, Bhadrak and Mayurbhanj turned grim as rivers Baitarani, Subaranarekha and Jalaka were flowing above danger level due to rains in upper catchment areas. In Balasore district, the flood-like situation turned grim after the Galudiha barrage released 6100 cusec water from the reservoir inundating 40 villages under Bhograi block and 30 villages in Baliapal block in low lying areas. In Bhadrak district, hundreds of villages under Dhamnagar block were marooned by the floodwaters.The floods have so far led to 8 deaths while two are still missing. The flood has affected over 2.4 million people in 4,964 villages, 33 municipalities and 139 blocks of 24 districts in Odisha. While over 7,500 houses have been damaged, around 130,000 hectares of agricultural land has been inundated.A minor boy, who was swept away in floodwater in Dhenkanal district on Tuesday, was miraculously rescued in Brahmani river. The boy who was staying at his uncle’s house had come to the bank of Brahmani river to take a bath. However, he lost his footing on the edge and slipped into the river.Officials however said they are worried over a cyclonic circulation over East-central Bay of Bengal and adjoining Myanmar that would reach Northwest Bay of Bengal off north Odisha West Bengal coasts around September 18. India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said the cyclonic circulation is likely to intensify into a Low-Pressure Area and trigger low to moderate rainfall in some districts of north Odisha on the evening of September 18 and heavy rainfall on September 19 and 20 in few districts of north Odisha.Heavy rainfall is very likely to occur at one or two places over the districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Mayurbhanj on September 18. Heavy rainfall is very likely to occur at one or two places over the districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Kendrapara, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur, Puri, Khurda, Sundargarh, Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj, Dhenkanal on September 19, said an IMD official. As September 20 is a full moon day, officials are worried over seawater blocking the discharge of floodwater.One more low-pressure system forecast to brew over the Bay of Bengal between September 26 and 28 is also likely to cause a fresh headache for Odisha farmers. Under its influence, Balasore is going to record rainfall up to around 8mm per hour while other north Odisha districts like Bhadrak, Jajpur, Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj, Dhenkanal and Cuttack are predicted to measure rain in the range of 4 mm per hour.Farmers said the two consecutive low-pressure formations may hamper agricultural operations in northern Odisha as paddy in low lying areas would be inundated. “The current spate of rains due to last week’s depression over the Bay was good for the crops. But two more low-pressure systems would ruin crops on low lying areas of northern Odisha,” said farmer leader Arun Jena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-stations-46-disaster-response-teams-as-flood-situation-turns-grim-101631857455971.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi traffic hit as farmers mark 1 yr of controversial farm laws||Several arterial stretches in Delhi were closed for traffic movement on Friday, in view of the farmers’ protest being held to mark one year of the enactment on the farm laws. Security was also beefed up at Tikri and Singhu borders in view of the protest march call given by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).Delhi Traffic Police said on Friday that both the routes on Jharoda Kalan border will remain closed because of the protests.In a tweet, they also alerted that traffic will remain heavy around Gurudwara Rakabganj Road, Ram Manohal Lohia Hospital, GPO, Ashoka Road and Baba Kharak Singh Marg. In another tweet, they said vehicles coming from Gurugram towards Sardar Patel Marg and those coming from theNaraina loop, will also be diverted on the Ring Road towards Moti Bagh.Traffic from Pusa roundabout going towards Shankar Road has also been diverted towards Pusa Road.Also Read | Moderate rains likely to continue in Delhi-NCR today: IMDFor an hour in the morning, the route from Sadar Patel Marg towards Dhaula Kuan was closed for traffic movement. This has now been opened, the police said.Senior police officers said more personnel have been deployed at Singhu and Tikri borders as a precautionary measure, even as the leaders at the two protest venues disassociated themselves from SAD’s protest march in central Delhi.A senior police officer monitoring the situation at the Singhu border said alternate border points that have been functional for the movement of traffic between Delhi and Haryana have not been closed. “There is no movement of protesting farmers towards central Delhi from Singhu border protest venues. We have increased our vigil and checking vehicles in which other protesters may move towards central Delhi to join the demonstration organised by SAD,” said the officer.At Tikri border, nearly 1,000 security personnel have been deployed and this is nearly double the usual deployment.“The protesters at the Tikri border have no links with the protest at central Delhi. They are unlikely to join them. We have still made a full proof deployment,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parminder Singh.The SAD protest march, planned from Gurdwara Rakabganj to Parliament today, was not given permission as prohibitory orders under section 144 of CrPC are already imposed in Delhi. The permission was denied keeping in view the Covid-19 guidelines of Delhi Disaster Management Authority banning all political, religious and public gatherings in the city.
17-09-2021||Mumbai||Over 400 TISS students vote in favour of reopening campus||More than 400 students of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, have signed in favour of reopening the campus for physical classes. In a week-long signature campaign run by the Progressive Students’ Forum (PSF)—an informal student group on campus—426 students have said they would like the institute to reopen to address the learning difficulties faced by students during online teaching. The institute shut down its campuses and switched to online education in March 2020 following the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown. “The TISS administration must reopen the campus with a plan of action, taking into account the feedback and participation of the student community. Election committee to be set up following which an elected Student Union is to be constituted. Reduce the fees considering the online education mode, and due to difficulties caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, students and families are in severe crisis,” said the PSF in a statement issued on Thursday. A senior official from TISS administration, on the condition of anonymity, said that irrespective of the signature campaign by students, the institute is assessing the situation based on its internal processes. In November last year, the PSF had conducted a survey of 549 students across all four campuses—Mumbai, Hyderabad, Tuljapur, Guwahati. Almost 70% of the respondents had said they wanted the campus to reopen and only 28.8% were comfortable with online education. At that time, the PSF had written to the administration demanding reopening of campuses in a phase-wise manner, with guidelines for attendance and how to conduct classes while maintaining social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-400-tiss-students-vote-in-favour-of-reopening-campus-101631853195284.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Traffic Police close Jharoda Kalan border over farmers' protest||The Delhi Traffic Police on Friday issued an alert asking commuters to avoid the Jharoda Kalan area after they shut the access to the roads on both sides of the border using barricades in view of farmers' protests. They also asked people to avoid the Gurdwara Rakabganj Road, RML Hospital, G Traffic on PO, Ashoka Road, Baba Kharak Singh Marg. "Jharoda Kalan border roads have been closed on both sides due to the farmers' movement, please refrain from using this route," the traffic police tweeted in Hindi.ट्रैफिक अलर्ट गुरुद्वरा रकाबगंज रोड, आर एम् एल हॉस्पिटल , जी. पी. ओ., अशोका रोड , बाबा खड़क सिंह मार्ग पर ट्रैफिक किसान आन्दोलन की वजह से भरी रहेगा l कृपया इन मार्गो के प्रयोग से बचे lFarmers have been protesting against the Centre's three agricultural laws since November last year and on Friday the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is holding a 'Black Friday' protest march on the completion of one year of enactment of the legislation. The protest march was organised at 9.30am from Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib to the Parliament building. The protest is said to be led by SAD President Sukhbir Singh Badal and SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal.The SAD alleged that the borders of Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib are being cordoned off and Delhi borders are being sealed. "Looking at the number of farmers and Akali Dal cadre coming for the protest today, Rakab Ganj Sahib is being cordoned off to stop Punjabis from entering. This is a reminder of dark dictatorial times," the party tweeted.Also read | AAP, Akali Dal to mark 'Black Day' on completion of one year of farm lawsThe SAD also alleged that Punjab registered vehicles are being stopped at the Delhi borders. "All Delhi borders have been sealed and Punjab vehicles are being stopped. While all others pass, Punjabis are being told that our entry has been restricted. Our peaceful voices have seemingly scared the powers that be," they said.On Thursday, SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema said the Delhi Police have denied them permission to take out Friday's protest march. Cheema described it as an “undemocratic step”.Also read | Farmers deface walls, house of BJP spokesman in JalandharSAD general secretary Prem Singh Chandumajra has assured that the protest march would be peaceful. "The march will be peaceful. We will give a memorandum to Government to repeal the three farm laws. Even if we don't get permission to protest, we will protest peacefully and give our memorandum," he told news agency ANI.The three farm laws that were passed last year include the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-traffic-police-close-jharoda-kalan-border-over-farmers-protest-101631848799641.html
17-09-2021||Patna||Bihar schools reopen after Covid disruption, wait for books continues midsession||In Bihar, the availability of books is never ensured to students in schools at the start of the academic session in April and often stretches beyond mid-session. This year is no different despite the Patna high court also taking cognizance of the delayed supply of books a few years ago while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) and directing the government to ensure timely availability.In August, the Karnataka High Court had also observed that “printing of textbooks must keep pace with the opening of schools” and directed the state government to submit a status report on the distribution of textbooks, notebooks to students.After the Bihar government failed to ensure timely availability of books to students studying in thousands of government schools year after year, it sought approval from the Centre in 2017 for giving commensurate amount to students through direct benefit transfer (DBT) in the bank accounts of the students or parents of wards below 10 years of age for purchase of books from the open market. After initially refusing permission, the Centre later agreed.However, that has not solved the problem, as even in September this year, as the schools reopened after a long gap due to the Covid-19 pandemic, lakhs of students continue to wait for the money to purchase books from the open market, if available. Strangely, Bihar still has a big set up of the Bihar state textbook publishing corporation, which earlier supplied books to students.In many cases, money has been deposited, but books are still not purchased for varying reasons ranging from non-availability to reluctance.A school headmaster said that providing books timely to the students would have been the best option, as the small amount provided with delay in the name of books is invariably misused or is of no use, as aware parents of students don’t wait for it and manage it on their own. “The schools remained closed for over a year and reopening without books does not serve the purpose. We are also managing it for students. The preparations should have been made beforehand,” he added.After September, there will be long holidays for Dussehra, Diwali and Chhath and before the winter vacation, it will be time to fill up forms for exams. In between, there is panchayat poll, training for it and other non-academic engagements for teachers. That will leave the students, already affected due to almost missing education in the schools during the Covid period, as reflected through different surveys, with very little time even to flip through the books whenever made available.Managing Director of the Bihar state textbook publishing corporation, Manoj Kumar, said the process had been initiated to transfer the amount in the bank accounts of students. “We have sought information from the district level officials. We have got ₹402-crore for disbursal of amount for this year and the process has begun. The printers have said that the books are available with the retailers and the students can get it. The money will also reach them,” he added.The MD said that camps would also be organised at the local level later this month to make books available. “We held a meeting with the printers also. The district officials have been asked to monitor that all students purchase books,” he added.Principal secretary, department of education, Sanjay Kumar had on September 1 issued guidelines to all district-level officials regarding the purchase of books by students with the money transferred in bank accounts of students. He expressed displeasure on September 9 over reports that books were not being purchased. “Availability of prescribed books is of paramount importance for quality education and this must be ensured through inspection. The report regarding availability of books should also reach the department in the prescribed format every Monday,” he wrote to all the district education officers and district programme officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-schools-reopen-after-covid-disruption-wait-for-books-continues-midsession-101631848394829.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Moderate rains likely to continue in Delhi-NCR today: IMD||Moderate rains are likely to continue in Delhi and NCR on Friday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said. “Under the impact of a low pressure area, moderate rains are likely to continue on Friday. There will be another spell of heavy rains starting September 21-22,” said a senior IMD official.Also Read | Delhiwale: A park by the hospitalIMD data shows that Delhi, between June 1 and September 16 (till 5.30pm) received 1160.8mm rainfall. This was the highest seasonal rainfall recording since 1964, when the city received 1190.9mm rainfall (from June 1 to September 30). Delhi’s Safdarjung weather station on Thursday received 12.6mm rainfall. With this, the previous seasonal record of 1155.6mm set in 1975 was broken. With Thursday’s rain, the monthly rainfall recording for September also climbed to 404.4mm. September seems set to become the wettest in the last 121 years that the IMD started keeping records. The current all-time record for the wettest September is 417.3mm, recorded in 1944.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/moderate-rains-likely-to-continue-in-delhincrtodayimd-101631847493111.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||Under-construction flyover collapses in Mumbai; 14 injured||At least 14 people sustained injuries after a portion of an under-construction flyover collapsed in Bandra Kurla Complex in Maharashtra’s Mumbai on Friday. All 14 are rushed to civic run VN Desai Hospital and they are in stable condition, said disaster control cell of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Personnel of the police and fire departments are on the spot carrying out rescue work, it also reported.The incident occurred at around 4:40am. The under-construction flyover connects BKC main road to Santa Cruz–Chembur Link Road. “There is no life loss and no person is missing," Manjunath Singe,  deputy commissioner of police, said as per ANI.According to the disaster management cell, the construction work was being undertaken by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/13-injured-as-portion-of-under-construction-flyover-collapses-in-mumbai-101631841989902.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||AAP, Akali Dal to mark 'Black Day' on completion of one year of farm laws||Punjab's main opposition party – the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) – will observe September 17 (Friday) as “black day" on the completion of one year of the enactment of the Centre's three farm laws. In a statement, the Aam Aadmi Party said that it will also hold candle marches across the state to pay tribute to the farmers who died during the ongoing agitation against the farm legislations. Notably, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will also observe September 17 as “black day.”AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said there was “resentment” among farmers across the country against the “black farm laws” enacted by the Narendra Modi-led central government. On September 17, 2020, the three “black” agriculture Bills were passed in Parliament, he said, following which the farmers have been protesting against these laws for the last several months. Hence, September 17 will be observed as a “black day', said Sandhwan.SAD workers have planned to take out a protest march in Delhi from Gurdwara Rakabganj to Parliament demanding repeal of the agriculture-related laws. SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema on Thursday said the Delhi police have denied them permission to take out a protest march on Friday.Cheema described it as an “undemocratic step” to stop anyone from holding peaceful protests. However, he said the protest march will surely be taken out.A large number of SAD activists from different parts of Punjab on Thursday went to Delhi to participate in the protest march.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-akali-dal-to-mark-black-day-on-completion-of-one-year-of-farm-laws-101631840421540.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A park by the hospital||The mere sight of a hospital stirs up our deepest fears. The world around it suddenly seems too carefree, its concerns flimsy.That’s what makes Jasola District Park in south Delhi so extraordinary. It’s the only public garden in the city that exhibits the most panoramic view of a hospital. The entire hulking edifice of the Indraprastha Apollo Hospital spreads out across the length of the park’s northern boundary, beyond an impenetrable bank of trees. This evening, it is looming over like a mountain. For now, the hospital-facing side of the park is empty. It’s all trees and metallic benches — no humans.The park is knitted into a finely trimmed patchwork of hedged gardens, crisscrossed with paved pathways. Each enclosure is peopled with only a few visitors, if at all. One bench hosts a formally dressed man talking agitatedly, and loudly, on his mobile — the word “thekedar” lingers momentarily, before dissolving into the air. Another bench has a pouting couple occupied in clicking a series of selfies. Some women elsewhere are pampering a child by decorating her long hair with freshly plucked flowers. While a guard in blue dress and lathi is sitting morosely by a central roundabout flooded with purple and white flowers.An overland Metro track runs by the park’s west side. After every few minutes a train glides past with a whoosh sound, disrupting the silence. Soon this regular transgression acquires a lilting rhythm of music. Among the park’s other distractions, a visitor is bound to be struck by the scores of symmetrically positioned frangipani trees. The ground under each frangipani is carpeted with white flowers — from a distance they look like fresh snow.Meanwhile, the part of the park that faces the hospital is no longer empty. A man is lounging alone on a bench. The hospital is so near, yet seems so remote. Is anybody inside watching the evening unfold in the park? Alternatively, who among the seemingly healthy visitors at this moment in the park might be fated to soon end up in a hospital — an inevitability for almost all of us. Such gloomy thoughts cloud the mind as night’s darkness gradually settles down in this unique space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-park-by-the-hospital-101631840073560.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Lok Nayak discusses preparations to tackle possible 3rd Covid wave||The Lok Nayak hospital will focus on ramping up infrastructure and bed availability to deal with any possible third wave of Covid-19, said Raghav Chadha, the chairperson of the hospital’s patients welfare committee.Chadha presided a meeting of the committee, known as Rogi Kalyan Samiti, on Thursday which was attended by head of all departments.During the two waves of the Covid pandemic, Lok Nayak was turned into the largest dedicated Covid facility in Delhi. It is one of the biggest hospitals run by the Delhi government.According to a statement by the Delhi government, Chadha discussed proper patient management and streamlining of operations at the meeting.“Preparedness for Covid third wave, bed availability, equipment procurement, infrastructure development are the key focus of the Rogi Kalyan Samiti,” Chadha said.“The Lok Nayak hospital administration will ensure best facilities in the paediatric ward with doctors, infrastructure and intensive care units, and ramp up the in-house oxygen production capacity,” he said.Chadha, MLA from Rajinder Nagar, said the hospital is expediting the process of hiring doctors and paramedical staff and that the timelines for purchase of CT scanner and digital radiology equipment will be fixed soon.“The Kejriwal government is doing its best to provide ample facilities to the people undergoing treatment at LNJP hospital. I am proud to say that treatment at this hospital is at par with some of the best private establishments in the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lok-nayak-discusses-preparations-to-tackle-possible-3rd-covid-wave-101631837940898.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh health secretary seeks explanation from doc, two health workers on surprise visit||UT health secretary Yashpal Garg has sought a written explanation from a doctor and two healthcare workers, who were late in attending to their scheduled duties at the health and wellness centre (HWC), Behlana, where he came for a surprise inspection on Thursday.The health secretary reached the HWC at around 9:20am only to find the centre’s ground floor locked: the centre is supposed to be opened at nine o’clock sharp. It was also found that the vaccine storage room at the centre’s first floor was unlocked with no healthcare worker present at the spot.Though the centre was closed, patients could be seen waiting outside. Soon, an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) worker reached the health centre, but she didn’t have the keys to open it. The centre was finally opened by a sanitary beldar at 9.30am.“The ANM worker then called medical officer Dr Hansraj Rahi and requested him to reach the centre early. The doctor, however, could reach only at 9:52am, almost an hour late from his scheduled duty time. Meanwhile, another ANM worker, Jaswir Kaur, who was initially slated to be on leave, reached the centre and started giving excuses,” Garg said, adding that another sanitary beldar, Karan, reached at 10.04am. He first cited traffic jams as an excuse, but later started making excuses of health issues, added Garg.Garg further said that healthcare officers and officials need to ensure punctuality so that the patients are not made to wait.In a letter to the director, Chandigarh health services; medical superintendent, Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, Dr UG Gill; in-charge IDSP; and additional secretary health, UT; Garg asked the officials to take action against the medical officer and the health workers.“Dr Hasraj Rahi, medical officer; Jaswir Kaur, ANM; and Karan, sanitary beldar; must give a written explanation for being late while the authorities will have to give appropriate comments on action taken against them,” Garg said, adding that during his first night inspection at various government hospitals on September 14, action was not taken against any healthcare worker. but action will be taken against the staff this time.The health secretary was supposed to inspect two more HWCs on Thursday, but due to lapses in the working of HWC Behlana, he decided to postpone the inspections.During the secretary’s first surprise inspection on intervening nights of September 12 and 13, health workers were found missing from their duties, violating Covid guidelines. Some youth were also found consuming liquor on GMCH-32 premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-health-secretary-seeks-explanation-from-doc-two-health-workers-on-surprise-visit-101631837952575.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: UP resident catches man trying to rob him||A 27-year-old was caught by the man whom he tried to rob at knifepoint, the police said on Thursday.The accused was identified as Chandan Kumar of Muzaffarpur in Bihar. The police said that the accused had been looting people in Delhi and he used to escape to Chandigarh after committing crimes.On the night of September 15, one Pawan Kumar of Allahabad was on his way to the railway when he was stopped by the accused at Hallomajra chowk, who pointed a knife at him and asked him to hand over his valuables.Pawan instead caught hold of the accused and raised an alarm. The accused was later handed over to the police.A case under Section 393 of the IPC was registered. The accused was produced before a court on Thursday and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-up-resident-catches-man-trying-to-rob-him-101631837352410.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Now, pay street vendors with Paytm||Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma on Thursday launched ‘Mai Bhi Digital’ (me too digital) campaign from Shastri Market in Sector 22.The campaign was launched for street vendors, enabling them to accept and make payments digitally. MC commissioner Anindita Mitra was also present on the occasion.While addressing the street vendors and residents, Sharma said that in order to mitigate the impact of Covid lockdown on the street vendors, the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) had launched the Prime Minister Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi).He said that street vendors will now use Paytm for transactions in their daily vending business to promote cashless transactions in line with the Prime Minister’s dream of Digital India.He said that the MoHUA had engaged Paytm for Chandigarh and the Street Vendors’ Federation, Sector 22, were assisting in mobilising street vendors for on the spot onboarding. On Thursday, 21 vendors were distributed QR codes for Paytm digital transactions and the same facility will be provided to the rest in different parts of the city by the end of this month.Speaking about the benefit of the scheme, MC commissioner Anindita Mitra said that the special micro-credit facility scheme provided working capital to the street vendors so that they could resume their businesses.Mitra further said that the training on digital payments to the street vendors will be provided on a safe and secure platform and their cell phones will be equipped with the software to make the transactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-now-pay-street-vendors-with-paytm-101631836992508.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two teenagers held for house theft in Sector 15||Two teenagers, both residents of Sector 25, were arrested in relation to a burglary at a house in Sector 15, the police said on Thursday.The accused, identified as Vishal, alias Kaja, 19, and Deepak, alias Chuhiya, 19, were arrested on the complaint of one Piyush Sharma, who told the police that he was recently allotted a house in Sector 15.On September 14, Sharma was out for some work and when he returned, he found the locks of the house broken and the entire house ransacked. On checking, he found that the accused had stolen two gold rings, a bed sheet and water taps.A case under Sections 380, 457, 411 of the IPC was registered after stolen items were recovered from the accused.One arrested with stolen ActivaOne Arjun Sahota, 19, of Khuda Jassu, was arrested with a stolen Activa, the police said. He was arrested from a naka near Milk Colony, Dhanas, on September 15. The police said that on checking, it was found that a case of vehicle theft was registered at Sector 11 police station. With his arrest, a case under Section 411 of the IPC was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-teenagers-held-for-house-theft-in-sector-15-101631836032492.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi singer Mankirt Aulakh challaned in Mohali for using black film on SUV||The Mohali traffic police on Thursday challaned Punjabi singer Mankirt Aulakh in Sector 70 for using a black film on his Ford Endeavour SUV bearing an Uttar Pradesh registration number.Though the singer was not in the car, his brother was driving it. A fine of ₹1,000 has been imposed on him.As a traffic cop was challaning the vehicle, the singer also reached the spot in a Mahindra Scorpio and pleaded with the cop not to fine him. He started throwing names of senior police officers, but traffic inspector Surinder Singh issued a challan anyway, police said.Superintendent of police (traffic) Gurjot Singh said, “We want to maintain law and order in the city and law is the same for everyone.”Last year in May, Aulakh’s Mercedes was impounded by the Chandigarh Police near Sector 48 for playing loud music in the car. When the car was stopped at a checkpoint, the driver, one Samrit Singh Sandhu, failed to produce any document related to the vehicle, leading the police to seize it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-singer-mankirt-aulakh-challaned-in-mohali-for-using-black-film-on-suv-101631835972521.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||J&K Open golf meet: Chandigarh’s Yuvraj tied-third||Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Singh Sandhu (72-65) followed up his first round 72 with the joint lowest score of the second day, a seven-under 65, that propelled him 22 places to tie third at seven-under 137 after round two of the J&K Open 2021 presented by J&K Tourism at the Royal Springs Golf Course in Srinagar on Thursday.Delhi golfer Honey Baisoya and Bengaluru’s Khalin Joshi moved into the joint halfway lead. Ahmedabad’s Shravan Desai (69-68) was in a three-way tie in third place along with Yuvraj and Udayan.PGTI Order of Merit leader Karandeep Kochhar (69) of Chandigarh and Indian golf legend Jyoti Randhawa (72) were both tied 31st place at even-par 144.City’s Lakhmehar, Jahanvi share leadChandigarh’s Jahanvi Bakshi did not have the best card of the day but it was good enough to give her a share of the lead with Chandigarh’s Lakhmehar Pardesi after two rounds in the ninth leg of the Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour at the Noida Golf Course.The final round on Friday will see Lakhmehar Pardesi and Jahanvi Bakshi go out with Seher Atwal; the other group will be Trimann Saluja, amateur Sneha Singh and Hitaashee Bakshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-open-golf-meet-chandigarh-s-yuvraj-tiedthird-101631834952293.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||170 new Covid cases detected in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 170 fresh coronavirus infections on Thursday. There were 129 cases in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 41 infections. The summer capital Srinagar, which is witnessing a surge in cases, saw the highest count of 70 patients. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 98 with active cases reaching 1,421. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 698 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 152 and 137 active cases, respectively. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,21,630 prompting the recovery rate to climb up to 98.21%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,27,466 and the death toll stands at 4,415.The officials said that 57,278 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT . 127 test positive for Covid in HimachalMeanwhile, Himachal recorded 127 fresh Covid-19 infections on Thursday taking the state’s tally to 2,16,430 while the death toll mounted to 3,631 after three patients succumbed to the infection. Of the new cases, 37 were reported Hamirpur, 25 in Shimla, 22 in Kangra, 16 in Bilaspur, 11 in Mandi, four each in Kullu and Solan, three in Chamba, two each in Sirmaur and Una and one in Lahaul-Spiti. The active cases have come down to 1,568 while recoveries reached 2,11,215 after 206 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 48,260 cases reported to date followed by 30,419 cases in Mandi and 26,997 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/170-new-covid-cases-detected-in-jk-101631829732092.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||ACB produces chargesheet against J&K power dept official||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Thursday produced a chargesheet against an assistant executive engineer of power development department for possessing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. Nazir Ahmad Chowdhary of Jammu has been booked under the sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The case was registered on the outcome of verification, which revealed that Chowdhary by indulging in corrupt and illegal practices had amassed wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income, an official spokesperson said. During the course of investigation, it was established that between August 1980 and May 2007, the accused acquired a number of assets, both moveable and immovable. According to ACB, the accused owns a palatial building at Maloofa Complex in Sainik Colony, Jammu, comprising three blocks raised over five plots of land purchased on lease basis from Sainik House Co-operative Society in the name of his wife Jamila Choudhary and his two sons Mohammad Nair and Mohamad Shahbaz, land measuring 10 kanals six marlas situated at Chowadhi in the name of his sons and two cars. “During investigation, it also transpired that the accused public servant had 16 numbers of bank accounts with huge deposits in his own name and in the name of his family members,” he added. After receiving government sanction for launching prosecution and vacation of stay by the J&K high court on August 23, the chargesheet was presented on Thursday before the court of Special Judge ACB Jammu for judicial determination. The next date of hearing in the case has been fixed for October 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/acb-produces-chargesheet-against-j-k-power-dept-official-101631829612252.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||J&K seeks ₹800-crore support to boost horticulture produce||To increase the quality and production of the horticulture products, especially apples, the J&K government has sought ₹800 crore from the Centre for modified high-density plantation in J&K.J&K’s Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, during a conference on agricultural sector organised by the ministry of agriculture and farmers’ welfare at New Delhi, sought this assistance from the Centre while sharing the J&K’s perspective on the broad approach of the UT government taking agriculture and allied sectors on the path of sustainable and inclusive growth.“Rootstock is being imported from outside the country for developing high-density plantation orchards. A new scheme vis-a-vis ‘Development of High Density Plantation Nurseries’ has been introduced to make J&K ‘Aatmanirbhar’ in the input support in terms of high-density plants,” the L-G said. He said that enhanced focus is being laid to stabilise the fruit market of horticulture produce of J&K and ensure round-the-year sale of the fruits like apple on good prices, besides establishment of storage within J&K.“During the last one year, 40,000 MT of storage has been set up thereby making available a total of 1.65 lakh MT of CA storage facilities in Jammu & Kashmir. Also, another 35,000 MT of storage capacity is under construction,” he added. Recently, the Jammu and Kashmir government gave its nod to setting up high-density plantations on 5,500 hectares in Kashmir.In the past two years, 5,000 kanals (625 acres) of high-density orchards have been developed in the Valley. They are likely to start producing fruit within one or two years.Horticulture is the backbone of J&K economy as it contributes around 8% towards the GDP of the Union Territory besides generating employment avenues for the younger generation. As per the official data, seven lakh farming families comprising 35 lakh people are directly or indirectly associated with the sector.Officials attached with the high-density plantations say even if 25-30% of the existing orchards are replaced with high-density plantations, then the production of fruit can double or triple. Currently, Kashmir produces around 23 to 24 lakh MT of fruit. “We need to go for new techniques to increase our production. We lack behind in production. Once the high-density orchards are established, quality and quantity-wise our apple production can compete in the international market,” said director, horticulture Ajaz Bhat.Kashmir Valley Fruit Growers and Dealers’ Union president Bashir Ahmad said the old orchards need to be replaced with high-density plantation. “Unfortunately, many growers aren’t inclined towards new techniques and high-density plantation. Time will come when such orchards will overtake traditional orchards,” he said, adding that the growers were still relying on old techniques. ‘Groups with int’l connections trying to disturb peace in J&K‘The lieutenant governor of J&K, Manoj Sinha, on Thursday said that various groups having international connections were trying to disturb peace in Jammu and Kashmir. He also said that terrorism is being fought with full might and those supporting it will face strongest action under the law. Addressing a passing out parade of 669 firefighters at Sher-e-Kashmir Police Academy in Udhampur, Sinha said, “The people of J&K want to live in peace and I reiterate my stand that anti-nationals won’t be spared at any cost. There will be no leniency with them”. “To fight terrorism, our jawans from police and other security forces have sacrificed their lives and with utmost responsibility I would like to say that we will jointly fight terrorism with full might and those supporting it will face strongest action,” he added. The LG said that besides combating Pak-sponsored terrorism, Jammu and Kashmir Police have to win over the trust of the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-seeks-800-crore-support-to-boost-horticulture-produce-101631829492081.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Day will surely come when Articles 370, 35-A would be restored: Mehbooba||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday said that the day will surely come when not only Articles 370 and 35-A will be restored but the people of Jammu and Kashmir would be given much more. Currently on a three-day visit to the Rajouri and Poonch districts, she also termed the present BJP government “oppressor” and equated the people of the UT with the “oppressed”. Addressing party workers at Mendhar town in Poonch, Mehbooba said, “Earlier, when the situation was bad in J&K, we could see and identify the enemy. He could be a gun-wielding militant or in the form of security forces, who used to harass people.” “But today, we can’t see the face of the enemy…it doesn’t have a face but it is everywhere. If anyone talks about something, police pick him up in the evening... This is the situation in Kashmir...Of fear and suffocation,” she claimed. “They snatched our jobs and land. Thousands of our youths continue to languish in jails across the country and so poor are their parents that they have to seek alms and donations to go and meet them,” she added. She also took a swipe at UP chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over his remarks on people from other states buying plots in J&K. “A CM says that plots will be provided to people in J&K now. Before selling plots to people in J&K, he should provide food and shelter to homeless people in UP,” she said. Recalling PM Modi’s all-party meet in June, she said, “I told the PM that I have come here to tell you that people in J&K feel suffocated. I told him that they are the same people who gave their life fighting Pakistanis in 1947.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-will-surely-come-when-articles-370-35-a-would-be-restored-mehbooba-101631829071917.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||HRTC suspends Delhi-Leh bus service till June 2022||The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) has suspended its Leh-Delhi bus service till next year in the wake of prevailing bad weather and upcoming winters.The corporation had temporarily suspended its Delhi-Leh service last Sunday as a precautionary measure after high mountain passes on the Manali-Leh highway experienced snowfall. The service is likely to resume in or after June 2022 after the snow melts and roads are cleared.HRTC regional manager, Keylong, Mangal Chand Manepa said the bus will continue to ply on Keylong-Delhi route.“The service is suspended on Leh route as high mountain passes on the Leh-Manali highway have been experiencing snowfall on regular intervals,” he said.The route, which is the longest of HRTC, covering a distance of more than 1,000km, is also the most dangerous as it passes through five highest mountain passes — Rohtang La, Baralacha La, Nakee La, Lachulung La and Tanglang La.The bus services remained suspended for over 21 months due to Covid before resuming on July 1 this year. Every year, the service is suspended for winters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hrtc-suspends-delhi-leh-bus-service-till-june-2022-101631828892024.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Day markets to start in Chandigarh’s Sector 37, Maloya||In a meeting of the municipal corporation’s apni mandi and day market committee held on Thursday, it was decided that day markets will be started at Sector 37 on Sundays and at Maloya near EWS houses on Mondays. The day market sites will be allotted through a draw of lots. Only farmers with proper ID will be allowed to sit in the provided space. The feasibility of shifting the apni mandi and day market from Sector 50 to Sector 63 was also discussed. Initially, this day market will run departmentally and will be added in zone list for draw of lots next year after seeing the response.The committee decided and directed the apni mandi officials to ensure that only farmers having proper ID be allowed to sit in their space, as enforcement staff will remove all illegal vendors.Some vendors of day market sites, invited for sharing their grievances, complained about absence of public toilet and water tanker facilities, following which the committee asked the officials concerned to ensure proper water facility as well as public toilets at each day market site.The committee also decided that one enforcement inspector be deployed for proper rule enforcement at apni mandi and day market sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-markets-to-start-in-chandigarh-s-sector-37-maloya-101631826491770.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||OTS policy: 10% rebate, interest waiver to property tax defaulters in Ludhiana||With assembly elections just round the corner, the local bodies department has notified a one-time settlement policy for property tax defaulters. Under the policy, those filing their taxes before November 30 will be provided a 10% rebate, along with penalty and interset waiver for the financial year 2020-21. Those who have defaulted between 2013-14 to 2019-20 will be provided a 10% rebate on the accumulated amount, including principal amount, penalty and interest. 92,000 defaultersApproximately, 92,000 property owners have failed to pay tax since 2013-14, and collectively owe the civic body around ₹14 crore. The notification issued by the local bodies department on Wednesday said that the scheme had been launched to provide relief to residents facing financial difficulties during the pandemic. Of the total defaulters, 23,700 people had failed to pay the tax for 2019-20. Those who miss the November deadline, will not be provided the 10% rebate in December, while a 5% penalty will be imposed in January and a 10% penalty will be levied in February and March. Interest rate to increase to 18% after March 31 Additionally, a 12% annual interest will be charged if the payment is made after December 31 but before March 31. The interest rate will increase to 18% after March 31.Municipal corporation superintendent (property tax) Vivek Verma said that apart from submitting the pending tax at suvidha kendras situated in all four zonal offices of MC, residents can also submit the tax online at www.mcludhiana.gov.in. “Text messages will also be sent to the residents to apprise them of the OTS policy,” he added. On August 25, the local bodies department had notified an OTS policy for regularisation of illegal water-sewer connections at nominal rates. Under the policy, no penalty or interest will be charged on the principal amount if the payment of pending user charges is made within three months. No rebate for non-defaulters While the state government has provided relief to defaulters, no incentives have been announced for those who pay their taxes on time. While defaulters can avail the 10% rebate on payment of pending tax till November 30, non-defaulters can only avail rebate for the current financial year by September 30.An official, requesting anonymity, said this will discourage people from filing their tax on time. “The announcement will reduce earning of the fund-starved MC.”With September 30 being the last date for availing 10% rebate on submission of property tax, the MC has decided to keep its zonal offices and suvidha kendras open on every Saturday and the last Sunday of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ots-policy-10-rebate-interest-waiver-to-property-tax-defaulters-in-ludhiana-101631826191470.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Four booked for stealing woman’s gold bangles in Chandigarh||The police on Thursday booked five unidentified persons for allegedly stealing a Sector-51 woman’s gold bangles. In her complaint, Vrinda said on September 9, when she was returning home, four women and a man in a car called out to her near ESIC Society in Sector 51.The accused engaged her in a conversation and soon left. Later, she noticed that three of her gold bangles were missing and there was a cut mark on the fourth one. Vrinda told the police that she works as a nurse in London, England, and had returned to Chandigarh to take care of her mother. A case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code was registered. No arrest has been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-booked-for-stealing-woman-s-gold-bangles-in-chandigarh-101631825951434.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid cases climb to 14, highest in 20 days||Tricity’s daily Covid-19 cases shot up to 14 on Thursday, a first in 20 days.Since the 20 infections on August 27, the figure had remained lower than 14, even dropping to single digit as many as 10 times.All three jurisdictions saw their daily cases rising in the past 24 hours.Chandigarh’s single-day count doubled from two to four, Mohali reported eight cases against six on Wednesday, while Panchkula logged two cases after one the day before.However, no new fatality was reported for the second consecutive day.With the jump in daily cases, the active cases also increased from 88 to 98 in 24 hours. Now, Mohali has 49 infected patients, Chandigarh 31 and Panchkula 18.Those found infected in Chandigarh are residents of Sector 14, PGIMER campus, Mauli Jagran and Raipur Khurd. In Mohali, four cases surfaced in Dhakoli, two in Kharar, and one each in Dera Bassi and Gharuan. Panchkula’s new infections were from Sectors 9 and 19.Chandigarh’s caseload stands at 65,168, with 64,319 recoveries and 818 deaths.A total of 68,687 people have contracted the virus in Mohali till date. Among them, 67,577 have recovered and 1,061 have succumbed. Panchkula has recorded 30,710 infections till date. Here, 30,315 patients have been cured and 377 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-cases-climb-to-14-highest-in-20-days-101631825414968.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||891 properties found with parts sold outside family, Chandigarh admn informs HC||As many as 891 properties have been found in Chandigarh where a part of a property was sold to someone outside the family, a report submitted by the UT administration before the high court has revealed.At 118, the highest number of such properties was found in Sector 22, followed by 72 in Sector 37, 63 in Sector 20 and 61 in Sector 15. The survey was conducted in August after the Punjab and Haryana high court in July ordered UT to submit a list of residential properties transferred or sold up to December 31, 2019, on a pattern of share(s) to the extent of 50%, 30% or 20% transferred to a person outside the family of the original owner. In July, the administration in its response had maintained that a building plan is approved for the entire building and not floorwise. It had also submitted that fragmentation of a plot was not permitted, although there is no prohibition on occupation of the site by more than one family. It had also said that no sale of defined portion/floor of a building is permissible nor any such sale has been recognised by the administration. Developers acquired parts, sold them off furtherThe latest data submitted in high court reveals that after transfer of a share of a property, in a considerable number of cases, it was further sold off, even to multiple owners. There are also properties where a portion was acquired by developers and sold to multiple persons. The report also indicates that there are cases where sale has taken place floorwise. Furthermore, in a large number of cases, construction was underway. The 891 properties were identified on the basis of screening of Estate Office record, followed by a physical inspection of 281 houses by 10 teams. The sale deeds, excluding transfers within the family, were executed from August 28, 2016 to December 31, 2019. The high court had ordered the survey on a batch of petitions pending since 2016, seeking prohibitory orders on conversion of residential plots into apartments. Residential plots in Chandigarh are meant to be single-dwelling units. However, in the recent years, these are being sold floorwise to multiple owners, which would destroy the city and put additional burden on infrastructure, one of the pleas argues. UT has maintained that it does not allow floorwise sale.HC’s July order was also challenged by a Sector-27 resident in the Supreme Court, arguing that there is no prohibition on multiple individuals, even from distinct families, buying residential units, with a caveat that the construction of the home must be done in a cohesive manner and as a single entity.Acting on it, the apex court had stayed the survey. However, subsequently, the stay was vacated as UT apprised the court of the survey having already been undertaken.On Thursday, sealed cover reports were submitted before the high court. The court ordered that the copies be given to all parties and posted the matter for Monday, asking them to submit their views on the findings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/891-properties-found-with-parts-sold-outside-family-chandigarh-admn-informs-hc-101631825413962.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi University bringing down the curtains on regional centre in Mohali||Having catered to local students and library lovers for two decades, Punjabi University’s (Patiala) Regional Centre for IT and Management in Phase 7 here is facing closure due to the varsity’s financial crunch. The centre had been offering a host of courses, including MBA, MBA (Executive), MTech (CSE), MCA, MCA (lateral entry), MCom, BCA+MCA, BBA, BCom, BSc (Hons) computer science, BSc (Hons) artificial intelligence & data science, and Diploma in Computing.But while the inaugural session in September 2000 had over 600 students, currently only 60 students are enrolled at the centre, despite the varsity pumping in ₹3.2 crore annually. Authorities attribute this to students preferring other government institutes across the tricity.Students to be shifted to other govt collegesWith the Patiala varsity already running the Government College in Phase 6 and Khalsa College in Phase 3, students have been asked to shift there. Meanwhile, 12 of the 18 faculty members have already been transferred. Vice-chancellor Arvind said, “Nearly ₹3.2 crore are spent on the centre every year. It is not financially viable to run it with just 60 students. Their studies will not be affected, as they will be shifted within Mohali only.” On Thursday, when a senior professor of the university came to the campus to take students’ consent, they raised slogans against the authorities. A student, Jaskaran Singh Bhullar, said the faculty was shifted two months back and since then, students had been requesting authorities not to close the centre. “It will be difficult for us to adjust to the new environment in another college,” said Manjit Singh, another student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-university-bringing-down-the-curtains-on-regional-centre-in-mohali-101631825412766.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: DSP’s wife succumbs to injuries 3 weeks after mishap||After battling for life for three weeks, the wife of a UT deputy superintendent of police (DSP) succumbed to injuries sustained in an accident on August 26. The deceased, Renu Ranjan Sharma, wife of DSP (Security) Devinder Sharma, was riding a Honda Activa when she rammed into a car door opened suddenly.A resident of Sector 19, Renu was admitted to PGIMER, Chandigarh, with severe injuries and was under treatment since then. The car driver, Hansdeep, a resident of Phase 9, Mohali, was arrested and later released on bail.After Renu’s death, police have added Section 304-A (causing death due to negligence) in the FIR registered under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 337 of the Indian Penal Code, along with Section 3/181 of the Motor Vehicles Act, at the Sector 19 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhdsps-wife-succumbs-to-injuries-3-weeks-after-mishap-101631825351374.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana constable killed as bike crashes into camel cart||A constable was killed in a freak accident, after his motorcycle crashed into a camel cart on Ferozepur Road on Wednesday.The victim, Ravandeen Singh of Moga, was on his way to Jagraon from Ludhiana when the accident took place near Divine Marriage Palace. The cart came on to the road suddenly causing the victim to crash into the cart. The accused, Gogy of Ganganagar, has been booked under Sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and 427 (causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code.A case was registered on the complaint of the victim’s cousin, Guriqbal Singh of Dugri, who was with Ravandeen but on a different bike and saw the incident. Ravandeep died on the spot and the cart rider fled, leaving the cart on the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-constable-killed-as-bike-crashes-into-camel-cart-101631825231510.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Confidant questioned in 2019 liquor smuggling case, Congress MLA has face-off with SBS Nagar SSP||Congress MLA Angad Singh and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar senior superintendent of police Harmanbir Singh Gill had an altercation on Thursday after the legislator’s close confidant Vikas Soni was brought in for questioning in the 2019 liquor smuggling case. The MLA and his supporters also staged a protest against the SSP in front of the district administration complex in the evening. “Soni was questioned for around 45 minutes and then allowed to leave,” a senior official said. Interestingly, a special investigation team, comprising former SBS Nagar senior superintendent of police Alka Meena, SBS Nagar superintendent of police (SP, investigation) Wazir Singh Khaira and SP (Khanna) Manpreet Singh as its members, had indicted and named Vikas Soni as accused in the same liquor smuggling case on August 19. The SIT in its report had directed the Sadar SHO to arrest Soni and had filed challan against him. A senior official, seeking anonymity, said the district police had taken the accused into custody, but he was let off due to pressure from authorities. SBS Nagar sadar station house officer Satish Kumar, however, denied that Soni was brought to the police station to be arrested. “I have recently joined the police station and questioned Soni as his name had figured in the liquor smuggling case.” On the SIT’s findings, Kumar said that he was not aware of the SIT’s findings and had not received any report. Meanwhile, senior officials refused to comment on the matter. MLA Angad Singh, while addressing his supporters, said that Congress workers were being harassed after Harmanbir Singh joined as SSP. “Soni was falsely implicated in the case. A report was prepared in the back date because Soni helped me take possession of land in Amritsar,” said the MLA, asking why the report was completed just two days before the transfer of former SSP and if Soni was guilty, why no action was taken in the last year. “I will not tolerate any injustice with Congress workers and if the police don’t stop, they will be responsible for any emergent law-and-order situation”, said Singh, adding that the SSP was inclined towards AAP. In 2018, Angad Singh, and his family had a spat with Harmanbir Singh Gill, who is the brother of Khadoor Sahib MP, Jasbir Singh Dimpa and his family over a dispute over the Rohtak District Transport Co-operative Society Limited (RDTCSL) office in Amritsar. What was the case? Two Mohali men, including Balwinder Singh and Maan Singh, were arrested and 800 boxes of illegal liquor were recovered in SBS Nagar on April 5, 2019, ahead of the general elections. Later, the police named Hemant Kumar, Shankar Duggal and Gaurav Chopra, three partners running the shelter where the liquor was unloaded, as accused in the case. Later, Hemant Kumar and Shankar Duggal, who were affiliated with the Akali Dal, asked for a re-investigation into their role. In August 2020, Ludhiana inspector general of police Naunihal Singh formed an SIT headed by then SSP (SBS Nagar) Alka Meena, to probe the case. In the report, the SIT found that Ravinder Singh, Honey Chadha and Gaurav Chopra, all accused in the case in connivance with Vikas Soni, had bought the illegal liquor from Ranjodh Singh. Meanwhile, the SIT found Hemant Kumar and Shankar Duggal, innocent. So far, six people have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/confidant-questioned-in-2019-liquor-smuggling-case-congress-mla-has-face-off-with-sbs-nagar-ssp-101631824451260.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Murder accused held with illegal weapons in Ludhiana||A murder accused was held with illegal weapons in Guru Nanak Dev Nagar on Wednesday. Police have recovered two country-made pistols, a .315 bore rifle, an air-pistol and 17 cartridges from the accused, Maninderjit Singh of Guru Nanak Dev Nagar.Sub-inspector Yashpal Sharma, said on the basis of the information provided by the accused, police recovered another country-made .315 bore pistol, 12 more cartridges and an air gun.Maninderjit had been arrested in a murder case in 2013. The accused is also facing trial in different cases in different police stations and had been out on bail since 2015.Maninderjit said he had procured the pistols from one Bunty of Delhi for ₹20,000 and one Gaggy of Barewal Road had provided him with the cartridges. A case under Sections of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/murder-accused-held-with-illegal-weapons-in-ludhiana-101631823911183.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana doctor couple booked for causing death due to negligence||A doctor couple was booked for causing death due to negligence of an elderly man who died during his post-surgery treatment at a private hospital in Ludhiana in April this year. The accused, Dr Ashish Ohri and his wife Dr Shweta Ohri, run Arogya Hospital at Jassiyan Road in the city. A case was also registered against their staff members on the statement of Deepak Kumar of Bank Colony of Haibowal. In the complaint, Kumar said his father Tarlok Chand, 65, was admitted to the hospital after he developed some health complications. The patient was diagnosed with infection in his private parts and underwent a surgery on January 15. Then he was shifted to the recovery room where a hot air blower was kept in the blanket causing burn injuries on his legs, the complainant alleged. The doctors delayed the treatment of burn injuries following which he shifted his father to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, he added. As the infection spread, the doctors amputated the right leg of the 65-year-old, but his condition kept on deteriorating. Then he was shifted to PGIMER Chandigarh where he died on April 20. Before his death his father had recorded his statement to the police on April 13. Sub-inspector Bhajan Singh, who is investigating the case, said the case was registered section 304-A of the Indian Penal Code at the Haibowal police station after getting medical opinion from the civil surgeon’s office. “We will arrest the accused soon,” he said. The civil surgeon’s report says the patient sustained burns at Arogya Hospital due to a hot air blower and healing was delayed due to comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease. The report said the burn injuries at Arogya Hospital could have been avoided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-doctor-couple-booked-for-causing-death-due-to-negligence-101631823490990.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Man missing for four months found murdered in Ludhiana, wife’s live-in partner booked||A labourer who had gone missing four months ago was found to be murdered by his wife’s friend, with whom she had been having an affair, and his accomplices on Thursday. The victim, Raju Singh, 35, of Majri village of Morinda, was found buried in a field in Machhiwara. Two persons, including the victim’s wife’s friend Tajinder Singh alias Goldy of Bhattiyan village, and his aide Ricky Lakhowal have been booked. Police suspect more people were involved in the crime.A case was lodged on the statement of Santosh Kumar of Jassowal village,the brother-in-law of the victim, Raju Singh, who had been missing since May 13.Raju had married Pooja Singh 10 years ago. The couple have two daughters, aged nine and six.Station house officer inspector Vijay Kumar said Pooja had an affair with Tajinder . Two years ago, she had moved in with Tajinder with her daughters but had returned to her husband after a month. Later, she again moved in with Tajinder in April. Unable to trace his wife and daughters, Raju had lodged a missing person’s report at the Morinda police station. Meanwhile, Jassowal told Raju that his wife and daughters were living with Tajinder in Indira Colony of Machhiwara and asked him to take them back home.On May 13, Santosh and Raju came to Machhiwara to take Pooja and the kids home. Tajinder asked Raju to come with him but when he did not return, Santosh filed a missing persons complaint. A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance) and 34 (acts done by several persons) of the Indian Penal Code.Police also suspect involvement of Pooja in the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-missing-for-four-months-found-murdered-in-ludhiana-wife-s-live-in-partner-booked-101631823190907.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Badal playing langar politics, Punjab farmers can form own govt in 2022: Charuni||Accusing Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal of playing langar politics, Bhartiya Kisan Union’s Charuni faction chief Gurnam Singh Charuni on Thursday said Punjab farmers comprising nearly 90 lakh votes can form their own government in the 2022 state assembly polls. Addressing the farmers at a rally against the Centre’s three agriculture laws at the Amarkot grain market in Tarn Taran, Charuni said, “The Congress led by Captain Amarinder Singh came to the power in 2017 with 59 lakh votes. The farmers have more votes than the required for forming government. You don’t have to look toward Amarinder or the Badals.” Charuni said he has asked several farmer leaders to lead the Mission Punjab campaign and a10-member team has been formed for this. Launching an attack at Sukhbir Badal, Charuni said, “The SAD leader wants to regain the farmers’ faith by saying that he is providing langar (free food) to the protesters. The langar system has been around for hundreds of years.” “Similarly, Captain Amarinder said we should not protest in Punjab, and do so in Haryana and Delhi. He should know that the agitation is of the entire country. The situation in Uttar Pradesh is similar to Punjab. UP has 8 crore voters from the farming community and the government was formed with 2.5 crore votes,” he added. People of Punjab, Charuni said, can choose their leaders in every constituency for contesting the upcoming polls. “If you form government no one will be able to sell your lands to the corporate houses. Instead you can sell companies to farmers. You will also be able to make a law to waive loans taken by the farmers,” he said. All parties, be it the BJP, Congress, SAD or the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), are working at the behest of the corporate houses, he claimed. Appealing to the farmers to intensify their agitation at the Delhi border, he said, “At least one member of every family should reach the protest site. A conspiracy is being hatched by filing a writ in the Supreme Court to sabotage the agitation.” Issuing a warning to the Centre, he said, “There still is time to agree to the farmers’ demand of repealing the three black laws. In the coming days, we can take a decision of laying siege to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s residence and the venues of his events.” Gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, Punjabi singers Kanwar Grewal and Jass Bajwa also addressed the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-badal-playing-langar-politics-punjab-farmers-can-form-own-govt-in-2022-charuni-101631822892387.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Irregularities in voter list: Punjab and Haryana high court seeks response from Ambala Cantonment Board||A single bench of Justice Lisa Gill of Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday asked the Ambala Cantonment Board to submit a response on alleged discrepancies in a voter list published ahead of its House elections.The petition was filed by advocate Mehak Sawhney, on behalf of his father and former councillor Umesh Sahani, claiming that the names of five of their family members were not included in an electoral list published in July. “We appeared before the president of the board and submitted the claim along with requisite documents at a hearing on August 16. However, even after 20 days and a reminder on September 6, no decision has been communicated,” the petition filed on September 9 states.A final voter list was published on September 15. The next hearing is scheduled for November 15.As per the court order, “It is submitted that objections filed by the petitioners have not been decided till date. Publication of the final electoral roll, if any, shall remain subject to the decision of this writ petition.” This fresh order has come as a setback to many in the region who are aspiring to contest in the elections that were scheduled soon after the tenure of the House ended on February 10 this year.The constitution of the board, along with 55 other boards in the country, was announced to vary by the ministry of defence (MoD) earlier this year.Constituted in 1843, Ambala Cantonment Board comprises 16 members -- eight elected from wards and eight nominated. However, officials had said that after the House dissolved, a three-member committee comprising the president and CEO of the house and one nominated member would govern it till elections are held. But, the nomination of the member by the Union government is still pending, Sahni said. CEO of the board, Anuj Goel, remained unavailable for comments despite several calls and message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/irregularities-in-voter-list-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-seeks-response-from-ambala-cantonment-board-101631822891021.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Gang of burglars targeting steel traders in Ludhiana||A gang of burglars, who had been targeting steel traders on Gill Road, was busted with the arrest of four members on Wednesday. The accused are Maninder Kumar of Mahadev Colony, Sunil Kumar of Nikku Colony, Kashmiri Ram of Mohalla Preet Nagar and Surinder Kumar of Surjit Nagar.Around 2,000kg stolen iron, a stolen pickup truck and ₹1 lakh cash was recovered from them. Additional deputy commissioner of police Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said that the police had arrested Maninder and Sunil on Gill Road with 600kg stolen iron, following a tip-off. The accused were travelling in a stolen pickup truck.Later, the police arrested scrap dealers, Kashmiri and Surinder, with 1,400kg iron and ₹1 lakh.The ADCP said that the accused were also involved in stealing batteries from the vehicles. Maninder and Sunil used to execute the burglaries and would sell the material to Kashmiri and Surinder.The accused were already booked under Section 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code at the Division 6 police station.Significantly, disappointed over the spate of burglaries and police inaction, steel traders in the city had approached police commissioner Naunihal Singh’s office on September 13 and handed over keys of their shops and godowns to him in protest. Later, deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation), Simratpal Singh Dhindsa, had met the traders and assured them of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gang-of-burglars-targeting-steel-traders-in-ludhiana-101631822470760.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police constable appointed excise inspector in UP||A constable with Chandigarh Police has been appointed as an excise inspector in Prayagraj after clearing the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC). Constable Vijay Rathi will soon be taking charge after being relieved from Chandigarh Police. Hailing from Sonepat, Rathi had joined UT police on May 1, 2011. In 2019 he appeared for the exam in Lucknow. He was posted at police lines and used to prepare during his free time. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal took to Twitter to share the news after Rathi met him on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-constable-appointed-excise-inspector-in-up-101631822350761.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two-day conference on benefits of yoga, naturopathy begins at Chandigarh college||A two-day national conference on the role of yoga and naturopathy in the management of post Covid symptoms started at Government College of Yoga Education and Health on Thursday.The conference is being organised by the yoga college in collaboration with Haryana Yog Aayog. It was inaugurated by Jaideep Arya, chairman of Haryana Yog Aayog and Sapna Nanda, principal of the college.Arya, in his presidential address, spoke on the importance of research in the field of yoga and naturopathy and outlined the efforts of the aayog to get yoga included as a full-fledged compulsory subject in Haryana from Classes 1 to 10. Nanda shared her insights about the joint efforts of the college and the aayog in spreading the message of the benefits of yoga and naturopathy.On the first day, various eminent speakers including Vikram Singh, senior assistant director of physical education at JNU, New Delhi; and Madan Manav, CMO of Haryana Yog Ayog and naturopathy hospital shared their views on topics related to Covid management. A book titled “A text Book of Yoga” was also released on the occasion..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/twoday-conference-on-benefits-of-yoga-naturopathy-begins-at-chandigarh-college-101631821990973.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||PPCB chairman urges farmers to shun stubble burning practice||Adarshpal Vig, chairman of Punjab Pollution Control Board, while speaking during a PAU live programme on Thursday, called upon the farmers to shun the practice of stubble burning as it affects the health and environment.Lauding the efforts of PAU in developing technologies for crop residue management, he advised the farmers to adopt in-situ and ex-situ technologies.GS Kocher, head of the department of microbiology, informed the farmers about the recommended biofertilizers for various crops as well as their availability.Amarjit Singh, senior extension specialist (Plant pathology), dwelt upon disease management in paddy.Rajat Sharma, IT in charge, explained the participation process for the two-day-long PAU Kisan Mela that is scheduled to commence from September 17.Later, PAU experts Jagwinder Singh Jodha, Gurpreet Virk, and Ravinder Bhalooria shed light on farm operations for the next fortnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ppcb-chairman-urges-farmers-to-shun-stubble-burning-practice-101631821761877.html
17-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana teachers seek exemption from poll duty||The district teachers’ unions are up in arms against the education department for assigning election duties to teachers, post-school hours.Criticizing the move, Tahal Singh Sarabha, press secretary of Government Schools’ Teacher Union, said, “The teachers can’t fulfill their election duties after school hours. They have to look after their families also. They were appointed for teaching purposes, not for non-teaching.”He further said that Krishan Kumar, secretary of school education, Punjab, had asked the local education department officials to not let teachers go for data collection of the voters during school hours.With the election commission of India gearing up for the upcoming elections in the state, it has appointed booth-level officers for the poll duties. The booth-level officers posted at various polling stations have been asked to do door-to-door surveys in their respective areas.“DEO Lakhvir Singh Samra has directed the teachers to do their election duty. At the same time, he has asked them to adhere to the directions of the education secretary, according to which they can’t do any poll-related work during school hours. Therefore, teachers will have to work post-school hours, which is not feasible,” said Surinder Kumar Puari, state secretary, Government School Teachers’ Union, Punjab.The union leaders demanded immediate withdrawal of the letter issued to them by the education secretary in this regard.Tahal Singh said that the teachers should not be assigned poll duty as they are busy preparing the students for the National Achievement Survey to be conducted on November 12. Giving them an additional duty will affect students’ education, he added.“If Krishan Kumar is so serious about education, he should contact the election commission of India and get all teachers exempted from poll duty,” he added.Singh added that the teacher unions will meet on Friday to decide the next course of action in case their demands are not fulfilled.Despite repeated attempts, the DEO remained unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-teachers-seek-exemption-from-poll-duty-101631821760772.html
17-09-2021||Other||1,272 youth get jobs at mega fair in Ludhiana||A total of 1,272 youngsters got placed during the third mega job mela organised by the state government under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar scheme at SRS Government Polytechnic College for Girls on Wednesday.As many as 1,542 youngsters and 50 companies participated in the job fair held under the ‘Seventh state-level mega job fairs’ by the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise (DBEE).Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said that several leading companies including, SBI, LIC, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, ICICI, Star Health Insurance, Flipkart, Just Dial, and others, took part in the job fair. He exhorted the youth to avail the benefits of the next job mela to be held at CICU Focal Point on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1272-youth-get-jobs-at-mega-fair-in-ludhiana-101631821759530.html
17-09-2021||Other||Government College for Girls, Ludhiana felicitates new student council||Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, organised the installation ceremony of the new student council on Thursday. A total of 68 council members were felicitated by principal Sukhwinder Kaur. They took an oath to wholeheartedly fulfil their responsibility for the development of the institution. Harleen Kaur, incharge, student council, proposed a vote of thanks. GNKCW celebrates SangradGuru Nanak Khalsa College for Women, Gujarkhan Campus, Model Town, Ludhiana, celebrated Sangrand on Thursday. Prabhjot Kaur, HOD, Punjabi department highlighted the importance of this day. Principal Maneeta Kahlon prayed for the wellbeing of everyone and urged them to follow the path shown by the almighty.Engineer’s Day celebrated at GNDECGNDEC, Ludhiana, inaugurated the ‘Eco Engineers’ Foundation’ on campus to mark Engineer’s Day. Principal Sehijpal Singh planted the first sapling at hostel number 1. Dean student welfare Parminder Singh, chief warden Manpreet Singh Malli, and hostel warden Manpreet Singh Sidhu attended the event. Sehijpal Singh congratulated the students and staff for their eco-friendly activities.Personality development workshop heldThe placement cell of Malwa Central College of Education for Women, Ludhiana, in collaboration with the Rotaract Club of the college, organised an online workshop on ‘Personality development and interview skills’ on Thursday. Jasminder Singh, former president of Rotary Club, Ludhiana Midtown, was the resource person. Over 100 students participated in this workshop.Atal Tinkering lab inauguratedAtal Tinkering Lab was inaugurated at Meritorious School, Ludhiana, under the expert supervision of the principal Parveen Sharma on Thursday. Sunny Bhalla, counsellor, ward number 82, Mandeep Kaur, principal and DM, Government School, Hassanpur, along with two block mentors, were guests of honour. According to the officials, students from other schools can also make models and enhance their innovative skills at the lab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/government-college-for-girls-ludhiana-felicitates-new-student-council-101631821758381.html
17-09-2021||Other||Union secretary’s visit: Ludhiana MC officials scramble to clean city||With smart city projects moving at a snail’s pace and the majority of them missing deadlines, the municipal corporation (MC) authorities on Thursday made last-ditch efforts to get the city cleaned a day before the visit of the secretary of the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), Durga Shankar Mishra.Mishra is expected to inspect various ongoing and completed projects under the Smart City Mission and other flagship schemes of the union government. He is also scheduled to review the projects in Patiala, Jalandhar, and Amritsar during his three-day visit to the state.The authorities had initiated cleanliness drives at Malhar Road, Sarabha Nagar, and Pakhowal Road, among other areas. The project to transform Malhar Road into a smart road had commenced in July 2019 with May 20 as its deadline. The project has still not been completed and the authorities now claim that it will be completed by September end. Similarly, the Pakhowal road ROB/RUBs project, which was initiated in December last year, has also missed its deadline set for phased completion of the project. The slow speed of the projects is also taking a toll on the movement of traffic in the area.The project to establish multi-storey parking in Feroze Gandhi market is also hanging fire while the officials have not been able to operate the carcass plant established at the cost of around ₹8 crore in Noorpur bet area due to farmer agitation against the same. Mishra is also expected to visit the Sidhwan canal waterfront project established in the Sarabha Nagar area and the main Sarabha Nagar market, retrofitted under the Smart City Project. He will also inspect the ongoing works to reduce pollution in Buddha Nullah. Different projects proposed and being executed under the Smart City Mission will also be discussed. Sanjay Goel, one of the directors of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL), has been raising the issue at the state level that the MC should work on chronic issues of the city, including traffic and parking woes. Ranking improved under smart city mission: MC chief MC commissioner cum chief executive officer (CEO) of LSCL, Pardeep Sabharwal, stated that regular monitoring is being done to expedite the projects. As many as 24 projects worth around ₹68 crore have been completed while 26 projects worth over ₹1200 crores are under execution. “The ranking of the city, among all the cities selected under the mission, has improved from 54 to 32 in the past few months in terms of the completed projects. Ludhiana is at the top among the cities in North India, he said. MC commences road repairs The MC authorities have swung into action ahead of Mishra’s visit and taken up road repair works in the city. It had earlier delayed the road repair works, citing the rainy season. The patch (repair) work was done at the roads in Sarabha Nagar, Jagraon Bridge, railway station road among other areas.Despite, residents’ repeated complaints regarding the pathetic condition of roads, the officials had not commenced the work, citing that the hot mix plant cannot be operated during the rainy season. But now, the work has been taken up because of the MoHUA secretary’s visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/union-secretary-s-visit-ludhiana-mc-officials-scramble-to-clean-city-101631821757174.html
17-09-2021||Other||Leading cardiologist Dr Wander diagnosed with dengue, hospitalized||Dr GS Wander, the chief cardiologist, and coordinator of Hero DMC Heart Institute (HDHI) has been diagnosed with dengue and is undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H). DMC&H secretary Prem Gupta confirmed the development and said that the renowned cardiologist was diagnosed with dengue fever.Despite repeated attempts, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat was unavailable for comments. The health department sent anti- larvae teams around Dr GS Wander’s house to destroy any mosquito breeding points there. Fogging is also being carried out in the area by the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/leading-cardiologist-dr-wander-diagnosed-with-dengue-hospitalized-101631821755357.html
17-09-2021||Other||At 94, Ludhiana dengue cases increase 10-fold||While Covid-19 cases are on the decline, dengue cases have begun to crop up in the city.Two days after the health department sounded an alert about dengue and chikungunya fever, as many as 30 cases were reported in the district, taking the total count to 168.Out of the total patients, 18 are from the district, while rest belong to other states and neighbouring cities. The dengue cases have witnessed a tenfold rise as compared to last year. While a total of 94 residents of the district tested positive for dengue till Thursday, only 11 cases were reported in the district in the corresponding period last year.A total of 1,809 confirmed cases were reported in the district last year, while 2,516 people were suspected to have got the disease. Of the total 1,809, as many as 1,353 were from Ludhiana while 408 belonged to other cities. There has been a rise in suspected dengue cases as well. So far, over 1,105 suspected cases of dengue have been reported in the district this year.According to district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat, suspected cases are those in which the patient suffers from similar symptoms as that of dengue but tests negative. He said that no death has been reported due to dengue in the district this year. Dengue was not the reason for the death of a 65- year- old man from Balloke, who died due to high-grade fever and a drop in platelet count last month, he added. The urban areas are stated to be the worst hit with 81 cases emerging from the densely populated areas of the city including, Kailash Chowk, Bhamia road, Chander Nagar, Janta Nagar, Model Town, Basti Jodhewal, Rani Jhansi Road Fezoepur Road, Ashpuri, Civil Line, Kundanpuri, Sua Road, Dhandari Railway station, Sahnewal, Baloki, Basant City, Jahangir Road, Sant Nagar, Rajguru Nagar, BRS Nagar, Gurdev Nagar, Nadha Wali Sadak, Railway Colony 2, Sarabha Nagar, EWS Colony, Haibowal Kalan, Shimlapuri, Ghumar Mandi, Focal Point, Adarsh Nagar, and Sher-e- Punjab Colony, 33- Feet- Road.Among rural areas, five cases were reported from the densely populated migrant area of Koom Kalan; while two were reported from Sudhar, and one each from Malaud, Sidhwan Bet, Khanna, and Jagraon. The suspected dengue fever patients have been shifted to Sentinel Surveillance Hospitals at civil hospitals Ludhiana, Khanna, and Jagraon, where they can get free confirmation tests. Sportive treatment of positive dengue cases is also provided free of cost by the health department. Dengue fever is caused by the bite of the female aedes aegypti mosquito, which is also called the tiger mosquito. It has tiger-like stripes on its body and grows in clean water in mosquito coolers, containers, trays behind refrigerators, flowerpots, rubbish on roofs, tires, etcCivil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia has appealed to all to not allow water to stagnate in the coolers, containers, nets behind the fridge, pots, on the roofs of the houses, etc.; wear clothes that cover the body completely; use mosquito repellent and nets at bedtime and celebrate every Friday as a dry day. She further said that in case of fever, instead of taking aspirin or ibuprofen, one should prefer taking paracetamol and drinking more fluids, and resting.Leading cardiologist Dr Wander diagnosed with dengue, hospitalised Dr GS Wander, the chief cardiologist, and coordinator of Hero DMC Heart Institute (HDHI) has been diagnosed with dengue and is undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H). DMC&H secretary Prem Gupta confirmed the development and said that the renowned cardiologist was diagnosed with dengue fever. Despite repeated attempts, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat was unavailable for comments. The health department sent anti- larvae teams around Dr GS Wander’s house to destroy any mosquito breeding points there. Fogging is also being carried out in the area by the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-94-ludhiana-dengue-cases-increase-10fold-101631821754842.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Fire breaks out at boutique in Ludhiana’s Ghumar Mandi||Panic gripped the Ghumar Mandi area on Thursday after a fire broke out at a boutique in a congested street near the Mai Nand Kaur Gurdwara on Thursday morning. The shop, Simran Boutique, was closed when the blaze started around 10am, half-an-hour before its opening time due to a short-circuit. The owner, Avtar Singh, said other shopkeepers on the street raised the alarm after they saw smoke. “Fire broke out due to a short-circuit in the wiring on the ground floor of the multi-storey boutique. Clothes and some other material was gutted. We tried to douse the flames with the help of fire extinguishers and water buckets before the fire brigade reached the spot,” said Singh. Leading fireman, Rajinder Singh, said a fire-tender was rushed to the spot and the situation was controlled in a few minutes.Garbage catches fire, doused in 3-hr op Heaps of garbage dumped in the open at the secondary dump site of the municipal corporation (MC) near Lakkar bridge also caught fire on Thursday morning.The fire-fighting operation continued for around three hours and the fire tenders were refilled seven times.Firefighters suspect that some miscreants may have started the fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fire-breaks-out-at-boutique-in-ludhiana-s-ghumar-mandi-101631821753148.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court restrains eviction notices against HMT employees||The Punjab and Haryana high court has restrained the Hindustan Machine Tools Limited (HMT) from evicting employees who are residing in government quarters allotted as per company policies. HC also restrained collection of water and electricity charges and discontinuation of these facilities, as employees had argued that they were not being paid salaries.It was on October 27, 2016, that the central government had decided on closure of HMT’s tractor unit in Pinjore citing continuous losses and insignificant market share. The government had announced a VRS scheme or VSS (voluntary separation scheme) for employees with a budgetary provisions of ₹718.72 crore to clear outstanding salaries, other dues and liabilities towards banks and creditors. As per reports, 1,100 employees of the unit were affected, out of which 350 odd had approached HC in 2016. A government of India public sector enterprise, HMT tractor division was set up at Pinjore in 1971. The company’s performance had started to decline in the 1990s. In their fresh plea, the employees had sought directions from the HC, restraining the authorities from evicting them from the company quarters and from charging licence fee, electricity and water charges over and above the amount as agreed under the quarter allotment letters. They had cited August 2021 notices, asking them to pay up, failing which electricity and water connections would be disconnected. Petitioners are in the category of serving employees, however, they are not being paid their salaries and therefore, are not in a position to pay the charges, the court was told.The bench of justice Girish Agnihotri observed that a very peculiar situation has risen, where the employees are not being paid by the employer. On the other hand, the company is stating that they are also not getting proper funds from the Centre. Respondents are directed to convene a meeting at the central government level and place before the court a viable solution so that such kind of situation does not arise, the court ordered, posting the matter for hearing on November 12 and staying the notices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-restrains-eviction-notices-against-hmt-employees-101631821574298.html
17-09-2021||Noida||After residents protest, Ghaziabad civic body withdraws nod to Durga Puja pandal||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation (GMC) on Thursday took a U-turn after initially “granting permission” to an association for holding Durga Puja in a park in Vaishali Sector 4. It withdrew its permission after the intervention of municipal commissioner MS Tanwar late Thursday evening.Dr Anuj Singh, horticulture department in-charge, GMC, said the association -- Vaishali Kali Bari Samiti -- was not given any permission to hold such an event in the park. “We are not authorised to give such a permission, only the Ghaziabad district administration is. We have just reserved the space for the association,” Singh said after the intervention of municipal commissioner MS Tanwar on Thursday. Earlier, he had maintained that no trees will be felled, but only a few will be relocated for 10 days, during the puja, and the plants will be placed in their original place after that.Residents had opposed the GMC’s initial decision, worrying that trees planted inside the area would be cut or damaged in the process. The residents said that they have planted nearly 5,000 trees in the park over the years, and invested a lot of funds and efforts for the same. They said that GMC officials have allegedly decided to fell nearly 150 trees in the park to facilitate a space for the Durga Puja pandal.“The GMC was supposed to visit the park on Saturday to cut around 150 trees for the preparations of the puja, and we are worried. We urge the GMC not to fell or damage the trees, and we will stop any such activity in the park. It’s unbelievable that the GMC will cut trees to make pandals for the puja,” said Rajneesh Bhatia, a resident of Gateway Towers in Vaishali Sector 4.“We have been asked to clear the area by cutting nearly 70-80 trees on Saturday,” said a GMC official, requesting anonymity.“We have taken a written permission from the GMC to make a 60x40 feet puja pandal inside the park. However, there is absolutely no question of felling trees. The GMC has only granted us a spot in the park,” said Sandeep Ghosh, general secretary, Vaishali Kali Bari Samiti. City mayor Asha Sharma did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/after-residents-protest-ghaziabad-civic-body-withdraws-nod-to-durga-puja-pandal-101631821330499.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||PEC asks semester 7 students to return to campus from Oct 4||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has decided to call undergraduate students of the seventh semester back to the campus from October 4 onwards. According to a notice issued by PEC’s dean academic affairs on Thursday, the students will appear in their mid-semester examination physically from October 4 to 6 and then attend physical classes from October 7. The decision has been taken in view of the improvement in the pandemic situation. However, the students returning to campus must have received at least one vaccine dose. Students who want to avail hostel accommodation have been asked to contact the office of dean student affairs. The mid-semester examination of undergraduate students of fifth semester, which is also scheduled from October 4 to 6, will be held online. Moreover, the mid-semester exam of UG third semester students will also be held online from October 21 to 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pec-asks-semester-7-students-to-return-to-campus-from-oct-4-101631821091805.html
17-09-2021||Noida||Noida sees dip in mercury, likely to receive more rain||Noida saw a sharp drop of eight degrees Celsius (°C) in the maximum temperature following a moderate rainfall of 15.5mm on Thursday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), meanwhile, predicted that the city will continue to receive rainfall through the week, with sporadic rain of light to moderate intensity on Friday. “There is a possibility of moderate rainfall in the city. The maximum and minimum temperature may hover between 29°C and 24°C on Friday,” said an IMD official, requesting anonymity.The IMD recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures in Noida on Thursday at 26°C and 24.6°C, against 34.8°C and 25.5°C, respectively, a day earlier. The Safdarjung monitoring station, which is considered average for the national capital region (NCR), recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures recorded at 28°C and 24.8°C -- six degrees below and the season’s average, respectively. The humidity oscillated between 98% and 88%.The weather department also said that a low-pressure-area over Madhya Pradesh, through wind patterns and circulation-inducing rain, has led to the current weather situation across the region, and it may continue for a few days more.“The low-pressure area over eastern and central part of Madhya Pradesh has led to strong moisture laden easterly winds over Delhi-NCR and Uttar Pradesh. The effect was maximum on Thursday, and it is expected to continue till Friday. However, it will eventually wear down by Saturday, converting the moderate rain to light intensity,” IMD director general M Mohapatra said, adding that the city will see rain the next week too.“Another cyclonic circulation is developing over the east central Bay of Bengal, and this may reach the northern coast of Orissa by Sunday (September 18). This may further lead to good rainfall activities in Delhi-NCR and the eastern parts of the country,” Mohapatra added.No major traffic snarls or waterlogging incidents were reported in Noida amidst on Thursday, said the city traffic police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-sees-dip-in-mercury-likely-to-receive-more-rain-101631820971756.html
17-09-2021||Lucknow||High Court dismisses PIL seeking political asylum for three Afghan nationals||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court (HC) has dismissed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL), which sought directives to the Centre to provide political asylum in accordance with international law to three Afghan nationals. The High Court also imposed a cost of ₹10,000 on the petitioner. A division bench of Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Abdul Moin on September 13 dismissed the PIL filed by Suresh Kumar Gupta, a lawyer. In the PIL, Gupta had sought directives to the Centre for political asylum for Qazi Marzia, judge of the Supreme Court of Afghanistan, Saleema Majari, former governor of Kandhar province in Afghanistan and Nilofar Rahmani, fighter pilot of the Afghan Nationalist Army. Gupta filed the PIL, claiming to be next friend of the Afghan nationals, authorising him to file the petition on their behalf. Gupta apprised the High Court that he was their friend (Afghan nationals) on social media. “It is apparent that the petition by a person in the capacity of friend can only be filed in the case of a minor or an insane person or one who is suffering from any other disability which the law recognizes as sufficient to permit another person e.g., next friend, to move the Court on his behalf,” the High Court observed while rejecting Gupta’s petition. “Thus, we are constrained to hold that the instant Public Interest Litigation filed by Suresh Kumar Gupta in the capacity of being friend or next friend of petitioners is clearly not maintainable and deserves to be dismissed on this ground alone,” added the High Court. “Consequently, while dismissing the petition, we also impose a token cost of ₹10,000 on Suresh Kumar Gupta for having wasted the precious judicial time of the Court,” said the High Court. “Let such cost be deposited with the High Court Legal Service Sub- Committee, Lucknow, within 30 days failing which the cost shall be recovered as arrears of land revenue by the District Magistrate, Lucknow,” the High Court added. Advocate Suresh Kumar Gupta appeared in person before the High Court. Senior advocate SB Pandey, assistant solicitor general, government of India, assisted by Anand Dwivedi, represented the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/high-court-dismisses-pil-seeking-political-asylum-for-three-afghan-nationals-101631820970590.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU: After 2 years, dental college faculty to participate in teachers’ body elections||After boycotting the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) in 2019 and 2020, teachers from Panjab University’s Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital will participate in this year’s election of the teachers’ body. The process of this year’s election has already started and there are around 40 faculty members of the dental college eligible for PUTA membership. A returning officer has already been appointed for the polls. In 2019, the dental college teachers had boycotted PUTA, citing that the teachers’ body has done nothing for them, especially regarding the issue of their promotion policy, which still remains unresolved. “The faculty now feels that they need to be a part of PUTA and make it accountable for the issues pertaining to the dental institute,” said Ikreet Singh Bal, associate professor at the dental college. Promotion matter still pending The promotion policy issue of the dental faculty has remained one of the most debated issues at PU in the past years. Two years have passed after the dental faculty members had raised the issue and approached the high court, but the matter still hangs in the balance. Last year, PU had submitted its report to the HC in the matter. The recommendations of the panel, which was approved by PU’s syndicate in July last year, stated that the promotion policy framed by the varsity in 2007 will continue for the promotion of dental faculty. However, the report is yet to be approved by the PU senate, the varsity’s governing body. PUTA assures support PUTA has assured its support to the dental faculty as they decide to become part of the varsity’s teachers’ body again. PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar, said, “PUTA is for all teachers and we are glad that our colleagues at the dental institute have realised it. PUTA welcomes them and we assure our complete support in getting their long-pending issues resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-after-2-years-dental-college-faculty-to-participate-in-teachers-body-elections-101631820794777.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||GLADA postpones demolition of illegal colonies drive in face of stir||The Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority was forced to postpone a demolition drive against illegal colonies in the Haibowal area on Thursday after property owners and residents staged a sit-in protest in front of the machines. Despite police presence, those residing in the ‘illegal colonies’ and their supporters camped in front of the JCB machines and raised slogans against the state government and GLADA. They also engaged in a heated altercation with officials of the urban development authority. A representation from the colonies deemed illegal also met GLADA additional chief administrator Sandeep Kumar in the afternoon and contended that the authorities should not demolish the building as most property owners had applied for regularisation under a policy floated by the state government in 2018.There are around 20 illegal colonies in the Haibowal area. Mandeep Singh, who was part of the residents’ representation, said , “We are ready to pay a fee to get the colonies regularised. Though we have applied for regularisation, authorities attempted to demolish the colonies. ACA Kumar has assured us that the matter will be discussed with the higher authorities. Business is already moving through a slump after the government stopped registry of properties without an NOC from GLADA.” However, the ACA said action will be taken against illegal colonies and the drive will continue in the coming days. On the protests in Haibowal area, he said, “Notices will be served to property owners asking them to present documents verifying that they have applied for regularisation.”Meanwhile,authorities have appealed residents to buy plots in colonies that have been approved or regularised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/glada-postpones-demolition-of-illegal-colonies-drive-in-face-of-stir-101631820793610.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Nigerian national gets 10 years RI in drugs case||The court of district and sessions judge, Harreet Kaur Kaleka, sentenced Joel Smith, a Nigerian national, to ten years rigorous imprisonment on Thursday for supplying heroin. A local court also slapped a fine of ₹1 lakh on Smith and in default will have to further undergo one year imprisonment. Mohali STF AIG Kashmir Singh Gill said that Smith was arrested by Special Task Force (STF) Mohali following a tip-off at a naka near petrol pump in Phase 3A on August 2018. They had recovered 270-gram heroin from him. Gill added that Smith was residing at Tilak Nagar in New Delhi. “He was on his way to Mohali to supply drugs to his customers here in Mohali and Chandigarh when he was nabbed”, said Gill. During preliminary interrogation, Smith confessed that he came in India on the tourist visa in 2014 and never returned to his country. He has been convicted under Sections 21, 61, 85 of NDPS Act and Section 14 of Foreign Act by the local court. Smith is the fourth Nigerian this year to be sentenced to 10-years RI for smuggling heroin in Mohali. On September 6, Austin Krairi and on September 9, a Nigerian woman Joye Cheeka Ozuma, were sentenced to 10 tears RI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-nigerian-national-gets-10-years-ri-in-drugs-case-101631820792436.html
17-09-2021||Noida||Noida authority takes action against staff over 2020 fire incident||Noida authority chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari is taking action against the staff who are responsible for the May 2020 fire incident at its administrative building in Sector 6, officials said on Thursday.The fire had broken out in the accounts and industry department at the ground floor of the building around 9pm on May 25, 2020, after the closure of the office. A six-member committee was formed to investigate and find out the reason, and the people responsible for the incident.“The probe has been completed and we have taken action against staff members responsible, according to the report,” said Maheshwari on Thursday.According to the report, the fire broke out because the staff had not switched off lights while leaving the office, and important files which were kept on office tables rather than the almirah also burnt during the incident. The officials said that Maheshwari has given a bad entry to four staffers of the accounts department, and has issued a warning to two other staffers for negligence, the report added.“Punishment like a bad entry or a warning affects promotion and salary hike of an employee,” said a Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) has blacklisted a private firm for a similar fire incident in the Noida Metro office in Sector 29 in June 2021. “We have blacklisted the firm because the fire equipment and censors did not function properly during the fire incident,” said an official of the NMRC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-takes-action-against-staff-over-2020-fire-incident-101631820790633.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||ED seizes ₹4cr, bullion after raids on hawala operators in region||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday seized over ₹4 crore worth of Indian and foreign currency, and bullion in recent multi-city raids against Hawala operators based in north India.The searches were carried out under provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act against directors and associates of Paul Merchants Ltd, Quick Forex Ltd, Supama Forex Pvt Ltd and Curo India Pvt Ltd in Chandigarh, Panchkula, Mohali, Jalandhar and Delhi, the agency said in a statement.These “entities sent outward remittances of over ₹475 crore to Singapore, Hong Kong and the UAE on behalf of shell or dummy entities like Triple Streak Dream Holidays, Wangester Travels Pvt Ltd, Peripatizo Travels Pvt Ltd, Himalaya Tourism, Ezax Holidays, and Great Journey Tours etc”, it said These shell entities, the ED alleged, used “fake IDs of various persons for making outward remittances in guise of purported travel transactions which resulted into generation of unauthorised (Hawala) money”.It claimed that this “illegal money has been invested in real estate and other businesses of their associated companies/entities”.The action resulted in the seizure of ₹3.88 crore worth Indian and foreign currency and bullion of ₹24.2 lakh.“The ED has also seized incriminating documents, laptops, mobile phones and property documents,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ed-seizes-rs-4cr-bullion-after-raids-on-hawala-operators-in-region-101631820550394.html
17-09-2021||Noida||Packaging industry faces tough time due to rising prices of raw materials in Gautam Budh Nagar||The Covid-19 pandemic has adversely affected the packaging industry in Gautam Budh Nagar district. According to entrepreneurs in the industry, while the prices of essential raw materials like paper and aluminium foil have increased by 70% during the pandemic, carriage charges to foreign countries also increased fivefold. Kulmani Gupta, the president of the Noida chapter of Indian Industries Association (IIA), said that at present, there are over 800 packaging units operational in Gautam Budh Nagar, providing jobs to over 20,000 people. “Packaging is an integral part of many industries, including readymade garments, automotives, home appliances, electrical components, printing, grocery and handicrafts. Most raw materials, such as aluminium foil and different varieties of paper used in this industry, are imported from other countries. After the Covid-19 outbreak, not only have the prices of raw materials gone up by 70%, but overseas exporters have also increased the transportation and carrier charges fivefold since the outbreak of the pandemic (in March 2020). As a result of these issues, orders to these packaging units are suffering a huge loss,” he said. Rajesh Bhatia, an entrepreneur, who runs a corrugated box manufacturing unit in Noida said that after the pandemic, the prices of different craft paper – which ranged between ₹20 to ₹25 per kilogram before the pandemic – have now gone up to ₹40 to ₹45 per kilogram. “These papers include craft, semi-craft and virgin craft papers in different colours. While the price hike has badly affected our production capacity, the value of our orders has also reduced from ₹500 crore per annum to nearly ₹250 crore,” he said. Another entrepreneur, Ashish Malhotra, who runs an aluminium dye cast manufacturing unit in Noida, said that the price hike in aluminium raw material has adversely affected the packaging industry in the district as well. “All the electric products, home appliances and automobile products are packed in different types of aluminium sheets. The aluminium input, which used to cost ₹100 per kilogram, is now being sold at ₹178 per kilogram. The rising prices of diesel and petrol have also multiplied our problems. Not only that, even countries we import material from have increased their carrier charges,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/packaging-industry-faces-tough-time-due-to-rising-prices-of-raw-materials-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101631820490635.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid genome sequencing lab set up in Patiala||To identify new variants of coronavirus, the Punjab government has commenced its first state-run Covid-19 genome sequencing facility at VRDL laboratory in Patiala. Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said about 150 samples had been tested so far and no new variant of coronavirus was identified. The state government had sent all samples of suspected patients of new variants to Delhi where they took more than a month to provide confirmation of new variants. “According to experts, if any case of new variant found in a specific area, then there is immediate need to conduct contact tracing and testing of all suspected patients to further prevent the spread of virus. With the availability of genome sequencing facility at GMC, Patiala, the reports are now coming in 5 to 6 days,” he said. Underlining the features of the facility, the health minister said the laboratory received MinION Mk1C - a unique compact and portable USB-powered device that allows one to sequence both DNA and RNA with real-time analysis – developed by UK-based Oxford Nanopore. The genome sequencer and supportive equipment has been donated by a US based non-profit organisation, PATH, as part of their ongoing Covid-19 response support to the state. He also lauded the efforts of the lab in-charge at GMC, Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-genome-sequencing-lab-set-up-in-patiala-101631820251706.html
17-09-2021||Noida||Land in Greater Noida up for grabs for commercial purpose one last time||The Greater Noida authority has come up with a commercial plot scheme offering individuals and realtor companies an opportunity to buy land to build shopping malls, hotels and other commercial buildings. According to officials, this will probably be the last scheme the authority offers for building shopping malls as there is no more land left to be allotted for commercial purposes in Greater Noida.The authority said that it will allot 31,328 square metres of land (divided into nine plots) and aims to collect a revenue of ₹139 crore via the scheme. Interested applicants can download forms from September 16 to October 8. The last date to submit the application is October 12, said officials. The authority will organise an auction for these plots on October 25.“The auction will provide opportunities to applicants to place their bid and buy the commercial plot in Greater Noida, where international and domestic investors are eager to invest,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.The authority will auction plots in Sector Delta 2, Sector 36, Gamma 2, Eta 1, P4 and Sector Pi1. The reserve prices for these plots range from ₹44,190 per square metre to ₹46,190 per square metre.These plots range from 1,200 sqm to 7,455 sqm in size. The size of the plot in Sector Delta 2 is 1,200 sqm, Sector 36 is 2,356sqm, Gamma 2 is 2,782 sqm, Sector Eta1 is 7,455sqm, the size of two plots in P4 3,125sqm and 3,153sqm. There are three plots in Sector Pi1 sized 2,500sqm, 4,374sqm and 4,376sqm.As per the rules, an applicant is supposed to place a bid over the reserve price and whoever places the highest bid will get the plot.The authority said that the scheme will benefit residents as they will get shopping malls and hotels in their respective neighbourhoods. These plots are located in residential areas where people are in need for shopping options, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/land-in-greater-noida-up-for-grabs-for-commercial-purpose-one-last-time-101631820250457.html
17-09-2021||Other||Missing man found dead, family protests in Karnal||A day after the police recovered the body of a 22-year-old from a canal, his family on Thursday held a protest in Karnal alleging murder.As per the protesting family, Sourabh, of Hansi road in Karnal, went missing four days back and his body was recovered from a canal near Ghogripur village on Wednesday.Protesters blocked traffic on Hansi Chowk and Ambedkar Chowk, demanding the police to investigate the case from the angle of murder and arrest the accused.They alleged that he was murdered and his body was dumped into the canal. They refused to lift the body after postmortem until the accused are arrested.Alleging police inaction, the protesters said they have given names of the suspects but police failed investigating the case promptly.On the other hand, police said investigation is on and statements of the suspects are being recorded.Following a high drama for around one hour and assurance of superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia of fair investigation, they lifted the blockade.The SP said the postmortem was conducted by board of doctors. He said police had already registered a case under Section 346 of the IPC and relevant sections will be added as per the complaint and investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/missing-man-found-dead-family-protests-in-karnal-101631820190294.html
17-09-2021||Other||Centre, state should include ‘Puranas’ in curriculum, says Haryana governor||Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Thursday said the Centre and state governments should include teachings of the ‘Puranas’ in the curriculum so that this knowledge could be transferred among students.The governor said this will help uplift moral values in the society, especially among the youth.“A society which does not have moral values cannot survive for long,” the governor said during his visit to Kurukshetra at the inaugural session of the Vaman Dwadashi fair.He said festivals such as Vamana Dwadashi should be celebrated for the exchange of moral values. The governor also congratulated people and devotees as two-day Vamana Dwadashi fair was restarted after 25 years.Being the place of Lord Vamana, there has been a tradition of Vamana Dwadashi fair in Kurukshetra for the past several centuries. This fair was organised on the banks of the famous pilgrimage lake of Kurukshetra.But for more than two decades, this festival and fair was suspended. Now, this fair has been revived with the help of the Kurukshetra Development Board, and religious and social organisations.Earlier at the Kurukshetra University, the governor had released the book ‘Know the Sacred Plants of KUK Campus Through Geo-Tagging’ written by Prof Neelu Sood and a book ‘Loor Dance’ written by Dr Maha Singh Poonia, associate professor of the Kurukshetra University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-state-should-include-puranas-in-curriculum-says-haryana-governor-101631820131659.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 32 new cases, two deaths||ChandigarhPunjab on Thursday reported 32 fresh cases of coronavirus that took the infection tally to 6,01,180, according to a medical bulletin. With two fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll reached 16,467. Among the new Covid cases, six were reported in Mohali, followed by four in Hoshiarpur, the bulletin said. The active cases were 314. Thirty-eight people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have recovered to 5,84,399, the bulletin said. The state reported the positivity rate of 0.07 %. A total of 1,40,53,952 samples have been collected for testing in the state so far of which 45,750 were tested on Thursday. As many as 6,02,464 doses of the vaccine were administered on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-32-new-cases-two-deaths-101631820130466.html
17-09-2021||Other||CBI awards 3-year jail to a CA in graft case||The special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has awarded three-year jail to the then CA posted in Faridabad, Haryana in a graft case.The case dates back to August 9, 2016 when Subhash Chand, a mobile trader and proprietor of the firm Global Tech Company at Sector 18, Part-II, Faridabad, gave a written complaint to the superintendent of police, CBI, ACB, Chandigarh, alleging that chartered accountant Suman Kumar, 40, had demanded a bribe of ₹2,00,000 (later reduced to ₹1.5 lakh) from him, for settling a matter of assessment of the income tax.Kumar agreed to accept a bribe amount of ₹60,000 as first instalment from the complainant. A trap was laid and accused Suman Kumar was caught red-handed by the CBI.Convict Suman Kumar pleaded that he is not a previous convict and is facing the agony of criminal trial since 2016, hence lenient view be taken.However, public prosecutor for the CBI, KP Singh argued that Kumar has been convicted under Section 8 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, so he be awarded the maximum punishment in accordance with law, so as to act as a deterrent to potential offenders.After hearing both sides, the court of CBI convicted Suman Kumar, under Section 8 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, and awarded rigorous imprisonment for three years. The court also imposed a fine of ₹1.50 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-awards-3-year-jail-to-a-ca-in-graft-case-101631820012610.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Pathankot’s Kathlaur Kushlian Wildlife Sanctuary thrown open to tourists||PATHANKOTDeveloped as tourism hotspot at the cost of ₹1.2 crore, Kathlaur Kushlian Wildlife Sanctuary, 25km from Pathankot, was thrown open for the tourists on Thursday by the department of forests and wildlife preservation, Punjab.Located along the Amritsar-Jammu bypass in Pathankot district, the sanctuary is spread over 1,867 acres and has a dense forest resembling a closed canopy. The sanctuary also features open grasslands and has several water bodies that serve as watering holes for the animals and birds that inhabit the area.Divisional forest officer, wildlife, Pathankot range, Rajesh Mahajan: “The sanctuary had tourism potential, but we did not allow public to enter. Then Pathankot deputy commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal, who is taking initiative to promote tourism in the district, granted ₹1.2 crore from District Mineral Foundation (DMF) for its development as tourist destination. The development has been executed under the supervision of principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) Rama Kant Mishra.” “The sanctuary has three zones—eco-sensitive, buffer and core zone. We can only allow people to visit first two zones as per the guidelines as the core zone is a safe home for animals. In the zones thrown open for public, we have provided facilities such as drinking water, washrooms, passage, rain shelters to the visitors and introduced tourist attractions,” he said. The 5km-long nature trail passing through dense jungle is an attraction for nature lovers. An 11-seater pollution-free and soundless vehicle, also called as golf cart, and 10 cycles have been provided to the visitors to visit the sanctuary as private vehicle is not allowed.There is an island in the middle of a lake that has fish and ducks and bamboo huts are an added attraction. As cafeteria is also situated on the island, the tourists can enjoy the dishes here, Mahajan said. There are 30-ft tall two watch towers from where the tourists can have a view of the forest and the Ravi. Two activity points have been developed for children.Mahajan added that nominal entry fee will be charged from visitors and the money collected from them will be spent on the operation of the facilities provided at the sanctuary and maintenance through outsourcing under the supervision of local public committee.The sanctuary falls in the Bhoa constituency of Pathankot. Local MLA Joginder Pal said: “I make an appeal to the tourists to cooperate with the forest and wildlife department while visiting the sanctuary. They should not bring plastic and make any noise on seeing animals.” The sanctuary is home to several species of deer, including cheetal, sambar, hog deer and barking deer. There are also several varieties of avifauna that can be seen in the area like the partridge (grey and white), white humped vulture, parakeet, spotted owl, etc. This is home of thousands of national bird peacock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pathankots-kathlaur-kushlian-wildlife-sanctuary-thrown-open-to-tourists-101631820011104.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Farm laws: AAP to hold candle marches across Punjab||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will hold candle marches across Punjab to pay tribute to farmers who died during the protests against the three agriculture laws and observe September 17 as “Black Day”. In a statement here, AAP MLA and Kisan Wing state president Kultar Singh Sandhwan said that there was resentment among the farmers across the country against the “black” farm laws. He said that more 600 farmers had died during the protests against these laws. “The farmers have made it clear to the state and central governments that they will not lift the dharna till the agriculture laws are repealed,” he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-laws-aap-to-hold-candle-marches-across-punjab-101631819895696.html
17-09-2021||Other||HSSC women constable recruitments: Aspirants complain of being allotted far-off exam centres||After the Haryana staff selection commission (HSSC) released admit cards for the female police constable written exam, the aspirants have complained of being allotted far-off exam centres.The written exam for female constables is scheduled on September 18 (evening shift) and in both shifts the next day.Pooja Kumari, of Bhiwani, said her exam centre has been allocated in Yamunanagar, which is nearly 290km from her village.“I don’t know why the HSSC has allocated an exam centre far away. If I book a car, it will cost me ₹6,000 apart from food expenses. If the government cannot allocate exam centres in the neighbour districts, it should at least run buses for students,” she said.“Most of the buses will be overcrowded on September 18 and it will be difficult for us to write the paper after covering such a long distance,” she added.Another aspirant Kavita Sheoran, of Charkhi Dadri, said she will have to travel for at least five to six hours to sit in her constable exam on September 19 in Ambala.“Instead of providing facilities to girls appearing in the constable exam, the HSSC has allocated far away exam centres. Is the government unaware of the problems aspirants and their parents will face in reaching far away exam centres. How will I report at the examination centre at 9.30am on September 19. This exam will cost me ₹3,000 if I reach Ambala a day ahead of the exam otherwise I cannot report on time,” she added.The Haryana government has faced criticism from all quarters after the Haryana male constable written exam paper got leaked last month, forcing the HSSC to cancel the exam.Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) leader and Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala had announced in a rally in Rohtak in the run up to the 2019 assembly polls that the exam centres will be allocated to students in state within a radius of 50-60km from their native place, if his party is voted to power.“The government can curb cheating by allocating centres to students in their home districts and appointing exam invigilators from other districts. Why should students bear the brunt? If we will come to power, I promise all youth that the exam centres will be allocated in their home districts,” Chautala had said in the Rohtak rally while announcing his party manifesto.INLD general secretary Abhay Chautala and Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry of the Congress slammed the government for allocating far away exam centres to women constable aspirants.“The JJP made hollow promises during the 2019 assembly polls that the exam centres will be allocated in nearby areas. The government talks about empowering girls ad on the other hand, it forces girls to travel 300km to write the exam. Instead of taking strict action against the paper leak mafia, the government has allocated far away exam centres,” Kiran added.HSSC chairman Bhopal Singh said they have randomly picked the roll numbers and allocated exam centres.“This was done to stop cheating. We have not allocated the exam centres to aspirants in nearby areas. The board has also changed the duties of many officials to ensure free and fair exams,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hssc-women-constable-recruitments-aspirants-complain-of-being-allotted-far-off-exam-centres-101631819894488.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Wheat scam: Punjab food commission seeks report, asks dept to take action||Chandigarh The Punjab State Food Commission (PSFC) has asked the food and civil supplies department to take strict disciplinary action against delinquent officials and recover the loss caused to the state exchequer in the Jandiala Guru wheat scam. The commission has sought a detailed report from the food and civil supplies department on the missing wheat within a fortnight. It had come to the notice of the commission that Jasdev Singh, inspector, food and supplies department, the main accused in the missing wheat case, siphoned off crores of rupees given as minimum support prices (MSP) on wheat that was neither brought to mandis nor purchased, PSFC chairman DP Reddy said in a statement. Fake entries for the purchase of 87,100 quintals of wheat valued at ₹20 crores were made and it was shown to have been transported to godowns in Jandiala Guru. He further said that the accused inspector who is believed to have escaped to Dubai, was allegedly in cahoots with Amritsar-based trader Ravinder Singh Bunty, who was arrested by the CBI recently. The commission, while taking a senior note of the matter, has issued advice to the food and supplies department to put systems in place (administrative and technological) to prevent recurrence of such scams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wheat-scam-punjab-food-commission-seeks-report-asks-dept-to-take-action-101631819770313.html
17-09-2021||Other||Farmers show black flags to Ajay Chautala during his Panipat visit||Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) president and former MP Ajay Chautala on Thursday faced a protest from farmers during his visit to Panipat on Thursday.Amid heavy police deployment, hundreds of farmers carrying black flags managed to reach near the venue of the programme at a college.The farmers gathered to show black flags to Chautala and chanted slogans against the ruling BJP-JJP party leaders. The protesters were led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) district president Sudhir Jakhar.Farmers said they will continue to protest leaders of the ruling parties on call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha until their demands, including repealing of three agriculture laws, are met.Panipat deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Virender Saini said to avoid a law and order situation, police had detained some farmers but they were released later. He said no FIR was registered against the farmers.Chautala had come to hold a meeting of party workers for the JJP’s state-level rally in Nuh on the 108th birth anniversary of former prime minister late Devi Lal on September 25.Addressing the workers, he also counted the achievements of the BJP-JJP coalition government in the state and urged the workers to strengthen the party on the ground.SAD chief faces farmers’ protest in Hisar
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Man hurt in bike blast in Punjab’s Jalalabad succumbs to injuries||BATHINDAA 22-year-old man, who sustained serious injuries when the fuel tank of his motorcycle exploded in Fazilka’s Jalalabad town on Wednesday night, succumbed to injuries, police said on Thursday.The incident took place when Balwinder Singh of Ferozepur was going towards the Bank Road from Old Sabzi Mandi in Jalalabad. He was referred to the Faridkot Medical College and Hospital where he died.Fazilka SSP Deepak Hilori said forensic teams from Ferozepur and Chandigarh took samples from the explosion site for a detailed analysis. The report is expected in a week’s time, added the SSP.He said it is premature to comment on the nature of the explosion as prima facie the fuel tank of the motorbike caught fire. “Preliminary probe does not suggest suspicious involvement of any other vehicle or person,” said the SSP.A case under the Explosives Act was registered at the Jalalabad City police station on the complaint of SHO Malkit Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-hurt-in-bike-blast-in-punjab-s-jalalabad-succumbs-to-injuries-101631819650162.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||Maratha group keen on alliance with BJP||Purshottam Khedekar, the chief of Sambhaji Brigade, said the Maratha outfit wants to have an alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the future elections in the state. The statement is significant as the link between hardline Maratha group Sambhaji Brigade and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is well-known in the political circles. Khedekar, in a magazine Maratha Marg, wrote that the BJP was the “best option for alliance” at the moment. Sambhaji Brigade, which is the branch of the Maratha Seva Sangh, has a considerable backing of the Maratha youth in Maharashtra. The alliance between the two could hurt the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in polls, as the BJP and Sambhaji Brigade could channelise Maratha community’s anger towards the MVA government. The reservation for the Maratha community was scrapped by the Supreme Court earlier this year. Khedekar said that Sambhaji Brigade, barring some panchayat elections, hasn’t got any success. “At the moment, we can’t go solo and succeed at the state or Lok Sabha level. Besides, the Shiv Sena has allied with the Congress and NCP, so the three parties are unlikely to give us anything in seat-sharing. The NCP and Congress have held discussions [with us] in the past 25 years, but they have not given anything substantial in seats. “Looking at the political situation now, the BJP is the party which needs smaller parties, while we also need their support. So Sambhaji Brigade has adopted the idea to align with BJP, and if they are open to the idea, we can hold talks with them. So far, we have not held any discussions with anybody in the BJP,” he said. The BJP reacted cautiously. State BJP unit chief Chandrakant Patil said that if such a proposal comes, it will be discussed in the party’s nine-member core committee. “They have expressed their wish and we will evaluate it once any concrete proposal comes before the party. We have to look at all aspects, its impact and repercussions. We are a national party, we have 12 CMs in states, so we cannot make decision in a haste,” said Patil. The pro-Maratha outfit does not see eye-to-eye with the BJP’s ideological fountainhead, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Sambhaji Brigade has been vocal against “Brahminical dominance”. Its activists had forced the Pune civic body to remove the statue of Dadoji Konddev who was a teacher of King Shivaji, saying that Brahmin historians had distorted history. The Sambhaji Brigade was also in controversy when it ransacked Pune-based Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute (BORI) following a controversial book written by American author James Laine, Shivaji: Hindu King in Islamic India. Khedekar’s wife Rekha was a three-term BJP MLA from Buldhana district. She quit the BJP to join the NCP in 2013, contested the 2014 state poll the Sindhkhed-Raja in the district, but lost the election. Khedekar defended the move to join hands with the BJP, saying there are no permanent friends of enemies in politics. He said, “There are ample of examples before us where leaders have criticised one party and later joined the same party where they became a minister. The BJP and Sambhaji Brigade are not politically untouchable for each other.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-group-keen-on-alliance-with-bjp-101631819532449.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||US lawmakers remember Balbir Sodhi, first victim of hate crime post 9/11||Top American lawmakers paid rich tributes as they remembered Balbir Singh Sodhi, a Sikh American, who was the first victim of hate crime following the 9/11 terror attacks in which nearly 3,000 people from over 90 countries were killed.Four days after 9/11, Balbir was killed outside the Arizona gas station he owned. He was the first person in the US to be killed in a supposed act of retaliation for the attacks in 2001.“Today marks 20 years since Balbir Singh Sodhi, a Sikh man, was killed in a hate crime in retribution for the 9/11 attacks. We honour his memory and the memories of all those lost to hate in the two decades since,” senator Robert Menendez said in a tweet.“Twenty years ago, Sikh American Balbir Singh Sodhi was murdered in the first post 9/11 hate crime. He was shot to death while planting flowers outside his gas station in Mesa, Arizona, by a man who said he wanted to “go out and shoot some towel-heads,” said senator Dick Durbin.Congresswomen Lois Frankel said days after 9/11, Balbir as killed in ‘retribution’ for the attacks. “Today, we honour Balbir’s memory--and celebrate 20 years of solidarity and advocacy among the communities that continue to persevere against hate and discrimination,” she said.Senator Sherrod Brown said: “His death marked the first deadly post-9/11 hate crime. Today and every day, let’s stand united with our Sikh community in Ohio and reject hate and discrimination,” he tweeted.Balbir’s killer Frank Roque is serving life in prison.As the world marked the 20th anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks recently, Balbir’s brother Rana Singh Sodhi said: “We all humans are equal - colour, creed and gender. To honour my brother, if you love your neighbours, if you respect people with different colour, creed and gender, it will be a big honour to my brother”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/us-lawmakers-remember-balbir-sodhi-first-victim-of-hate-crime-post-911-101631819531331.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana inquiry officers to be taken to task for unjustified delays||Following delays in completion of inquiries against Class 1 and 2 officers facing disciplinary action for major penalty, the Haryana government has set a deadline for the disposal of pending disciplinary proceedings under rule 7 of the Haryana Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rules.Dismissal from service, compulsory retirement; removal from service; withholding of increment, promotion and reduction to a lower pay scale constitute major penalties for Class 1 and 2 officers under Rule 7.The directions to hasten disciplinary action were issued by the chief secretary after it was found that inquiries in many disciplinary matters could not be finalised by the punishing authorities due to inordinate delay in submission of inquiry reports by the inquiry officers.Inquiry officers shielding guilty officialsAn official said in many instances, the inquiry officers were found shielding guilty officials by delaying submission of inquiry reports.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has also ordered that inquiry officers will be taken to task by initiating deterrent disciplinary action if the administrative secretary is of the view that there has been an unjustified delay by inquiry officers in completing the inquiry.Khattar has also sought a review of the progress of disposal of regular inquiries under Rule 7.As per government instructions, disciplinary proceedings for major penalty have to be finalised within six months. Chief secretary Vijai Vardhan, in an order, said administrative secretaries will ensure that regular inquiries pending against Class 1 and 2 officers were finalised before November 30.“Where an inquiry officer is unable to submit the inquiry report by November 30, the administrative secretaries will submit a report to the chief secretary by December 7 mentioning the causes of delay in the finalisation of disciplinary proceeding,” the order said.Sensitive posts, officers holding themIn another decision aimed at reducing corruption, the state government has started an exercise to identify sensitive posts involving financial implications, grants of licenses, purchases and names of officers holding such posts continuously for over three years.The government has also decided to prescribe a tenure limit for officers holding such posts. The chief minister has ordered that record of the officers who have been sitting in the same post for years will be looked into and this will decide the fate of their remaining tenures.The state government had in July ordered that Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Police Service (IPS), Indian Forest Service (IFS) Haryana Civil Service (HCS) and Haryana Police Service (HPS) officers facing CBI or vigilance inquiries will not be given field postings or assignments involving public dealing.Officers for who sanction to prosecute had been granted by the competent authority or court has framed charges in a criminal case involving moral turpitude also stood debarred for field postings or posts involving public dealing.Also, officers against whom departmental proceedings entailing major penalty are pending will also be ineligible for field postings and public dealing assignments, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-inquiry-officers-to-be-taken-to-task-for-unjustified-delays-101631819530257.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Gadkari, Khattar inspect Delhi-Mumbai expressway||The Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said pollution will decrease in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) and people will not have to waste their time in long traffic jams after completion of 15 roads and bridge construction projects approved for the Delhi-NCR.After inspecting the construction work of the Delhi-Mumbai expressway along with Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the Union minister addressed a programme organised at Lohtki village of Sohna sub-division in Gurugram.Gadkari said 1,380km Delhi-Mumbai express highway is the longest expressway in India which will be ready by March-2023.The part of this expressway from Delhi to Dausa in Rajasthan and from Vadodara to Ankleshwar will be built by March-2022, said Gadkari.He added that about 160km length of this expressway falls in Haryana on which ₹10,400 crore is being spent. Of this, work has been allotted for construction of an expressway of 130km length.This expressway will pass through Gurugram, Palwal and Nuh districts of Haryana. Way-side facilities will be built at six places in the part falling in Haryana.This also includes facilities for passengers such as resorts, restaurants, dormitories, hospitals, food courts, fuel stations, etc, besides parking garages for trucks, etc. Not only this, there will also be commercial space of logistic park.Gadkari said helicopter ambulance service will also be available on this expressway to take the accident victims to the nearest hospital at the earliest.This expressway is being developed as an eight-lane access control green field expressway which can be expanded to 12 lanes by adding four more lanes in future.A median of 21m width is being built on this expressway which can be reduced in future to widen the expressway.Responding to a question, Gadkari said 8% waste plastic is being used in road construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gadkari-khattar-inspect-delhi-mumbai-expressway-101631819355588.html
17-09-2021||Lucknow||Stubble burning: UP govt withdraws 868 cases registered against farmers||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday issued an order to withdraw 868 cases filed against farmers for stubble burning in different districts across the state, said a home department official here on Thursday.He said additional chief secretary (ACS), home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi had issued a detailed order to all divisional commissioners and district magistrates to do it on priority and update the home authorities about it within seven days.According to the order, the cases were registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 278 (making atmosphere noxious to health), 290 (punishment for public nuisance) and 291 (continuance of nuisance after injunction to discontinue) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In the order, Awasthi said, “Farmers play an important role in the development of our economy. The government has decided to withdraw 868 cases of stubble burning in the state registered under various Sections of the IPC.”The cases of stubble burning were largely registered in west UP districts in the wake of increasing air pollution after the Supreme Court issued strict directions to restrict it around two years ago. The state police headquarters have issued stern directives to all district police chiefs to curb burning of stubble and garbage dumps as well as to impose fines on people violating the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/stubble-burning-up-govt-withdraws-868-cases-registered-against-farmers-101631819350190.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s south civic body empanels 13 agencies to lift inert waste from Okhla landfill||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has empanelled 13 private agencies to take away the inert waste, produced during the bio-mining of legacy waste at the Okhla landfill, which has been building up at the site for some time now. Until now, the civic body has been struggling to handle the inert waste (non-reactive soil like material) which was building up during the process of bio-mining. Spread over 46 acres, the Okhla landfill receives about 50% of the approximately 3,600 metric tonnes of waste generated daily within the SDMC area.According to officials, at least 60% to 70% of the waste processed during bio-mining is inert, which can be used for levelling low-lying areas or as base filling in the construction of roads. “We have empanelled 13 private agencies to take away the inert waste from the landfill. This will help us in freeing up space at the landfill, which is required for moving machines for intensifying bio-mining. We plan to install more trommel machines to intensify the activity,” said a senior official, who asked not to be named. He also said the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has again tested the inert material and has agreed to use it in its various projects, including the Dwarka Urban Extension Road. Earlier, the NHAI after testing the material had refused to use it saying it wasn’t fit for base filling. The south civic body has also got its inert waste tested by the Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), which has approved its use in road construction. The SDMC has set December 2023 as the deadline for processing all legacy waste and closing the landfill.Since October 2019, when the process of bio-mining started at the Okhla landfill, the civic body has so far transported 6.30 lakh metric tonnes of inert waste to different sites such as NTPC Eco Park and Tajpur Pahadi (which has deep pits to be filled) as well as used some of it to pave a way within the landfill for moving machines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-south-civic-body-empanels-13-agencies-to-lift-inert-waste-from-okhla-landfill-101631819170225.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Police, anti-pollution body to enforce Delhi’s cracker ban||Delhi Police and teams of the Delhi Pollution Control Board (DPCC) will closely monitor markets to ensure strict compliance of the Delhi government’s ban on the sale of crackers this season, senior officials said on Thursday. Police said 46 traders applied for temporary licence to sell crackers till September 16, which was the last date for the application. However, after the Delhi government announced a complete ban on the sale, storage and use of crackers, including the less polluting ‘green’ variants, on Wednesday, these applications stand cancelled, officials said. Police records show that till September 16, the northwest district received five applications, southwest got four, and southeast district got six applications for cracker licences. North district, which includes Sadar Bazar—one of the largest wholesale cracker markets in the city—received 17 applications, and the east district received 12 such requests. Two applications were received by the outer district, senior officials confirmed. In a series of tweets on Wednesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced his government’s decision to implement a complete ban on crackers in Delhi, to control the rising pollution levels that are seen around Diwali every year. Kejriwal said that the decision was taken to save the lives of Delhi residents and the early announcement was made to prevent traders from incurring losses. This is the fourth consecutive year when Delhi is imposing a blanket ban on the sale and use of crackers in the city. Despite a ban on crackers last year as well, Delhi’s pollution levels remained high on Diwali day (November 14) and continued to remain in the poor zone in the subsequent week. In a special report to assess the rise in pollution on Diwali, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) said almost all pollutants reported higher values on Diwali in 2020 as compared to 2019. The Air Quality Index (AQI) for PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) stood at 481 in Anand Vihar, 444 in IGI airport area, 457 at ITO, and 414 in Lodhi Road area -- all in the ‘severe’ category, according to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) data. The police said they will keep a close watch on traders so that no illegal sale of crackers happens in the national capital. Violators will be booked under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which pertains to “disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant”. “We will also be organising meetings and awareness programmes with resident welfare associations and market to make sure crackers are not burst in Delhi. We are also sensitising our beat staff to be on their toes to check any illegal storage and sale,” said Usha Rangnani, deputy commissioner of police (northwest). DPCC officials also said that their teams will also be vigilant to check any violation of the ban. “The only part that we are concerned about is that because of porous borders in Delhi, people often get crackers from neighbouring states where there is no such ban. Our main challenge will be to coordinate with the police to ensure that the ban is followed,” a senior DPCC official said.The traders, however, are not happy with another year of no sales. “The government has completely finished cracker business in Delhi. They are talking as if one day’s cracker bursting is the only thing that is responsible for Delhi’s pollution problem. What about vehicular emissions and dust pollution that you see every day? Why is the government not acting on that first?” said Narendra Gupta, fireworks and general traders association, Sadar Bazar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-anti-pollution-body-to-enforce-delhi-s-cracker-ban-101631818990248.html
17-09-2021||Other||Covid shadow: Kashi’s famous Ramlila not to be held for second year in row||The world famous Ramlila of Ramnagar will not be staged in Varanasi this year for the second consecutive time after the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country in March last year. The royal family of Kashi, the organiser of the Ramlila, decided to not hold the over 200- year-old event keeping in mind the fallout of the pandemic. Kunwar Anant Narayan Singh of the royal family of Kashi informed commissioner of police, Varanasi, A Satish Ganesh about the decision of the family through a letter.The letter addressed to the commissioner reads, “This is to inform you that keeping in mind the present scenario (Covid-19 pandemic), like last year this year too, it has been decided to postpone (cancel) the famous Ramnagar’s Ramlila so that the people of Kashi are protected from the viral infection by fulfilling the Covid-19 guidelines.”A senior police officer said a letter was received on Wednesday about the decision of the royal family to postpone the Ramlila this year. Though the event was not staged last year too, Chaupais (couplets) of Ramcharitmanas were recited from Anant Chaturdashi for the next one month.Vijay Yadav Ballu, who likes watching Ramlila, said, “I am disappointed over the cancellation of the historical Ramlila. I hope that Covid-19 ends and next year the famous Ramlila is staged in a grand manner.”Traditionally, the Ramlila begins on Anant Chaturdashi in Ramnagar every year and continues for 31 days. It is held under the open sky every evening till midnight. Lanterns are lit up for the people to enjoy the festivities. This year, Anant Chaturdashi is falling on September 19.The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) has also recognised the event as an intangible world cultural heritage. The Ramlila is staged in the backdrop of the Ramnagar fort under the autumn sky. Traditional lamps are the only source of light, which lends an ethereal feeling to the natural surroundings.Each year, children are selected and training is imparted to hone their dramatic skills so that they can play protagonist Lord Rama and other central characters such as Goddess Sita, Laxman, Bharat and Shatrughan. In the last 238 years, this is the second occasion when the Ramlila of Ramnagar has been cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-shadow-kashi-s-famous-ramlila-not-to-be-held-for-second-year-in-row-101631818762947.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||‘Stock in blood banks in Maharashtra to last for a week’||A fall in blood collections due to Covid-19 pandemic has seen blood banks in Maharashtra being left with stock for just a week, down from the buffer of 15-20 days that was maintained earlier.Officials from the State Blood Transfusion Council (SBTC) have attributed this to a decline in blood donation camps and lower footfalls of donors due to the pandemic and closure of offices and educational institutions, which affected donations by the youth.A decrease in blood donations had late last week seen the Tata Memorial Centre (TMC) issuing a public appeal seeking donors.“The blood banks have stocks of around 25,500 units of blood, which can last for a week. Normally, blood banks maintain stocks for up to 20 days, but these have dwindled to just a week. We have appealed to social and religious organisations to hold blood donation camps while adhering to the government’s pandemic protocols,” said SBTC assistant director Dr Arun Thorat, adding that the blood collection graph had been fluctuating since the onset of Covid-19.According to Dr Thorat, while blood donation camps had taken place, the collections did not touch the pre-pandemic levels amid fears of contracting Covid-19 as well as vaccination of donors and restriction on gatherings. While donation camps saw between 100 and 150 bags of blood collected earlier, the numbers have dwindled to around 40-50 now.The state sees around 3,000 to 4,000 bags of blood being used daily, with the usage varying across districts and hospitals.The work-from-home policies adopted across companies and the shutting down of educational institutions during the pandemic have led to a fall in blood collection among those in the 18-44 age group, which accounts for a majority of donors. Blood has a shelf life of around 35 days and hence, cannot be stored for long.Maharashtra has 350 registered and licensed blood banks, of which 76 are run by the state government and municipal corporations, 13 by private bodies, 12 by the Red Cross and the rest by trusts.As per the National AIDS Control Organisation’s (NACO) guidelines, blood collection should be equivalent to 1% of the population. However Maharashtra, which has an estimated population of 125 million, saw around 1,546,000 units of blood being collected last year, compared to 1,723,000 units in 2019. Over 99% of these collections are from voluntary donors. The state tops the country in blood donation.One bag of blood can be separated into different components such as packed red blood cells (PRBC), platelet concentrates, fresh frozen plasma and cryoprecipitate.SBTC was set up as an autonomous body in 1966 by the state government to ensure safe and affordable supply of blood. The state also grants free blood to registered thalassemia, haemophilia and sickle cell anaemia patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/stock-in-blood-banks-in-maharashtra-to-last-for-a-week-101631818750175.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi residents can now get DOB, names on their driving licences changed online||In a first for Delhi, citizens will be able to get their date of birth or name corrected on their driving licence (DL) without having to visit a regional transport office (RTO). Until now, details once printed on a licence used to be considered final with no provision to change it. The state transport department has issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) listing the documents required to carry out corrections. “We used to have a lot of requests for name correction, especially from women driving licence owners who want to change their names after marriage. As of now, there was no provision for correcting such details on licences in Delhi,” said a senior transport official. “Our software will go live from next week and people will be able to submit all the required documents online. No visit to the RTO will be required. The corrected licence will be sent by courier,” the official said. As per the SOPs issued on Wednesday, an applicant is needed to submit their Aadhaar card, Class 10 or 12 certificate, copy of passport, and birth certificate to get their date of birth changed in the licence . For name correction, one will have to submit the Aadhaar card, copy of a passport, gazette notification , and copy of an advertisement in a Delhi edition newspaper declaring the change of name. For correction in the name, the applicant will also have to file an affidavit attested by a first class judicial magistrate or a notary public. Women who want to get their names changed in their licences after marriage, or death of their spouse, will additionally have to submit a marriage certificate or divorce or death certificate of their partner. Nearly 300,000 licences are issued in Delhi every year. During the pandemic since March, approximately 150,000 permanent driving licences and about 350,000 learners’ licences were issued, according to transport department data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-residents-can-now-get-birth-date-names-on-their-driving-licences-changed-online-101631818693306.html
17-09-2021||Noida||IPC cases decline, cybercrime cases rise in Ghaziabad: NCRB report||Cases registered in Ghaziabad district under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) declined last year but the cybercrime cases doubled than what it was in 2019, showed the “Crime in India” 2020 report--the annual comprehensive report on different crimes released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Tuesday. The report includes comprehensive statistics on different crimes in 19 cities, including Ghaziabad, having more than two million population. The report indicates that 7,328 cases were registered in Ghaziabad under different sections of the IPC last year compared to 9,159 cases in 2019 and 11,765 cases in 2018. The rate of chargesheets filed by the police in 2020 was 54.6%, lower than the total average of 55.6% for the 19 metropolitan cities. On the contrary, the cybercrime cases went up from 191 in 2018, 347 in 2019 to 756 in 2020, a year that was marked by a strict lockdown that was imposed for almost two months in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and movement of people was highly restricted.The rate of charge sheeting in cybercrime cases was 5.6% for Ghaziabad in 2020, the lowest among the 19 metropolitan cities having an overall charge sheeting rate of 45%. Officials of the Ghaziabad cyber cell said they come across cases where suspects operate from other states or cities, and this delays the investigation and the subsequent filing of chargesheets. “The cybercrime figures will increase as more and more people have started using technology and have access to computers, internet and smartphones. A majority of cases, which emerge nowadays, are the ones where victims disclose their personal information like bank details, ID numbers, etc., and get duped. This happens despite conducting many awareness activities. It is advisable that people not share any personal details to anyone over phone or open any unknown online links shared with them,” said Abhay Kumar Mishra, circle officer of Indirapuram and nodal officer for the cyber cell. With regard to crimes against women, the district saw 341 cases last year compared to 793 in 2019 and 1,128 in 2018. The rate of charge sheeting suspects in crimes perpetrated on women was about 73.4%--lower than the total average of 78.2% for the 19 metropolitan cities. “We are yet to analyse the charge sheeting data and will get it analysed on cases to case basis. The process will be expedited. The NCRB data is of 2020, and chances are that the filing of chargesheets may have increased thereafter,” said Pawan Kumar, senior superintendent of police (SSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ipc-cases-decline-cybercrime-cases-rise-in-ghaziabad-ncrb-report-101631818510541.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai housing societies unable to hold annual general meeting without audit report||Cooperative housing societies across Maharashtra are in a fix as their annual general meeting (AGM) for the year 2020-21 – slated to take place by September-end – cannot be held owing lack of audit report.The auditors who are supposed to submit the audit report to the housing societies by August 31 every year have not been able to do so due to the Covid-imposed lockdown.The Mumbai Division Certified Auditors’ Association, which consists of 1,200 auditors, pointed that more than 60% of the societies in Maharashtra are not ready with the audit report. “It was impossible for us to complete the audit. The government allowed just 50% of our staff to work and it was not possible to complete the work with such a skeletal workforce. In addition, trains were closed for us and hence, our staff could hardly cover many buildings by road,” said Rahul Patil, president of the association.He further said that in many cases, due to Covid-19 restrictions, the housing societies were not ready with the accounts in the first place.Audit reports are prepared after auditors study the balance sheet and the working of a housing society. They point out to the discrepancies in accounts and also put remarks on the management of the society. This report is supposed to be passed by the general body in the AGM.The Maharashtra Societies’ Welfare Association (MSWA), an association of flat owners, has petitioned the state government to extend the deadline for AGMs. “Auditors should be allowed to present the audit report by November-end, while the AGM date should be extended to December 31,” said MSWA chairman Ramesh Prabhu.Dhaval Shah, chairman, Lokhandwala-Oshiwara Citizens’ Association, consisting over 150 societies, said that as a majority of buildings do not have audit reports, there was no point in conducting an AGM. “These are extraordinary circumstances and we cannot blame anyone. The best step is to postpone the date for the AGM,” said Shah.State cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil has acknowledged the problem but blamed auditors for this impasse. “The auditors should have ensured the timely filing of the audit report as there was enough flexibility given during the second lockdown as compared to the first. The society members are not at fault and hence, [we] are working on this issue positively to solve this tangle,” said Patil.There are approximately 150,000 housing societies in Maharashtra, of which 60,000 are in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-housing-societies-unable-to-hold-annual-general-meeting-without-audit-report-101631818451153.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt suspends Anil Deshmukh’s pvt secretary Sanjeev Palande from services||The Maharashtra government has decided to suspend additional collector Sanjeev Palande from the services. An order to this effect was issued by the state revenue and forest department on Thursday. Palande, who was working as private secretary to former home minister Anil Deshmukh, was arrested on June 26 over money laundering charges.Palande remained in the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) custody till July 6 and was later sent to judicial custody. The suspension order was issued as Palande remained under arrest for more than 48 hours.Palande was on deputation to the minister’s establishment. “Sanjeev Palande, additional collector, will be considered as suspended from the date of his arrest — June 26 — following section 4 (2)(A) of the Maharashtra Civil Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules and will remain suspended until further orders,” stated the order issued by Dr Madhav Veer, joint secretary, revenue department.He was arrested in connection with money laundering charges against the former home minister. A probe was ordered after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh accused Deshmukh of allegedly ordering some Mumbai Police officers to collect a bribe of up to ₹100 crore from establishments. Deshmukh’s assistant Kundan Shinde has also been arrested in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-suspends-anil-deshmukh-s-pvt-secretary-sanjeev-palande-from-services-101631818395367.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Lenovo Smarter Ed Conclave: Covid showed tech crucial to learning, says Pradhan||Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday said students, teachers and the entire Indian education system demonstrated remarkable resilience in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic and the main takeaway from the pandemic was that technology will play a crucial role in how we acquire knowledge in the future.He was speaking at a two-day education conclave, which started on Thursday to discuss the road map for the future of learning with technology and the new order of education. Presented by Hindustan Times, the Lenovo Smarter Ed Conclave focuses on the New Education Policy (NEP), the digital divide brought to the fore by online learning during the pandemic, developments in technology in education, upskilling teachers, and encouraging interactions with decision-makers across schools and institutions of higher education. Those interested in attending the virtual conference can visit https://lenovosmarteredconclave.virtualeventexp.com/ or scan the QR code below. In his keynote address, Pradhan said, “This is the most opportune moment for us to be discussing this topic when India is successfully emerging from the Covid-19 pandemic wave. The unprecedented advent of the pandemic adversely and significantly affected our lives. No sector remained indifferent to its impact including the education sector. However, our students and teachers and the entire Indian education system demonstrated remarkable resilience in the face of the pandemic.” Pradhan spoke on how one of the largest education systems in the world moved online from offline learning. “It is also during the pandemic that India came up with the first education policy of the 21st century – the National Education Policy, 2020…Basing itself on the pillars of accessibility, affordability, equity, and quality, NEP 2020 aims to overhaul our education landscape for the greater good of our children. With a set of far-reaching recommendations, the policy has given us the road map for the future… one lesson from the pandemic is that technology will play a crucial role in how we acquire knowledge,” he said. Focussing on technological innovations and solutions leading to progression and tech penetration, the conclave also discussed concerns on digital inequality and the new forms of exclusion that may arise. At least 80% of students aged between 14 and 18 years reported lower levels of learning at home during the Covid-19 pandemic compared to when they attended classes in schools, a survey conducted by the United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef) across six states revealed. The survey report released on Thursday also warned that approximately 8% of children are not likely to return to schools in the future. “While we emphasise on the significance of technology in the future of education, a hybrid education model wherein technology will supplement classroom teaching is vital. Indeed, technology will be used to facilitate a better teaching-learning process and make it more accessible. However, this will not devalue the importance of in-person learning,” the education minister said. “There is a strong argument that education will never go back to the pre-pandemic times and technology is going to be as important as physical campuses. The focus on large physical spaces will shrink and a hybrid model of education involving a combination of classroom teaching and online lessons will find greater acceptance,” the organisers said in a statement. The managing director of Lenovo India, Shailendra Katyal, also shared insights on how technology can help bridge the digital divide, and Rajeev Chandrasekhar, the Union minister of state for skill development, spoke about the importance of skill education and how it can be built up in the coming years. “The world in the past few decades has become much more complex and challenging to navigate. Education systems across world had to evolve to cope with the new challenges. When we talk of digital divide, it comes in the context of the new way of learning which is student centric, as per experts and educators. The new way of learning is personalised. It is not one-size-fits-all and is about creating problem solvers. And technology has to play a very critical role in asynchronous learning as every student will learn at his/her own pace,” Katyal said. He also explained that there is no other way but to adopt this new way of learning. “In India, the question of digital divide is particularly important.. We have around 30 crore students, which is the largest student pool in the world, but only 15-20% of them have access to a (communication) device or internet to learn at their own pace,” he said, adding that one has to address the question of whether India has the digital infrastructure to support the large pool of learners. The two-day conclave will touch upon the three key areas of the education sector – technological advancements in education, digital inequality, and reskilling or upskilling of the educator workforce. The conclave will also see an in-depth discussion on government policies focusing on upgrading the education sector with innovative tools and ideas. Experts will discuss the approach towards smarter education in India and the role of analytical, data driven technology in understanding young minds and providing them with a holistic curriculum.Policymakers and experts will discuss the lack of infrastructure in rural India, address the gender bias in households, digital readiness of government educational institutes, and role of communities in bridging these gaps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lenovo-smarter-ed-conclave-pandemic-taught-us-that-technology-will-play-crucial-role-in-how-we-learn-says-union-min-dharmendra-pradhan-101631818390159.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Empowered regional bodies vital for development of mass transit modes: Experts||More power, financial support and representation to regional bodies such as Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (UMTA) is needed for effective development around mass transit modes such as the Metro, experts said at a discussion organised by the World Resources Institute (WRI) India on Thursday. During the session, ‘Metro in India’, which was part of Connect Karo, an annual flagship event that highlights ways of designing inclusive, sustainable and climate forward Indian cities, experts highlighted the role of the Delhi Metro in shaping India’s journey towards developing efficient mass transit modes. Experts said the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) made a commendable expansion and shortened the distance between Delhi and its neighbouring satellite towns such as Gurugram, Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad. In a presentation, the WRI India said that the developmental map of Delhi Metro shows how development in the city started coming up around Metro corridors and made it easier for the workforce from NCR towns to commute to the Capital. Highlighting a similar model of mass-transit development, Mukut Sharma, senior transit oriented development expert, National Capital Region Transport Corporation, said, “We have been working with UP government, and Ghaziabad/Meerut development authorities. An advantage we have is that masterplans for Delhi, Ghaziabad, Meerut, and NCR Regional Plan are all under preparation concurrently, and that gives us opportunities for synchronisation.” He added, “We are working with Meerut development authority to properly address TOD zones, and they are incorporating the areas into their GIS-based masterplans. Thereafter, the intent is to dovetail these with regional plans and NCR transport plans.” Experts said that to make these mass-transit developments more efficient, there is a need for an authority or common forum with teeth, finance and representation with all constituent authorities, regional authorities, and infra-agencies with a regional footprint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/empowered-regional-bodies-vital-for-effective-development-of-mass-transit-modes-experts-at-wri-india-connect-karo-101631818331332.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh’s plea to quash probe by Maharashtra govt dismissed by HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday dismissed the petition filed by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh seeking the quashing of the two preliminary inquiries initiated against him by the Maharashtra government.HC held that the petition was “not maintainable” and directed Singh to approach the appropriate forum, which is the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT).On July 28, the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar had reserved its order in the petitions filed by Singh, requesting that the preliminary inquiry initiated against him by the home department pertaining to violation of service rules in light of the Antilia explosives scare case and on allegations of corruption levelled against him by an inspector, Anup Dange. In his petition, Singh had claimed that the two inquiries were initiated against him as he had accused former state home minister Anil Deshmukh of directing dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze – now arrested in the Antilia and Mansukh Hiran murder cases – to collect money worth ₹100 crore. Singh had stated that the home department resorted to a witch hunt after he refused to withdraw the letter that he had written to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, alleging Deshmukh of corruption. Singh had further alleged in his petition that there was an attempt by the state government to hinder the HC-ordered Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the allegations against Deshmukh. Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, who appeared for Singh, had argued that the inquiries were initiated hastily with vendetta and there was an attempt to punish the former police chief, who had blown the whistle on Deshmukh. “It is obvious from the circumstances that it was issued out of confusion and vendetta. Singh complained against Deshmukh and instead of inquiring into it, the state punished the whistleblower... They are trying to shoot the messenger,” Jethmalani said, adding that the inquiries were arbitrary and against the law. Jethmalani also submitted that after Singh refused to abide by director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey’s suggestion to withdraw his letter to CM, corruption and other cases were registered against him by the state government. However, senior advocate Darius Khambata for the state had questioned the maintainability of the petition as the inquiries came under the purview of the All India Service Rules and as CAT dealt with such issues, Singh’s petition could not be entertained. While responding to Singh’s allegation of vendetta by the state, Khambata had submitted that the complaint by Dange was lodged in February, even before Singh’s letter to CM on March 20. Senior counsel Navroz Seervai, representing DGP Pandey, had adopted the arguments of the state and said that allegations made by Singh against his client were “frivolous and false” and hence, the petition was not maintainable. After hearing the arguments, Justice Jamadar, who had authored the ruling for the bench, noted that particular grievances made by Singh can only be termed as “barnacles attached to the hull of controversy”.HC said that the challenge of entrusting the inquiries to officers, allegedly junior in rank to Singh, can be raised before the CAT.It also observed that Singh’s claim that the state action was initiated as “counter-blast” to the outcome of his petitions in HC against Deshmukh “prima facie does not hold ground” as Dange had written to the state home department with his allegations in February, much before Singh’s wrote to the CM on March 20 regarding Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-s-plea-to-quash-probe-by-maharashtra-govt-dismissed-by-hc-101631818330118.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||Money laundering case against Anil Deshmukh: ED names Sachin Vaze as accused||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has named dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze as an accused in the money laundering case against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.Vaze has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases. In its charge sheet against Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and assistant Kundan Shinde, the agency has also named Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha – a Nagpur-based charitable trust run by Deshmukh and his family members – as an accused. Palande and Shinde were arrested by ED in June. Deshmukh or his family members have not been directly named as an accused in ED’s charge sheet. However, it is said that the agency requires more time to investigate the roles of other persons, including Deshmukh’s family members, and it has requested the court to permit supplementary charge sheets in the matter. ED has also named Delhi-based Surendra Kumar Jain and Virendra Jain who helped allegedly the Deshmukhs launder money to Shri Sai Shikhshan Sanstha, as well as shell companies Reliable Finance Corporation Private Limited, Utsav Securities Private Limited, VA Realcon Private Limited and Sital Leasing and Finance Private Limited. A man named Kishore Dewani, who also allegedly helped Deshmukh launder money, has been named an accused in the case. ED has also named Premiur Port Private Link Company, a firm said to be jointly owned by the Deshmukhs and Dewanis. Aparrt from these names, the agency has also added the names of chartered accountants Vinod Hassani and Vishal Khetwani to the charge sheet. The agency claimed that its investigation began after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had directed Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from establishments in Mumbai. Singh approached the Bombay high court (HC) and filed a petition in the matter. Based on HC’s order, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had registered an offence in the matter, after which ED started its investigation. ED said that it has found in its investigations that Vaze, who was earlier dismissed from the force, was reinstated with Deshmukh’s help. Deshmukh had even demanded ₹2 crore from Vaze to convince other political leaders to reinstate Vaze, ED has alleged. Though Vaze then did not pay Deshmukh following his reinstatement, the former home minister allegedly asked the cop to pay in him in instalments. The agency said Vaze and Deshmukh were working as a team to get gratification through extortion and illegal activities. On Deshmukh’s instructions, Vaze had called a meeting of 1,750 bar owners and demanded ₹3 lakh each from them. The agency has stated in its charge sheet that Vaze used to visit Deshmukh’s official residence Dnyaneshwari regularly. Vaze had collected ₹4.7 crore from various bar owners between December 2020 and February 2021, at Deshmukh’s behest, said ED. According to the agency, Vaze gave the extorted money to Shinde and subsequently, a part of the amount was routed to the charitable trust in Nagpur through various shell companies. Palande was instrumental in passing on Deshmukh’s instructions to police officers and collecting tainted money, ED has alleged. He also helped Deshmukh launder money, the agency claimed in the charge sheet. The agency stated that Deshmukh in conspiracy with his son Hrishikesh had transferred the illegally-obtained money to Delhi-based bogus companies of the Jain brothers through the hawala route. The Jains layered the money and infused it into banking channels to transfer it to the charitable trust. A total of ₹4.18 crore had been transferred to Shri Sai Shikhshan Sanstha in the name of donation through various shell companies, said ED. The agency has said in its charge sheet that the Deshmukhs had created a complex web of companies and used unaccounted money for further expansion and managing day-to-day affairs of their business. The Deshmukh family allegedly owned around 13 companies directly and around 14 companies indirectly. They have been purportedly using the unaccounted money to purchase properties, and one such property was the flat in Sukhada Apartment on Sir Pochkhanwala Road in Worli, purchased in the name of Deshmukh’s wife Arti for a concessional price of ₹84 lakh. The agency said most of the payment for the flat was done in cash with “ulterior motives” and was one of the benami properties owned by the Deshmukh family. ED has claimed that the Deshmukhs run various companies through their associates. Deshmukh’s another son Salil, became the owner of various companies by purchasing them at very lower prices, and later becoming owners of huge properties and shares, said ED. Hrishikesh was allegedly running various businesses through a person named Vikram Sharma. ED said Sharma accepted that he was merely a signatory in the companies and the businesses were actually controlled by Hrishikesh. The agency claimed that one of Hrishikesh’s business associates even accepted before the agency that his company owned four vehicles, Hrishikesh used a Mercedes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/money-laundering-case-against-anil-deshmukh-ed-names-sachin-vaze-as-accused-101631818272682.html
17-09-2021||Pune||Pune gang-rape: Accused made videos, circulated it among selves; 2 more arrests||PUNE: In the case of sexual assault on a girl, 14, by multiple men, registered at Wanowrie police station, Pune, the survivor has revealed that some of the accused recorded the crime and circulated the video among themselves. Two more men were arrested and remanded to police custody on Thursday based on a supplementary statement recorded by the survivor, taking the total number of accused in the case to 19, 16 of whom allegedly participated in the act, while one is the survivor’s friend and two others are workers at a lodge where the girl was taken by the accused, according to the police submission in court on Thursday.The two arrested men were identified as Mehboob Shaikh and Ismail Shaikh, both autorickshaw drivers and residents of MHADA colony area of Pune, according to the police. They were remanded to 10 days in police custody. The 14 people arrested earlier in the case, including the survivor’s friend, were sent to four more days in police custody by additional sessions judge S P Ponkshe in the presence of public prosecutor (PP) Shubhangi Deshmukh and defence lawyers M M Sayyed along with Vijaylaxmi Khopade. The 17th accused was arrested from a railway station in Pune two days ago and is in police custody for seven days.Public prosecutor Deshmukh said, “The girl has recorded a supplementary statement and revealed the names of others who have assaulted her. Based on that, two are in judicial custody; 14 are in police custody; one was arrested two days ago; and two have been arrested and produced in court today (Thursday).”The two lodge workers from Pune are currently in judicial custody.“They have been arrested for not doing their job and checking the girl’s identity at the lodge and not reporting the goings-on to the police. They are not found to be involved in the sexual assault,” said Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, zone 5 of Pune police.Police sub-inspector Sudha Choudhury of Wanowrie police station, who is investigating the case, in court said, “The men have made pornographic videos of the girl and circulated it among themselves. There are more locations added to the previous list and the scope of the investigation is widening. Their custody is necessary for further investigation.”The men took away the girl’s phone on the night of August 31 when she was kidnapped and gave it back to her on September 2 when she was put on a train to Mumbai. The first of the 14 arrested accused is a railway employee whose lawyer, advocate Khopade, claimed that he had only booked the ticket on the insistence of the other accused and had not sexually assaulted the girl. While advocate Sayyed argued that the men had been in custody for long enough to conclude their physical investigation and medical tests and consequently, let out of custody.However, public prosecutor Deshmukh told them that this wasn’t the stage to decide whether the gathering of evidence was over. The investigating officer claimed that the railway employee had also sexually assaulted the girl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-gang-rape-accused-made-videos-circulated-it-among-selves-2-more-arrests-101631818271491.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two gunrunners held with 15 pistols, 40 live cartridges||Police on Thursday said they have arrested two gunrunners of a racket spread across five states and recovered from them 15 pistols and 40 live cartridges. Both of them have been booked under the provisions of the Arms (Amendment) Act, 2019, which carry a sentence of 10 years that may be extended to life imprisonment, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said polie were working on busting several syndicates that were supplying illegal arm and ammunition to criminals of Delhi-NCR and neighbouring states after procuring them from unauthorised manufacturers in Madhya Pradesh (MP).On September 14, the special cell team received inputs that two members of the syndicate, identified as Shivam and Krishan, have collected a consignment of firearms and ammunition from a supplier in MP and that they would deliver them to their contact in Delhi. A trap was laid near Anand Vihar bus terminal the same day and the two were arrested with 15 pistols and 40 cartridges.“The duo revealed that they procured the pistols and bullets from a supplier in Khaknaar in Burhanpur, MP. They were into gunrunning for the past four years and have supplied more than 600 firearms to criminals in Delhi and adjoining states,” said the DCP.Kushwah said the arrested men purchased one semi-automatic pistol for ₹7000 and one bullet for ₹1,000, which they further sold ₹25,000 and ₹4,000 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-two-gunrunners-held-with-15-pistols-40-live-cartridges-101631818270247.html
17-09-2021||Other||Lucknow inundated with record 228.6 mm rainfall, more in store||Lucknow The state capital received a record 228.6 mm rainfall in 36 hours from Wednesday morning till Thursday evening. The rain was incessant for at least 16 hours, starting during the wee hours of Thursday and continuing till late night, hitting life in a big way. The Met department has forecast more rain Besides Lucknow, heavy to very heavy rainfall was recorded in more than 25 districts of the state. The Met department has forecast more rain in the next 48 hours.At least 14 people, including three children, were killed and several injured in separate incidents caused due to heavy rain, state relief department officials confirmed. “The state capital recorded 107 mm rainfall in 24 hours from 8.30 AM on Wednesday till 8.30 AM on Thursday. Our centres recorded an additional 121.6 mm rainfall till 8:30 PM on Thursday, totalling to 228.6 mm of rain,” confirmed director of the state MeT department JP Gupta. The heavy rain brought daily life to a grinding halt as roads caved in, trees fell, alleys got inundated and water entered houses in many parts of the city. As per the state MeT Department, Thursday’s rain was one of the maximums recorded in the past decade (within 24 hours) in Lucknow in September. The state capital recorded 138 mm rainfall within 24 hours on September 14 in 2012. As per the data of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), UP recorded an average of 30 mm rainfall in the past 24 hours which is 334% more than normal. Most rain was reported from Amethi, Ayodhya, Basti, Chitrakoot, Kaushambi, Pratapgarh, Sant Kabir Nagar, Sant Ravidas Nagar and Sultanpur districts where it was 1000% more than normal. “Several incidents of kuchcha houses caving in due to heavy rain have been reported across Uttar Pradesh since Wednesday night. Around 14 deaths were reported in these incidents till Thursday evening, as per information provided by the respective district magistrates. The information is being compiled and districts officials have been directed to ensure proper medical treatment to the injured and monetary relief to the kin of the deceased,” said Ranvir Prasad, relief commissioner of Uttar Pradesh.Uttar Pradesh has recorded normal monsoon this year till date. The state received 665.4 mm rainfall this monsoon season till September 16, which is very close to normal rainfall of 739.7mm, according to IMD data. More rain in next 48 hours Uttar Pradesh may experience heavy rain in the next 48 hours, according to the forecast issued by IMD on Thursday. “Heavy rain is expected to occur in scattered manner across Uttar Pradesh in 48 hours. The state capital will experience average rainfall on Friday,” said JP Gupta. “The rain over Uttar Pradesh was caused by an area of low pressure that has built up in the past few days. The pressure area will subside slowly in the next 48 hours, providing relief,” he added. Considering the forecast, an alert has been sounded across the state, directing district officials to make arrangements to counter losses caused by heavy rain. State and districts level disaster management committees have also been put on alert. Major rivers flowing above danger mark Major rivers, including Ganga, Rapti, Kuwano and Sharda are flowing above the danger mark as per data of the flood management information system centre. (FMISC), Lucknow. Heavy rain in UP is expected to increase the water level in the next 24 hours. According to information, river Ganga is flowing 0.2 metres above the danger mark in Badaun and river Rapti is flowing 0.19 metres above the danger level in Gorakhpur. In Lakhimpur Kheri, river Sharda is flowing 0.3 metres above the danger mark while Kuwano in Gonda is flowing 0.4 metres above the danger mark. The administration in each of these districts has deployed district disaster management committees to help people in low-lying areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-inundated-with-record-228-6-mm-rainfall-more-in-store-101631818211698.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||No change in reservation for local body bypolls: Maharashtra SEC||Even as the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has decided to promulgate an ordinance to provide reservation to Other Backward Classes (OBC) in local bodies without breaching the 50% cap mandated by the Supreme Court, it is unlikely to be applicable for the bypolls declared by the state election commission (SEC) in six zilla parishads on October 5. State election commissioner UPS Madan on Thursday said they are holding elections following the directives of the Apex court and that too under open category. He added that any change in the category can be made only by the Apex court only. It means the trouble over OBC reservation of the MVA government is far from over and they will have to approach the Apex court in this regard.“Any change in the bypolls has to be done at the directions of the Supreme Court because it has directed us to hold the bypolls based on open category candidates. If there is any change for whatever reason, the direction has to come from the SC. We are following their directives and cannot change it on our own,” Madan told HT, hinting that the state government needs to approach the SC if it wants reservation to be implemented.He also clarified that for the local body elections due early next year, they will have to take a legal opinion to ascertain if the ordinance applies to them or not. “We have to check its legal validity. The ordinance is yet to be issued. Once we get it, we will take a legal view, but as far as the bypolls are concerned, the situation is very clear,” he said.More than 15 municipal corporations, including Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane; 29 of the 36 district councils; and over 90 municipal councils will go for polls over the next one year. The election bandwagon to these local bodies in such a huge number is considered as the “mini assembly polls”.On Wednesday, the state government decided to promulgate an ordinance to make amendment in the legislations to provide reservation to the OBC community in local bodies without breaching the 50% reservation cap mandated by the SC. The state rural development department will issue an ordinance to bring amendment in two legislations — Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961, and Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act for zilla parishads, panchayat samiti and gram panchayats. After the amendments, Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities will continue to get the reservation quota based on their population in the local bodies while the OBC community will get the remaining percentage within the 50% ceiling.Ulhas Bapat, a constitutional expert, said that the provisions of the ordinance cannot be implemented in the bypolls, and even the court cannot interfere during the election process. “In my view, the SEC will not accept it as they have already announced bypolls. It has all the rights and the state government cannot interfere. Even the court cannot interfere when the election process is declared. After the bypolls, its validity can be challenged in the court of law,” Bapat said.He further said that the ordinance can also be challenged in the high court and there could be no future to it. “This ordinance can be challenged in the high court because all the other legal aspects for providing reservation to a community such as empirical data and approval by the state backward classes commission will have to be considered,” Bapat said.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said SEC should see the issue in the perspective of no injustice to any community. “SEC is an autonomous body and is free to take decisions on its own. They will have to see that no community is deprived of their rights, and if they work with this perspective then something good can be expected,” Pawar told reporters.State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit chief Chandrakant Patil has slammed the Thackeray government and said if the ordinance could not stand in the court of law then the OBC community will feel cheated. “The MVA government has done nothing to follow the Apex court directives and restore OBC reservation. While scrapping the OBC quota in March, it had asked them to collect empirical data to determine the quota of the community. The ordinance should have been issued four months ago. If the ordinance could not stand in the SC then the move will be like throwing dust in the eyes of OBC community,” Patil said.On March 4, the SC ruled that the reservation in favour of OBCs in local bodies should not result in exceeding the 50% cap in reservation quota mandated by it. It has directed the state government to appoint a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data, based on which the reservation quota of the community be fixed. The SC also allowed the SEC to hold local body polls without reservations for OBCs.The state government has filed a writ petition in the Apex court seeking Socio Economic Caste Census, 2011 data from the Centre. The next hearing is going to be held on September 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-change-in-reservation-for-local-body-bypolls-maharashtra-sec-101631818210082.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Connect Karo: City-specific holistic action plans needed to combat air pollution||India needs to follow a multi-sectoral approach for the preparation of city specific action plans for controlling pollution levels, experts said in a discussion organised by World Resources Institute (WRI), India, in its annual flagship conference Connect Karo, which highlights ways of designing inclusive, sustainable and climate forward cities. In its session, ‘Air Pollution: From Policy to Action’, panellists discussed the need for holistic plans to combat the problem. Experts also discussed how the Union government’s National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) is leading cities to achieve its targets of reducing air pollution by 20-30% by 2024. Ajay Singh Nagpure, head (air quality and sustainable cities), WRI (India), said multiple stakeholders must come together for the execution of the clean air action planning. “Actions on ground have their effects on the natural components such as air, thus citizens and authorities must act in coherence for the best results,” Nagpure said. The NCAP was launched by the ministry of environment, forests and climate change in January 2019, as a five-year strategy to reduce pollution in different Indian states in a comprehensive manner. Under NCAP, city specific air pollution mitigation action plans were required to be developed by all cities identified by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Experts said the first step towards controlling air pollution in India’s urban centre is to identify the magnitude of the problem and to tailor plans to solve the unique problems that each city faces. “Recognising the issues of air pollution in the urban areas is the first major step in the direction of controlling it. NCAP has identified the issue of increasing air pollution in 124 urban agglomerations in India have been given the task of preparing city specific clean air programmes,” said Kishore Wankhade, manager, WRI (India). The discussion also highlighted how source apportionment studies and emission inventory could help identify the sources of pollution in a region, which would further help prepare clean air action plans. Satellites-based data and air quality monitoring stations can also be used to fill the gaps and provide a better perspective on air quality, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/connect-karo-city-specific-holistic-action-plans-needed-to-combat-air-pollution-101631818151393.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Accessible public spaces key to fight congestion: Delhi minister Kailash Gahlot||New Delhi: For cities facing the problem of congestion such as Delhi, the best way to make public spaces more accessible is by making such pockets pedestrian friendly, and keep in mind the needs of the disabled while building public infrastructure, urban development experts said on Thursday at a conclave. Joining the discussion on how to make cities more accessible at the Connect Karo conference of World Resources Institute, India, Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the obvious way to do so is by strengthening public transport. He said after more than a decade Delhi has managed to increase its public bus fleet to over 6,700 buses.“And the buck doesn’t stop at just bringing more buses. We have to look at ways to gradually reduce the private vehicles load in Delhi, or compel a section of them to transition to green fuel. Delhi government’s approach is multi-pronged, we are aiming to increase the city’s bus fleet to at least 10,000. We are simultaneously working to make most of the people in the city to switch to electric vehicles. We have launched the Delhi EV policy under which we are also working on building a robust charging station network across the city,” Gahlot said. Giving an example of projects that were designed to make public spaces more accessible, Garima Gupta, managing director, Shahjanahabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), said the dialogue was the key to the success of Chandni Chowk redevelopment project. “The old Delhi area is a super congested, highly populated zone. We have residents, traders, tourists, basically all sorts of people. The foundation stone for the project was laid back in 2011, but it just did not took off. Until 2018, when the actual work started, the ground work was mostly consultations. We had more than 24 consultation sessions with the stakeholders. The project is also a classic example of how works can be executed despite multiplicity of authority. This project had as many as 17 stakeholders and agencies involved,” she said. Now that the entire 1.3 kilometre stretch has been pedestrianised, Gupta said the SRDC’s next focus is on facade redevelopment. “We will preserve the Havelis as they are. The work on this will start soon. Now the pedestrianised Chandni Chowk area has become such that we can find people taking a walk on the stretch even at midnight. We put a lot of thought even on something as small as the signages in the area. All of them are multilingual including Urdu and Punjabi,” she said. Natalie Draisin, director, North America office and UN representative, FIA Foundation highlighted how a key focus area in making cities accessible should be the journeys to schools. “If people walk or cycle to schools, it will also boost the economy of all the shops falling on the route because wherever there is pedestrianisation, businesses pick up. People who walk or cycle find it easier to stop by look and pick up quick items from stores as compared to those in vehicles,” she said. Draisin added that a thumb rule that should be followed without any leniency is restricting speed limits to 30 kmph on all roads around schools. “And this rule must be amplified through campaigns so that it becomes a culture which promotes children walking or cycling to school. The city of Bogota implemented this and their child fatalities in road accidents came down to 0 in 2018 from 50 in 2012,” she said. Disability rights advocate and co-founder of Samarthyam, Anjlee Agarwal said if roads and public infrastructure are built keeping in mind the differently abled, then it will cover all segments of the society and there would not be any need of retrofitting anywhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/accessible-public-spaces-key-to-fight-congestion-delhi-minister-kailash-gahlot-101631818093777.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Twitter not removing minor’s image: Child rights body to Delhi HC||National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has informed the Delhi high court that Twitter is not cooperating with the law enforcement agencies by not removing the photo of a girl and her grandfather shared on the micro-blogging website by Alt news co-founder Mohammad Zubair during an online spat with the father. A case was registered against Zubair by the city police in August last year on the complaint by NCPCR referring to a tweet shared by him on August 6, 2020. In the tweet, Zubair shared the photo of a minor girl, with her face blurred out, during an online spat he was having with her father.The Delhi high court last year restrained the Delhi Police from taking any coercive action against Zubair after he had moved court seeking quashing of the FIR, while also seeking compensation of ₹50 lakh for the harassment and defaming him.In response to the plea, NCPCR, through an affidavit, has informed the court that Twitter has refused to take down the tweet posted by Zubair. The child rights body said that it had written to Twitter and Delhi Police in July 2021 regarding Zubair’s post and asked them about the follow-up action.The affidavit said in response to the commission’s letter to the city police, it was informed that a Kalandra (a sort of notice) under Section 175 IPC has been filed before the Patiala House court by the city police on February 17 against Twitter for not providing the information sought despite repeated reminders.NCPCR said that Twitter in August 2021 informed the Commission that the image of the child in the post is pixelated or blurred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/twitter-not-removing-minor-s-image-child-rights-body-to-delhi-hc-101631818091290.html
17-09-2021||Pune||Forest department seizes three animal hides; eight arrested||PUNE: The forest department seized three animal hides and arrested eight people in in the city over the past two days. In the first seizure, the officials caught two men based on information provided by the Mumbai-based division of preventing wildlife crimes. The two were found in Warje with what is believed to be a leopard hide, according to a statement issued by Rahul Patil, Pune district forest officer.Based on the information gathered from their interrogation, the forest department officials arrested six others with two hides. While one is believed to be a leopard hide, the other is believed to be a tiger hide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/forest-department-seizes-three-animal-hides-eight-arrested-101631818031545.html
17-09-2021||Noida||Noida: 2 held for molesting minor girl in hotel room||Noida: Two persons were arrested on Thursday for allegedly molesting a minor girl, a resident of a resident of Delhi’s Badarpur, inside a hotel room in Noida. The suspects -- Rakesh Kumar, 35, and Rajesh Chauhan, 40 -- residents of Delhi’s Trilokpuri and Noida’s Sector 19, respectively, were held from Morna Bus depot in Sector 35, police said on Thursday.Sudheer Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 24 police station, said, “Rakesh had befriended a 17-year-old girl, and promised to open a cosmetic shop for her at a mall in Noida. The suspect, in connivance with accomplice Chauhan, took the girl to a hotel room on Wednesday, and molested her.”When the victim raised an alarm and informed the hotel staff about the incident, the suspects escaped. Later, the victim’s family reached the hotel and informed police about the incident. Based on their complaint, a case was registered against the two men under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 354B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), and sections 7 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012.“The suspects were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Thursday,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida2-held-for-molesting-minor-girl-in-hotel-room-101631818030078.html
17-09-2021||Pune||Centre clears PMC-run medical college; 100 students to be admitted this year||PUNE The central government, on Thursday, gave its clearance for the Pune Municipal Corporation-run Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical college to open this academic year. The medical college will be situated at, and attached to the Kamla Nehru hospital and Naidu hospital in the city.Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “We got all the necessary permissions now and will be able to start admissions from this academic year. This year a total of 100 students will get admission. We are planning to inaugurate the medical college very soon.”The centres permission comes after clearance from the PMC standing committee, PMC general body, and the urban development ministry.Recently, a central team visited the PMC and raised objections, but the mayor and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar then went to Delhi and met Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya to meet all the requirements.After B J Medical college, the Atal Bihari Vajpayee medical college will be the second government-run medical college in the city. The PMC has formed a trust to run the college and is hoping that trainees from the college will serve in PMC-run hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/centre-clears-pmc-run-medical-college-100-students-to-be-admitted-this-year-101631817970121.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||WRI Connect Karo: Covid an opportunity to rethink cities||The Covid-19 pandemic has presented people with an opportunity to plan the transformation in cities as the economy recovers, said Aniruddha Dasgupta, president and CEO of World Resources Institute at its annual flagship event ‘Connect Karo’.“Cities will recover [from the pandemic]. But this gives us an incredible opportunity to decide how cities should be. Getting cities right is critical as most people live there and most of economic activities take place there,” he said.However, cities and governments need to work together plan this recovery, he said, adding that the focus cannot solely be to decarbonise, but also to create jobs, increase equity and ensure that these solutions protect nature.As economies recover, he said that governments should focus on seven priority areas: green construction and retrofitting, clean mobility, renewable energy, active transport, nature-based solutions, waste and resources, and research and development for clean technologies.Dasgupta said the problem of congestion in cities must be solved by providing public transport. This, he said, is important to make cities more liveable, more attractive and to integrate all modes of public transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wri-connect-karo-covid-an-opportunity-to-rethink-cities-101631817792869.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Begumpur Masjid roof collapse not recent: ASI counters William Dalrymple||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on Thursday contested historian and author William Dalrymple’s claim that portions of the roof of the 14th-century Begumpur Masjid have collapsed recently due to rain. The premier heritage body shared visual evidence from the 1980s to show that the roof was damaged even then. Dalrymple had on September 13 shared a photo of the Begumpur Masjid on microblogging platform Twitter and called it an instance of ASI’s neglect, triggering a conservation appeal by many people, including Aam Aadmi Party MLA Somnath Bharti. But ASI officials produced an archival image of the mosque from 1988 to claim that the damages aren’t recent. “No recent collapses have taken place in Begumpur Mosque. ASI categorically denies it,” said an official, who did not wish to be named. ASI also rejected the charge that it has neglected the monument and said it has been carrying out conservation and repair work at the mosque for the past few months. “Several support pillars have been erected and buttress walls are also being built to neutralise the foundation settlement and prevent any collapse. Boundaries are being strengthened and water is being channelled away from the foundation. The debris that is strewn around is also being removed,” the ASI official added. When HT contacted Dalrymple on Thursday for his reaction on ASI’s rebuttal, he said he last visited the site in January last year and at that time, he had seen portions of the roof collapse towards the right end of the mihrab (alcove that points towards the direction of Mecca) and debris on the floor. At that time, he said, ASI had closed entry to the roof. “As a regular visitor to the mosque in pre-pandemic times, I was horrified to see the recent damage to one of Delhi’s major monuments, and the fact that the roof galleries that were once open had been blocked off, but could see no evidence of an attempt at restoration,” he said. He added that the photograph he had tweeted was clicked by someone who had been working on the site and documenting the damage that the mosque had sustained. He said that the photograph suggested that the roof’s condition had deteriorated since his last visit. “From the photograph, it seems that the roof that was beginning to collapse has continued to deteriorate. A monument is like a necklace. Once it begins to fall apart, all the pieces begin to disintegrate. Linked domes like the ones here are particularly vulnerable,” said the author of popular books like the City of Djinns and The Last Mughal.He criticised ASI’s decision of restricting entry to the mosque’s roof. “One of the greatest medieval monuments in South Asia is being allowed to perish. Grass is growing on the premises and the roof has not been restored. The ASI has blocked entry to the roof, presumably because the roof might collapse.” he said. Begumpur Masjid is one of the seven mosques said to have been built by Khan-i-Jahan Junan Shah, the prime minister of Feroze Shah Tughlaq (AD 1351-88). The single-storied mosque stands on a raised plinth and consists of 24 arched openings with the central one being the highest. The central arch consists of a pair of tapering monuments typical of Tughlaq architecture.Dalrymple said that the mosque deserves better treatment. “This is not some minor monument. It was the Jama Masjid of Tughlaq Delhi and one of the largest mosques of medieval Delhi. It’s a mystery to me how such a significant monument had been left unattended. In any other country of the world, people would have been selling tickets for such a monument. There would have been a museum on site. Tour buses and recreations of the monument would have been popular,” he said, adding that there was a great potential for it to become a major hub of tourism and it deserved treatment on the same lines as the Red Fort. Historian and author Rana Safvi who visited the mosque recently said that it was a monument of neglect and despair and in need of maintenance. “When I visited the mosque on September 13, I found that the majestic courtyard was partially covered by grass. This neglect of the 14th-century mosque is tragic,” said Safvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-begumpur-masjid-roof-collapse-not-recent-asi-counters-historian-dalrymple-101631817733269.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Plans to build two drains at Delhi airport to end waterlogging fail to take off||Last Saturday, Delhi residents woke up to videos and images of a heavily inundated Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA). As shocking as the videos were, airport officials say the waterlogging is nothing new; it happens every time there is a downpour. However, a solution has eluded them so far, with plans to construct two wider drains failing to take off even three years after they were conceived for want of clearances from agencies. Officials of the airport operator, Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), said for the past three years, they have been in talks with Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the public works department (PWD) to build the two drains, wide enough to accommodate all run-off water in the event of a downpour.  A senior DDA official, in the know of project details, said, “The work on one drain has been awarded but we are awaiting tree-felling permission from the forest department.”Spread over 5,000 acres, the Delhi airport is divided into two parts -- the northern air parcel and the southern air parcel. Even though water accumulates on both sections, it is the northern side that is the worst affected. It is also the side that houses Terminal-1 and Terminal-2, said officials.A senior airport official said while one drain is awaiting clearance from the forest department, the other is yet to get a right of way approval from the DDA, despite having all clearances from other agencies, including the PWD, the agency constructing the drains.Airport officials said the drain is much needed, especially on the northern air parcel. “The DDA’s artillery drainage network, which is 2.5 metres wide and one metre deep, is inadequate to handle the storm water. Even 20mm of rainfall is enough to cause flooding on the northern side, with rainwater from the Mahipalpur junction flowing into the northern access underpass and inundating the area. There is no drainage facility in the vicinity to restrict water accumulation, and this water enters the northern side and gets accumulated at the western end of the northern main runway funnel area,” an airport official said, asking not to be named. As for the southern side, there is an existing four-cell box culvert drain -- about 12 metres wide and 2.75 metres deep. It can only handle a rainfall intensity of around 60mm before becoming causing waterlogging towards the forecourt of Terminal 3 (T3).A second airport official said a steep land gradient of 17 metres, between NH8 and T3, only makes matters worse with water from Radisson hotel and its adjacent areas also gushing towards the airport.Saturday’s waterlogging, which was cleared in about 30 minutes, took place due to the steep gradient between NH8 and T3, the official said. “The entire area acted as a catchment and drained water towards the terminal. DIAL has been working with state and central government bodies and officials for the past few years requesting to widen this underground drainage system. Several discussions in this matter have already taken place,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-years-on-plans-to-build-two-drains-at-delhi-airport-to-end-waterlogging-fail-to-take-off-101631817731355.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||Ajit Pawar says Navi Mumbai airport will start operations in 2024||Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has said Navi Mumbai international airport will be operational in 2024 and that its naming controversy will be resolved soon. He has also questioned the morality of the Central government, accused Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Sudhir Mungatiwar of having two different opinions on GST, and also questioned Cidco on its housing and project-affected people (PAP) rehabilitation plans. Pawar was in Navi Mumbai on Thursday at Cidco Bhavan to take stock of various city-related issues. Speaking to media personnel on income tax (I-T) department raids on Sonu Sood, the deputy CM said, “You have seen the tenures of Manmohan Singh, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, PV Narasimha Rao, Rajiv Gandhi and also that of the present leader of the government. The media knows well who is working how. I do not want to encroach on your territory.” Accusing former finance minister and BJP leader Mungantiwar he said, “Mungantiwar was a minister for five years. When one is not in the chair, you change the cassette and speak different. The state government cannot mint currency. We depend on taxes for all development, recruitments and services.” He said they are confident that the airport work will now proceed as planned and 2024 is the target for flight operations by the agency. “The project has now been taken over from GVK by the Adani group which is one of the two biggest groups in the country. This will ensure that there are no financial constraints,” he added. On the controversy over naming of the airport, Pawar said an amicable solution will be sought. Pawar also questioned Cidco on various issues including pricing of its houses. Speaking about Cidco’s plans of constructing houses on open spaces near railway stations under PMAY, Pawar said, “Protecting the environment is important for this government. Once these open spaces are lost we will never get them. We will discuss the issue in the government. There are also plans for a coastal road here, but the mangroves and the migratory birds will have to be taken into account.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ajit-pawar-says-navi-mumbai-airport-will-start-operations-in-2024-101631817730109.html
17-09-2021||Mumbai||5-year-old boy falls into well in Dombivli, dies||A 5-year-old boy died after he fell into a well at Dombivili’s Khambalpada on Thursday. The boy identified as Siddharth Kanangatt, was declared dead at Shastri Nagar civic hospital. Tilak Nagar police said the incident took place when the boy was playing in his residence premises around 10.30am. His family searched for him in the premises when he did not return and later in the afternoon found him inside the well. “The family managed to pull out the boy from the well and take him to the hospital, however he was declared dead on arrival there. We are investigating the matter. As of now, it looks like an accidental death,” said an officer of Tilak Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5yearold-boy-falls-into-well-in-dombivli-dies-101631817672494.html
17-09-2021||Noida||Woman on morning walk with siblings abducted in Greater Noida||A 20-year-old woman was allegedly abducted by three-four car-borne criminals in Badalpur on Thursday when she was on a morning walk with three siblings. The woman is a resident of Sadopur village, which is under the jurisdiction of Badalpur police station.The woman’s family members, relatives, and locals blocked National Highway 91 in protest for two hours from 9am to 11am, demanding the immediate rescue of the woman and the arrest of the suspects. The woman’s grandfather is a former pradhan of the village.The woman lives with her sister, two brothers, and parents in Sadopur village. She is studying for a BSc degree and is also a NEET aspirant.The woman’s father said that the four siblings usually go for a morning walk in the neighbourhood. “As usual, they had left home at 5am on Thursday. My older daughter was walking ahead while her three siblings were following her. When they neared Rail Vihar colony, some people reached the spot in a white car. They started harassing my daughter. When she resisted, they tore her clothes, pulled her inside the car, and abducted her,” he said.He said that when the other three siblings tried to rescue their sister, the suspects beat them up. The three raised an alarm and local people gathered at the spot. However, the suspects fled in the car. The woman’s family soon reached the spot and informed the police.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that the police control room received a call and a team from Badalpur immediately reached the spot and conducted a search operation. “We have registered a case against unknown persons under Section 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code. We have formed five teams and launched a search to arrest the suspects. We have also sounded a high alert in Gautam Budh Nagar and in neighbouring districts,” he said.The police are also scanning CCTV camera footage to get some leads in the case. Chander said that the car’s model and the total number of suspects has not been ascertained.Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar also reached the spot and pacified the protesting members. “We talked to the family and extended support. We requested the family to give some time to the police to solve the case. We also demand the police recover the woman safely, and also improve the safety and security of people in the area,” Nagar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/woman-on-morning-walk-with-siblings-abducted-in-greater-noida-101631817671424.html
17-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh BJP to hold 21-day service campaign from Modi’s 71st birthday today||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would launch ‘seva aur samarpan (serve and dedicate)’ campaign across Uttar Pradesh (UP), timing the activity on the occasion of birthday of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi who turns 71 on Friday. Since it’s going to be Modi’s 71st birthday, the BJP has decided to felicitate an equal number of farmers, soldiers and women across the state. Apart from soldiers, progressive farmers and such women who played a role in helping the people during Covid surge would be felicitated, party leaders said. In Varanasi, Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency, 71 k diyas (earthen lamps) would be lit up at the Bharat Mata Mandir on the occasion, BJP leaders said. The campaign prepared under the leadership of UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev would continue till October 7. During this period the party would also organize birth anniversaries of party ideologue Deendayal Upadhyaya (September 25) and Mahatma Gandhi (October 2). Along with yagnas and prayer meetings, covid vaccination camps would also be organised, party leaders said. “From September 17 to 20 the party would hold health camps and the volunteers of the youth wing would also hold blood donation camps. Members of the party’s scheduled caste and scheduled tribe (SC/ST) wing would take up the task of distributing sweets and fruits among poor and slum dwellers while cadres of Other Backward Classes (OBC) wing would visit destitute and old age homes to serve the needy,” BJP chief said. On September 24, the eve of birth anniversary of party ideologue Deendayal Upadhyaya too, the party would also hold several booth-level programmes. On October 2, Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary, the party would organise cleanliness drives across the state. “The cadres would undertake river and ponds cleanliness campaign and a pledge to rid the society of plastic too would be administered,” said UP BJP co-media coordinator Abhay Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-bjp-to-hold-21-day-service-campaign-from-modi-s-71st-birthday-today-101631817554460.html
17-09-2021||Other||Lohegaon airport: Flyer footfall touches 10K on weekdays; 15K over weekends||With the majority of people having taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, the footfall of flyers has increased to about 10,000 on weekdays and around 15,000 over weekends at Pune’s Lohegaon airport. Flights resuming to other centres is also one of the major factors behind the rise in flyer footfall at the airport. Both the number of flyers and flights have increased as compared to 2020 but they are still lower than 2019 when passenger traffic was 23,000 (arrival and departure).Santosh Dhoke, director, Lohegaon airport, said, “The number of flights has increased to 55 daily. The number has gone up with a few flights resuming and flights to new centres added as well. The passenger footfall reaches around 15,000 over the weekend.” New flights to Ranchi, Tirupati and Thiruvananthapuram have started from Pune airport while flights to Goa and Jaipur have also resumed.Another official from Lohegaon airport said, “With the festive season ahead, we are expecting an increase in the number of flyers but if the anticipated third wave stays away, even higher footfalls are expected during Diwali and ChristmasIncreasing vaccination percentage is one of the main reasons for the rise in passenger footfalls at the airport. “Now flyers are more relaxed after taking the vaccine. Earlier, the fear of Covid was higher but people are now coming out and have become used to Covid guidelines and regulations,” the official said.Runway of Shirdi airport expandedThe pending runway work of the Shirdi international airport has been completed and the runway has been increased from the earlier 2,500 metre to 3,200 metre. The extended length will be beneficial for the landing of big aircraft including airbus.The Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC) completed the long pending work in six months. However, the airport is still not operational for night landing. “The airport is yet to get clearance from the India Meteorological Department. Other formalities and required work have been completed from our end,” said an official from MADC.Cargo service should start from Kolhapur: Satej PatilMaharashtra IT minister Satej Patil who is also the guardian minister of the Kolhapur district has written to Jyotiraditya Scindia, civil aviation minister of India, regarding the starting of a cargo service from Kolhapur airport as it will benefit Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara for import and export of commodities. Currently, there are flights to Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Tirupati but there is no cargo service.The minister also requested to start flights to places like Nagpur, Goa, Pune, Jaipur, Mysore and Delhi. Many people prefer to travel from Kolhapur to Pune and Goa via road but flights will give a good option to the people of Kolhapur. There is also demand to start night landing at the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lohegaon-airport-flyer-footfall-touches-10k-on-weekdays-15k-over-weekends-101631817552789.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Cantt rape case: Dalit girl died of suffocation during assault, say cops||A nine-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and murdered by a priest and his accomplices at a crematorium near Delhi cantonment on August 1 died due to “suffocation” during the sexual assault, the Delhi Police have told a city court ,citing disclosure statements of two accused in the case.Quoting the disclosure statement of one of the accused, the police said in a document submitted in court -- parts of it were seen by HT -- that priest Radhey Shyam put his hand on the mouth of the minor victim while sexually assaulting her following which she couldn’t breathe and died due to “suffocation”. Kuldeep Singh allegedly held the victim’s hand while she was being assaulted by Shyam.This is the first time the girl’s cause of death has come to light, and it appears to debunk the claims made by the accused. The accused, 55-year-old Shyam and his three associates, Kuldeep Singh, Salim Ahmed and Laxmi Narayan, have maintained that the girl died of electrocution while fetching water from a cooler. The girl’s family alleged that the suspects hurriedly cremated the body after raping her.According to a statement made by the police before a Delhi court on August 12, Ahmed and Narayan were primarily involved in destruction of evidence and facilitating the cremation. These two have made disclosure statements before the investigators about the role played by Shyam and Singh in the crime.To be sure, a confession or disclosure statement of any person made before a police officer is not admissible as evidence before a court unless it is backed by other evidence. Only a confession before a judge is admissible as evidence against an accused.However, documents reviewed by HT revealed that the disclosure statements of Ahmed and Narayan have now been corroborated by the Forensic Science Lab (FSL) and post mortem (PM) reports, which also ruled out death due to electrocution.The police recently told the court that there was no evidence of electrocution since there was “no electric current” in the body of the water cooler. It also said that, as per the FSL report, “no Biological fluid/DNA trace/sample was found on the body of water cooler which clearly suggests that the deceased was not electrocuted; because, in case of electrocution, DNA trace would be present on the body of the water cooler.”“As per subsequent opinion of the PM report on the basis of autopsy findings of examined body parts, we could not find any evidence related to electrocution,” the court in its order on September 16 registered it as a statement by the Investigating Officer (IO) of the case.The girl, from a Dalit family in a village near Delhi cantonment, was found dead by local villagers in a local crematorium on August 1 sparking protests by activists and politicians in the national capital. Three days later, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the family while the Bharatiya Janata Party accused them of politicising the crime. Gandhi later got into trouble for tweeting a photo of the victim’s family -- Indian laws bar any disclosure of a sexual crime victim’s identity -- and his Twitter account was temporarily locked.On August 28, police filed a charge sheet, accusing the four people of rape, wrongful confinement, murder, destruction of evidence, and under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Prevention of Atrocities Act.The statement, filed by the IO in response to an application by the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) for interim compensation for the victim’s family on account of rape, maintained that accused Shyam and Singh were seen by two witnesses as taking the victim girl from verandah of the crematorium building towards Shyam’s room where she was allegedly raped. These two witnesses, according to the IO, have also recorded their statements before the magistrate.The IO added that two other witnesses saw the two main accused taking the body of the girl from Shyam’s room to the hall with a water cooler, and kept her body on the bench. These witnesses also recorded their statements before the magistrate.All the four accused persons gathered at the crematorium ground and with common intention decided to cremate the dead body of the deceased to eliminate the evidence of rape and murder, stated the disclosure statements.The IO added that Shyam and Singh also made extra judicial confessions to two witnesses when the public had barged in the “Shamshan Ghat”, nabbed the accused persons and started asking them questions regarding the burning pyre.“…they [accused] confessed to both of them [witnesses] privately that they had raped and murdered the deceased and later forcefully cremated her. The accused also pleaded with them to get the matter sorted,” the police’s reply to the court read.The crime branch has also told the court that Shyam manipulated the entry in the Shamshan Ghat register by mentioning the time of death as 5.30 PM when the deceased was visible alive on the CCTV at 5.42 PM.“This aside he (Shyam) mentioned the reason of death as illness instead of electrocution which he presented to be as reason of death to the deceased’s parents,” the police told the court.On September 14, additional sessions judge Ashutosh Kumar directed that an interim compensation of ₹2.5 lakh be immediately disbursed to the girl’s family.As per the city government’s victim compensation scheme, the maximum compensation awarded in case of loss of life is ₹10 lakh. The court granted 25 per cent of the compensation amount as interim relief.Earlier, the court granted ₹2.5 lakh as compensation for murder under the same scheme and had asked the parties to approach again for interim compensation on the account of rape as the police, at that time, had not been able to “conclusively” say that the victim was raped before the murder.The investigating agency also told the court that the search history of Shyam’s mobile revealed that he was addicted to porn content and sexually arousing material.“He has visited around 1,300 porn websites from June 11 to July 30. He used to show the same porn content to the deceased to arouse her. He used his smart phone only to browse porn as no call logs were found on the phone. He kept the phone secret from everyone,” the police told the court.On September 9, the court had taken cognisance of the police charge sheet, summoning the accused on September 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cantt-case-dalit-girl-died-of-suffocation-during-assault-say-police-101631817551651.html
17-09-2021||Noida||Man, son found dead at home in Ghaziabad, cops suspect assailants known to victims||A 32-year-old man and his eight-year-old son were found murdered at their home in Qasim Vihar Colony of Loni town in Ghaziabad on Thursday morning. The police said that the two were by themselves at home when the incident took place. There were no signs of robbery or theft, and the house did not seem to have been broken into--indicating that the victims likely knew the assailants. The man was identified as one Naim Ul Hasan. According to family members, Hasan’s wife and three other children were away for a family wedding. Hasan’s two brothers also stay in the same locality. “Around 9am, I sent my son to fetch a helmet from my brother’s house. The main door of the house was not bolted from inside. When my son went inside, he was terrified to find the bodies of my brother and his son on blood-soaked beds. He rushed out and told us what he saw,” said Mamnul Chaudhary, Hasan’s older brother. “We reached the house and saw that both of them had been stabbed and their throats slit. None of the neighbours had heard any noise or struggle, as my brother’s house is at the end of the lane and there is no other house closeby,” Chaudhary added. The police were alerted, and forensic teams also arrived at the spot. “We have roped in several teams to crack the case. There were no signs of any household items being taken away. The two bodies bore multiple injuries which seemed to be inflicted with some sharp-edged weapon. It seems that it was a friendly entry, and the assailants were known to the victims, and this is why Hasan probably opened the door and let them in,” said Atul Kumar Sonkar, circle officer of Loni. “It seems that the assailants murdered the boy in order to hide their identities. Both bodies were sent for a postmortem examination,” he added. The police registered an FIR under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code at Tronica City police station against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-son-found-murdered-at-home-in-ghaziabad-cops-suspect-assailants-known-to-victims-101631817492973.html
17-09-2021||Pune||Personnel being trained to investigate cybercrime: Pune police commissioner Gupta||PUNE Pune’s police commissioner Amitabh Gupta on Thursday said that ample efforts are being taken to ensure that police staffers are trained to detect cybercrimes. This is being done upskilling police personnel at police stations. The idea is to reduce pressure on the single cyberpolice station at Shivajinagar, in the wake of a rising number of cybercrimes being reported across the city. Gupta was addressing the media at Pune’s Patrakar Sangh.“We have put a system in place and a lot of cybercrime cases are being detected which were not taking place earlier. A lot of improvement has happened. Every police station is being trained to handle cybercrime cases, particularly detection. We register the case at the cyberpolice station and the case is then sent to the respective police station for detection,” he said.Replying to a query on an NCRB report stating that murders in the city have increased, and also crime in Pune has risen by 121 per cent, he said, “Statistics can be misleading. Actually, IPC 188 cases have increased during lockdown. Murders have risen, by one or two cases, as compared with the previous year.” Referring to the crackdown on auto drivers, commissioner Gupta said, “I am bringing RTO, PMPML, PMC and all stakeholders on one table wherein we will use technology and less manpower to curb incidents related to women safety. Whatever is needed will be done for the safety and security of women.”On anti-terrorism measures, Gupta said that top priority was being given to anti-terrorism measures aimed at making the city safe for citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/personnel-being-trained-to-investigate-cybercrime-pune-police-commissioner-gupta-101631817491259.html
17-09-2021||Noida||Man poisons himself, two sons in Greater Noida||A 45-year-old man allegedly poisoned himself and both his 20-year-old sons in Greater Noida on Wednesday. Police identified the man as one Vikas Kumar alias Pappu. They said Pappu and his son Akash died, while Akash’s twin Vickey is being treated at a government hospital. Dinesh Kumar, station house officer of Badalpur police station, said Pappu lived in Acheja village and worked as an auto-rickshaw driver. “He used to drink frequently and fought with his family. The family said his twin sons Akash and Vickey had mental health issues. On Wednesday, Pappu poisoned his sons and then consumed some poisonous substance himself,” he said. Their condition started deteriorating soon. They were rushed to district hospital, where Pappu and Akash died. Police said the family members have not filed any complaint in this regard. The bodies were handed over to family members after a post-mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-poisons-himself-two-sons-in-greater-noida-101631817429999.html
17-09-2021||Other||Farmers deface walls, house of BJP spokesman in Jalandhar||Farmers defaced the walls and the main gate of the house of newly appointed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Harinder Singh Kahlon with mud on Wednesday late night. Kahlon was not in the house, which is in the Dakoha Road locality of the city, with farmers also disconnecting electricity supply during their protest. Farmers claim to be angry at Kahlon’s call for arrest of all comrades. Angry farmers also burnt his effigy, with the police present at the spot failing to stop them. Kahlon is also claimed to have said at a BJP function that if farmers came to his house with dung, they must also bring a cot and a white sheet; farmers have seen this as a veiled threat. On Thursday, Kahlon issued another statement claiming that the farmers had twisted his statements, but he apologised, if he had hurt anybody’s feelings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-deface-walls-house-of-bjp-spokesman-in-jalandhar-101631817310231.html
17-09-2021||Other||Fire at Pune manufacturing unit in Nanded phata: 1 man dead, 4 women injured||PUNE One person was killed and four others injured after a fire broke out on Thursday morning inside a unit manufacturing sparkling candles located on the premises of Bhau Industrial Company, Dhadge industrial estate, Nanded phata, on Thursday morning. The candles are used for small events like birthday parties and the sparkling effect has them categorises as fire crackers.According to police, as many as 17 women workers, along with the owner, were inside the factory when the incident took place. The unit was completely gutted in the fire. According to fire brigade officials, the fire began around 10.30am, after which a series of explosions were heard in the area. A large crowd gathered around the site and eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Four women jumped from a top floor, with one of them fracturing her leg. All four were taken to hospital and their condition is stable. Prashant Ranpise, fire chief PMC, said, “It is an industrial unit with a ground- plus-one structure producing crackers used during small functions like birthdays. Dense smoke spread out across the factory area. We have pulled out a body of a man. Four women were injured. They were taken to a private hospital and sent home after being given the necessary medical aid.” Within 30 minutes, the fire was brought under control, said Ranpise. PMRDA’s chief fire officer Devendra Potphode said, “The fire took place when powder used to make the crackers was being weighed. A spark fell on the powder leading to an explosion and the entire structure burned down in no time.” Police inspector Sadashiv Shelar of Haveli police station, investigating officer in the case, said, “We have recovered the body of a male charred beyond recognition. His identity has not been established. We will have to run a DNA test to find out his identity,” he said. The owner of the company has been identified asn Dattanand Digambar Bendre (36), and according to eyewitnesses he was present in the factory when the fire broke out. He is yet to be questioned in the case, police claimed. On the afternoon of June 7 earlier this year, a fire broke out at SVS Aqua-Tech in the Uravade area of Mulshi, Pirangut, claiming 17 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-at-pune-manufacturing-unit-in-nanded-phata-1-man-dead-4-women-injured-101631817253807.html
17-09-2021||Pune||77 murders in Pune in 2020: NCRB data; highest in three years||PUNE: A year of lockdown to control the Covid-19 outbreak in 2020 brought down the number of violent crimes in almost all metropolitan cities. However, according to recent data published by the National crime records bureau (NCRB), the number of murder cases in Pune have seen an uptick, even as overall violent crimes reduced. The NCRB published the booklet “Crime in India, 2020” on Tuesday. The violent crimes include 16 types of crimes like murder, culpable homicide not amounting to murder, dowry deaths, attempted murder, kidnapping, rape, rioting, dacoity, and arson among others. Cases are registered throughout the year and the data is collated by NCRB.In 2018, Pune witnessed 1,871 violent crimes as per NCRB records, with a reduction to 1,661 in 2019 and a further reduction to 1,320 in 2020. In the corresponding years, the murder cases were 73, 74, and 77, respectively, according to the records.Of the victims, 15 were men in the age group of 30-45 and 8 women from the same age group; and 6 men and 1 woman aged above 45 years.Among the reasons for the murders, 40 were without any known motive. However, among the cases with clear motive, the motive of gaining something from a person’s death claimed highest number of lives - 12. Family disputes was the second highest reason for murder - 9. Love affairs claimed 6 while previous enmity claimed 4 lives.The year 2020 in Pune was marred by one political murder. Deepak Maratkar, a 36-year-old Shiv Sena leader was brutally stabbed in a public space near his house in Gawli aali area of Budhwar peth. The entire incident was captured on CCTV and a case was registered at Faraskhana police station. The state law against organised crime, Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) was invoked in the case. Some police personnel also faced suspension as a fallout.A 70-year-old man has been booked by the Pune police on Wednesday for the murder of his 66-year-old wife, after both of them were found dead at their apartment in Karvenagar on July 27.On the night of July 12, a local builder and two others were killing a man over his affair with the builder’s 19-year-old daughter.The death of money-lender Ghanshyam alias Pappu Padwal (51) in his Kondhwa residence was another brutal murder to mark the past year.In one of the murders that did not have a clear reason, a 34-year-old labourer was found bludgeoned to death in Bibwewadi area of Pune on June 24 and 3 people were later arrested. The police found a drunken fight over a trivial reason as the reason behind the murder.Reacting to growing murders, Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “Statistic can be revealing or misleading. Last year due to lockdown, most cases were of section 188 of Indian Penal Code. Since most people were at home due to lockdown, others crimes were very less. As far as murders are concerned, the figure has gone down not drastically by single digit.” The cases under Section 188 of IPC went up in all parts of the country, as per the data. “Major increase was seen in the cases registered under Disobedience to order duly promulgated by Public Servant (Section 188 of IPC) from 29,469 cases in 2019 to 6,12,179 cases in 2020,” read the summary of overall crimes in the report.Commissioner Gupta, while speaking at a press interaction organised by Pune Union of Working Journalists said, “The lockdown year was different due to the Covid19 lockdown. It is for the same reason, when I hold meetings I consider crime data of there years – 2019, 2020, and 2021.” Speaking about controlling series crimes and the audacious display of criminal acts by miscreants, Gupta said steps have been taken with stricter sections to control such events. “Earlier people used to put WhatsApp status or video of cutting of cake using swords, or similar things. I don’t claim all this has completely stopped. But the ratio has come down,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/77-murders-in-pune-in-2020-ncrb-data-highest-in-three-years-101631817252344.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Govt defends Asthana as Delhi police commissioner||Justifying the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police commissioner, the Union government on Thursday told the Delhi high court that most officers at the appropriate level from AGMUT (the cadre of IPS officers for Union territories) did not have sufficient experience of policing in a vast and sensitive state or elsewhere for appointment as the top cop of the city.It also told the court that the Prakash Singh case, which mandated that anyone being appointed police chief of a state needs to have six months of service left, does not apply to Union territories.Both Asthana’s transfer to AGMUT, and his appointment with only four days to go for his retirement, have been challenged in court.In an affidavit filed before a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, the Union ministry of home affairs said that an experienced officer was required for Delhi, the capital of the country. Local law and order incidents have an impact not just on the rest of the country but also globally, the last in terms of the image of the country, it added.“…in the present case during the process of appointment of the Commissioner of Police, Delhi, the /Cadre Controlling Authority (CCA) was faced with precarious situation where it found that the most of the appropriate level officers of AGMUT cadre were not having sufficient balanced experience of policing in a vast law and order sensitive State/Central Investigating Agency/ National Security/Paramilitary force for appointment of Commissioner of Police Delhi…….”“Hence, considering the complexities and the sensitivities involved and also considering that no officer of appropriate seniority with balanced experience, as stated above, was available in the AGMUT Cadre, it was felt that an officer belonging to a large state cadre, who had the exposure of complexities of governance and who had the knowledge of nuances of broad canvas policing is given charge of Commissioner of Police Delhi,” the Centre said.In Prakash Singh’s case, the top court made it mandatory for the state governments to appoint police chiefs from a panel of three most senior police officers forwarded to them by the Union Public Service Commission. The selected officer must have six months of service left, and be given a tenure of two years, it said.“The said judgment has no application for appointment of commissioners/police heads of Union territories falling under the AGMUT cadre. While passing the judgment in Prakash Singh’s case, the Hon’be Supreme Court itself made it clear that in so far as its direction related to appointment of DGPs was concerned, the same was only in relation to the states and not in relation to UTs,” the affidavit said, adding that UPSC too has not raised any objection on non-empanelment of officers -- which means the commission understood that the judgment applied only to states.The Union government said that keeping the objective of “public interest” in mind, Asthana’s service tenure was extended. It said that Delhi has been witnessing diverse and extremely challenging situations of law and order which not only had national security implications but also international/cross border implications.The Centre asserted that there was a compelling need to appoint a person as a head of the police force of Delhi, who had diverse and vast experience of heading a large police force in a large state having diverse political as well as public order problem/experience of working and supervising Central Investigating Agency(s) as well as paramilitary forces.“…In view thereof, it is respectfully submitted that any statutory provision or any other regime deserves to be read in such a way that a leeway is given to the Central Government in appointment of Delhi Police Commissioner. Any straight-jacket or paediatric approach would not be in national interest,” it added.The affidavit was filed in response to a petition by Sadre Alam and an intervening application by Prashant Bhushan challenging Asthana’s appointment and seeking quashing of a July 27 order issued by the ministry of home affairs appointing him the Delhi Police commissioner and also the order granting inter-cadre deputation and extension of service to him.The plea has sought initiation of steps for appointing Delhi Police commissioner strictly in accordance with the direction issued by the Supreme Court earlier.It has claimed the high-powered committee comprising the Chief Justice of India, Prime Minister and the Leader of Opposition, in its meeting held on May 24, 2021, rejected the central government’s attempt to appoint Asthana as the CBI director citing the Prakash Singh case.The matter was listed for hearing on Thursday, but the concerned bench was not available and now it will be heard on September 20.Seeking dismissal of the petitions, the affidavit filed by the secretary, ministry of home affairs (MHA) said that it is an “abuse of process of law and manifestly an outcome of some personal vendetta” of the petitioners. It also said that a PIL in service matter is not maintainable.“The petitioner and the intervener are mere busy bodies. Both the petitioner and more particularly the intervener who claims to be espousing a public cause, never considered challenging appointment of eight (8) erstwhile Police Commissioners though they were appointed in the same manner as is done in the case of Respondent No.2 (Asthana).“Such a selective exhibition of ‘’public interest’’ speaks volume about the motive behind filing this petition/intervention application/writ petition in the Supreme Court respectively by the petitioner /intervener only in case of the Respondent No 2,” the affidavit said.The Union government has said that it has the powers of inter-cadre transfers.The petition with similar prayers which has been filed by CPIL before the Supreme Court has urged the central government to produce the July 27 order it issued, approving the inter-cadre deputation of Asthana from Gujarat cadre to AGMUT cadre.The petition has also urged the apex court to set aside the Centre’’s order to extend Asthana’s service period.On August 25, the Supreme Court asked the high court to decide within two weeks the plea pending before it against the appointment of the senior IPS officer as Delhi Police commissioner.Asthana, in his response in an affidavit, said that the petitions are entertaining a personal vengeance against him and are not in bonafide public interest litigations. He said that the please are nothing but are a flagrant abuse of august forum of the court for some hidden personal vendetta of either of them or of someone on whose behest several attempts are being made against me to derail his career.He said that NGOs Common Cause and Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL) are spearheading a malicious campaign against him and consistently filing petitions against him in courts.“I state and submit that as a part of this selective campaign against me, proceedings are being consistently filed against me by these two organisations, while outside court the people having control of the said organisation spearhead a malicious campaign against me. This has been regularly happening since I was appointed as Special Director in Central Bureau of Investigation,” he said in an affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/most-in-agmut-cadre-didn-t-have-enough-experience-home-ministry-defends-asthana-as-delhi-police-commissioner-101631817251223.html
17-09-2021||Lucknow||To woo UP voters, AAP promises 24X7 power supply, 300 free units||Aam Aadmi Party leader and Delhi deputy chief minister, Manish Sisodia, on Thursday, promised to provide “300 units of free electricity, waive pending power bills and ensure 24-hour power supply” in Uttar Pradesh, if his party is voted to power in the assembly elections due early next year.“The AAP will provide every family 300 units of free electricity if the party is voted to power in Uttar Pradesh. Under chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, people in Delhi are getting zero electricity bills. We will do the same in UP,” Sisodia said at a press conference in Lucknow. “If the AAP is voted to power, we will cancel pending electricity dues of 48 lakh (4.8 million) families who got inflated bills,” he added.The AAP has made similar promises in election-bound states of Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa.Pointing out the AAP government’s success in Delhi, Sisodia said: “In Delhi, there was a huge demand of generators and invertors before 2015. But now people are getting 24x7 uninterrupted power supply.” He also promised free electricity for farmers.In August, the AAP announced “Tiranga Yatra” across UP to mark the 75th year of India’s independence, in an attempt to make inroads into a politically crucial state. Since August 29, Sisodia and the party in charge of UP, Sanjay Singh, have conducted rallies in several parts of the state, including Agra, Lucknow and Ayodhya.The AAP intends to contest 100 of the 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, for which it has announced names of probable candidates. The party has also announced that it will not enter into a pre-poll alliance with any political party.Hitting back, UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said the AAP is running the Delhi government like a Nagar Nigam. “They (AAP) will not get candidates for all the seats and will not be able to win a single seat in UP. In such a scenario, he is making promises only,” he told news agency PTI.He added that the law and order situation under the BJP regime has improved and bulldozers are running on illegal properties earned through ill-gotten money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/to-woo-up-voters-aap-promises-24x7-power-supply-300-free-units-101631817250017.html
17-09-2021||Other||Lieutenant General Rajshree Ramasethu takes over as director, commandant AFMC||PUNE Lieutenant General Rajshree Ramasethu took over as the Director and Commandant of the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC), Pune on Thursday.A graduate of the AFMC, Lt Gen Ramasethu was commissioned in the Army Medical Corps on December 17, 1983. She did her specialisation in Nephrology from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi and is an experienced and reputed Nephrologist in the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS).During a career spanning nearly 38 Years, the General Officer has held prestigious academic and administrative appointments including Consultant Medicine and Nephrology at INHS Asvini, Mumbai and Command Hospital Eastern Command, Kolkata; Commandant Military Hospital, Chennai; ACIDS Medical in the HQ IDS; Senior Consultant, Medicine, Armed Forces Medical Service at the office of Director General Armed Forces Medical Services (DGAFMS), New Delhi and Major General Medical at HQ Southern Command of Indian Army. She is an astute clinician dedicated to patient care. In her distinguished service, the General Officer has been awarded the Chief of Army Staff Commendation in 1995, 2011 and 2017 in recognition of her dedication to patient care and service.Impact 2021AFMC will host Impact 2021, an online conference-cum-workshop designed with the medical researcher in mind from September 16-18. The conference has been organised by the Medical Journal Armed Forces India, a leading and one of the oldest surviving multi-specialty research journals of the country, since the last 10 years||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lieutenant-general-rajshree-ramasethu-takes-over-as-director-commandant-afmc-101631817013075.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||Domestic helps commit robbery at jeweller’s house in Delhi's Pitampura||Two men, employed as domestic helps at a jeweller’s home in northwest Delhi’s Pitampura, threw chilli powder on his wife’s eyes, locked her in the bathroom and fled with a portable locker containing cash and jewellery worth over ₹50 lakh on Tuesday evening--within less than a week of their employment. Police arrested the two men, along with two of their associates, within six hours of the crime and recovered the entire loot from them, said police on Thursday. Those arrested were identified as Aman Kumar Roy (19), Sanjeev Kumar Ram (18), Ram Pukar Yadav (26), and Sunil (21). Police said all of them are natives of Bihar but were working as domestic helps in Delhi for the past few months.They all conspired to commit the robbery to gain quick and easy money, said police. Roy and Ram were employed by jeweller Yogesh Singhal, president of the Bullion and Jewellers’ Association at Kuch Mahajani near Chandni Chowk, on the recommendation of his old domestic help Rahul, six days before the robbery. Police said Singhal had not done their police verification before hiring them. Singhal said he employed the two men to remove rainwater that had flooded the basement of his house in Pitampura’s SU-block. The two lived in the basement while Singhal’s family lived on the ground floor. On Tuesday, Singhal was at his shop in Chandni Chowk with his son. In the evening, his daughter went to Rohini Sector-13 for some work, leaving her 52-year-old mother Pramila Singhal at home. Around 6pm, when Pramila called Roy to prepare a cup of tea for her, he entered the house with Ram, took a bowl of red chilli powder from the kitchen and went to the bedroom where Pramila was lying, said Singhal.“The two threw chilli powder on my wife’s face. One of them sat on her chest...and tried to throttle her. He also removed the gold earings she was wearing. The other man tied her limbs and locked her inside the bathroom,” said Singhal.Police said around 10 minutes later, Pramila somehow untied herself and came out of the bathroom. On checking the CCTV cameras installed at home, she found that the suspects fled with the portable locker kept in the room and immediately raised an alarm. “The police were informed about the crime. A case of robbery was registered at the Maurya Enclave police station and the northwest district’s special staff as well as the crime branch were roped in to nab the suspects,” said a senior police officer.“The teams analysed the call records of the suspects’ cellphone and found that they had last called one Sunil, who worked as a domestic help in the same neighbourhood. Sunil was caught and he confessed to his involvement in the robbery. His interrogation led to the arrest of the two prime suspects and Yadav from Shakurpur within six hours. The stolen cash and jewellery were recovered from them,” said the officer. In another case, a 47-year-old resident of Nepal, Raju Thapa, was arrested from the India-Nepal border on Tuesday while he was fleeing with ₹25 lakh cash and two diamond pieces worth ₹15 lakh which he had stolen from his employer’s office at a Saket shopping mall on September 11. The crime was reported on September 13 and the police nabbed Thapa within 10 hours from near Lakhimpur Kheri. Around ₹14 lakh cash and three cellphones that he purchased using the stolen money were recovered. Police is interrogating him to recover the stolen diamonds and the rest of the money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-domestic-helps-commit-robbery-at-jeweller-s-house-in-pitampura-101631816171489.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||1 labourer dead, another injured in construction site cave-in at Delhi’s CR Park||A 21-year-old labourer was killed and another injured after the land at a building construction site at south Delhi’s CR Park caved in on Thursday on account of heavy rain, police said. A case was registered at the CR Park police station under the Indian Penal Code sections 304 A, 337 and 288 and the construction site contractor Shankar Viswas as well as supervisor Chandan Singh Bisht were arrested and booked for death and injuries due to negligence and negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing a building, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said the police control room was alerted that a person was trapped under the sand at an under-construction building site in I-1612, CR Park. A police team reached there and rescued Roze, 21, from under the sand. He was rushed to AIIMS Trauma Centre, where doctors declared him dead on admission. One more labourer, Aiyub,40, was found injured and was rushed to a nearby hospital for medical attention. He is out of danger, said the DCP.Police said prima facie, it appeared that the ground at the construction site caved in due to the rain and the two labourers were trapped under the soil and sand that was stored there for construction work. Since adequate safety and security measures were not taken, the contractor and supervisor of the site were arrested, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-labourer-dead-another-injured-in-construction-site-cave-in-at-delhi-s-cr-park-101631816169897.html
17-09-2021||Gurugram||Gadkari in Gurugram: Delhi-Mumbai Expressway will be completed by March 2023||The Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, being built at the cost of around ₹95,000 crore, would be completed by March 2023 with a majority of the work having already been allotted to contractors, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday after reviewing the status of the ongoing project work at Lohtaki village in Gurugram.Gadkari, the Union minister of road transport and highways, said that work on around 160 kilometres of the highway that falls in Haryana is expected to be completed by March 2022.Addressing a gathering in Gurugram, Gadkari said that the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway would be the longest in the country, cutting across 1,380 kilometres. “This expressway will be ready by March 2023 and part of the road from Delhi to Dausa in Rajasthan and from Vadodara to Ankleswar will be built by March 2022,” he said.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Gurugram Lok Sabha member Rao Inderjit Singh and senior officials of the state government, district administration and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI)were also present at the spot.This expressway is being developed as an eight-lane access-controlled greenfield expressway, which can be expanded to 12 lanes by adding four more lanes in the future. A median of 21-metre width is being built on this expressway, which can be reduced for widening the road.The expressway will have wayside amenities, including resorts, dormitories, hospitals, food courts, petrol pumps as well as commercial spaces, such as warehouses and logistic parks, every 25 kilometres and a heliport for air ambulance, Gadkari said.In Haryana, the expressway will pass through Gurugram, Palwal and Nuh districts. The expressway will pass through 11 villages in Gurugram district, seven villages in Palwal and 47 villages in Mewat. The portion in the state is estimated to cost around ₹10,400 crore.Khattar said that Gurugram, Nuh and Palwal districts would greatly benefit once the expressway becomes operational. “The Delhi-Mumbai Expressway and other expressways being built in Haryana and NCR will boost sentiment of investors. More industries will come up and people will get employment,” Khattar said.In Haryana, the expressway will start near the Gurugram-Alwar Expressway and extend up to Kolgaon in Nuh district, from where it will enter Rajasthan.Gadkari said that the highway will be the first such structure to have underpasses for animals, at wildlife sanctuaries along the route, with five structures planned to ensure their safe passage.Besides the expressway, Gadkari said that 14 road projects are underway in Delhi-NCR, at ₹53,000 crore, which will significantly reduce noise and air pollution, due to a reduction in traffic issues.Gadkari said that following demands put forth by Khattar to ease traffic on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, three projects at Bilaspur, Manesar and Kapriwas have been approved on the Delhi-Jaipur highway at a cost of about ₹250 crore.He also said that an interchange between the Palwal-Aligarh national highway and Eastern Peripheral Expressway has also been approved and that a road would be constructed to improve connectivity between Faridabad and Jewar airport.Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh said that the completion of projects on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway significantly improved traffic movement and the approval for new flyovers would benefit commuters on the Delhi-Jaipur highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gadkari-in-gurugram-delhi-mumbai-expressway-will-be-completed-by-march-2023-101631813829643.html
17-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 898 new Covid cases, 3 deaths on Thursday||Pune: As per the state health authorities, Pune district reported 898 new Covid positive cases and three deaths in the last 24 hours. Two deaths were reported from Pune rural and one from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 514,989 Covid cases and 9,128 deaths till Thursday. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 264,864 cases so far and a total of 3,494 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 353,260 total cases and 6,742 deaths due to the virus. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,133,113 Covid cases. Of this, 1,099,893 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 19,713 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 13,507 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 3,240 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,320,310. The recovery rate in the state is 97.06%. Across Maharashtra, 3,595 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 45 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. The state health department stated that of 56,529,882 laboratory samples, 6,511,525 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 11.52% of patients till Thursday. Currently, 289,425 people are in home quarantine and 1,908 in institutional quarantine. Tracking the virus Pune district figures Covid-19 cases: 1,133,113 Recovered patients: 1,099,893 Deaths: 19,713 Active cases: 13,507 New cases: 898 New deaths: 3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-898-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-on-thursday-101631810168659.html
17-09-2021||Pune||Two men on bike killed in accident on Karvenagar bridge||PUNE: Two men were killed after their speeding motorbike hit a safety barrier at the bridge in Karvenagar area of Pune. The incident happened around 11:30pm on Wednesday, according to the police. The deceased were identified as Shankar Ingale (27) and Salil Ismail Kokare (20) of Warje Malwadi. The duo was headed to see the Dagdusheth Ganpati in Budhwar peth during the late night hours to avoid crowd. A case was registered under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicle Act at Warje Malwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-men-on-bike-killed-in-accident-on-karvenagar-bridge-101631809268602.html
17-09-2021||Lucknow||₹962 cr credited to accounts of two poor students in Bihar, bank probes||Authorities at Uttar Bihar Gramin Bank (UBGB) are probing how accounts of two poor students of class VI of a village in Katihar district, whose minor accounts were opened for the purpose of school scholarship and other government benefits, got credited with ₹62 crore and ₹900 crore respectively on Wednesday.The incident came into light at Pastia village of Bhaghaura panchayat in Katihar on Wednesday when outgoing mukhiya (panchayat head), Lalan Vishwas, took some of the students to the local CSP (customers’ service point) to check whether their accounts were credited with money for books and school dress.“I was surprised when I was told about the money credited in the accounts of two class VI students in Uttar Bihar Gramin Bank,” he said.The accounts of two students, identified as Ashish Kumar and Guruchand Vishwas, both with Belagunj branch of UBGB, showed ₹62,00,11,100 and ₹900,52,21,233 as balance respectively, he said.Regional manager of UBGB, Ram Nath Mishra, on Thursday dismissed reports that the accounts were credited with crores of rupees. “We have obtained the statement of these two accounts and found ₹100 and ₹128 in them.”“Account number 1008151030208081 of Ashish Kumar has Rs100 in it while account number 1008151030208018 of Guruchand Vishwas had ₹128. Both are the minor accounts,” Mishra said.“It could be a server error at the CSP. Since both are minor accounts, there is no question of any withdrawal,” he said.However, both the accounts were put on freeze after the matter was highlighted. “We are probing the matter,” Mishra said.A few days ago, a person named Ranjit Das of Khagaria district in Bihar was arrested after he refused to return ₹5.50 lakh credited in his UBGB account in April last year, claiming that it was sent to him by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi as help during the Covid-19 lockdown. He was arrested after bank officials lodged an FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/962-cr-credited-to-accounts-of-two-poor-students-in-bihar-bank-probes-101631808009273.html
17-09-2021||Lucknow||Portion of Delhi-Meerut E-way damaged by incessant rain||MEERUT: Incessant rains over the past two months have damaged a portion of the 96-km-long Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME). The road has caved in at more than 100 spots on both sides of the newly built 46-km greenfield stretch between Meerut and Dasna (Ghaziabad).The repair work is on but opposition party leaders raised questions over the quality of construction work and demanded a high level inquiry into it. The expressway was constructed at a cost of ₹8,000-10,000 crore with an objective of reducing travel time between Meerut and Delhi to less than one hour. It comprises four stretches – Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi to UP gate (8.7 kms), UP gate to Dasna in Ghaziabad (19.2 kms), Dasna to Hapur (22.2 kms) and Dasna to Meerut (46 kms).The road caved in at 48 places on the left side of Meerut-Dasna stretch and at 62 places on the other side of the expressway.Mudit Garg, DME project director, explained that the damage occurred because authorities got possession of land on this stretch quite late and barely got six months to complete the soil work. He said the area has sandy soil which needed extra time for growing grass to keep the soil intact. He also admitted that small depressions too had developed at some places on the expressway. “It could have happened because of drip system that has been used for irrigation of plants on the divider of the expressway,” added Garg.Garg claimed that a 10-day spell of dry weather is needed to fix all damages and the repair work is already going on in full swing.Meanwhile, leaders of opposition parties termed it a major quality issue, which could pose threat to the lives of commuters. Pankaj Malik, Congress party West UP incharge, demanded a high level inquiry into the issue. Senior Samajwadi party leader Sudhir Panwar said multiple damages on the expressway indicated that the government gave the responsibility of quality control to the company involved in constructing the expressway. He also demanded a high level probe to ascertain how a newly constructed flagship project suffered such damage. “If this is happening with a flagship project, then think about the quality of other highways,” commented Panwar.BJP MP from Meerut, Rajendra Agarwal, said sometimes these things happen during rain. “We have brought the issue to the notice of officials concerned and work is underway to fix the damages,” he said admitting that the expressway was built under pressure of a given time limit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/portion-of-delhi-meerut-e-way-damaged-by-incessant-rain-101631797748479.html
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 update: Haryana schools to open for Classes 1 to 3 from Sept 20||The Haryana government will open government and private schools for students of Classes 1 to 3 from September 20. The classes will be held while strictly following the Covid-19 protocol, an official spokesperson said. Also read: Covid vulnerability may increase in October-November, Centre indicatesSchools across the state were closed in compliance with the lockdown guidelines due to the pandemic. Classes 6 to 12 were started on July 23, while Classes 4 and 5 reopened on August 1. Now Classes 1 to 3 will start on September 20. The spokesperson said that according to the guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs, the students will be allowed to attend school with prior permission of the parents. The screening of every student will be done in schools. No student or visitor with above normal temperature will be allowed to enter the campus. While reopening middle to senior secondary classes, the government had said that online mode will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-update-haryana-schools-to-open-for-classes-1-to-3-from-sept-20-101631791990023.html
17-09-2021||Delhi||ED raids office, home of activist Harsh Mander in money laundering probe||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday conducted raids at the residence, office and non-government organisations (NGOs) run by retired Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer and activist Harsh Mander in Delhi after registering a money laundering case.People familiar with the development said a probe against Mander under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) has been taken up on the basis of a Delhi Police First Information Report (FIR) registered in February this year following an inspection by National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR).Also Read | I-T raids at premises linked to actor Sonu Sood in Mumbai, LucknowThe NCPCR informed the Delhi high court in July that it has recommended action against two children’s homes linked to the activist after finding irregularities. Two children homes -- Umeed Aman Ghar, a home for boys, and Khushi Rainbow Home, a residence for girls, based in south Delhi, are said to be run by Centre for Equity Studies (CES), where Mander is a director. ED officials were continuing the searches and are learnt to have seized documents related to the homes. Mander wasn’t present at his home as he left for Berlin this morning for a fellowship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/edraids-office-home-of-activist-harsh-mander-in-money-laundering-probe-101631781847302.html
