18-09-2021||Mumbai||Man on parole kills friend for using his phone, headphones while partying in Vitthalwadi||A 35-year-old man, out on parole, brutally murdered his friend for merely using his phones and headphones in the wee hours of Saturday and left him to die on the road in Vitthalwadi. The Vitthalwadi police arrested the accused, Suraj Shinde.The incident came to light at around 7.30am on Saturday when a resident of Songyachiwadi saw the deceased, Dyaneshwar Sonawane, 32, on the road and informed the police.An officer said, “We traced the deceased’s phone records and found the number of his friends with whom he was partying on Friday night. We traced Shinde, who had allegedly got into an argument with Sonawane. The two and a few other friends were partying near Songyachiwadi in a small house when Shinde had an argument with Sonawane over using the former’s phone and headphones.”Shinde got furious when Sonawane demanded his phone repeatedly and took a knife, which Sonawane had, and stabbed him before escaping from the spot.The officer added, “The two were friends for many years. Shinde was out on parole and had come to meet his friends.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-on-parole-kills-friend-for-using-his-phone-headphones-while-partying-in-vitthalwadi-101631989778059.html
18-09-2021||Other||Smart city projects: Congress, BJP trade barbs over corruption charges||A day after the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders handed over a memorandum to Durga Shanker Mishra, secretary, ministry of housing and urban affairs, alleging high scale corruption and mismanagement in smart city projects, the district Congress and BJP have engaged in a war of words over the issue. Submitting the memorandum with Mishra, who was in the city to review different flagship schemes of union government including smart city mission on Friday, BJP leaders led by district president Pushpinder Singal had also accused the Congress leaders and MLAs of wasting the public money by wrongfully designing the development projects in absence of any public participation. The Congress leaders took a dig at the BJP, stating that the secretary was satisfied with the ongoing projects. Slamming the BJP leaders over the allegations, the officer on special duty (OSD) to mayor Balkar Sandhu and former councillor Parminder Mehta alleged that BJP leaders who are aspiring for party tickets in the upcoming assembly elections are levelling baseless allegations to gain political mileage. The projects are being taken up with transparency, and secretary Mishra was also satisfied with them. “The projects are planned by the authorities keeping in mind the needs of the public. The public representatives only monitor them to keep a check on quality and expedite them. BJP is levelling baseless allegations just to gain political mileage,” said Mehta. Meanwhile, district BJP president Pushpinder Singal stated that there are several discrepancies in the smart city projects, including the project to retrofit Sarabha Nagar main market and the Malhar road project. “The width of Malhar Road has been reduced from 120 feet to 46 feet, which is a major blunder and will affect the movement of traffic at large. Most of the projects under the smart city mission have been allotted to a single contractor. The secretary had also criticised the working,” he said. “We have demanded that the union government should appoint a nodal officer in the city to look after the projects and the funding. The Congress leadership is involved in corrupt practices, and we will also take up the matter with the union government soon,” Singal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/smart-city-projects-congress-bjp-trade-barbs-over-corruption-charges-101631989775735.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||Govt tells 11 states to step up efforts to curb Covid, dengue||The Union health secretary has asked 11 states reporting a more dangerous type of dengue to take steps to ensure early detection of cases, start fever helplines and stock adequate testing kits, larvicides, and medicines.There are four serotypes of the virus that causes the mosquito-borne disease dengue; DENV-2 is associated with more severe disease that can lead to fatal internal bleeding and shock. During a review of the Covid-19 situation, the states were asked to implement control measures during the festive season, monitor infections in children as schools reopen as well as breakthrough infections.For dengue, the states were asked to deploy rapid response teams to promptly investigate new cases and undertake measures such as a survey of persons with fever in the area, contact tracing, control of mosquito population in the area, etc. They have also been asked to stock enough blood and blood components such as platelets needed for patients with severe dengue.The health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, also asked the states to undertake campaigns to inform people about the helplines, ways to control the mosquito population, and symptoms of dengue.Several states have reported a spike in the number of dengue cases, which causes fever, headache, pain behind the eye, body ache, and vomiting in most patients.The states reporting serotype - II dengue cases are Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, and Telangana.In a small proportion of patients it can lead to internal bleeding, a dip in the blood component platelet, and shock (inadequate blood to organs resulting in damage to tissues.)The issue was discussed during a meeting held by the cabinet secretary Rajesh Gauba on Covid-19 response and progress of vaccination. India administered 25 million shots of Covid-19 vaccine on Friday. Referring to other countries that have reported several peaks of Covid-19 cases, he said pockets reporting high positivity rate were a cause of concern.The health secretary said that there were 70 districts across 15 states that were reporting over 5% positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive. Of these, 34 districts have reported a positivity rate of over 10%.All states were also asked to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour during the upcoming festival season. The states were asked to ensure “necessary precautions and effective enforcement for avoidance of mass gathering and congested closed spaces. Existing guidelines regarding malls, local markets, and places of worship are to be strictly followed,” a release from the Union health ministry said.In addition to implementing containment strategies in places reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases, the states were also asked to increase testing while maintain a high level of RT PCR tests, commission pressure swing adsorption oxygen plants, oxygen cylinders, concentrators and ventilators.The states were also asked to monitor infections in children as schools re-open, breakthrough infections in vaccinated persons, and any mutations in the virus. The states were asked to accelerate the pace of vaccination.Central government officials on Friday said that Serum Institute of India will supply 200 million doses of its Covishield vaccine and Bharat Biotech will supply 35 million doses of Covaxin in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-tells-11-states-to-step-up-efforts-to-curb-covid-dengue-101631989590987.html
18-09-2021||Other||Jalalabad motorcycle blast on Sept 15 an act of terror, says Fazilka Police||Bathinda Three days after a motorcycle explosion in Jalalabad on Wednesday (September 15), the Fazilka Police on Saturday concluded that it was an act of terror. In a related development,police have also recovered a tiffin box bomb, the fourth such explosive device found in Punjab over the past 40 days, from Dharmpura village, 8km from Jalalabad town.Ferozepur Range Inspector General of Police (IGP) Jatinder Singh Aulakh said the case was cracked with the arrest of an accused Parveen Kumar, who confessed that the motorcycle was carrying explosive material. The bomb was planned to be placed in a crowded area in Jalalabad City, but it exploded accidentally on Wednesday night, the IG added.Balwinder Singh, alias Bindu, of Jhugge Nihanga Wale in Ferozepur district succumbed to his burn injuries on Thursday, a day after the blast. The IG added Balwinder had a criminal background.“Investigations hinted at the role of Parveen in hatching the conspiracy to blow off the motorcycle in a crowded area. Another accused, Binder, who is yet to be arrested had driven the bike that day. The conspiracy to plant a bomb at a public place was hatched at the residence of Sukhwinder Singh alias Sukha. Accused Praveen, Sukha and Balwinder are close relatives. Gurpreet Singh of Lakhmir Ke Hitthar village near Mamdot in Ferozepur was also found involved in the conspiracy,” the IG added. Police authorities said that Parveen’s confession and an input from an alert farmer helped them find the tiffin bomb. It was seized from fields at Praveen’s native Dharmupura village, which is just 3km away from the India-Pakistan border. Fazilka SSP Deepak Hilori said all the four accused have criminal background and efforts are being made to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jalalabad-motorcycle-blast-on-sept-15-an-act-of-terror-says-fazilka-police-101631989655609.html
18-09-2021||Other||PSPCL holds consumer grievance redressal camps in Ludhiana||Punjab State Power Corporation Limited organised consumer grievances redressal camps called Bijli Panchayat at the West Division, Central Division, and Agar Nagar division of the city on Saturday.These were held under the supervision of Sanjeev Prabhakar, deputy chief engineer, west circle, Ludhiana.The officials said the camps were mainly scheduled to resolve bill-related issues. People reached out to the officials with their complaints regarding supply issues, burnt meters, sparking, and billing. While a few consumers complained of wrong bill readings, others complained that they didn’t get the electricity bills.The consumers shared their grievances related to power cuts, which according to the officials, were occurring due to repair work in progress.Most of the complaints were resolved on the spot and for the rest, the officials assured quick action. The area counsellors, who were also present at these camps, also heard the grievances.“I visited the camps and heard the complaints of the public. The response was great since the action against their complaints was spontaneous,” said Sanjeev.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pspcl-holds-consumer-grievance-redressal-camps-in-ludhiana-101631989535620.html
18-09-2021||Dehradun||Devotees visit shrines as Char Dham yatra begins amid Covid restrictions||The Char Dham pilgrimage, which was allowed by the Uttarakhand high court with conditions, began on Saturday with devotees, including 419 from other states, visiting the four shrines strictly adhering to Covid-19 norms.According to the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board that manages the four Char Dham shrines - Kedarnath in Rudraprayag district, Badrinath in Chamoli district, Yamunotri and Gangotri shrines in Uttarkashi district - a total of 335 devotees from other states visited Badrinath while 84 people from outside Uttarakhand visited the Kedarnath shrine along with local devotees.Data shared by the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board on Saturday revealed that only local devotees visited Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines with none from other states till Saturday 4pm.The board also informed that till the above-mentioned period on Saturday, a total of 19,491 e-passes were issued to devotees wiling to visit the Char Dham shrines. Of the total e-passes, maximum 10,010 were issued for Kedarnath shrine followed by 4,830 for Badrinath, 2,375 for Gangotri and 2,276 for Yamunotri.The Uttarakhand high court on Thursday lifted its June 28 stay on the Char Dham yatra and directed the state government to conduct the annual pilgrimage with strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines.With the start of the Char Dham yatra, traders dependent on the annual pilgrimage expressed hope on earning “some livelihood with the year affected by Covid-19.” One of the traders in Gangotri, Dwarikaprasad Kandwal, who sells puja items en-route the shrine, said, “Now as the yatra has started, we have some hope that we will manage to earn some livelihood in the year which was hugely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.” “This will surely impact the people living in the three districts hosting the Chat Dham shrines as they are very much dependent on the yatra to earn income. We wholeheartedly welcome this step [HC decision] which was being demanded by us for months,” Semwal addedOn Friday evening, the state government had issued the SOP for the yatra.The pilgrims from Kerala, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, even if they have received both the doses, are required to carry negative RTPCR/TrueNat/CBNAAT/RAT COVID report (72 hours before) with them for seeking e-pass for the pilgrimage to the four revered shrines.The daily limit of pilgrims has been set 1,000 for Badrinath, 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for Yamunotri shrines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/devotees-visit-shrines-as-char-dham-yatra-begins-amid-covid-restrictions-101631989366205.html
18-09-2021||Other||PAU organises plantation drive to mark World Ozone Day||The department of forestry and natural resources, in association with the department of soil science, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a plantation programme - Preservation of ozone layer to commemorate World Ozone Day. The scientists associated with the project, faculty members of PAU, and teachers of the Government Primary School, participated and planted saplings of indigenous species. Punjab Pollution Control Board chairman Adarshpal Vig was the chief guest. OP Choudhary, head-cum-principal investigator of the project, department of soil science, gave a presentation on ozone layer depletion, its impacts, and remedial measures.Workshop on origin software organisedThe physics department of AS College, Khanna, organised a one-day workshop on origin software. As many as 90 students of BSc non-medical I, II, and III participated in the workshop. Manish Garg, Jasdeep Kaur, and Mahesh Kumar delivered lectures. Principal RS Jhanji, college management president Shaminder Singh, vice-president Sushil Sharma, general secretary Barinder Dewett and college secretary Tejinder Sharma congratulated the physics department for organising such a successful event.BCM Kindergarten kids learn good mannersBCM Kindergarten, Chandigarh Road, Ludhiana, organised ‘Good manners week’. The teachers taught students about helping others, sharing and caring, obedience, three magical words, and table manners. They also shared videos related to these values with the children. Headmistress Ritu Syal opined that good manners should be inculcated among kids right from childhood. Principal DP Guleria said good manners are an essential part of our life. Atam Jayanti celebrations held Atam Public School, Atam Nagar, Ludhiana, celebrated Atam Jayanti, the 139th birth anniversary of Acharya Samrat Atma Ram Maharaj on Saturday. Chief guest Jatinder Jain, president of Dittu Baba Gadhia Tomri, presided over the function. The navkar mantra marked the beginning of the function. Sapna threw light on the life of Atma Ram Maharaj. Arshdeep Kaur of Class 12 recited a poem written by Pranjal Surjan. The students and music teachers from Atam Public School, Ludhiana and Atam Vidya Mandir School, Sahnewal, sang a bhajan. President Sanjeev Jain announced an award of honour, a cash prize of ₹11,000/- for the district and state-level academic and sports toppers. Investiture ceremony held at SISJMPSSant Ishar Singh Ji Memorial Public School (SISJMPS), Rara Sahib, Ludhiana, organised an investiture ceremony. Management member Gurnam Singh Araicha was the chief guest. The event began with a recitation of holy hymns. Araicha and principal Dhiraj Kumar Thapliyal conferred the cabinet members with badges and administered the pledge to them. Principal Dhiraj Kumar Thapliyal proposed the vote of thanks. The programme concluded with the national anthem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pau-organises-plantation-drive-to-mark-world-ozone-day-101631989355758.html
18-09-2021||Other||Punjab state inter-district senior one-day tournament: Mohali registers victory over Ludhiana||Mohali senior cricket team scripted a brilliant 95-run victory against host Ludhiana in the Punjab state inter-district senior one-day tournament at GRD Academy on Saturday.Mohali team won the toss and chose to bat first. The team scored a mammoth total of 337 runs in 49.2 overs.Both Ramandeep and Anshul Chowdhary pitched in with 131 and 107 runs, respectively.Ramandeep played a blasting knock as he scored 131 runs in just 73 balls.Jassinder chipped in with three wickets while Maninder and Barinder captured two wickets each.Chasing the huge total, Ludhiana lost two early wickets. Nehal Vadera steadied Ludhiana’s sinking ship by scoring 124 runs in 122 balls. V Kalra got out scoring crucial 69 runs. The rest of Ludhiana’s batsmen failed to reach double figures. Showing some metal, Harshit took a fiver in his 9.2 over spell but gave away 85 runs. Meanwhile, Hartej took three wickets.The team got out at a total of 242 runs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-state-inter-district-senior-one-day-tournament-mohali-registers-victory-over-ludhiana-101631989115717.html
18-09-2021||Pune||After Nick Jonas’ ‘Solapuri chaddar shirt’ attracts attention, manufacturers eye profit||PUNE Solapuri chaddar, cotton sheets, came into the limelight last week after actor Priyanka Chopra’s pop-star husband Nick Jonas flaunted a printed shirt resembling the same fabric and design.Once very popular, the customer base for Solapuri chaddars have shrunk. Hence manufacturers are emphasising the changes in the weight, colour and designs without compromising the identity of the brand and are hoping that Jonas’s fashion trick would help in rebranding of the chaddarsNow more looms in Solapur are producing ‘terry towels’ and napkins, which are the popular export material, manufacturers.“The looming business of Solapuri chaddar was huge from 1993 to 2003. In 2006 20,000 looms were producing the chaddars. We have carried out a survey in Solapur after the second wave of Covid-19. Now there are only 16,000 functional looms. Out of these 12,000 looms produce ‘terry towels’ and 4,000 are jacquard chaddar looms. At least 50,000 workers are directly or indirectly dependent on the industry,” said Raju Rathi, president of Solapur Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture and secretary of Solapur Yantramag Dharak Sangh.When Jonas’s photo wearing a shirt with a similar design of Solapuri Chaddar posted on social media platforms went viral and everyone noticed the logo of the ‘Chatla’ manufacturing industry of the chaddar on the shirt, much to the amusement of netizens.Govardhan Chatla, the owner of Chatla Textile Industries in Solapur, said that it was a pleasant surprise for them as well. Chatla also emphasised the innovations in the designs and texture of the Solapuri chaddar without compromising its true identity to remain relevant in the business.“Earlier there were few options in the beading and customers used to prefer low cost, durable and dark coloured chaddars. Gradually the needs of the people changed. They have started to prefer light and easily washable options. We made changes in the manufacturing accordingly. We now produce light chaddar which can be washed in the machine,” said Chatla.He also said that customers should buy only original Solapuri chaddars as the many imitated items have now come into the market which is hampering the business of manufactures.Though Jonas flaunted a shirt with a design like Solapuri Chaddar, manufacturers do not think it would be a popular fashion choice in the local market. But they are hoping that it would help in the rebranding of the GI tagged product.“Solapuri chaddar is thick. The jackets made out of it may not go well in our market considering our climatic conditions. But initiatives like these surely help to make the product popular and draw people’s attention to it,” said Rathi.Apart from the chaddars, Solapur’s garment industry has become a huge producer of the popular export item ‘terry towels’.“The terry towels on jacquard are exported and they are in demand from abroad. Whereas chaddars are not exported. Terry towels and napkins have dominated the space in Solapur’s garment industry,” said Suhas Rawade, manufacturer of the terry towels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-nick-jonas-solapuri-chaddar-shirt-attracts-attention-manufacturers-eye-profit-101631988997868.html
18-09-2021||Bangalore||Mahatma was also not spared to protect Hindus: says Hindu Mahasabha leader on temple demolition in Karnataka||Addressing a press conference in Mangaluru regarding the recent demolition of illegal religious structures in the city, a Hindu Mahasabha leader stoked a controversy on Saturday saying ‘they didn’t even spare Mahatma Gandhi to protect Hindus’. Leader of the outfit, Dharmendra, came down heavily on chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and said, “When we didn’t spare Mahatma Gandhi and killed him to protect Hindus, do you think we will spare you?” “Temples were demolished by the government in Chitradurga, Dakshina Kannada, and Mysuru. Who is running the government? If this had happened during the Congress regime, do you think the situation would have been the same? As long as the Hindu Mahasabha is there, we are not going to allow you to demolish Hindu temples,” he added. The statements come days after a video showing the Mysuru district administration demolishing a temple went viral. The Karnataka high court had pulled up authorities for failing to take action against illegal structures built on government land, prompting the Mysuru district administration to act. On August 12, the HC said the Supreme Court has stated that all illegal religious structures that were built after September 29, 2009, shall not be tolerated. The leader further posed the question as to why mosques and churches were not demolished as part of this drive. “If our Constitution guarantees us the right to equality, why are only Hindus being targeted?” he asked. Responding to the controversy, The Karnataka government on Wednesday said that it was not informed by the Mysuru district administration of its temple demolition plans and termed the action as ‘wrong’, assuring to discontinue the drive. KS Eshwarappa, minister for rural development and panchayat raj, said all deputy commissioners will be asked not to take any hasty action. “The government will sit, decide, and then direct what needs to be done,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/mahatma-was-also-not-spared-to-protect-hindus-says-hindu-mahasabha-leader-on-temple-demolition-in-karnataka-101631988996574.html
18-09-2021||Other||SFJ head Pannun, two others booked for painting pro-Khalistani slogans on walls||Ludhiana A day after the state police busted a secessionist module of the US-based banned organisation, Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), the Dehlon police have booked its head Gurpatwant Singh Pannun for sedition. This was after Khalistani slogans were found painted on the walls in Gill village. Jashan Mangat, of Asa Patti Rampur village in Doraha, has also been named in the FIR. The third accused in this case is Doraha resident Gurwinder Singh, who was arrested on Friday. The FIR has been lodged on a complaint from Dehlon station house officer (SHO) inspector Sukhdev Singh, who said that pro-Khalistani slogans ‘Khalistan Zindabad’, ‘Kisani Da Hal Khalistan’ and ‘Punjab Banega Khalistan’ had been spray painted on walls of houses in Gill village on the intervening night of August 18 and 19. After investigation, the police found the involvement of Gurwinder and Mangat in the crime, with the SHO claiming that Pannun’s role in such activities had been well-documented. Gill sarpanch Harpreet Singh Mika said he had hoisted the Indian flag at Pannu’s native Khankot village of Amritsar, and had been receiving threats from the SFJ since then. In the wee hours of August 18, some unidentified accused wrote pro-Khalistan slogans near his office in Gill village. He added that when counter-intelligence and state special operational cell, Mohali, conducted an operation in Doraha on Friday in which Gurwinder along with Jagwinder Singh and Sukhdev Singh of Ropar were arrested, it was found that Gurwinder and Mangat, of Doraha, had written the slogans near his office. The SHO added that the police would bring Gurwinder for questioning and a hunt was on to nab Mangat. Over 2.8 lakh pamphlets carrying propaganda material related to ‘Referendum 2020’, a printer, spray pump and spray bottles for writing secessionist graffiti on walls, one laptop, three mobile phones and a Honda City car were recovered from Gurwinder. A case against Pannun and two others has been registered under Sections 124-A (sedition), 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups), 153-B (imputation, assertion prejudicial to national integration) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sfj-head-pannun-two-others-booked-for-painting-pro-khalistani-slogans-on-walls-101631988995421.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||DSLSA launches 19 legal aid vans in city||With limited access to physical courts during the pandemic, the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) launched 19 mobile legal aid vans that visited several slums in the city to spread awareness about legal rights on Friday.DSLSA officials said the initiative reached out to over 8,700 people through 73 legal aid camps and educated them about several provisions of the law, including those related to domestic violence and crimes against children.In a statement on Saturday, DSLSA said, “Persons were also made aware about DSLSA’s 24x7 toll free helpline number – 1516... Awareness campaigns regarding importance of performing fundamental duties were conducted in four schools...”The camps also registered 4,492 construction workers to the Delhi construction workers welfare board for availing benefits. Further, DSLSA also organised a puppet show at Prayas Children Home to make children aware of good and bad touch, and provisions of the Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.Gautam Manan, special secretary of DSLSA, also said that they will organise a traffic lok adalat in the first week of October for disposal of pending challans in Delhi.Sumeet Anand, secretary of New Delhi DLSA, was among those who made their legal counsel available on the spot||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dslsa-launches-19-legal-aid-vans-in-city-101631988773464.html
18-09-2021||Other||Stay away from villages, Tikait warns BJP leaders||MEERUT Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief and head of Balyan Khap Naresh Tikait came down heavily on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday and warned the party leaders to not increase their activities in villages, else the flags of their party won’t be seen on their vehicles. Addressing the BKU’s monthly meeting at its headquarters in Sisauli in Muzaffarnagar, the farmer leader said, “We had advised the saffron party leaders to refrain from visiting villages but people have reported about their increasing activities and meetings.” Warning the BJP leaders he said, “They should not take our silence as our weakness. They will not find their party flags on their vehicles.” Tikait cautioned farmers and people about the anti-farmer and anti-people activities of the BJP and said, “It will ruin farmers and farming if the party is voted to power in the coming UP assembly elections.” Tikait also honoured the volunteers and people who arranged ‘langar’ ( free meal) and other facilities for farmers during the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’s Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on September 5. He called upon farmers to be united to get their demands fulfilled. “They (BJP) will try to divide us but we have to unite people,” said Tikait. Without mentioning the name of Gathwala Malik Khap’s Choudhary Rajendra Singh, Tikait said “We have some Jaichands among Khap choudharys. They are flying high after their meeting with the chief minister,” and added that an important meeting of choudharys of all Khaps would be convened soon. They may take some important decision and action would be initiated against those trying to sabotage the ongoing farmers’ movement. To note, on September 28, a Mahapanchayat has been proposed at the same GIC ground in Muzaffarnagar where the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha Mahapanchayat was held on September 5. Malik Khap’s Choudhary Rajendra Singh is conducting meetings in villages to mobilise people to attend the Mahapanchayat on September 28. BKU leader Rajesh Tikait has already said it would be a ‘ sarkari Mahapanchayat’ to counter their Mahapanchayat. But many members and leaders of Malik Khap, including Thambedar (regional head) Shyam Singh have expressed their dismay over Rajendra Singh’s efforts to mobilise people to attend the proposed Mahapanchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stay-away-from-villages-tikait-warns-bjp-leaders-101631988755623.html
18-09-2021||Noida||G Noida abduction case: Court allows woman to live with male friend||A fast-track court in Surajpur on Saturday allowed a 20-year-old woman to stay with her friend after she said that she didn’t feel safe with her parents.The police produced the woman before the court after her parents lodged a complaint on Thursday, alleging that her friend abducted her and took her to Gonda. However, the woman told the court that she went with him of her own volition.Dinesh Kumar, SHO Badalpur police station, said acting on the complaint by the woman’s parents, the Greater Noida police “recovered” the woman from her friend’s place in Gonda on Friday. “The woman was produced before the court to record her statement under Section 164 of CrPc. The woman told the court that her family was against her relationship with her friend. The family was opposed to their marriage, and said that she wants to stay with her friend,” he said.The court directed the police to ensure the woman’s safe return to Gonda. A police team on Saturday took the woman and her friend to Gonda. Police said the woman’s father died a few years ago. “The woman’s family had opened a ₹1-crore fixed deposit account in her name. Later, the woman’s mother married her late husband’s younger brother. Recently, differences emerged between the woman and her mother and step father. Following this, she decided to shift to her friend’s place in Gonda,” the SHO said.After lodging the fake complaint of abduction, the woman’s family, friends and some local residents blocked NH-91 for two hours on Thursday. They also protested at the Badalpur police station. The woman’s father claimed that she was abducted from Sadopur village, when she was on a morning walk with her three siblings.SHO Kumar said the FIR registered in connection with alleged abduction stands null and void now, adding that the police will register a case against the woman’s family members for registering a fake complaint. The police have also booked people who protested on the highway. “We have registered a separate case against 18 named and 150 unnamed persons for protesting on NH-91 and restricting traffic movement under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and sections 3 and 7 of The Epidemic Diseases Act,” SHO Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/g-noida-abduction-case-court-allows-woman-to-live-with-male-friend-101631988696005.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Police nab West Bengal man for kidnapping 4-year-old boy from Taloja||A 27-year-old man has been arrested from Bhiwandi on Friday for allegedly kidnapping a four-year-old boy from Taloja. The police also claimed to have rescued the boy within five hours.According to the police, the accused, Majirul Haque, a labourer and native of West Bengal, stayed in a rented house near the boy’s family at Pendhar village at Taloja.Kashinath Chavan, senior inspector of Taloja police station, said, “For the past several months, the accused had been requesting the boy’s 23-year-old sister to marry him. The woman, who also works in a factory, had no interest in him and thus kept refusing him. On July 7, when she was returning from work, the accused assaulted her with bare hands for not accepting his proposals. He also threatened to kidnap and kill her four-year-old brother.” On Friday, when she was at work, her other brother, 13, went to her office and informed her that their youngest brother was missing. They approached the police and registered a kidnapping case against Haque as he had earlier threatened to kidnap and kill the boy. “We sent teams to different places including Bhiwandi, Kurla, CSMT and Thane from where the accused might board a train to his hometown. After technical analysis, we traced him at a bus depot in Bhiwandi and rescued the boy. We arrested the accused on the spot,” Chavan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-nab-west-bengal-man-for-kidnapping-4-year-old-boy-from-taloja-101631988635542.html
18-09-2021||Noida||3 cops suspended for extorting money from G Noida guest house owner||Greater Noida: Three police personnel were suspended on Saturday after a video in which they were allegedly seen extorting money from a guest house owner in Greater Noida went viral.The suspended suspects were identified as head constable Rajendra Singh, and two constables -- Sachin Balyan and Ankit Kumar -- of the Sector Beta 2 police station in Greater Noida. The victim, Jitendra Solanki, said a couple had checked in the guest house on Wednesday (September 15) night in Sector Beta 2. “The couple, who identified themselves as friends, had told me that they came to Greater Noida to appear for an examination,” Solanki said.Three police personnel from the Pari Chowk check post came to the guest house to conduct a raid. “They took me and the couple to the police check post and demanded ₹1 lakh to release us, else they would put us behind bars in connection with an immoral trafficking case. The cops also took away ₹30,000 from my pocket,” Solanki said, adding that the cops had also beaten him.“Later, I called my brother, who got ₹20,000 more for me. They took away ₹50,000 in total from us... Meanwhile, we shot a video of the incident secretly and shared it on social media,” he added.A police team launched a probe, being headed by Praveen Kumar Singh, assistant commissioner of police (1), Greater Noida, in the matter on Friday.“Primary investigation shows that the cops had allegedly taken ₹20,000 from the guest house owner’s brother. In case of an immoral activity, the police personnel should have informed senior officials and acted according to the law,” Singh said.Police have also launched a departmental inquiry against the suspended officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/3-cops-suspended-for-extorting-money-from-g-noida-guest-house-owner-101631988398506.html
18-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Residents of Mandla village forced to perform cremation in open during monsoon||Sukhbir Singh, a resident of Loni’s Mandla village who lost his 55-year-old wife on Thursday, had to face difficulties while performing the last rites at the village’s cremation ground amid heavy downpour as there is no shed at the ground. “My wife died after suffering high fever for several days. We took the body to the cremation ground. But when I lit the funeral pyre, it started raining heavily. It was a helpless situation for us as there was no shed at the cremation ground. Some of my friends arranged for a sheet of iron that we placed over the burning pyre to prevent it from rainwater, and this is how we had to complete the cremation,” Singh said. Some of his relatives also prepared a video of the incident that highlighted the plight of the family. “It is happening with the villagers for the past several months. The authorities must intervene immediately and erect a shed at the cremation ground,” Singh added. Mandla has an estimated population of about 2,500, while the cremation ground also caters to some small localities like Ram Vihar and Brij Vihar. Shalini Gupta, executive officer of Loni Nagar Palika, said that the cremation ground’s shed was in a dilapidated condition, so the municipality got it removed a few months ago. “The old shed was removed as we do not want the Muradngar-like incident to happen here. The villagers are facing problems. We have initiated the process to float a tender that will be opened in the next 10 days. The construction of a shed, which will cost about ₹3.36 lakh, will start next month,” Gupta said. When asked about the issue, Loni MLA Nand Kishor Gurjar said, “The problem has come to my knowledge, and I am told that the officials have initiated the process for floating a tender for erecting a shed at the cremation ground. I will personally see to it that the work is expedited. It is a genuine problem the villagers are facing nowadays.” According to Gurjar, the village was brought under the jurisdiction of the Loni Nagar Palika about four years ago.In January this year, the roof of a shelter at Ukhlarsi cremation ground in Muradnagar had collapsed, killing 25 persons. The under construction structure allegedly collapsed due to structural issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-residents-of-mandla-village-forced-to-perform-cremation-in-open-during-monsoon-101631988399094.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai records 8 positive, 77 suspected dengue cases – most in last 4 years||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has recorded the highest number of dengue patients this year compared to the last four years. With increase in dengue patients, NMMC chief, Abhijit Bangar, has directed his officials to do the targetted testing of houses in Navi Mumbai.Currently, Navi Mumbai has eight dengue positive cases while reports of 77 suspected samples are awaited from NIV, Pune.In 2020, there were 27 suspected cases of which none was found to be positive. According to NMMC officials, last year, all were confined to their homes due to the lockdown while this year, with everything opened up and people back from native, the breeding spots have been formed.In a review meeting taken by Bangar on Friday, officials were asked to take immediate action if any suspected dengue patient was found. The samples of the suspected dengue patients are sent to NIV, Pune, while the malaria test is conducted in Navi Mumbai itself. Instead of waiting for a confirmation on dengue, Bangar asked the officers to find if there is any breeding spot and to destroy the same the moment a suspected patient is found.“Just like in Covid cases, we have definite hotspots for dengue as well and effective action would be implemented for preventive measures by focusing on the area where the suspected dengue patient is found. In areas where there are more cases, more attention would be paid to mosquito breeding,” Bangar added.He also asked to give special attention to the sites where construction is under way. The engineering department has been asked to provide information on construction sites in the city to the health department.“The rain pattern right now is most favourable for the breeding of mosquitoes and hence people should take extreme care to make sure that there is no stagnant water anywhere in the house including the pots,” Medical Health officer Pramod Patil, said.He added that stagnant water even in a bottle cap can become a breeding spot. “Currently, Navi Mumbai has had eight cases of dengue since January and to avoid the surge, we will have micro planning and increased surveillance. Besides, most important is awareness among people and cooperation from them in making sure that they do not indirectly create any breeding spot for mosquitoes,” Patil added.A Google form has been sent to all major hospitals in Navi Mumbai and they have been instructed to inform all monsoon-related water-borne and vector-borne diseases daily. “The Google sheet includes details of the patient and the diagnosis. This will help us in knowing the daily trend and timely intervention can be taken,” Patil said.This year, Navi Mumbai has had 222 suspected cases of dengue of which eight have been confirmed and reports of 77 are awaited. In 2019, of the 283 suspected cases, six were found positive. Of the 60,320 samples checked for malaria, 19 were found to be positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-records-8-positive-77-suspected-dengue-cases-most-in-last-4-years-101631987990549.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police leaves for Prayagraj on trail of man who supplied RDX to Pak terror module members||New Delhi: A Delhi police team on Saturday left for Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh to take custody of a man, who surrendered at the Kareli police station on Friday night. The police suspect that he could be the same person whose name came up during interrogation of six alleged members of a Pakistan-backed terror module. Officers aware of the matter said the man, who claimed his name is Baidur-Rehman, could be the same person, whom Delhi police are on the lookout for since Monday afternoon. On Monday, the police arrested Jaan Mohammad Shaikh (47), Osama alias Sami (22), Moolchand alias Saaju (47), Zeeshan Qamar (28), Mohamed Abu Bakr (23), and Mohammed Amir Javed (31) from Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Investigating officers, who asked not to be named, said it was Baidur who had handed the RDX to suspect Zeeshan Qamar. Baidur’s interrogation could help police find missing links in the module. “ We recovered about 1700 gram of RDX from Zeeshan. It was given to him by Baidur Rehan. His interrogation could help us unearth the source of the explosive,” said one officer, who asked not to be named. Baidur ,a resident of Kareli area in Prayagraj, is also a relative of arrested suspect, Osama. Osama is a resident of Jamia Nagar in Delhi.Of the six men arrested on Monday, police said Zeeshan and Osama were trained in Pakistan to make Improvised Explosive Devices(IEDs), and using guns and grenades by their handlers from Pakistan spy agency, ISI.Announcing the arrest of the six men on Tuesday, the Delhi Police claimed that the six men were in the “advanced stage” of their preparations to launch serial blasts in at least three states. Police also claimed that interrogation of the arrested suspects revealed that Anees Ibrahim, brother of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, currently suspected to be hiding in Pakistan, was connected to this module and was smuggling arms and ammunition into the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-leaves-for-prayagraj-on-trail-of-man-who-supplied-rdx-to-pak-terror-module-members-101631987855359.html
18-09-2021||Lucknow||Throats of Maharashtra woman, her 3 kids slit in UP’s Bahraich||A man from Bahraich lured a woman from Maharashtra on the pretext of marriage and killed her and her three minor children. The bodies were found in Bahraich district last week and police arrested the man and his two accomplices from Maharashtra on Saturday.Confirming the arrest, Sujata Singh, superintendent of police (SP), Bahraich, said,” We have arrested Nanku Ali, Salman Khan and Danish Khan all residents of Bahraich in connection with four murders that took place in the district on September 10. The deceased have been identified. Nanku is the main accused.” The accused have been booked for murder.According to the police, Nanku used to work in a restaurant in Thane, Maharashtra, where he met Mary Kashi (35). The woman had separated from her husband a few years ago and had three children Rajati, 11, Joseph, 7, and Saundrya, 4. Nanku began a relationship with the woman.“A few months ago Mary sold her house and gave the money to Nanku when the latter promised to marry her. So that he would not have to return the money, Nanku asked Mary to travel to Bahraich and marry him. But Nanku was already married and his real intention was to kill Mary and her children and not return the money he owed her. Nanku also involved his friends Salman and Danish in the crime,” said the SP.Nanku reached Baharaich with Mary and the children by train via Lucknow on September 10. He met with the other accused and murdered Mary and her children by slitting their throats. They later dumped the bodies and returned to Thane on September 13.“The bodies of Mary and her children were found on September 11. There were no leads initially because nobody could identify the bodies. However, with help of local intelligence and mobile surveillance we were able to track the accused and arrest them,” said the SP.The state government has announced an award of ₹1 lakh to the investigating team that cracked the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/throats-of-maharashtra-woman-her-3-kids-slit-in-up-s-bahraich-101631987556074.html
18-09-2021||Noida||Surajpur wetland inundated; avoid visits, says forest department||The Surajpur reserve forest and wetland, the city’s only official wetland and a major birding site, has been waterlogged for the past few days, officials from the forest department said. The officials have asked birders to not visit the wetland for one week. According to the forest department, heavy rainfall over the past few days led to excessive water inlet into the reserve forest area through a large drain. While most of the areas of the park have been inundated, at certain places the rainwater has levelled with the lake, the officials said, adding that they are currently cleaning the drain that passes through the wetland.“The Surajpur reserve forest is a low-lying area. Also, a stormwater drain passes through the lake and another drain goes out. Due to rain, excessive water has been fed into the drain and thus it is clogged now. Several parts of the forest areas are submerged and the level of lake has risen. We are working to clean the outlet drain, and hope that waterlogging will be cleared in next three days,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest department, Gautam Budh Nagar.A stormwater drain called Havelia originates from Hapur, and one of the streams of Havelia goes into Surajpur while the other meets Hindon river near Kasna area.The officials said that though Surajpur wetland doesn’t have a ticketing system and visitors and birders are allowed inside on “goodwill to promote birding”, it is not advisable to visit for a week.“A few birders had arrived at the wetland, though it is not advisable for people to visit currently. We would request birders to avoid the wetland for a few days,” added Srivastava.Spread over an area of 308 hectares, of which 60 hectares is lake, Surajpur wetland is the city’s largest reserve forest and one of three major birding hotspots with others being the Okhla Bird Sanctuary and Dhanauri wetland.The Surajpur wetland was the only habitat in GB Nagar that showed the sign of healthier habitat, as the numbers of migratory and resident waterbirds at the wetland increased this birding season, according to a census held in January this year.According to the census held by the Asian Waterbird Census-2021 held by the Wetlands International South Asia and the forest department, a total of 3,107 birds of 40 species were found against 2,092 birds from 39 species in January 2020 and 3,034 birds of 42 species in January 2019. The census recorded a total of 40 species of water birds, of which 17 were resident species and 23 migratory species.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/surajpur-wetland-inundated-avoid-visits-says-forest-department-101631987554745.html
18-09-2021||Noida||Noida: Discom installs energy meters at power sub-stations to check theft||Noida: Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) -- the power distribution company in Noida -- has installed energy meters on feeders at all power sub-stations to prevent power theft in the region. The energy meters provide actual figures of the electricity supplied to the people -- officially consumed and line losses -- said officials on Saturday.With the help of these energy meters, the discom is identifying areas where power theft and line loss incidents are the maximum, said Virendra Nath Singh, chief engineer of PVVNL, Noida divisional.“These energy meters give actual details of the power supply with respect to the power consumed by the bona fide consumers. We have found that in many rural and semi-urban areas like Baraula, Salarpur, Hindon Vihar, Gejha, Bhangel, Sarfabad, Jhundpura, Nayabans, and Nithari the power consumption is less than the figures in energy meters of the feeders concerned. The difference in the figures is mainly due to power theft. To check the pilferage, we will initiate a massive crackdown on power theft incidents in these areas soon,” Singh said.He also said that the discom has decided to inspect meters of heavy-load connections regularly. “Out of the total 76 feeders in urban areas, we have identified 66 from where line loss of over 50% is being reported. Prima facie, it appears power theft is the main reason behind this, amounting to aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) loss. We have started checking heavy-load meters in areas where electricity is being supplied through these 66 feeders,” Singh added.Stating that the overall line losses in Noida is around 18%, Singh said that the city is one of the biggest revenue generating areas in Uttar Pradesh. “On the basis of a survey conducted by a private agency, officials of the Uttar Pradesh power department said that 66 feeders in urban areas and 43 in rural areas have been identified as feeders prone to heavier line losses. The crackdown on power thieves will certainly bring down the power loss to less than 15% in these areas in two months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-discom-installs-energy-meters-at-power-sub-stations-to-check-theft-101631987434698.html
18-09-2021||Pune||ACB sleuths arrest two for forcibly transferring ₹50k to Haveli tehsildar’s account||Pune: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has arrested two persons on Friday on charges of allegedly trying to force a bribe to a woman tehsildar in Pune. According to the ACB sleuths, the accused identified as truck firm owner Dattatray Pingle (33) and his associate identified as Amit Kande (29) tried to give Trupti Kolte, tehsildar of Haveli, a bribe which she rejected. Pingle then asked Kande to transfer ₹1 thereby to access her bank account and later deposited Rs50,000 into the tehsildar’s Google Pay (GPay) account. When Kolte found out about the money being credited into her account, she approached the ACB and lodged a formal complaint. The bribe attempt was made after Kolte had taken action against a truck involved in illegal sand transportation in Shewalwadi area of Hadapsar on September 18. According to the investigators, when Kolte had asked Pingle to stop his strike, he fled from the spot with the keys. After that she informed the regional officer Venkatesh Chiramulla and asked him to send staff for further action. Later in the evening Kande called her on the mobile which she did not answer but later he transferred the amount in her Google Pay account. Kolte has earlier worked as tehsildar in Pune city, Solapur and Maval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/acb-sleuths-arrest-two-for-forcibly-transferring-rs-50k-to-haveli-tehsildar-s-account-101631987315368.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Thane city police gets custody of Dawood aide Parveen||The Thane city police has taken custody of fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim’s alleged aide, Tariq Parveen. This, in connection with the case filed in Thane Nagar police station by Ketan Tanna against former Mumbai CP Parambir Singh along with 29 other accused including top cops, underworld gangsters and journalists for extortion. He was produced in court on Saturday and given police custody till September 22.A senior officer from Thane said, “We have taken his custody from CID and produced him in the Thane Sessions Court on Saturday.”Sagar Kadam, complainant Tanna’s lawyer, said, “The arrested accused Parveen was connected with the team of Anti-Extortion Cell of Thane, which was headed by Pradip Sharma. Parveen was involved in extorting and accepting money from Tanna. To get the details about everyone’s role and collect evidence relating to the same, police asked for custody for seven days and the court has approved custody up to September 22.” Tanna, who is in the construction business, claimed that Singh and his team extorted crores of rupees by threatening to get him involved in a fake crime case. They allegedly also threatened to carry out his encounter if he did not pay. Therefore, he filed an FIR in August this year. This is the second arrest in the case after builder Sanjay Punamiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-city-police-gets-custody-of-dawood-aide-parveen-101631987255235.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||AAP’s free power in UP promise has BJP worried: Sanjay Singh||Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and MP Sanjay Singh said that BJP has been taken aback by his party’s promise of free 300 units of electricity each month to the people of UP. He said that the promise had forced a state minister to even comment that AAP was trying to make the people freebie-lovers. Singh who was in Prayagraj on Saturday to attend an AAP function in Kareli and Naini areas of the district, addressed mediapersons at the Circuit House and said that in a state where the ministers and MLAs were all enjoying free power supply, AAP’s promise to extend the same electricity to the people free of cost was being dubbed by nervous BJP leaders as getting people used to freebies, which was actually an insult to the common man.“Actually, the promise of giving free electricity of 300 units each month to every household of the state was a masterstroke of AAP which obviously has the BJP leaders worried,” he claimed. He said that AAP workers will spread awareness regarding the offer of free electricity to people across the state. He said that a ‘Jan Jagrukta Abhyan’ will be launched on October 5, with the aim to take AAP’s vision of the state to the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aaps-free-power-in-up-promise-has-bjp-worried-sanjay-singh-101631987075705.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||₹65 crore spent on road repair in Kalyan-Dombivli, yet roads full of potholes||In last five years, a total of around ₹65Cr has been spent on road repair works in Kalyan-Dombivli. However, despite spending so much on roads, there are complaints of bumpy rides due to potholes raised by motorists every monsoon.Commuters claim that the situation is the same every year as almost the same roads develop potholes during the monsoon.“We can see the civic body filling the potholes, repairing the road and asphalting them. However, what is the point when every monsoon, the roads develop different sizes of craters. There is nothing permanent when it comes to the roads in Kalyan-Dombivli. For how many years will we keep spending crores of rupees on the roads,” said Mahendra Singh, 39, a motorist who takes the Subhash Bridge in Kalyan (W) to connect to Kalyan (E) daily to reach his shop.According to KDMC, the road in the city develops potholes due to several reasons including lack of funds for regular resurfacing of roads, climatic conditions, no proper storm water drainage system along these roads, encroachments and the continuous increasing movement of vehicles in the city.Some of the roads in Kalyan-Dombivli that develop potholes every year are Haji Malang Road to Chetna School, Chakkinaka Road towards Nandivli Village, Katemanivali, Vitthalwadi cemetery and Chinchpada road in Kalyan (E), Gandhari Road, Wadeghar, Parnaka, Tilak Chowk to Shankar Rao Chowk in Kalyan (W).In KDMC, there are roads that cover 480km, out of which 450km are asphalt roads and the rest 30km are cement concrete roads.“These roads require resurfacing and strengthening every four to five years, which we don’t do on all the roads due to lack of funds. What we do is repair the roads on a yearly basis without resurfacing. Strengthening is done depending on the vehicle load, traffic situation of the existing roads, ensuring there are no potholes. This is one major reason why the potholes are developed,” said Sapna Koli, city engineer, KDMC.As per the KDMC, resurfacing is carried out on roads considering the vehicular traffic on the stretch. Depending on this, the layer of tar is given. It also includes the work of drainage lines along the roads.“Another major reason for potholes is the lack of proper storm water drain. This year, the rain intensity was higher in a short period of time and there is no proper place for the water to flow from the road. Proper drainage lines make a major difference to the condition of the road,” added Koli.The KDMC has taken up mastic asphalting at different stretches. It lasts longer than the regular asphalting. The Subhash (Waldhuni) bridge in Kalyan was covered with mastic asphalt three years ago and no potholes were seen on the bridge until a few were seen during this monsoon.“The life of mastic asphalting is for three years. We did the F-Cabin Road and are doing mastic asphalting on Thakurli Bridge in Kalyan,” added Koli.Around ₹50 lakh was spent for mastic asphalting on the Subhash Bridge. However, this type of asphalting is not feasible for all the roads as it has disadvantages of road turning slippery during the monsoon.“What I have noticed is the tender for the road repair work is done for six months right before the monsoon. For the remaining six months, no major works for roads are undertaken. The civic body should utilise these six months to ensure the roads are repaired in a proper way,” said Sreeniwas Ghanekar, founder of Alert Citizens Forum. “The work done is also sub-standard in which both the contractors and the civic officials need to be blamed. There is no proper inspection of work. The civic body spends crores of rupees every year and still there is no permanent solution to this.”Meanwhile, irked with the bad roads in Ulhasnagar, the traders association and auto rickshaw union in the city have warned that they would beg in public places and collect funds for repairing the roads if the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) fails to fill potholes in three days.“This is the only way now we can get the roads repaired and be free of potholes. Most roads in the city have huge potholes. It is very difficult to commute. The auto drivers at Ulhasnagar railway station have also extended their support to our decision. We will literally beg and collect funds and fill the potholes,” said Sonu Ahuja, president of Shivshankar Shopkeepers Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rs65cr-spent-on-road-repair-in-kalyan-dombivli-yet-roads-full-of-potholes-101631986716768.html
18-09-2021||Other||Gurugram: 3 ATM thieves at large despite 6km chase by cops||Police are on the lookout of three armed criminals who cut open an ATM of a private bank in Dhankot area and fled despite cops chasing them for over 6km on Friday night. Police said around 2am on Friday night, a police team patrolling in Dhankot area found three men trying to cut open an ATM using a gas cutter. When the suspects spotted the police, they fled the spot in a car.  A police officer said a team chased the suspects and also rammed into their car but the suspects managed to escape and flee towards Chandu Budhera village. The police team chased the suspects for over 6km, during which one of the suspects also fired a gunshot but no one was injured. The suspects rammed the vehicle on to a divider in Kaliawas and fled the spot on foot taking advantage of the dark, said the officer. Police said that they are yet to know the amount looted from the ATM as the private bank has not yet given its report. Subash Boken, a spokesperson for the police, said a case has been registered against the suspects under sections 457, 380 and other relevant sections of the IPC at Rajendra Park police station on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-3-atm-thieves-at-large-despite-6km-chase-by-cops-101631986715513.html
18-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 9 new Covid cases, zero deaths||Uttar Pradesh recorded nine fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 17,09,652 on Saturday, while the death toll stood at 22,887 with no new fatality, an official statement said.One case each was reported from Allahabad, Agra, Jhansi, Meerut,  Bulandshahr, Ghazipur, Kaushambi, Chitrakoot and Fatehpur, it said.In the past 24 hours, seven patients recovered from the infection, taking the overall recoveries to 16,86,572, the statement said.The number of active cases in the state stands at 193, it said.In the past 24 hours, more than 1.82 lakh samples were tested, while over 7.61 crore tests for the detection of Covid-19 have been conducted in the state so far, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-9-new-covid-cases-zero-deaths-101631984532209.html
18-09-2021||Gurugram||Major infra upgrade planned for Delhi-Jaipur highway by 2023 to improve traffic||In a bid to improve the traffic congestion on the Delhi-Jaipur highway, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has plans to spend about ₹450 crore for upgrading the infrastructure on the highway by 2023. NHAI officials said that the authority has decided to build four major flyovers, five road over bridges, seven minor bridges, and 11 bus bays, among others.At present, there are several locations on the highway such as Manesar, Bilaspur, and Dharuhera, which witness heavy congestion during peak hours. Manoj Arya, project director, NHAI, said that the authority has already floated a tender for the infrastructure upgrade. “The last date for submitting the tender is September 30. The work on this highway will be completed in one and half years, and it would greatly improve traffic movement and prevent accidents,” said Arya. Arya said that presently Manesar, Bilaspur, Dharuhera and Kapriwas, all in Haryana, are among the most congested and accident-prone areas on the highway. “The construction of elevated roads, underpasses and road over bridges will prevent accidents to a great extent. The congestion at these points will also reduce,” he said. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, who was in Gurugram on Thursday, also said that to improve this road, the ministry had already approved several projects at Manesar, Bilaspur and Kapriwas at the cost of ₹250 crore. Apart from this, several other improvement works will be carried out by NHAI, he said.“I have a dream to build the first electric highway on this road so that buses and trucks can move using electricity. All these plans are part of our vision for futuristic transport,” Gadkari had said. A senior NHAI official, who wished anonymity, said that a road project to bypass traffic at Dharuhera has also been approved. “This will also ease traffic woes at this location,” he said. With the primary focus on improving safety at these locations, NHAI officials said that adequate road safety measures will be taken. These include roadside signs, overhead signs and curb mounted signs along the identified stretches on the highway. The new structures will also have provision of W-beam crash barrier at the high embankment locations, the officials said. Referring to the proposed projects on the Delhi-Jaipur highway as a positive step, Union minister and Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh said that this infrastructure upgrade was much needed. “These flyovers should come up fast. But another important need is to recarpet the entire highway to ease travelling. The authority must also improve the condition of service roads,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/major-infra-upgrade-planned-for-delhi-jaipur-highway-by-2023-to-improve-traffic-101631985695644.html
18-09-2021||Other||Over 50k fines issued for wrong-side driving in Gurugram till August||More than 50,000 challans have been issued for wrong-side driving till August this year as part of the traffic police’s efforts to reduce road accidents in the city by stepping up enforcement and surveillance through CCTV cameras. Officials said due to the strict crackdown this year, the number of challans issued for wrong-side driving in the last eight months has exceeded the total number of violations registered under this category in 2020 and 2019. According to data available with the traffic police, the traffic police issued 52,746 challans for wrong side driving till August 31,with officials stating that the drive against the offence will be taken up on a large scale till the end of this year. As part of their enforcement drive this year, traffic police officials said they have identified four spots in the city —Vatika Chowk, IFFCO Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, and Rajiv Chowk — where instances of wrong-side driving are maximum and deployed traffic marshals round the clock to keep an eye out for those committing the offence. “We observed many fatal accidents were occurring due to wrong-side driving across the city and accordingly, deputed our resources to curb the violation. Based on the feedback from our traffic marshals, we identified four major spots in the city, where the instances of wrong-side driving are maximum, which accounts for nearly 20-25% of all violations in the city,” said Ravinder Singh Tomar, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Gurugram traffic police.Tomar said wrong-side driving at the four spots was not due to engineering defects but primarily due to a behavioural issue.“At all the four points, the distance to the next possible U-turn is less than a kilometre. Despite this, commuters drive on the wrong side to take a shortcut and save the little distance that they otherwise have to take for the U-turn. Enforcement and heavy penalties are the only solution to bring about a change, and hence, we have deployed traffic marshals at these spots 24x7,” said Tomar adding that traffic police are identifying more such spots in the city, where the offence is common and requires deployment of more marshals. While traffic police said that there has been a drop in wrong side driving at Vatika Chowk, IFFCO Chowk, and Hero Honda Chowk, the violation is still common at Rajiv Chowk, especially during waterlogging.“Often during heavy rains, the Medanta underpass gets flooded and so does the CH Bakhtawar Singh road. The underpass is closed as a precautionary measure. With limited road space available and congestion on the carriageway, many people take to wrong side driving. We are working with concerned departments to address waterlogging and curb violations,” said a senior traffic police official.According to data available with the traffic police, 39,765 challans were issued for wrong-side driving last year and 49,761 challans in 2019. Traffic police said that although there was less traffic for most part of last year on account of the Covid-19 outbreak, the enforcement in 2019 was much more.“Our efforts to curb wrong-side driving will continue throughout the year. Our main aim is to reduce collisions caused by wrong-side driving and save lives of citizens while also sensitising them,” said Tomar.Wrong-side driving has resulted in fatal accidents this year. On January 18, a pilot died after his car was hit by a speeding truck that was being driven on the wrong side near Sector 114 on the Dwarka Expressway.On February 8, a 32-year-old man died after his car collided with a truck driving on the wrong side at the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) near Badshahpur.Traffic police also mentioned about the change in the department’s approach against wrong-side driving. In February, traffic police announced that wrong-side driving can attract FIRs against the offender under Section 279 (rash driving) of the IPC. Similarly, in January, traffic police announced that the licence of anyone found driving on the wrong side will be suspended while a repeat offence may lead to termination of the licence. Along with the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), this year, the traffic police have installed red light violation detection cameras (RLVD) for monitoring at least 25 major crossings round the clock. Over 230 such cameras have been installed at key junctions, such as HUDA City Centre, Subhash Chowk, Bristol Chowk, Signature Towers, and IMT Chowk.Tomar said the traffic police tower in Sushant Lok 1 and the GMDA’s integrated command and control centre (ICCC) in Sector 44 have been monitoring traffic violations through RLVD cameras, especially over the past two months. Despite the efforts by traffic police, commuters said some stretches, like the one between Moulsari Avenue metro station-Ambience Mall, opposite the entrance to park drive on Golf Course Road (GCR), and MG Road U-turn flyover are prone to wrong-side driving. “Every time I exit from the club drive on to GCR, I have to keep checking vehicles coming from the other end, driving on the wrong side. Just soon after, where a U-turn allows commuters to head towards Bristol Chowk, two-wheelers can be spotted regularly driving on the wrong side,” said Sandeep Kumar, a resident of DLF 5.“Besides heavy enforcement, Gurugram traffic police also needs to identify the reasons leading to wrong-side driving. If the reasons are due to engineering defects, the same should be addressed and rectified along with local government bodies,” said Sewa Ram, associate professor and urban transport systems design expert at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Delhi.Talking about other solutions to check wrong-side driving, Sewa Ram said supervising intersections and junctions via CCTV cameras would help curb the offence. “If commuters are wary that they are under constant surveillance, their instinct to commit traffic violations would be kept in check. This method has proven effective in bringing down traffic violations across major cities such as Delhi and Chandigarh,” said Sewa Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-50k-fines-issued-for-wrong-side-driving-in-gurugram-till-august-101631985395338.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Bhiwandi turning from power loom capital into pothole haven due to bad roads||Lakhs of people travel in and out of the loom town on any given day of the week, thanks to its many power looms and warehouses. Comparatively, a meagre ₹30Cr is spent on repairing the roads in this city over the last five years.The Bhiwandi-Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) has claimed that it does not have sufficient revenue generation for road repairs. For over a month, residents, political parties and activists have been raising the issue of pothole-filled roads all across Bhiwandi.The poor road conditions and the huge craters resembling little ponds or pools have become the brunt of trolls on various social media platforms. While the BNCMC is awaiting a dry spell to fill the potholes and level the roads, residents claim they face this situation year after year.Bhiwandi city has many warehouses of popular e-commerce retailers and is also the power loom capital of India. At night, many heavy vehicles with goods regularly travel on the roads that connect Bhiwandi to Kalyan, Thane and Wada areas.BNCMC officials claim that the low budget available with the corporation is not sufficient for road repairs for such a vast city. “The limitations related to income sources are one of the key reasons that the road repair work is not undertaken frequently. Every year, there is around ₹5Cr- ₹6Cr budget for road repairs. However, we require this much only to fill potholes, thus making it difficult to maintain all the roads,” said Sudhakar Deshmukh, Commissioner, BNCMC.BNCMC has an overall budget of ₹10Cr for roads this financial year. From among this, they have spent around ₹7Cr only on flyovers across the city till now. Laxman Gaikwad, city engineer, BNCMC, said, “During heavy downpour, the force of the rain water causes deep penetration on the roads, leading to such potholes. The continuous rainfall in the last couple of weeks has led to potholes in different parts of the city. We have appointed engineers in each ward to conduct regular surveys of all roads and fill the potholes. We also have made vehicles available to flatten the stretch of road after filling the potholes to avoid uneven patches. We are awaiting a dry spell to repair the roads. Two days ago, a few youth protested on the Bhiwandi-Wada road by rowing an inflatable boat on craters filled with rainwater. They held a placard that said ‘Enjoy boat rides amidst Ganesh festival on Bhiwandi-Wada road’.Taj Khan, 43, resident of Kalyan Road, said, “The internal roads are the most affected with potholes. The road connecting Thane to Mankoli Naka is a 14km stretch that takes around three hours to travel during peak hours. This traffic jam is due to the umpteen potholes on these roads. There is a stretch of road from Gaibi Nagar to Shanti Nagar that has been in the same condition for more than a decade now. It has not been repaired properly.”Most roads within the city are in a poor state including Mangal Bazar Road, Agra Road near Kamla Hotel, Rajiv Gandhi Flyover, Bhiwandi-Wada Road, Anjurphata till Kasheli, Thane to Mankoli naka and the stretch near Kalyan Naka.“Bhiwandi is well connected by road to Thane, Kalyan and Wada. Often, people traverse through the Bhiwandi-Wada route to reach Gujarat. As there is no connectivity by train, these stretches of roads are very important as they are the only means to connect Bhiwandi with rural areas and the neighbouring cities. Despite this, it takes hours to commute on this road due to the ill-maintained condition of the road,” said Saumya Srivastava, 38, resident of Padma Nagar in Bhiwandi who drives till Majiwada, Thane, twice a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-turning-from-power-loom-capital-to-pothole-haven-due-to-bad-roads-101631985337702.html
18-09-2021||Dehradun||Covid: Primary schools in Uttarakhand to reopen from Sept 21||Primary schools in Uttarakhand will reopen for classes 1-5 from September 21 (next Tuesday), after they had been closed for months due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.According to an order issued by the department of school education on Saturday, classes will be held for only three hours a day and students will not be allowed to bring food to school, reports said.Written consent from parents will be required for their children to attend physical classes. The letter should be submitted to the school authorities within three days of attending school. Students will not be forced to attend schools and the option of online classes will be available.Schools authorities will have to ensure proper sanitisation of the entire premises, including classrooms, offices, libraries and washrooms. Arrangements for sanitisers, handwash, thermal scanning and first aid should also be ensured, the above reports also said, adding, drinking water areas should be kept clean and the quality of water should be checked.In case anyone experiences cough, cold or fever, he/she should be given first aid and then sent back home.Students, teachers and other staff members have to compulsorily wear masks before entering the school or classrooms and social distancing is to be maintained.A nodal officer has to be appointed in each school to ensure compliance with all Covid-19 related protocols, the order also read.Schools in Uttarakhand had first reopened for classes 9-12 from August 2 and then for classes 6-8 from August 16 by following all virus related norms.The state has so far recorded nearly 359,000 cases due to coronavirus disease including 282 active cases, 335,684 recoveries and 7,389 deaths. The Covid-19 curfew has been extended till September 21 with several relaxations including allowing weddings with 50% capacity of the hall/venue with permission from the district administration. Previously, offices in the were allowed to work with full capacity while shops and business establishments were also permitted to open from 8 am to 9 pm six days a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/covid-primary-schools-in-uttrakhand-to-reopen-from-sept-21-101631980801259.html
18-09-2021||Other||IIT-BHU researchers isolate bacterial strain that separates toxic metal from waste water||Researchers at School of Biochemical Engineering, IIT-BHU have isolated a new bacterial strain from a contaminated site that can remove toxic hexavalent chromium from waste water in most effective and eco-friendly manner. Hexavalent chromium is a heavy metal ion that is used in different industries and is responsible for health problems in humans like cancers, kidney and liver malfunctioning and infertility, said researchers Dr Vishal Mishra and his Ph.D student Veer Singh.Dr Mishra said this new strain -- Microbacterium paraoxydans strain VSVM IIT(BHU) -- was able to tolerate large concentrations of hexavalent chromium. “It is very effective for removal of hexavalent chromium from wastewater compared to other conventional methods. This bacterial strain showed fast growth rate in the Hexavalent chromium-- Cr (VI)-- containing aqueous medium and gets easily separated from the aqueous medium after the treatment process,” he said.He said this bacterial strain doesn’t require an extra separation process after removal. Bacterial mediated wastewater treatment process is very inexpensive and non-toxic because there was no involvement of expensive equipment and chemicals, he said. The researchers have tested hexavalent chromium removal capacity of this bacterial strain in industrial and synthetic waste water and have found satisfactory results. They also tested the mechanism in bacterial cells. “The research showed that several heavy metal tolerance mechanisms get activated in bacterial cells when they are grown in hexavalent chromium containing growth medium,” he added.The research work has already been published in reputed international journal “Journal of Environmental Chemical Engineering (Impact factor 5.9). This research is focused on cost-effective and eco-friendly method for removal of toxic metal ions such from water. “This bacteria can easily cultivate and remove hexavalent chromium in an effective way. No skilled labour is required for this. It is inexpensive, non-toxic and easy to use/employ. Also, separation after usage does not require large energy input and removes hexavalent chromium until the discharge limit of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB),” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitbhu-researchers-isolate-bacterial-strain-that-separates-toxic-metal-from-waste-water-101631984735152.html
18-09-2021||Other||Panicky Cong will be decimated in Punjab, BJP’s Chugh||Chandigarh Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary Tarun Chugh said on Friday that replacing the Punjab chief minister was a panic reaction from the Congress high command after the party’s state government failed to perform over the past four-and-a-half-years. “Replacing the Congress chief minister is a panic reaction of the Congress high command to salvage the party’s situation after it failed to deliver in the past four-and-a-half years,” he said, adding that the manner in which a panic meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) was summoned adequately reflected the confusion and panic in the party. “The Congress will be decimated in the forthcoming state assembly elections and no fire-fighting of any kind can help it. The Congress has admitted its complete failure on all fronts in Punjab. The mafia raj in the state would prove to be the last nail in the Congress’ coffin in Punjab,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panicky-cong-will-be-decimated-in-punjab-bjp-s-chugh-101631984615018.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Motorists face problems as resurfacing of flyovers not done before monsoon||With the work of asphalting on seven flyovers along the Sion-Panvel Highway not undertaken before the monsoon, almost all of them have developed craters and the motorists are facing a lot of issues.In the first week of April, the Public Works Department (PWD) had announced that they would resurface these seven flyovers between Vashi and Kalamboli with asphalt coating. They had also set aside a budget of ₹15Cr for it, but the work was never undertaken due to lack of response to tenders. These flyovers are located in Vashi, Sanpada, Nerul, Belapur, Kharghar, Kamothe and Kalamboli.On July 28, the highway saw a severe traffic jam at Nerul after a minor accident occurred on LP bridge. The traffic officials blamed the worn-out surface of the flyover for that accident.Sarika Desai, deputy engineer, PWD, said, “Our plan was to complete the resurfacing work on all the seven flyovers before the monsoon and floated the tenders accordingly. However, we did not receive response to the tenders on time and thus could not start the work. Now, we have completed all the formalities and the work will be started by the first week of October.“We will first remove the existing three layers of asphalt on the flyovers and then refill those with new coatings. We will also coordinate with the city traffic department so that we can partially block the highways in those areas where we initiate the work.”According to another senior PWD officer, the length of the flyovers is not the same and hence they will have separate deadlines for finishing work on each flyover. “We hope to complete the entire work within two months,” he said.According to PWD sources, they have not resurfaced the flyovers on Sion-Panvel highway since 2014.RM Bhosale, 51, a resident of Kharghar said, “It has become very inconvenient to drive on the worn-out surfaces of these flyovers. During peak hours, a lot of vehicles cross the flyovers at the same time, and then you don’t have the option of avoiding the craters as there’s no space. If anyone tries to avoid the craters by taking a side, an accident may take place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/motorists-face-problems-as-resurfacing-of-flyovers-not-done-before-monsoon-101631984555226.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate polls: Former student leaders, ex-senators in fray from graduate constituency||Former student leaders of Panjab University (PU) are all set to contest the senate election from the registered graduate constituency this year. The polling will be held on September 26, for the election of 15 members to the senate. The candidates said their main objective is to bring students’ issues to the forefront. Amit Bhatia, who was president of the Panjab University Campus Students’ Council (PUCSC) in 2009, is contesting in the senate for the first time. “Despite being important stakeholders, no one talks about the students’ issues in the senate. I am contesting the polls to represent them and their welfare will be my key agenda, if I get elected,” said Bhatia, who is currently an assistant professor at DAV College in Sector 10. As many as 43 candidates are in fray from the constituency. Of the eight constituencies of PU senate, the registered graduate constituency is the largest with around 3.61 lakh voters, who elect 15 members to the senate. Polling booths are set up across seven states/UTs.Ravinder Singh, who was active in the Panjab University Students Union (PUSU) from 2009 to 2014, is also contesting senate polls for the first time. After the polling for the graduate constituency was deferred by PU last month, Ravinder was on protest outside the V-C’s office for 25 days. “This constituency is for youngsters and leaders who are associated with students. Our purpose is that students get proper representation in the senate,” he said. Another former student leader, Simranjit Singh Dhillon, who was the president of PUSU in 2009 and 2010, is contesting the senate polls for the second time. “The students’ council is not represented in the senate like the teachers and employees’ associations. They also need their representation so that their issues are raised with the governing body,” said Dhillon, who was later associated with Students Organisation of India (SOI). A number of ex-senators are also in fray from the constituency. “My primary concern is to save the democratic structure of the university and work for the interests of students,” said Rabinder Nath Sharma, who is a former senator and has been contesting from the graduate constituency since 1992. Sharma has remained a senator for six terms so far.So far, the elections for seven constituencies have been conducted, from where 32 members have been elected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-polls-former-student-leaders-ex-senators-in-fray-from-graduate-constituency-101631984255130.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman held for drug peddling, 21-kg marijuana recovered||The crime branch of Chandigarh Police arrested a Kalka woman on Friday for drug peddling and recovered 21kg marijuana from her possession. The accused has been identified as Suman, 32. She was arrested by a team of the crime branch while patrolling near traffic police lines in Sector 29. They spotted her on a scooter, but on spotting the police, she tried to turn around but was caught. On checking, the drugs were recovered from her. A case under NDPS Act has been registered at Industrial Area police station. From the investigation conducted so for, it has been found that she purchased the marijuana from Orissa and sold it at a high rate through a Rohtak based middleman, police said. Police say that Suman has been into drug peddling for five years and she and her family members have a number of drugs cases registered against them. She was arrested by Pinjore police in 2018 with 1.8 kg of Marijuana. Her mother, Dibo, had been sentenced to 10 years in jail after she was caught smuggling marijuana. But, she died in jail, after serving about two years of her sentence. Her brother, Mintu, is presently in Burail Jail and was arrested with 280kg marijuana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-held-for-drug-peddling-21-kg-marijuana-recovered-101631983654820.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Won’t surrender to misuse of central agencies, says Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut||A day after chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray created a flutter in political circles with his “future colleagues” remark, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said the Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will complete full term and they would not bow down or surrender just because central agencies are being misused against its leaders and ministers. Raut also dismissed speculations that Thackeray’s remark had upset Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar.The Sena leader on Saturday clarified that Thackeray’s statement meant if Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders want to come and join the MVA, they can become future colleagues. He also said that Thackeray’s comment was not sudden but a deliberate one. The CM, while speaking at a government event in Aurangabad on Friday, referred to the dignitaries, including BJP’s minister of state for railways Raosaheb Danve and minister of state for finance Bhagwat Karad, on the dais as “my current, former, and if we come together, my future colleagues”.Thackeray’s statement, if viewed in the backdrop of Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) action against his close aide and minister Anil Parab, suggested that the party could have extended an olive branch to its former ally. However, Raut dismissed it and said, “If somebody has garbage in their minds that we will do whatever they want us to do or surrender ourselves [just because] the manner in which they have misused central agencies against MVA leaders and minister, they can continue to think so. We will not bow down.”Amid buzz that Pawar and some leaders in the Congress and NCP were upset over the remark, Raut met the CM and Sena chief at Varsha bungalow. “I don’t think that anybody is upset, nor has any said so... I am in regular touch with key leaders of the two parties and there is nothing like that. All is well, everything is running smoothly,” Raut said after meeting the CM on Saturday afternoon. NCP spokesperson and skill development and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik denied that Pawar was upset. “There is no such thing. These are baseless news floating around,” he said. Earlier in the day, Raut defended Thackeray and said it is a “small matter,” and added, “Nowhere has Uddhav ji said that there will be a new alliance or the government will fall.” He also said, “It is not a sudden statement by the CM, but a deliberate one. He had said that the former colleagues want to become future ones, and some people are in touch to join MVA. There are many in Maharashtra who are keen to join,” he said without naming any particular leader.Raut, who is the co-architect of MVA, said there were no difference within the three-party alliance and it will complete its full term. “The government has the commitment to run the government for five years and the Shiv Sena is known to keep its word. It never backstabs anyone,” said the Sena chief spokesperson.Ruling out any alliance with the BJP, Raut said that alliance cannot be formed with a party that uses the language of demolishing Shiv Sena Bhavan — the party headquarters, and with a party where its ministers speak ill about the Sena chief. Raut agreed with Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, who on Friday said there was no possibility of reunion between the two parties. “Devendra ji has spoken very practically that nothing will happen now, nor will anyone let it happen. There are some people in the BJP who have openly said they would ransack Shiv Sena Bhavan. Some Union minister has spoken about attacking the chief minister. How can there be an alliance with a party that considers the Sena its enemy?”Meanwhile, BJP leader and Leader of Opposition in legislative Council Pravin Darekar said Thackeray’s remark could have been a warning to the other two ruling parties. “There is pressure on the CM over various issues and he is compelled to change his decisions within hours because of the pressure. I think by his remarks the CM has tried to give a warning to two other parties that he has the option of the BJP open for alliance. This is nothing but the pressure tactics being adopted by the ruling party. There is discontent and one-upmanship but none of them will try to pull out of the government because of their hunger for power,” he said.Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil, former Congress leader who switched loyalties ahead of 2019 election and joined BJP, said anything was possible in politics. “There is no permanent friend or foe in politics. Any miracle can take place anytime. The incumbent ruling alliance in the state is an unnatural partnership without any common ideology. They have come together for the sake of power. The Sena-BJP alliance had been together even without power. It would not be a surprise if the old allies come together,” the former minister said. BJP legislator Nitesh Rane, meanwhile, alleged that the remarks by the CM were to divert the attention of the people from the MMRDA bridge collapse. “Was the Sena-BJP alliance statement only given to divert media attention from the MMRDA bridge collapse in BKC? Seems like it,” Rane tweeted on Saturday morning. He was referring to the collapse of an under-construction bridge at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) in which 14 workers injured on Thursday. The BJP has held state government and MMRDA responsible for the mishap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wont-surrender-to-misuse-of-central-agencies-says-shiv-sena-leader-sanjay-raut-101631982634715.html
18-09-2021||Pune||No more water tankers: Bamboo plantation project a boon for villagers of Bajar Wahegaon in Jalna district||PUNE Bajar Wahegaon, a village located in Jalna district, is reportedly free of dependency on tanker water due to the collective efforts of villagers and Vanarai’s bamboo plantation project.Vanarai, a social organisation working for environment conservation and rural development, undertook the project with support from Crompton CSR Foundation. The project not only helped the village to go tanker free but also improve the income of families in the village.The collective efforts of the villagers paid huge dividends. The annual income per family went up multi-fold from ₹20,000 in five years since the inception of the project in 2016.Sonu Kale, a villager, said, “Bunds and trenches further helped groundwater recharge. Now the farmers produce wheat, soybean and tur dal which ensures returns all through the year. Water conservation paved the way for increased agricultural activity leading the village to a sustainable livelihood.”For over a decade from 2005, the gram panchayat with a population of about 5,000, spend ₹15-18 lakh on water tankers in April and May. They required about three tankers per day for drinking purposes and general use. The two natural nullahs which were the primary source of water in Bajar Wahegaon had transformed into narrow water streams. The depleting groundwater level only added to the woes.Most of the land on the banks of the nullah is under cultivation. The natural water streams dried up over the years. Farming, which is the primary source of income for the villagers, was restricted to cotton cultivation due to water scarcity. This meant that the land would be under cultivation only for few months a year.The fertile soil on the sides of the nullah fell into the water leading to the deposition of silt which further reduced water flow. The villagers decided to start with desilting the nullahs. They removed silt from the nullah.Sagar Dhariya, trustee, Vanarai, said, “Our efforts are sustainable development at rural development. Credit goes to villagers and Vanarai guided them which helped to transform the village.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-more-water-tankers-bamboo-plantation-project-a-boon-for-villagers-of-bajar-wahegaon-in-jalna-district-101631982394860.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||To help drivers polish skill, Delhi govt to likely share video of failed driving test||New Delhi: People who fail in their driving tests in Delhi could soon get access to the video of their performance to improve their skills, in view of the higher failure rate on city’s automated test tracks, senior government officials said on Saturday. The state transport department is working on a project to provide permanent driving licence (DL) applicants a video of their driving test, in case they fail. “We have received feedback from several regional transport offices (RTOs) that test takers often seek a copy of their video. It is mostly to understand where they went wrong, so they can improve their driving skills. Hence, we are looking at a system in which the driving test video of the applicant is sent to him/her maybe via Whatsapp. It is still in the pipeline,” said a senior transport official. “In accordance with court orders, every driving test for a permanent licence is videographed in Delhi. So, we are checking the legality of making it available to the applicant. Also, the service could also be introduced strictly as an on-request facility,” a second official said. Results of the first one year of the automated tracks, accessed by HT, showed that at least 48.91% applicants failed the driving test at the three tracks that were opened by July 2019. Before the automated tests were introduced at the three centres, the rate of failed applicants was only 16.24%, records showed. The Delhi government introduced the city’s first automated driving test track (ADTT) in February 2018. By now, the state transport department has made automated tracks operational in 10 locations. An applicant is marked on 24 skill sets on these automated test tracks, which have 10 different track patterns – seven for four wheelers and three for two-wheelers. An applicant needs to reverse their car on S-shaped tracks, drive uphill and also swerve at bends shaped like an ‘8’. The driver is also judged on their behaviour as there are separate tracks to test decisions on overtaking and at traffic junctions.In December 2020, transport minister Kailash Gahlot reviewed the performance of these tracks. He said it was found that many are failing the driving tests on the automated test tracks despite having good driving skills because of the sensors and cameras being “over sensitive”. The transport department was asked to check the entire system of the operational automated test tracks and also revisit videos of those who have failed the tests to understand the problems better.Before these automated tracks were introduced, driving tests were conducted on the main road with usual traffic, where an applicant had to drive straight for less than a kilometre while being supervised by a motor licencing inspector. The test result was totally at the discretion of the licencing officer. Now, the licencing officer oversees the test, take a print-out of the result and sign it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/to-help-drivers-polish-skill-delhi-govt-to-likely-share-video-of-failed-driving-test-101631982274758.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh says Sidhu is ‘anti-national’; vows to oppose him as Punjab CM||The tussle between former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and party’s state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu received some fresh steam on Saturday after the latter, only hours after resigning from the top post, said that he will fight “tooth and nail” to stop any move of making Sidhu the new chief minister of the state.Calling Sidhu an “anti-national…unstable, incompetent man,” the Captain further said that the former is a “security threat” for both Punjab and India. “I cannot allow such a man to destroy us, I will continue to fight the issues that are bad for this state and its people,” the outgoing chief minister said.Notably, the feud between Singh and Sidhu heads back to 2019 when the latter resigned from the former-led state cabinet after months of infighting inside the system. The Captain was fiercely against Sidhu’s controversial step of hugging Pakistan Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa and also attending the swearing-in ceremony of the country’s Prime Minister Imran Khan.Also Read | How Amarinder Singh resignation as Punjab CM unfolded: A timelineThe matter reached such a stage that it required the attention of Congress president Sonia Gandhi for which she even formed a committee – led by the former Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge. Following discussions, an overhaul occurred in July this year that saw Sidhu becoming the party’s state chief while the Captain continuing in the top post as the chief minister.The solution hardly made any difference as in August two of Sidhu’s advisors – Malvinder S Mali and Pyare Lal Garg, came under fire and received open backlash from the outgoing chief minister of Punjab for their comments on Kashmir and Pakistan, respectively.Also Read | Captain Amarinder Singh, Navjot Sidhu aides spar as Punjab crisis deepensWhile Mali referred to Kashmir as a “land of Kashmiri people,” Garg indirectly criticised the Singh-led state government. “When a government does good work, we appreciate it, but if it does poorly, then also we criticise it,” Garg had said at the time.This issue later resulted in the resignation of Mali.Maintaining his stand against Sidhu and his ideologies, Singh on Saturday said that everyone has seen Sidhu “singing praises” for Khan while Indian soldiers were losing their lives at the India-Pakistan border every day. The Captain emphasised that he will fight Sidhu every step of the way if the latter is made the face of Congress for the chief minister’s position in next year’s Assembly elections.Earlier in the day, Singh said that he “felt humiliated” by the Congress leadership in the previous two months after the MLAs were called to Delhi twice before the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting was summoned today.Also Read | Amarinder Singh resigns as Punjab chief minister, says ‘I felt humiliated’Singh was the only Congress MLA to have skipped today’s meeting, which also saw four Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) rebels who recently joined the party in attendance. A resolution was also passed in the CLP lauding Singh for his work as the chief minister in the last four-and-half years. The resolution was later seconded by local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-singh-says-sidhu-is-anti-national-vows-to-oppose-him-as-punjab-cm-101631981640511.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Air India bid process successful; employees seek dues, await revival||The government successfully managed to receive financial bid for the national carrier Air India, making the possibility of the airline getting privatised stronger. Tata Sons was among the bidders. While a section of the airline’s employees is eagerly awaiting its revival by the new owner, some others want their dues and arrears to be successfully cleared before the government concludes this process.The government is seeking to sell 100% of its stake in the state-owned national airline, including Air India’s 100% shareholding in AI Express Ltd and 50% in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd. As per the Air India expression of interest floated by department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) in January 2020, the airline has a total debt of ₹60,074 crore as of March 31.“We are happy with the process of privitisation and that Tata Sons have bid for the airline. The old Air India was made by Mr Tata. Though our issues are still on, we are getting sorted. We have to wait and see what happens on matters of wages, medical and all those things that are pending, which our government has assured that they are looking into. However, taking over the airline by the new bidder will take time,” said a senior cabin crew of Air India.If Tatas emerge successful, it will mark the return of Air India to the Tata fold after 67 years. The Tata Group founded Air India as Tata Airlines in October 1932 and the government nationalised the airline in 1953.“We definitely intend to put our best foot forward and help the future owner bring Air India back to its former glory. We hope that the process will also enhance employees working conditions for a harmonious productive environment under the new owner,” said a committee member of the Indian Pilots’ Guild, airline’s Boeing pilots’ union.A senior engineer of Air India said, “It is essential for the government to clear the dues of all the employees. The airline management has assured us to resolve all the matters before the airline is privatised. We are hoping for the best.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/air-india-bid-process-successful-employees-seek-dues-await-revival-101631982094747.html
18-09-2021||Patna||Vaccination on Modi’s birthday: Bihar on top with over 33 lakh doses in a day||Bihar on Friday topped the list of states by administering the highest number of doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the country in a single day, as per official data.The state administered 33,09,685 doses on Friday, during the mega vaccination drive launched on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 71 st birthday. With this, the state has so far (till 6 pm on September 18) has administered more than 4.98 crore doses, of which more than 4.06 crore are first dose and 92.57 lakh are second dose, as per the CoWin app. Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat followed Bihar in vaccination drive on Friday.Earlier in August, the state has administered 27.5 lakh doses in a single day.Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday congratulated the residents of Bihar for the record and said the state had written a golden chapter in history by vaccinating the highest number of people among states and Union territories on the occasion. “Hope the Health Department will continue working with this dedication,” he said in his message. “It’s a big achievement that Bihar surpassed its target to inoculate 30 lakh people to mark the occasion,” he said.Kumar had earlier announced that his government would carry out a massive vaccination drive on the occasion of the prime minister’s birthday. The BJP had directed its workers across the state to facilitate vaccination drive on the prime minister’s birthday as part of its ‘Seva Aur Samarpan Abhiyan’.The state had in July set a target of vaccinating six crore people in six months. “I would like to thank all the health workers and other staff who have been involved in this historic vaccination drive,” said health minister Mangal Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/vaccination-on-modi-s-birthday-bihar-on-top-with-over-33-lakh-doses-in-a-day-101631981854764.html
18-09-2021||Patna||Bihar schools reopen after Covid disruption, but wait for books continues mid-session||In Bihar, availability of books is never ensured for students in schools at the start of the academic session in April and often stretches beyond mid-session. This year, it’s is no different despite the Patna high court’s directive a few years ago to the government to ensure their timely availability.After the Bihar government failed to ensure timely availability of books to students studying in thousands of government schools year after year, it sought approval from the Centre in 2017 for giving commensurate amount to students through direct benefit transfer (DBT) in the bank accounts of parents of wards below 10 years of age for purchase of books from the open market. After initially refusing permission, the centre later agreed.However, that has not been able to solve the problem. Even in September this year, as the schools reopened after a long gap due to Covid-19 pandemic, lakhs of students continue to wait for the money to purchase books from the open market, if available. Strangely, Bihar still has a big set-up of the Bihar State Textbook Publishing Corporation, which earlier supplied books to students.In many cases, money has been deposited, but books still not purchased for varying reasons ranging from non-availability to reluctance.A school headmaster said that providing books timely to the students would have been the best option, as the small amount provided with delay in the name of books is invariably misused or is of no use, as aware parents of students don’t wait for it and manage it on their own. “The schools remained closed for over a year and reopening without books does not serve the purpose. We are also managing it for students. The preparations should have been made beforehand,” he said.After September, there will be long holidays for Dussehra, Diwali and Chhath and before winter vacation, it will be time to fill up forms for exams. In between, there is panchayat poll, training for it and other non-academic engagements for teachers. That will leave the students, already affected due to almost missing education in the schools during the Covid period, as reflected through different surveys, with very little time even to flip through the books whenever made available.Managing Director of the Bihar State Text Book Publishing Corporation, Manoj Kumar, said the process had been initiated to transfer amount in the bank accounts of students. “We have sought information from the district level officials. We have got ₹402 crore for disbursal of amount for this year and the process has begun. The printers have said the books are available with the retailers and the students can get it. The money will also reach them,” he said.The MD said that camps would also be organised at the local level later this month to make books available. “We held a meeting with the printers also. The district officials have been asked to monitor that all students purchase books,” he said.Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary (education), had on September 1 issued guidelines to all district-level officials regarding purchase of books by students with the money transferred in bank accounts of students. He expressed displeasure on September 9 over reports that books were not being purchased. “Availability of prescribed books is of paramount importance for quality education and this must be ensured through inspection. The report regarding availability of books should also reach the department in the prescribed format every Monday,” he wrote to all the district education officers and district programme officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-schools-reopen-after-covid-disruption-but-wait-for-books-continues-midsession-101631981674844.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||To fuel passion for the arts, Delhi government launches mobile music classroom||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Saturday launched a mobile classroom that will be used for skilling and motivating students with a passion for the arts. As part of the Music Bus project, a bus equipped with an in-built studio and other facilities will reach out to government school students across the city, and children from economically weaker sections to encourage them to learn audio production, graphic designing and filmmaking. Launching the mobile musical classroom, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, said children will no longer need to go out to learn music. “The music bus would reach the children at large, identify their artistic passion and lay a foundation upon which the School of Specialized Excellence would build upon and assist these children in pursuing their passion and achieve success in that field,” said Sisodia, adding that the initiative will help children with artistic talent who are often asked to prioritise academics over art. While the idea for the bus was floated by a group of government school students, it is funded as part of a CSR tie-up. Under the project, a bus has been transformed into a mobile music class equipped with a music recording studio and a performing stage. The mobile studio is also equipped with a Smart TV, which will be used to share digital educational music videos on issues related to social-emotional health and well-being, the government said in a press release. Talking about the new project, Sisodia said the government started the School of Specialized Excellence to encourage students to focus on their passion from a young age. He said the performing and visual arts domain of the School of Specialized Excellence will ensure that, for an artist, art is also treated as education. School of Specialized Excellence offer specialised education to students of classes 9 to 12 in four domains — science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), humanities, performing and visual arts, and ‘high-end 21st-century skills’.“Until now, only science was considered as the subject of specialized education but School of Specialized Education will change this perception where children will be given specialized education in various fields. If we are not able to bring the talent of the children in front of the country and society, then this is not the fault of the child but the system. The School of Specialized Education will work to overcome this shortcoming,” he said. The government aims to reach 5000 children from government schools as well as low-income communities who will be given the chance to learn music through regular workshops conducted by trained facilitators, as part of the music bus project. Weekly music workshops and monthly happy circles for the betterment of social and emotional health of children will also be conducted through the music bus.“The overall aim is to deliver happiness to children and enable them to discover their potential, through music as a creative tool of transformation,” the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/to-fuel-passion-for-the-arts-delhi-government-launches-mobile-music-classroom-101631980895888.html
18-09-2021||Patna||Bihar tops with over 33 lakh vaccine doses administered in a day on PM Modi’s birthday||Bihar on Friday topped the list of states by administering the highest number of doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the country in a single day, as per official data.The state administered 33,09,685 doses on Friday, during the mega vaccination drive launched on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 71st birthday.With this, the state has so far (till 6 pm on September 18) administered more than 4.98 crore doses, of which more than 4.06 crore are first doses and 92.57 lakh are second doses, as per the CoWin app. Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat followed Bihar in vaccination drive on Friday.Earlier in August, the state had administered 27.5 lakh doses in a single day.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday congratulated the residents of Bihar for the record and said the state had written a golden chapter in history by vaccinating the highest number of people among states and Union territories on the occasion. “Hope the Health Department will continue working with this dedication,” he said in his message. “It’s a big achievement that Bihar surpassed its target to inoculate 30 lakh people to mark the occasion,” he said.Kumar had earlier announced that his government would carry out a massive vaccination drive on the occasion of the prime minister’s birthday.The BJP had directed its workers across the state to facilitate vaccination drive on the prime minister’s birthday as part of its ‘Seva Aur Samarpan Abhiyan’.The state had in July set a target of vaccinating six crore people in six months.“I would like to thank all the health workers and other staffs who have been involved in this historic vaccination drive,” said health minister Mangal Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-tops-with-over-33-lakh-vaccine-doses-administered-in-a-day-on-pm-modi-s-birthday-101631980894661.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police bust human trafficking operation in Rajouri Garden, rescue 20 women||New Delhi: The city police claimed to have busted a human trafficking racket operating in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden with the arrest of a 22-year-old woman and rescue of at least 20 women who were brought to the Capital from different states on the pretext of finding them jobs.Police said they raided the building on Wednesday after receiving a PCR call claiming that “girls who have been purchased from Chhatisgarh and Jharkhand are forcefully confined in the flat”. “A team was rushed to the spot and some girls were found confined in the flat. Our team had to break it open as it was locked from outside,” said a senior police official.Police said the girls, most of who were brought from Jharkhand, were confined to the flat for over three months.They were produced before the Rajouri Garden sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) who ordered a case and handed over the victims to Nirmal Chhaya in Hari Nagar. A case under sections 370 (buying or disposing of any person as a slave), 374 (adulteration of drugs), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC was registered. Police said they have arrested one woman, Sarita Tirki (22), who has been sent to judicial custody, and are on the lookout for another woman, Sunita Yadav.Police said the women also run an operation in Shakarpur area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-bust-human-trafficking-operation-in-rajouri-garden-rescue-20-women-101631980595587.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Rather than a new wave, Covid pandemic will continue to smoulder, says immunologist||Hindustan Times talks to Satyajit Rath, immunologist and visiting professor at Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, to know more.The Delta variant is predominating the pandemic across the globe. Genome sequencing shows that the situation is similar in Maharashtra too. So, what role will the Delta variant and Delta plus variants play in the anticipated third wave outbreak in the state?I do not think that any of this is easily predictable. The trend with Sars-CoV-2 has so far been that more transmissible variants tend to survive and spread. However, none of them has been more drastically ‘lethal’. I see no reason to think that this trend will change, so it is unlikely that a more ‘lethal’ variant will emerge. The lineage of delta variants is already quite strongly transmissible, but it remains possible that an even more transmissible new variant might emerge. Since large-scale vaccination campaigns are going on the world over, it also becomes possible that new variants that can establish infection even in vaccinated individuals might emerge and spread in vaccinated groups. However, again, there is no reason to expect that such new variants will be much more ‘lethal’.On this background, I guess that, rather than a new ‘wave’, the epidemic will continue to smoulder, with ups and downs, with local outbreaks waxing and waning in different places.It has never been particularly useful to think about the idea of a ‘wave’ for the epidemic. The disease does not spread uniformly in countries, states or even cities; it spreads in neighbourhoods. So the patterns of the outbreaks have always been local and much more complicated than any idea of a uniform ‘wave’.Data on the Genome Surveillance portal shows there has been a gradual rise of AY.4 sub-lineage in Maharashtra. Your comments on epidemiological characteristics of the variant or its transmissibility.So far, the AY.4 sub-lineage is a type of delta variant; one of many. While it has indeed been growing in proportion in some places such as in Karnataka, it has not done so in other places. So its significance is unclear as yet, and needs more studies. It is not dramatically more ‘lethal’, as far as current evidence shows. It is not growing in proportion in Kerala, for example, though Kerala’s vaccination rate is quite high, so it may not correlate with so-called ‘breakthrough’ infections. We will have to await more studies.What should be the main cause of concern for the public health department in Maharashtra?The main causes for concern for public health departments remain the same as they have been for a year and a half; - we need much more durable, systematic and large-scale Covid-19 surveillance, we need community partnerships in covid-appropriate behaviour with special emphasis on mask usage, we need expansion of an equitable vaccination campaign, we need durable, long-term expansions of decentralised public health care facilities including community outreach for both Covid-19 and for other currently neglected illnesses, and beyond this, we need support for marginalised livelihoods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rather-than-a-new-wave-covid-pandemic-will-continue-to-smoulder-says-expert-101631980542186.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Delta variants still predominant in Maharashtra but sub-lineage AY.4 gaining pace||In the second wave, a significant proportion of Covid-19 infections were attributed to the highly transmissible Delta variant (lineage B.1.617.2). Whole-genome sequencing of over 15,000 swab samples done till August shows that the Delta variant is still predominant in the state. But data from centralised portal Indian Covid-19 Genome Surveillance (ICGS), maintained by CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB), has revealed that last month 44% samples sequenced from the state were identified with the new sub-lineage of Delta variant—AY.4— which was higher than other Delta variants.Emphasising the need for more genome sequencing (study of changes in the structure of the virus over time), medical experts said the prevalence of AY lineages might be more in the anticipated third wave.Can AY4 lineage be a new threat?Variants of Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19 are divided into three categories—variant of interest, variant of concern and variant of high consequence. The four variants of concern have been named Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta. The AY.4 sub-lineage of the Delta variant was first identified in Maharashtra in April when 46 swabs tested positive for novel coronavirus infection.In July, out of the samples sequenced, around 4% were identified with AY.4. But to everyone’s surprise, the number jumped to 44% in August, becoming the predominant sub-lineage, as per data on the ICGS portal. Since April, Maharashtra has been sending 100 samples (from all 36 districts) every month to CSIR-IGIB for genome sequencing.The Delta variant is one of the three subtypes of the Sars-CoV-2 B.1.617 lineage. As per the Centre for Disease Control (CDC), the Delta variant causes more infections and spreads faster than earlier forms of the virus that causes Covid-19. In total, there are 12 sub-lineages AY.1-AY.12 of Delta variant. AY.4 to AY.11 are predominantly found in the United Kingdom.At present, AY.4 is a ‘variant of interest’ but medical experts fear that it could become a contributory factor in the anticipated third wave. “It could become the dominant strain and needs to be watched closely. So far there is no indication to suggest that it is more transmissible, or more likely to cause breakthrough infections or immune escape when compared to earlier sub-lineages of the Delta variant. But monitoring its spread, and severity of disease caused will be important,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, pulmonologist and epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital, Khar.The state public health department is keeping a close eye on all the international passengers. There were 30 arrivals and 30 departures of international flights under Vande Bharat mission in August. In August, an order was issued by Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte stating that all international passengers arriving in Maharashtra will have to carry a negative RT-PCR report even if they are fully vaccinated.However, medical experts have raised the need to run more genome sequencing on swab samples of international passengers. “After 18 months of the infection when globally over thousand variants of Sars-Cov-2 have been reported, we need to boost genome sequencing. An RT-PCR only confirms if a traveller is carrying a mutated variant,” said T Jacob John, a virologist who was formerly with Christian Medical College, Vellore.As AY.4 is a new sub-lineage of the Delta variant, scientists lack knowledge about its transmissibility. Experts associated with the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), a group of 28 laboratories in the country monitoring genomic variations, said sporadic spikes observed in various regions are due to different sub-lineages.States like Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are also recording a rise in AY.4 in India.On Wednesday, a bulletin by INSACOG stated that AY.4 was the most frequently seen sub-lineage in the recent sequences from India, as well as globally.“In terms of AY. 4, a few cases have come positive in terms of genome sequencing; we need to continue doing genome sequencing regularly, so we are aware of what is growing,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, part of the state’s Covid-19 task force.Dr Pinto highlighted that as India has already been widely exposed to Delta variants, newer variants are going to be a constant threat, especially if such variants are endowed with mechanisms to evade immune responses to vaccines or past infection.Delta variants are still the most dominant strainFrom December 2020 till August,15,263 samples in Maharashtra have been analysed by INSACOG— the highest in the nation followed by Kerala. Data collected from its surveillance portal shows the Delta variant started becoming dominant in March when the pandemic curve was at its peak in the state. In March, 13% of the sequenced samples were identified with B.1.617.2 which gradually started increasing with the rise in Covid-19 cases. In April, 57% samples tested for the same which further shot up to 87% in May. In the following month, almost 83% samples were identified with the Delta variant and 86% in July. However, in a change of trend, in August, only 36% samples were identified with the Delta variant in the state.“The Delta variant remains the dominant variant across the country. Maharashtra is not different. We have to be certain the Delta variant doesn’t mutate to another variant, which is a big concern amongst healthcare providers and intensivists, that we don’t have to deal with another strain of the virus. That would probably mean that the third wave would be problematic,” said Dr Pandit.Dr Jacob said the incubation period of the Delta variant is short and symptoms generally appear within four days which increases the transmission.The number of the Delta Plus (AY.1)— a mutation of the highly transmissible Delta variant of Sars-CoV-2 (B.1.617.2) haven’t witnessed a sudden surge like AY.4 variant. The Surveillance data shows that the positivity rate of Delta Plus has remained around 1% among the sequenced samples.The civic-run Kasturba Gandhi Hospital that sequenced 564 samples from Mumbai in the last three weeks, didn’t find any Delta Plus variant except Delta variants. But experts claim it is too early to see it as a silver lining.“The third wave could be of Delta or Delta plus variant; more or less, a large proportion of the population has been impacted by the Delta variant anyway. So, we should be worried about the Delta variant which is more transmissible in itself, and the Delta Plus variant which has shown traits similar to the Delta variant,” Dr Pandit.Need for more genome sequencingAll viruses, including Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, change over time. Most changes have little to no impact on the virus’ properties. The World Health Organisation (WHO) states that some changes may affect the virus’s properties, such as how easily it spreads, the associated disease severity, or the performance of vaccines.Thus scientists are emphasising conducting more genome sequencing especially for a populated state like Maharashtra which was the major contributor to the total caseload in India. In mid-March, the state was contributing 62% of India’s daily new cases and had a share of 58% in the country’s active cases.Medical experts said the current rate of genome sequencing is inadequate. In Maharashtra, between December 2020 and August 31, 46,36,050 people contracted Covid-19 but as the Surveillance portal shows only 15,263 samples have been sequenced in the consecutive time.Dr Anita Mathew, infectious disease specialist, Fortis Hospital, Mumbai said every breakthrough infection, critical patients and people with reinfection need to undergo genome sequencing. “Viruses are known to mutate, so mutations will continue. There is no predictability on whether the mutation is for the better of the virus (in the form of increased transmissibility) or is detrimental to the virus (in the form of less transmissibility and virulence). Genome sequencing, therefore, is the best step ahead,” she added.INSACOG in a bulletin said that they are conducting the highest number of sequencing from Maharashtra and Kerala.Dr Pinto also emphasised the need for more sequencing with the fear of new variants which can evade immune mechanisms that a person has by past infection or vaccination. “Such a variant could lead to a surge in vaccine breakthrough infections and reinfections. We will need to constantly monitor such a possibility with large scale genome sequencing and correlations with severe disease and mortality,” he added.Dr Sujit Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control told HT that at present, there is no new variant in India. Also, a single new variant alone can’t cause a spike in cases. “The infection will become more manageable with the increase in vaccination and presence of antibodies.Just like other flu, Covid-19 will be there but will become easier to handle. We believe, in the next six months, we will see it’s ‘endemic’,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/delta-variants-still-predominant-in-maharashtra-but-sub-lineage-ay-4-gaining-pace-101631980534615.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Emblems of empowerment: A spirited champion who’s building future talent||Hailing from the remote Train village, situated in the foothills of tourist resort Gulmarg, Jabeena Akhtar says her desire to learn self-defence amid stone-pelting incidents in the Valley spurred her to pick wushu in 2008.As she continues to champion the martial art nationally and internationally since, the 34-year-old is also cultivating young talent – having already trained over 1,000 boys and girls in wushu.“I have taken hundreds of boys and girls under my tutelage, and I hope they will bring medals for Jammu and Kashmir, and the country in the coming years,” says Akhtar, who has set up training academies at several places in northern Kashmir without any government support.At her maiden global outing in 2017, Akhtar won a bronze for the country at the International Wushu Championship in Armenia.Continuing her medal run back in India, she secured a bronze at the 27th Senior National Wushu Championship in 2018.Closer home in J&K, she had already brought in gold medals at the 13th and 14th editions of the J&K Wushu Championship in 2016 and 2017, respectively, before a bronze each at the 15th and 19th editions.First post-graduate in her villageAkhtar is not only the first woman from Kashmir to get an international medal in Wushu, but also the first post-graduate from her village, giving younger girls in her area a female role model to look up to.Nominated as brand ambassador of the Beti Bachao Beti Padao campaign, the mother of a four-year-old girl, says, being a sportsperson in a remote village was never easy. “I couldn’t simply wear a tracksuit for practice and had to cover it up with an abaya (gown). Taunts were frequent, but I didn’t lose focus,” she says.From cricket to wushuLong before she learned the ropes of martial arts, Akhtar had grown up playing cricket, which she went on to pursue at the state and national level. “I was a cricket player and even participated in national events. While training in Ganderbal, where stone-pelting was frequent, I wanted to equip myself with self-defence skills. Wushu seemed interesting, and once I took it up, there was no going back,” she says.Akhtar credits her success to three people – her late father, Hafizullah Sheikh, coach Kuldeep Handoo and husband Khursheed ul Alam, a government teacher: “I won an international medal only after getting married in 2016, and it wouldn’t have been possible if my husband didn’t have my back.”Despite multiple medals under her belt, Akhtar hasn’t been able to land a decent job in the sports or its allied departments. Instead, she currently works in the social welfare department as an anganwari worker, where also she has won several awards and accolades for her dedication.“I got the national award for exceptional achievement in child development by the Union ministry of women and child development in 2017-18,” says Akhtar, who holds a masters in physical education through Kashmir University, apart from a certificate course in nutrition and childcare.“Whatever the shortcomings, I try to work hard and excel in my field. I am a sportsperson, so I am always ready to face challenges,” she says, smiling over young girls playing in her neighbourhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/emblems-of-empowerment-a-spirited-champion-who-s-building-future-talent-101631980474493.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra speeds Covid vaccination drive: 13,20,581 inoculated on Saturday||Amidst the apprehensions over the third wave of the pandemic, Maharashtra is currently speeding up its vaccination drive. On Saturday, 1,320,581 doses were administered, which is the second-highest one day figure to date. The highest was on September 8, when 1,517,311 doses were administered.Maharashtra currently leads the nation in terms of fully vaccinated citizens. Till now Maharashtra has administered a total of 73,257,136 doses, of which 20,600,374 citizens have been fully vaccinated. This means that 22.88% of the targeted population have been fully vaccinated. The target is to approximately vaccinate 90,000,000 citizens. The Maharashtra government has the infrastructure to vaccinate 1.50 million daily.“Maharashtra is doing a good job in vaccination, and this will help us to face the third wave, if any,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor, Government of Maharashtra on Covid-19 management.“Unlike last year, we now have a major population which is vaccinated, and this will be our greatest weapon to fight the third wave,” he added. However, he cautioned, “The challenge today is how effective the vaccines are against the variants,” he added.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, describes the fully vaccinated people figures as abysmally low. “The current pace shows that we can reach our target by only next year and by that time, we may have to face the third wave. More than the vaccines, we need to stress on adopting Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing masks, observing social distance and washing our hands regularly. Even people who have taken vaccines are getting infected,” said Shaikh.Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 3,391 new Covid-19 cases and 80 deaths, while saw 478 cases and six deaths.The state’s case tally has now reached 65,18,502, while the toll stands at 138,469. There were 165,363 tests done on Saturday in state, while the number of recoveries clocked 3,841.There are currently 47,919 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 12,699 patients followed by Thane with 7,396 active patients and Ahmednagar with 6,230.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-speeds-covid-vaccination-drive-13-20-581-inoculated-on-saturday-101631980234561.html
18-09-2021||Pune||Weekly Covid active cases drops, rise in patients requiring hospitalisation in Pune||Pune: The number of Covid patients in the city needing hospitalisation has gone up slightly compared to the previous two weeks even as weekly active cases reported has dropped. The number of Covid-19 positive patients requiring hospitalisation has gone up. In the wake of the upcoming festivities, the number of active Covid cases are likely to go up, adding more pressure on the hospital infrastructure in the city. As per the health department data, the number of serious Covid patients in the city has gone up slightly despite fall in active cases reported in the city two weeks ago. Between August 25 and September 3, the city reported 2,363 active cases of which 390 patients out of the total active cases required hospitalisation, including oxygenation and ICU care while between September 9 and September 15, the city saw 1,858 active cases of which 421 required hospitalisation, including oxygenation and ICU care. The number of those requiring special medical care has risen by 31 more patients in two weeks. In the past one week alone of the 1,858 active cases reported in the city, 1,043 were isolated at homes while 391 required without oxygen isolation beds, 277 required oxygenated isolation beds, 47 ICU beds without ventilators and 97 ventilators in Pune city. In the district, a total of 1,022 Covid active patients who account for 25% are hospitalised at isolation beds, 1,022 or 13.6% required oxygen isolation beds, 262 or 3.5% are on ICU beds without ventilators and 260 or 3.5% are those on ventilators. Dr Sanjay Patil, IMA Hospital Board chairperson said, “As of now, hospitals have opened up for both Covid and non-Covid patients and non-emergency surgeries pending for over two years are going on. As of now, city hospitals do not have the pressure of Covid critical cases as much but looking at the crowd seen on the streets since the past ten days of Ganpati, it is likely that in the coming days this pressure will only rise even more so if people do not take care.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/weekly-covid-active-cases-drops-rise-in-patients-requiring-hospitalisation-in-pune-101631980054550.html
18-09-2021||Other||LG hands over rights certificates to tribals||Jammu Lieutenant governor of Jammu and Kashmir, Manoj Sinha, handed over individual and community forest rights certificates to members of tribal communities of the Jammu division at the Convention Centre in the city. “A new era of social equality has been ushered in for tribals in the UT with the handing over of individual and community rights certificates to them,” he said in his address to tribal communities from across the Jammu division. Sinha congratulated these tribal communities and said that within a week of its beginning in Kashmir division, the process of handing over of Forest Rights Certificates has been started in Jammu. “We have formulated a robust mechanism to ensure these rights are decided at the grassroots level in consultation with the PRIs (Panchayati Raj Institutions) and the forest department,” he added.On the occasion, the LG also felicitated deputy commissioners of Rajouri, Jammu, Poonch, and Kishtwar for their outstanding work towards the implementation of Forest Rights Act in their respective districts. Sinha added that 10,389 claims were received from all 10 districts of Jammu division, of which over 8,000 claims had been scrutinised at the level of Gram Sabhas and Forest Rights Committees, and were now being examined by Sub-Divisional Level Committees (SDLCs). ************SUBHEAD OR BOX AS PER CONVENIENCE LG honours Tokyo Paralympics participants from SMVD sports complexDuring the day, the LG also honoured Paralympics participants in archery competition Rakesh Kumar and Jyoti Baliyan at the Raj Bhavan. The two had trained at the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board’s Sports Complex. Sinha, who is also the chairman of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, said, “It is a matter of pride that the Shrine Board’s support towards sports is being appreciated and delivering results. Such players put SMVD on the world map as well.” Rakesh is native of Katra and Jyoti belongs to Uttar Pradesh, but both trained under the guidance of Coach Kuldeep Vedwan at the sports complex for four years. Rakesh started his archery journey in 2017; Jyoti is the only woman archer from the country who participated in Tokyo Paralympics. SMVDVB chief executive officer Ramesh Kumar was also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lg-hands-over-rights-certificates-to-tribals-101631979214474.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||CBI court rejects bail pleas of Rana Kapoor’s wife, daughters||A special CBI court on Saturday rejected the bail applications of Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s wife Bindu Kapoor and daughters Roshni and Radha Kapoor Khanna and remanded them in judicial custody in the Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL) case. Rana Kapoor, DHFL, its promoter Kapil Wadhawan, Doit Urban Ventures Ltd are booked in the case on the charges of criminal conspiracy, cheating and corruption. The court had granted Bindu and Radha interim relief on September 4 till their main bail applications were heard. On Saturday, special CBI Judge SU Wadgaonkar rejected bail applications of the three and sent the three to judicial custody.Advocates Vijay Agrawal and Rahul Agarwal had filed the bail applications for the three and had argued that the CBI had already filed a charge sheet in the matter without arresting them and hence as per apex court orders they were entitled for bail.Other courts and coordinate courts have been granting bail in such type of matters where charge sheet is filed without arrest, Agrawal had argued.He also pointed out that in December, 2020, the PMLA court had already granted them bail in the ED casen which is an off-shoot of the present case. The completion of trial was likely to take time, the accused had deep roots in the society and is not likely to be flight-risk, nor tamper evidence or no chances of influencing witness, he had added.It is alleged that Yes Bank invested ₹3,700 crores in DHFL and in return DHFL gave Kapoor ₹600 crore as bribe in the forms of loans to a firm controlled by the latter’s wife and daughters.CBI alleged that Rana Kapoor extended financial assistance to DHFL to get substantial undue benefits for himself and his family members via companies held by Kapoor and his family.The case was registered in March 2020.The agency had filed a supplementary charge sheet in the matter on August 20, 2021, after which the court had summoned Bindu Kapoor and Radha Kapoor. In the first charge-sheet the agency had named Rana Kapoor and his daughter Roshni as accused.The court was told by CBI on Saturday that the Byculla women’s prison didn’t take any accused without an RT-PCR report, which is mandatory due to Covid-19 situation. The court then asked the CBI to keep the three in their custody till RT-PCR report of the three came and posted the matter to Monday for further hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-court-rejects-bail-pleas-of-rana-kapoor-s-wife-daughters-101631978734868.html
18-09-2021||Other||At JAK LI passing out parade, commandant says army ready for drone warfare as well||Jammu Signifying the Indian Army’s preparedness to address any threat to the country, Officers’ Training Academy commandant Lt Gen MK Das said on Saturday that the army was ready to face the new challenge of Pakistani drones. “I would like to remind all that on the Army Day this year in New Delhi, there was a presentation on new warfare, of drones attacking drones. Our army chief has taken this drone challenge in right earnest,” said Lt Gen Das, at the passing out parade of 460 soldiers from Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, who joined the elite JAK LI (Jammu and Kashmir Light Infantry) at Dansal near Jammu. He added that former militants who had laid down their arms and returned to the national mainstream have turned out to be the finest soldiers in the army. “The Indian Army is being readied on how to face this challenge and I would like to say that for this challenge, the army and the JAK LI are ready. Our recruits are also being trained for cyber security, science and technology. In their units they are oriented to face all kinds of challenges, including drones,” he said, adding that Jammu and Kashmir was the crown of India and the country’s leadership was focused on its development and progress. On surrendered militants, he said, “The surrender opportunity is there. Our regiment has a special unit to bring them back into mainstream for which 162 Infantry TA JAK LI is there. Some former militants, who returned to the mainstream, have become our best soldiers. I am confident that the day is not far when J&K will make rapid strides forward on the path of peace and development.” Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “The attestation parade, the depiction of the graduation of a recruit and his transformation into a young soldier was reviewed by Lt Gen MK Das and Colonel of JAK LI regiment.”Lt Gen Das, congratulated the young soldiers for their immaculate parade and impressed upon selfless service towards the nation. He praised their contribution towards encouraging more and more youth from J&K to come forward to join the security forces and also highlighted the vital role played by their parents.AWARDS FOR THE YOUNG GUNSRecruit Peer Sartaj Ahmed Wani was awarded the Sher-e-Kashmir Sword of Honour and the Triveni Singh Medal for being adjudged the ‘Over all Best Recruit’. Recruit Amandeep Singh Chib was awarded the Chewang Rinchen Medal for being ‘Best in Firing’. Recruit Parmeet Sharma was awarded the Maqbool Sherwani Medal for being ‘Best in Physical Training’ and Recruit Mohammad Asad was awarded the Bana Singh Medal for being ‘Best in Drill’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-jak-li-passing-out-parade-commandant-says-army-ready-for-drone-warfare-as-well-101631978554610.html
18-09-2021||Bangalore||K'taka records 889 new Covid-19 cases, 14 more deaths||Karnataka on Saturday recorded 889 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths, taking the infection count to 29,67,083 and death toll to 37,587, the health department said.The day also saw 1,080 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,13,713.Of the fresh cases, 263 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 222 discharges and 6 deaths.Active cases in the state stood at 15,755.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.63 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.57 per cent.Six deaths were reported from Bengaluru Urban, two each from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, followed by others.Apart from Bengaluru Urban, three other districts accounted for the maximum number of fresh infections today- Dakshina Kannada 133, Udupi 86 and Mysuru 74.Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,43,213, followed by Mysuru 1,77,223 and Tumakuru 1,19,888.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,19,639, followed by Mysuru 1,74,279 and Tumakuru 1,18,150.Cumulatively 4,61,43,315 samples have been tested in the state, of which 1,38,920 were tested on Saturday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-records-889-new-covid-19-cases-14-more-deaths-101631973078113.html
18-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 728 new Covid cases, 7 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 728 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths in 24 hours on. This took the progressive count to 1.13 million of which 1.10 million have recovered, 19,728 deaths and 12,699 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 0.153 million vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 431 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 354,186 and the death toll went up to six,753 as five more deaths were added. Pune city reported 186 new cases which took the progressive count to 515,352 and the death toll went up to 9,132 as two more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 111 new cases and the progressive count went up to 265,106 and the toll stood at 3,494. Pune also saw 153,737 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Saturday and in total 9,692,784. Of which 6,792,032 are first doses and 2,900,752 are second doses. A total of 768 sites saw vaccination of which 454 were government centres and 314 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-728-new-covid-cases-7-deaths-101631978373622.html
18-09-2021||Pune||60 mobile tanks, 7,000 cops on streets for Covid-safe Ganesh visarjan in Pune||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has made arrangements for mobile tanks and allocated fixed locations for immersion of Ganesh idols on Sunday. Ammonium bicarbonate is also being distributed for those performing immersion at home. Citing Covid situation, the civic administration has appealed to citizens to avoid public places for immersion. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “PMC has made available 60 mobile trucks across various location for Ganesh immersion. We have also set up idol donation centres.” PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “Ammonium bicarbonate has been made available at various locations for citizens to perform immersion at home.” PMC has made the facility available to lift nirmalya (floral offerings) from housing societies. A PMC firebrigade official said, “Though immersion is banned at water bodies, we are keeping manpower ready to avoid any drowning incident. Even PMC would not allow citizens to come near water bodies.” Along with PMC, many elected members and political workers have erected mobile Ganesh immersion tanks at their localities. PMC has put flexes of Ganesh idol at centres at traditional Ganesh immersion points. Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar said, “Citizens must avoid crowd and prefer to do immersion at home.” Over 7,000 police staff will be deployed at streets to ensure strict implementation of Ganpati immersion related rules for Sunday. The police have denied permission for any immersion procession while most mandals have promised in-house immersion. According to additional commissioner Ravindra Shisve, meetings are held with prominent mandals to ensure that immersion will take place within their pandal premises. “No outsiders will be allowed for immersion rituals. Mandals should ensure only handful of workers are present during the programme.” The police will deploy teams at various spots to prevent crowding while administration has already ordered closure of all non-essential shops in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and cantonment areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/60-mobile-tanks-7-000-cops-on-streets-for-covid-safe-ganesh-visarjan-in-pune-101631977894181.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two held for posing as foreigners and cheating over 10 women of ₹31 lakh||New Delhi: The city police on Friday arrested two men for allegedly posing as foreign nationals on social media and duping over 10 women of at least ₹31 lakh in the guise of sending them expensive gifts from the United Kingdom.Police said the suspects, Damodar Lal (28) and Rehmat Khan (34), allegedly sought money from the women by claiming that it is required to pay for the customs clearance for the gifts.Two other members of the gang are currently absconding and investigations are on to nab them.Police said that the racket came to light when a woman lodged a complaint in Rani Bagh police station on August 24, alleging that she paid ₹60,000 to a “UK based man” she had met on Instagram. The woman was allegedly told that an expensive gift was sent for her from the UK and that she needed to pay the customs clearance amount.According to police, the complainant had transferred the amount to a Canara bank account registered in Lal’s name but the address mentioned in the documents was found to be fake.However, police later traced Lal, who used to stay in Nangloi in Delhi, to his residence in Bareilly, and also arrested his associate, Khan, from the area.Upon questioning, police said, the two allegedly revealed that they used to pose as foreigners on social media and approach potential targets. After talking online for a few days, the suspects reportedly claim to have sent them some expensive gift from abroad.Even if the victim does not believe them at the time, police said some of them do when the suspects call them on the phone two-three days later, posing as a customs clearing agent claiming to have some gift package in their name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhitwo-held-for-posing-as-foreigners-and-cheating-over-10-women-of-31-lakh-101631976693982.html
18-09-2021||Pune||Pune police invoke Mcoca against criminal Govind Singh Tak, six others||Pune: The city police have invoked the 55th Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (Mcoca) case in the city and have booked six members of Govind Singh Tak under the stringent provisions of the anti-organised crime act. Kothrud police had earlier arrested Tak and his aides, who were armed with sharp weapons, fleeing after burglary at Pancharatna Society in the early hours of July 5. A first information report (FIR) was lodged in the case at the Kothrud police station under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 395 (dacoity), 397 (use of deadly weapon in dacoity) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharging duty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and sections of the Indian Arms Act. According to the police, Tak gang members were engaged in spreading fear in the society particularly Swargate area and were posing as ‘bhais’. A number of cases ranging from attempt to murder and other serious crimes are lodged against the accused. All of them were arrested and incarcerated in Yerwada prison. The Mcoca proposal was submitted to the additional commissioners office by zonal police commissioner Sagar Patil and was given in-principle approval for invoking stringent provisions of the act against the crime syndicate. ACP Sushma Chavan is the investigating officer in the case. Pune police intensified its crackdown on criminal gangs following an incident in February when gangster Gajanan Marne, after his release from Taloja jail, and his aides took out a procession from Navi Mumbai to Pune on four-wheelers, causing much embarrassment to the city police. Marne was later arrested and multiple offences were lodged against him. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar had expressed his unhappiness over the rally and asked the police to take strict action against all types of criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-invoke-mcoca-against-criminal-govind-singh-tak-six-others-101631975674077.html
18-09-2021||Other||Amarinder’s principal chief secy, political secy resign as well||Chandigarh Within minutes of the resignation of Capt Amarinder Singh as Punjab chief minister, his chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar and political secretary Captain Sandeep Sandhu resigned from their posts as well. Kumar, a retired IAS officer of the 1983-batch, was considered the final word of Amarinder on official matters, Sandhu used to look political affairs and was the bridge between the government and the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. A senior government official said that since Kumar’s appointment as the chief principal secretary to the CM is co-terminus with that of Amarinder holding the CM post, he shall continue on his post as CPS, till the new CM is appointed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amarinders-principal-chief-secy-political-secy-resign-as-well-101631974713953.html
18-09-2021||Pune||PCB receives 24 applications seeking trade licence following sealing of three food joints||Pune: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has sealed Shegaon Kachori joint, the third establishment to be shut down after it launched a drive against hostels and business establishments operating without the mandatory trade licence. Fearing action from authorities, PCB received 24 applications seeking trade licence on Saturday. Around 700 establishments are on the radar of the cantonment board administration with the CEO releasing a list of 32 establishments who were served notices for licence violations. PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “We took action against three of the establishments and sealed them till further orders. It is our endeavour to make the cantonment board safe for visitors and residents as the area has seen two major fire incidents in the recent past at Fashion Street and Shivaji market. Hence, a non-objection certificate (NOC) will be a very important document as we don’t want to take any chances. We have received 24 applications so far from different applicants for trade licences and 32 establishments are on our watch list. Also, establishments operating before 2006 will also have to take trade licences afresh failing which they will face similar action. We want to make the board area safe for the people and present action is aimed at making the establishments accountable under the cantonment act for safe and secure cantonment in the larger interests of the citizens.” The PCB on Friday sealed Hotel Delhi Darbar and Sujata Mastani. The cantonment board, a week ago, had announced that starting September 15, it would seal shops and business establishments that do not have the mandatory trade licence. The PCB charges between Rs800 and Rs3,000 per licence. Applicants have to apply through the board website and submit documents online. The licence will be given on completion of the procedure and an applicant does not need to visit the Cantonment office physically. It is mandatory for the applicant to submit a fire safety and hygiene certificate while applying for the licence. As per the Cantonment Act 2006, the board can also charge fines of Rs50,000. Traders, who have trade licences before 2006, do not have to apply, barring certain exceptions, states the Cantonment Act, 2006. Hotels that sought licence MG ROAD Bangalore Café. Ziyon Events (above Jammu & Kashmir bank). TABOOT STREET Suleman Usman Mithaiwala Pune Darbar. SACHAPIR STREET Modern Kitchen. Modern Foods SYNAGOGUE STREET Cafe Taiba. Cafe Kaz. BOOTEE STREET J.M Café. MOLEDINA ROAD- STERLING CENTER Barista Yana Sizzlers EAST STREET Sahana Veg. Sahaji Paratha House. EffenGut to go cafe. Mughals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcb-receives-24-applications-seeking-trade-licence-following-sealing-of-three-food-joints-101631974474278.html
18-09-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh polls: Priyanka to decide whether she will be CM candidate or not says Khurshid||Former Union minister Salman Khurshid on Saturday said the Congress would contest the UP assembly polls under party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s leadership and she herself would decide on the issue of whether she would be party’s chief ministerial candidate or not.Khurshid, who is senior member of Congress party’s manifesto drafting panel, was in Sangam city leading a delegation of Congress leaders with an aim to interact with people as well as leaders of his party’s frontal organisations before the party prepares and releases the manifesto for the UP assembly elections-2022.All Indian Congress Committee national secretary Bajirao Khande, Congress working committee member Pramod Tiwari and former MLA Anugrah Narayan Singh, among others, are also in the delegation. Addressing media persons at a guest house in Kalyani Devi locality, Khurshid said Congress would be writing a new chapter of success in the UP polls in 2022 and would win more seats than expected. Coming down hard on the BJP-led state and Central governments, Khurshid said the people were being cheated. “Unemployment is rising and atrocities against women are being committed with impunity in the state,” he said. He also said the Congress would be contesting UP polls on the needs and aspirations of the people.Khurshid said interaction with people of various sections of the society had not only helped him understand the expectations and pain of the people but also made it clear that the common man was angry with the ruling BJP.On various political parties trying to woo members of certain castes in the run up to the polls, Khurshid said Congress did not believe in such caste and religion-based politics and instead was trying to visit slums, interact with poor and farmers to better understand their problems so that their aspirations and expectations can find a place in the Congress manifesto. Earlier, Khurshid arrived at the Bamrauli airport at 11.30am and directly went to the slum near Bakshi Bandh in Daraganj. Here, he and other senior Congress leaders interacted with the residents.He also led the interaction with farmers, traders, women and students during his stay at Kalyani Devi. Congress leader Pramod Tiwari said it was Congress that had actually worked for Dalits and the downtrodden. “The middle class and the poor are suffering today even as the ruling BJP has no answers to rising costs and people’s sufferings,” he alleged. PHOTO CAPTION: Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid addressing media persons on Saturday. (HT)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-polls-priyanka-to-decide-whether-she-will-be-cm-candidate-or-not-says-khurshid-101631974234102.html
18-09-2021||Lucknow||Restaurants introduce lavish brunch and live gigs to bring foodies back||With further relaxation in the night curfew and drastic decline in Covid-19 cases, the restaurants in the state capital are going all out to bring customers back to dinner table. They are trying all means, including Sunday brunches, reopening discounts, re-launch of restaurants, music attraction and elaborate menu, to get people out of their homes for a renewed food experience. Due to social distancing norms the seating capacity has reduced considerably so it’s not possible to get back to the pre-pandemic footfalls, says restaurateur Jatin Ahuja. “We are offering 25% discounts on Mondays and Tuesdays at Royal Sky. Other days we give 20% discount besides the attraction of music on weekends. At our Colours lounge, we have elaborate buffets for now to attract people and keep doing exclusive add-ons like Rajasthani or Chinese food,” he adds. Taj Mahal hotel has recently launched elaborate Sunday brunch at the Sahib Café. “Live counters and unlimited mocktails are the attraction at our brunch. Our team of chefs led by Nagendra Singh have curated choicest of menu where special features are Mexican Fajita, Lakhnawi chaat, Asian Satay and Awadhi Biryani. To create a relaxed ambience, we have live performances by singer Utkarsh Srivastava,” says hotels deputy sales manager Shabahat Husain. International dishes are being widely introduced along with the local flavours. “At our multi-cuisine restaurant Kava, we have added a fresh roast of the day. Jumbo couple cocktail, unlimited mocktails, grills, chaat and kebab have been added to our menu. We have some special plans for Diwali as well,” says Sachin Malhotra, hotel manager at Fairfield by Marriot. Renaissance too is planning to bring back Sunday brunch after Navratri. To boost sales and attract locals, The Piccadily has reopened its Punjab restaurant with new add-ons. “Our executive chef Ajay Avasthi has introduced some choicest of dishes specialty for the locals out here. These include sarso ka saag with makki ki roti, paneer tikka Jalandhari, dhabe da kukkad, mutton bheja and many more,” says hotel’s corporate sales manager Sagar Srivastava. Ramada Lucknow has introduced live music shows at their buffet restaurant which is now offering elaborate menu. “We have started aesthetic brunch in which we are giving live platform to patrons to showcase their talent at our speciality restaurant and art gallery. We will stream it on our social media platforms,” says its executive assistant manager Amitesh Singh. “It seems that things are gradually coming back on track, but everyone is cautious as we are still in pandemic and we can’t let out guards down,” adds Husain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/restaurants-introduce-lavish-brunch-and-live-gigs-to-bring-foodies-back-101631973874016.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||SDM orders Gurdwara Bangla Sahib to restrict entry of visitors, Sikh body calls it ‘cheap action’||New Delhi:The Chanakyapuri sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) on Saturday ordered the management of Gurdwara Bangla Sahib on Baba Kharak Singh Marg to immediately close the entry of devotees, reiterating Covid guidelines that prohibit visitors at places of worship to curb spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Though the order did not ask the gurdwara management to shut its premises, it evoked sharp reaction from the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) as it demanded action against the official. The SDM cited Delhi Disaster Management Authority guidelines that allow religious places such as temples, gurdwaras, mosques and so on to open, but bars entry of visitors. However, during an inspection the district administration found the gurdwara allowing visitors. “The executive magistrate, sub division Chanakyapuri, New Delhi, has submitted a report that the management of Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, BKS Marg, New Delhi, has allowed visitors/prayers inside the gurdwara which is violation of… the order dated September 15, 2021 of DDMA Delhi. Now therefore, I, Geeta Grover, Sub Divisional Magistrate, Chanakyapuri New Delhi district in exercise of power conferred under Disaster Management Act 2005 read with Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 and regulations made there under, hereby directs management of Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, BKS Marg, New Delhi to close the Gurdwara Bangla Sahib for visitors with immediate effect,” read the order by Chanakyapuri SDM Geeta Grover, dated September 16. In her order, Grover further said, “Failing to comply with the above order would attract strict penal action under relevant section of the law. Matter to be treated as urgent in light of Covid-19. Issued with the prior approval of the District Magistrate, New Delhi District.”Shiromani Akali Dal leader and outgoing DSGMC chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Saturday urged chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to take action against the official. Sirsa tweeted, “Cheap action by SDM Chanakyapuri by passing this order to close Gurdwara Sri Bangla Sahib for Covid violations! We condemn this sick mentality of Delhi Govt & demand @ArvindKejriwal Ji to take strictest action against concerned DC & SDM Geeta Grover.”The Chanakyapuri SDM office, however, said the order was issued according to the DDMA guidelines, and refused to comment further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdm-orders-gurdwara-bangla-sahib-to-restrict-entry-of-visitors-sikh-body-calls-it-cheap-action-101631973813888.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||After Amarinder Singh’s resignation, AAP fires ‘Game of Thrones’ jibe at Cong||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which has been at loggerheads with the ruling Congress government in Punjab over several issues including employment, debt waiver for farmers, hit out at the ruling party on Saturday after Captain Amarinder Singh resigned as the chief minister, just months before the high-stakes assembly elections.Sharing a video message on Twitter in Punjabi, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha, who is also the party’s Punjab unit co-in charge, said that governance in the state has been the biggest casualty in the Congress' ‘Game of Thrones".Also Read| Who will succeed Amarinder? Cong resolution at CLP meet authorises Sonia GandhiAlleging that Congress does not care about the welfare of people of Punjab but for its own happiness, Chadha said that the ruling party in the state is like drowning Titanic which neither has a vision nor commitment or performance. The issues of Punjab have been put on the backburner due to a power struggle within the Congress, the AAP leader also said.Governance in the state of Punjab has been the biggest casualty in Congress's 'Game of Thrones' pic.twitter.com/JbbriFhHxyRaghav Chadha’s attack on Saturday comes a day after he targeted Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and called him the ‘Rakhi Sawant’ of the state’s politics after he was criticised by the party high command for a non-stop rant against Captain Amarinder Singh.Singh submitted his resignation as Punjab CM on Saturday moments before the Congress Legislature Party’s (CLP’s) meeting. More than 50 MLAs had written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, seeking that Singh should be removed from the top post.Speaking to reporters at the Raj Bhavan on Saturday, Amarinder Singh said that he felt humiliated, which was his reference to the doubts raised by Congress’ central leadership over his capabilities to run Punjab.Also Read| How Amarinder Singh resignation as Punjab CM unfolded: A timeline“The thing is that this is the third time the party called the MLAs. You have an element of doubt in me... I feel humiliated,” the former chief minister further said.Amarinder Singh, who has been credited with bringing the Congress party back to power in Punjab in 2017, said that he has no plans to quit the Congress as of now and will decide on future course of action after holding talks with his loyalists.Though it has not been declared who will become the new chief minister of Punjab, speculations are that former state Congress President Sunil Jakhar or Pratap Singh Bajwa might be chosen for the top post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-amarinder-singh-s-resignation-aap-fires-game-of-thrones-jibe-at-cong-101631973383522.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Journalist arrested in Haryana for publishing ‘incorrect place’ of arrest of terrorist||A journalist was arrested and another was booked at Ambala Cantonment here for allegedly mentioning "incorrect place" of arrest of a suspected terrorist in a news report, prompting the opposition to attack the Haryana government for "suppressing" freedom of press.The case against reporter Sunil Brar and news editor Sandeep Sharma of Dainik Bhaskar was registered on Thursday under different sections of the IPC, police said, adding that Brar was taken into custody on Friday.Efforts are on to nab Sharma, they said.A suspected terrorist was arrested by Punjab Police on Wednesday over an alleged tiffin bomb plot from Mardon Sahib village of Ambala. The newspaper headline on the following day stated ‘Punjab police claims arrest of terrorist at Cantt from near IOC depot'.The national daily published a correction the next day on the location from where the suspected terrorist was arrested.SHO Ambala Cantt Vijay Kumar said the case against the journalists was registered as they published the news without any authentication. Journalist Sunil and Sandeep Sharma have created fear among the masses by publishing false news, he added.Meanwhile, opposition parties, including the Congress, INLD, Haryana Democratic Front and BSP, criticised the arrest.Senior Congress leader Rohit Jain said the arrest was made against the direction of Supreme court. He said the police had not issued any prior notice to the journalist before arresting him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/journalist-arrested-in-haryana-for-publishing-incorrect-place-of-arrest-of-terrorist-101631970174939.html
18-09-2021||Pune||PMC administration submits Taljai hills development plan to standing committee||PUNE: The Pune municipal administration has submitted a detailed project report (DPR) for 107 acre at Taljai hill for approval of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) standing committee. The proposal at the green belt has invited opposition from environmentalists and residents. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) which had earlier opposed the plan initiated by Aba Bagul of the Congress has also supported the Rs120 crore proposal. The original project that includes seven theme gardens such as nakshatra, bamboo and local species also has a cricket stadium for women, gym, study room and solar panel-covered parking. A five-acre cricket stadium named Sa Du Shinde has already been developed on the hill. Bagul said, “The plan was proposed in 2018 though leaders of some political parties opposed it. Now the administration has okayed the project and submitted it before the PMC standing committee for approval. Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar has given nod to the plan and it is expected that all parties would approve the project. The project will be carried out in phase wise manner.” The project invited controversy as some green activists challenged it. Following the opposition, various meetings were held in PMC regarding the project. During a presentation of the project, NCP members Subhash Jagtap and Ashwini Kadam had challenged it. The project was on paper since 2018 because of opposition from political leaders and activists. Meanwhile, NCP leader Sharad Pawar and Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan inaugurated the Sa Du Shinde cricket stadium and Nakshatra garden. With several changes, Taljai hill has become a popular destination in the city amid with many citizens visiting it for walk. In March this year, the state government sanctioned ₹13 crore for the development of forest and greenery on the hill. Sources said that as Ajit Pawar held a meeting with party leaders recently to discuss the proposal. Following the meeting, party leaders said that the project could get a green signal this time. To protect environment, e-rickshaw facility has been proposed as part of the project. Project highlight DPR for development on 107 acre at Taljai hill awaits PMC approval Total project area -107 acre Project cost - Rs120 crore Taljai hill land issue was sub-judice but later the court gave its nod to PMC to acquire it Seven gardens proposed, including Nakshatra park and Bamboo park - Sa Du Shinde cricket stadium developed on five acres - Parking proposed with solar panel roof cover - Stadium for woman - E-rikshaw facility||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-administration-submits-taljai-hills-development-plan-to-standing-committee-101631973393894.html
18-09-2021||Other||It’s curtains for Patiala Royal brand of politics in Punjab||Patiala With Capt Amarinder Singh’s resignation as Punjab chief minister, it is also curtains for the Patiala Royal brand of politics, which had its own unique pull and admirers, irrespective of whether the two-time CM was in or out of power. For two decades, Punjab has seen the Patiala Royals maintain an important link to power. Capt’s wife, Preneet Kaur, is a four-time MP; mother was a former MP; he has been a MP himself and a state minister as well. Since 1998, the politics of the Punjab Congress has been controlled from his New Moti Bagh Palace in the city. This was the time when he had rejoined the party, after resigning to protest against the Operation Bluestar in 1984.Since then, the Capt’s clout has ensured that almost two dozen of his lieutenants from Patiala have been appointed chairman, vice-chairman of important state government undertakings.A war veteran, politician, military historian, author and shooter, Amarinder dons many hats. In politics, old-timers say he has a habit of reinventing himself and making a comeback. His leadership drew the country’s attention when he got the Punjab assembly to unilaterally enact the controversial ‘Punjab Termination of Water Agreements Act of 2004’, against the wish of his party. When asked to prove himself, he contested and won against BJP heavyweight Arun Jaitley. Since then, he has also been referred to as the ‘Savior of River Waters’. He had the Badals jailed in a corruption case, which failed in court. Later, when the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) came to power, he was booked in the same case. In his long political innings, Amarinder ensured that no Punjab Congress president could work independently, be it Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, Shamsher Singh Dullo, Partap Singh Bajwa or others. His close aides Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa led major coups against state Congress chiefs. These leaders, however, turned against their political master, when he failed to act on their demands of justice in sacrilege cases; scrapping Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) and action against drug mafia. Amarinder still remains the tallest leader of the state, but this time, perhaps, he could find himself all alone. His failure to address allegations of a quid pro quo arrangements with the Badals has also been a great undoing. Narinder Dogra, former head, political science department, Punjabi University, says, “Amarinder has lost credibility for ignoring leaders loyal to him. With advancing age, resurgence is very difficult. No one else in the royal family can match him in ability.”Congress leaders in Patiala agreed, but claimed that it was the bureaucracy that had dented the Capt’s image. Dogra added that over-dependence on bureaucracy and failure to sort out issues with PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu contributed to Amarinder’s downfall. “With Amarinder not the CM, the development of the city will be hit. Patiala will lose its say in decision-making within the Congress,” said Navtej Singh, a Congress leader from Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/its-curtains-for-patiala-royal-brand-of-politics-in-punjab-101631972793762.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||South MCD to throw open Bharat Darshan park in Punjabi Bagh within 2 weeks||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) will open the mega Bharat Darshan Park in Punjabi Bagh, which has replicas of 21 monuments from across the country built using scrap material, within two weeks, officials said.The park, spread over an area of 8.5 acres and being built at a cost of ₹14 crore, was slated to be opened by mid-September but work was halted due to heavy rainfall in the last month.“Work is in its last stage. Only the Char Dham replica has some work left after which we will be ready to inaugurate the park. We are trying to open it by the end of the month or early October,” said a senior corporation official working closely on the project.The park is inspired by the corporation’s Waste to Wonder park in Sarai Kale Khan, which has replicas of the seven wonders of the world, similarly built using scrap material.The official added that discussions are on about the entry fee for visitors.“The fee amount is still being worked upon. It may be the double of waste-to-wonder park, which is ₹50 on weekdays. It is still to be finalised,” the official said.The waste-to-wonder park charges ₹50 entry fee for visitors aged between 12 and 65 years on week days and ₹100 on Sundays.The park has replicas of major architectural sites from across the country, including Hawa Mahal, Meenakshi Temple, Khajuraho Temple, Konark Temple, Charminar, Mysore Palace, Junagarh Fort, Nalanda ruins, Sanchi Stupa, Hampi ruins and Ajanta and Ellora caves, among others.The park also has amphitheatres for cultural events, a walking track of 1.5 km, fountains and ponds.SDMC standing committee chairman Colonel (retd) B K Oberoi said that the park aims to offer a tour of the country’s major sites within two hours.“The park is in its final stage and shall be thrown open very soon. We are also going to have a children’s park and smart illumination of all the replicas. We also plan to come up with a little train for children to take them around the replicas,” said Oberoi, adding that they will also open a food lounge to offer cuisines from across the country.Oberoi further said that another park featuring statues of heroes of Indian history from across the country, “such as Jhansi ki Rani, Maharana Pratap and Chhatrapati Shivaji, among others”, is also in the works and a proposal will be presented in the standing committee soon.“The park is in planning stage at present. We plan to bring together freedom fighters and national war heroes depicting India’s history. Also, it will have inscriptions and a brief history of the story associated with a particular legend. It will provide a glimpse into the lives and history of the country’s heroes in one go,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/south-mcd-to-throw-open-bharat-darshan-park-in-punjabi-bagh-within-two-weeks-101631972373645.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay scientists develop new technique to accurately measure soot||Researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Bombay have developed a new data-processing technique to measure low amounts of soot accurately. This will help designers build better combustion-based devices such as internal combustion engines in cars.In simple terms, soot are tiny black particles that rise from a flame. Soot is formed when the fuel doesn’t burn entirely. When fuel burns properly, a blue flame is seen, whereas the flame is yellow when the soot is formed during burning and it becomes hot. Soot can cause cancer and respiratory and cardiac disorders; it can also reduce the life of machine parts.However, accurately measuring small amounts of soot can be a challenge and has spawned several research projects. In a recent study by a group of five researchers from IIT-Bombay led by Neeraj Kumbhakarna, professor from the department of Mechanical Engineering, demonstrated a new technique to effectively reduce measurement errors when soot is present in low amounts. This study was published in the June issue of the Journal of Aerosol Science and jointly funded by the Industrial Research and Consultancy Centre, IIT-Bombay and the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO).The researchers analysed digital camera pictures of burning fuel to guess the temperature of the fuel and use the information to estimate the soot volume. The amount of soot can be measured using methods such as collecting and weighing the soot and studying a light beam shone on soot particles. The current study uses the last method.The researchers passed a beam of red laser light of a specific frequency, through a droplet of burning fuel and took images as it burnt. The light falling on the camera also contains the light from the burning fuel. The researchers used a narrow band filter to let only the laser light pass and filter out the light emitted by the burning fuel. “When a flame having soot particles is shone with light, called background light, the particles absorb and scatter some of this light, so light reaching the camera is less bright,” said Anand Sankaranarayanan, a post-doctoral researcher from IIT-Bombay and co-author of the study.The researchers used the relation between the initial brightness of the laser light, the brightness of the light falling on the camera and the soot volume to calculate the amount of soot. They then used a data-processing technique to compute the values of brightness from their images. Their challenge was to estimate the initial brightness of background light falling on soot particles since this isn’t directly captured in the images.The researchers predicted the brightness of background light at every moment instead of using an average. They observed the flickers in background light at areas present outside the flame of the burning fuel, where there is no soot. They used it to estimate the background light falling on the soot particles. “Using our new data processing technique, we got lower errors, especially when the amount of soot produced is low. Our technique does not require any additional equipment or extra expenditure, which is an added advantage,” said Sankaranarayanan.To further reduce errors in the experiment, the researchers passed the laser light beam through a fixed and a rotating diffuser — a glass sheet that scatters light — before the light was incident on the burning fuel. A diffuser gives an evenly bright light and avoids the many speckles in the camera image. Speckles need to be removed while processing the data, leading to a loss of information. The researchers also validated their data processing technique. They used it to calculate the amount of soot for some previous measurements reported in the literature and verified the results. They also qualitatively checked their experimental observations.They burnt a droplet of toluene (a carbon-based fuel) and compared their experimental observations with that in the literature. “We observed a similar peak value of the amount of soot. As expected, we saw high amounts of soot slightly inside the outer edges of the flame, where temperatures and fuel concentration are high,” Sankaranarayanan added.“Quantification of soot is crucial from an environmental perspective. This is an important study as an effective method to quantify soot will help in identification of strategies to mitigate combustion-based practices in India,” said Darpan Das, a post-doctoral fellow at Johns Hopkins University (JHU), Bloomberg School of Public Health, Department of Environmental Health and Engineering, who was not a part of the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-scientists-develop-new-technique-to-accurately-measure-soot-101631972253641.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Sindhudurg airport gets aerodrome licence||Sindhudurg airport has received an aerodrome license from the Director-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The aerodrome license will now enable the airport operator to throw open the new aviation facility for the airlines and general public.Sindhudurg’s Chipi airport, an SPV of IRB Infra, has a 2,500-metre-long runway and can handle 200 departing and 200 arriving passengers during peak hours.The DGCA in the license issued to the company stated, “The license authorises the aerodrome to be used as a regular place of landing and departure to all persons on equal terms and conditions by aircraft requiring specifications of the runway and associated facilities including granted exemptions equal to or less than those indicated in the Aerodrome Manual.”Virendra Mhaiskar, chairman and managing director (CMD) of the company said, “We are very happy to achieve yet another milestone in the current year and see the airport receive the license to operate after successful completion. With a concession period of over 90 years and a compelling regional proposition, it offers meaningful avenues of growth. We now look forward to opening the facility for airline operators and the general public soon.”This comes after the Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, last on Thursday, unveiled a 100-day ambitious plan to bring major reforms in the aviation sector, including operationalising five airports, six heliports and 50 new routes under the regional connectivity UDAN scheme that included Sindhudurg airport.Before this, Scindia had also written to chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to speed up the process of commencing operations from the airport.Sindhudurg airport with a cost expenditure of approximately ₹800 crores and a concession period of above 90 years is the first of its kind in the south Konkan region, which is aimed at enhancing air connectivity of the region with western Maharashtra and southern states.“The airport will not only generate passenger traffic but will also be a boon for the economic development of the region as it will facilitate and boost cargo transportation, generate direct as well as indirect employment and other business opportunities for the local people,” read the statement from IRB. “It has potential to become a cargo hub of the western region as there is ample space for handling the cargo, and is expandable to meet the future growing needs,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-sindhudurg-airport-gets-aerodrome-licence-101631972133697.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Three arrested for trying to extort from 76-year-old doctor in Mumbai||Unit 12 of the Mumbai crime branch on Friday evening arrested three people, including a 21-year-old woman, who allegedly posed as members of a naxalite group and tried to extort a sum of ₹50 lakh from a 76-year-old doctor.According to the police the three had used a letterhead with the words Lal Salaam to threaten Dr Wadilal Shah, who owns a clinic in Goregaon (East). The arrested trio, identified as Hayat Shah, 50, Vikrant Sirat, 45, resident of Virar and Baisakhi Wishwas, a resident of Ghansoli in Navi Mumbai, had planned the extortion for the past one week. To learn the skill of extortion, the three had searched YouTube videos.Police officers said that Hayat was Shah’s patient for two decades and perhaps knew how much he earned.“Hayat and Sirat are estate agents and knew each other. The two came up with the plan and enrolled Wishwas to deliver the letter,” said an officer from crime branch.On September 15, Wishwas visited the doctor’s clinic in disguise of a woman patient, wearing a burkha, and dropped the letter addressed to the doctor at a medical store next to his clinic. Due to several patients waiting in line, the doctor accepted the letter but did not open it till he reached home.Police officers said that on opening the letter he saw that there was a red mark on it with words saying that they would kill him and his son if he did not pay them ₹50 lakhs.After reading the letter in the evening, the doctor approached police and reported the incident. The first thing that the police did was to scan the CCTV footages of the areas where the burkha clad woman walked. The officers then saw Wishwas removing her burkha and showing her face kilometres away from the clinic.Based on her phone location, the officers arrested Wishwas from Ghansoli. Wishwas then gave up the names and addresses of the other two accused who were arrested on Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/three-arrested-for-trying-to-extort-from-76-year-old-doctor-in-mumbai-101631972013651.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Pocso court: School sweeper gets 15 years’ term for sexual assault of minor||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) court on Saturday convicted a sweeper working with an Urdu school in south Mumbai for sexually assaulting an 11-year-old girl and sentenced him to 15 years of rigorous imprisonment.The prosecution, through special public prosecutor Kalpana Hire, said the offence had taken place on a number of occasions in February and March 2015. The minor lived with her aunt who notices abrasions and scratch marks on her arms while giving her a bath and inquired about it. The girl eventually told her that the school sweeper would take her to a room during recess and sexually assaulted her. He had allegedly threatened the girl against telling anyone about it.The minor’s family then approached the court and the sweeper was arrested after investigation.The prosecution examined nine witnesses including the minor, the investigating officer, school staff and a videographer who recorded the girl’s statement. They also relied on several documents such as medical reports, birth certificate of the girl, forensic report along with spot panchnama. Advocates Nilesh Ojha and Abhishek Mishra, for the accused, had argued there were material contradictions and omissions in the minor’s testimony. They claimed that the accused was not present on the date of the offence, and said there were no eyewitnesses. They further claimed that the accused was falsely implicated by a person who wants get the school vacated.Special Pocso judge Sanjashree S Gharat observed that the accused was unable to produce any evidence to support his claim and held the accused guilty for commission of offence punishable under 376 (2) (n) and 506 (2) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 6 of Pocso Act in view of the provisions of section 42 of Pocso Act.Responding to an application for the discharge of the accused filed by the complainant, the court observed that the application was filed after the accused was held guilty and was set for sentencing and hence dismissed it. The accused was then sentenced to 15 years of imprisonment and a ₹30,000 fine under one charge and 1 year imprisonment and ₹10,000 for another. Both the sentences would run concurrently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pocso-court-school-sweeper-gets-15-years-term-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-101631971713673.html
18-09-2021||Pune||FDA seizes food items worth ₹1.4 lakh in Pune rural; action against 12 sweet shop owners||PUNE The Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Pune division, has seized food items worth ₹1,04,450 from the Pune circle in the last eight days of the festive season. The action is taken under a special drive undertaken in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural areas.The commodities which are seized are from Circle 5 (rural Pune).Also, 12 sweet shops have come under the scanner for not following the norm of ‘displaying best before date’ on the packaged items.While from the Pune division which includes - Pune, Satara, Sangli, Solapur, Kolhapur, FDA officials have seized food items worth ₹1,538,477. (see graphic)“The seized commodities are from sweet-marts and grocery shops. Till the samples are not cleared from the lab we cannot allow the sale of the items which are under surveillance,” said Shivaji Desai, joint commissioner, (food), FDA Pune.The drive was undertaken in the five circles of the Pune zone, headed by assistant commissioners and respective food safety officers.Pimpri-Chinchwad area comes under Circle 4, while under Circle 3 – Camp, Hadapsar, Lonavla, Talegaon and nearby areas. Peth areas, Market yard, Kondhwa, Mundhwa, Katraj comes under Circle 2 and Baner, Shivaji nagar, Aundh, Khadki, Khardi comes under Circle 1.“More samples have been taken from sweet-marts, their testing is still underway in the labs. Issuing compounding penalties also becomes important as it makes more impact as violators have to pay a fine at the same time when they are caught. Otherwise, court cases go long and violators keep finding ways to not pay fines,” added Desai.In the Pune zone, from Circle 1, ₹5,000 was collected as a compounding penalty from one shopkeeper while from Circle 3, ₹21,000 were collected from four shopkeepers.The food samples are tested at the State Public Health Laboratory, Camp.“As per norms sample reports should come from labs in 15 days, but with only one lab available the process is delayed and sometimes results even come after 30 days,” added Desai.Meanwhile, ₹43,000 fine was also collected from Sangli with 23 sweet-mart owners failing to follow the ‘best before date’ norm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fda-seizes-food-items-worth-rs-1-4-lakh-in-pune-rural-action-against-12-sweet-shop-owners-101631970813781.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||PM Modi real face of BJP, says Saamana editorial; slams Shah||Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Saturday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying he is the real face of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The editorial also stated Modi was taking “bold” steps and doing the “repair work” ahead of the 2024 general elections. The Saamana editorial, however, slammed Union minister Amit Shah saying he lost West Bengal election for the party and lost 25-year-old ally Shiv Sena when he was at the helm. “PM Modi is the real face of the BJP and everyone else is a torn mask. Without Modi, many of the present masks of the BJP will be defeated in the municipal elections. Being aware of this, he has started taking bold steps to prepare for 2024,” the editorial said.It said that since the time JP Nadda became BJP president, the party has been undergoing constant changes. The Marathi daily also said that Modi and Nadda have taken corrective action on BJP-ruled states and steps for 2024 general elections. “The Modi-Nadda duo replaced chief ministers in three states. In Gujarat, they uprooted all old trees and planted new saplings (referring to replacing Vijay Rupani and his full cabinet). [Now], Modi and Nadda are keeping a close eye on chief ministers of Madhya Pradesh, Himachal [Pradesh] and Haryana.”The BJP has started “repair work” through Nadda to overcome the defeat of the party in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Maharashtra, Sena spokesperson and associate editor of Saamana sanjay Raut claimed in the article. Attacking Shah, the editorial said, “A campaign was started that Amit Shah can win any contest, but during his tenure 25-year-old alliance of Sena-BJP was broken and now the BJP has to sit in the opposition benches. Due to the same reasons, Modi along with JP Nadda is now engaged in repair work.” As a policy, state BJP unit does not respond to Saamana editorials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm-modi-real-face-of-bjp-says-saamana-editorial-slams-shah-101631969493551.html
18-09-2021||Kolkata||Babul Supriyo's security cover scaled down to Y-category||The Union government on Saturday downgraded the security cover of central paramilitary commandos given to Babul Supriyo, hours after he joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC), news agency PTI reported.According to an order issued by the Union home ministry, as cited by PTI, Supriyo’s cover has been scaled down from the Z-category to the Y-category. Under the lower category security cover, Supriyo will be guarded by two armed personnel during travel. The PTI report said that the recommendation to reduce the security cover was made by central security and intelligence agencies.Also Read| Babul Supriyo joins Trinamool Congress days after he ‘quit politics'Until now, Supriyo, who was the former minister of state for environment and was dropped from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet during the reshuffle in July, was being guarded by an armed contingent of eight Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) as part of the second-highest level of Z-category security cover.Quoting officials, PTI also said that further review of Supriyo's security cover cannot be ruled out, adding that the task of his security can be entirely entrusted to the Bengal Police since he is a part of the TMC.It was an unexpected surprise in West Bengal politics on Saturday, after Babul Supriyo became a leader of the TMC, a party which he has strongly criticised earlier along with targeting its president and state chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Supriyo joined the TMC in the presence of party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and Rajya Sabha MP and spokesperson Derek O’Brien.Also Read| Supriyo tweeted for Mamata's BJP opponent in Bhabanipur, joins TMC days laterIn July, the playback-singer-turned-politician announced that he is quitting politics, before being persuaded by BJP leaders to continue as a member of the Lok Sabha representing the Asansol constituency. Speaking to reporters on Saturday, Supriyo said that he was coming back for a great opportunity to serve West Bengal and he would meet CM Banerjee on Monday.“Didi and Abhishek have given me a great opportunity. As I have joined TMC, there is no point in holding on to my seat in Asansol. I have come into politics because of Asansol. I will do for that constituency as much as possible,” he added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/babul-supriyo-s-security-cover-scaled-down-to-ycategory-101631968810321.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Rise in passengers: 3.5 million take Mumbai local trains this month||The suburban local train services have witnessed an increase in the number of passengers in September, as compared to August. Nearly 3.5 million passengers are travelling daily by the suburban railway network this month.Around 2.2 million passengers travel by local trains daily on the Central Railway and 1.3 million passengers on the Western Railway this month, as opposed to nearly 1.5 million passengers in August on Central Railway and 1.1 million passengers on the Western Railway.The number of monthly suburban railway passes issued have increased both on the Central and the Western Railway. On average both the zonal railways are issuing nearly 25,000 monthly season passes every day as compared to 20,000 in August.The Central Railway issued the highest number of monthly season passes on Wednesday; 32,325 railway passes in a day whereas the Western Railway issued the highest number of passes— 17,652 on Wednesday.Dombivli on the Central Railway and Borivli railway station on the Western Railway have witnessed the maximum number of railway passes issued.“There has been an increase in the number of passengers travelling by local trains and the number of passengers buying monthly season tickets have also increased. We have deployed extra commercial staff and Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel to inspect and conduct checks on people travelling without tickets.” said a senior Central Railway official.Suburban passenger associations have stated that there will further be an increase in the number of passengers travelling by local trains in the coming days. “Many citizens have completed their two doses of vaccine and 14 days period and they have started travelling by local trains. The number of passengers will further increase in the coming months as more people will get fully vaccinated,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rise-in-passengers-3-5-million-take-mumbai-local-trains-this-month-101631968893740.html
18-09-2021||Pune||Curtain call: On my way to stage experience of a lifetime!||When I was growing up, I was always intrigued with going abroad, to more developed nations. My father used to travel abroad to teach at various universities and he used to be away for months. Since there were no video calls or emails during that time (yes, I realise that I am old), I used to rely on my father’s description of his experiences and physical copies of pictures that he had clicked there. I had insisted on travelling with him more than a few times, but he had decided that his sons should travel abroad on their own dime. My elder brother picked the correct path by becoming an engineer and travelled for further studies. I, on the other hand, had chosen the Commerce stream and (to make matters worse!) had started taking a lot of interest in theatre and films. As luck would have it, my first international trip materialised because of theatre. And serendipitously, I flew to the UK the next day after appearing for my graduate exams! While I will write in detail about that later, I distinctly remember planning to watch as many plays as I can over there. And I was dismayed by just glancing at the ticket prices! It was 2008 and I was not conditioned to pay more than 50 GBP to watch a show! But after a few days, I made up my mind and zeroed in on two plays. I watched them at the coveted Westend area in London and it blew my mind. The shows were visual spectacles of course. But for me, the experience started with entering the theatres. The architecture, the aesthetics and most importantly how painstakingly it had been maintained. I loved it. What I loved most was their ability to use modern technology in old buildings. I returned to India and reminisced about the experience from time to time. A few of my friends went to the UK for further studies in theatre and I would listen to their experiences and feel envy. A few years later, in 2016, I directed a version of the classic “Sangeet Saunshaykallol” which was produced by the theatre stalwart Prashant Damle and it starred him and Rahul Deshpande as primary characters. Damle is a veteran and has tirelessly built an audience in various countries too. Most of the shows which are performed abroad are in smaller venues and ill-equipped halls. But with a play like “Sangeet Saunshaykallol” he had an exciting plan! He envisioned that a play like “Sangeet Saunshaykallol” should be performed at a venue fit for it. Just the thought of performing at a venue in Westend was exhilarating and Damle, the amazing producer that he is, started converting his vision into action. With the help of his contacts there and a few sponsors, he managed to secure a century old venue – The Peacock Theatre. The date was set nearly six months in advance – October 9, 2016. Almost all Maharashtra Mandals in the UK lent their support. We were supposed to ship our set around three months before. But since we were also performing in India actively, we built an exact replica of the set just for this one show and shipped it. I was surprised at the extravagance of it all. But Damle had secured a show in the US in July 2017 and had already planned to keep the set in storage in the UK and ship it to the US from there itself. He had calculated that it made more sense to keep it there, rather than ship it back to India and then re-ship it to the US, as it had already travelled half the distance. I was very impressed with his future planning. While other groups cut down on their teams while travelling abroad to cut costs, we took our entire team. Because this wasn’t like any other show. A total of 22 people travelled there. Five of us travelled before the rest of the team for a technical check. It felt good to travel again to the country where I had first watched large-scale productions. Only this time, I was going to be a small part of it! Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-on-my-way-to-stage-experience-of-a-lifetime-101631968834492.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai police on high alert ahead of last day of Ganesh festival||Mumbai Police is on high alert and security has been beefed up across the city for the 10th and last day of immersion of Ganesh idols on Sunday, especially in the wake of recent arrests of terror suspects, an official said. The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad on Friday nabbed one person from Mumbai in connection with an alleged terror plot unearthed by Delhi Police. The ten-day Ganesh festival will come to an end on Sunday. The celebrations have been subdued this year due to the restrictions imposed in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Processions, the hallmark of immersion days, are banned. Anti-sabotage measures are being taken and security around vital installations has been increased, said deputy commissioner of police S Chaitanya, the Mumbai police's spokesperson, on Saturday. Apart from intensified patrolling in sensitive areas, there will be heavy deployment of security personnel at immersion points, he said. Extra lights, cranes, swimmers/life guards, ambulances and fire brigade teams would be arranged to handle any eventuality, he added. As many as 100 additional officers and 1,500 personnel from the Local Arms and other branches will be deployed, the DCP said. Besides, at least three companies of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), one company of CRPF, 500 home guards and 275 constables from outside units will be stationed in the city. The police are also keeping tabs on known criminals and have increased surveillance at hotels, lodges, vital installations and sensitive locations. Officials also held meetings with Ganesh mandals, peace committees, mohalla committees and others stakeholders, the police spokesperson added. The Delhi Police's Special Cell had on Tuesday busted a terror module with the arrest of six men, including two Pakistan-trained terrorists. One of them was a resident of Dharavi in Mumbai, police claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-on-high-alert-ahead-of-last-day-of-ganesh-festival-101631967825845.html
18-09-2021||Pune||Your Space: Public transport safety norms||The recent two incidents of kidnap-rape of minor by autorickshaw drivers have exposed the security measures in place at public areas. Even as the Pune police and RTO have taken steps to penalise rickshaw drivers for various violations, it is a step taken as an afterthought. Readers share steps that could be taken to gender sensitise rickshaw drivers and better public transport safety norms. Let her travel safely 24x7 If India is to attain real gender equality, then we must ensure that Indian women and girls are able to travel safely and easily 24x7 to the destination of their choice, at par with Indian males. Thus, ensuring safe public transportation is a step towards gender equality, enhancing their ability to participate in educational, professional, and social activities and overall improved participation of women and girls in public life. After the Nirbhaya rape case in 2012, the subject of women’s safety especially in public transport came in the forefront. Justice Verma Committee was constituted to investigate the women’s safety issues. The committee was assisted by a team of young lawyers, law students and academics. The committee has submitted its report in 2013 itself, but unfortunately many recommendations of the committee have not been implemented even till date. Proactive approach can play a huge difference in reducing social and heinous crimes like rape and sexual harassment of women and girls. Checking of documents, imposing fines on autorickshaw drivers form part of the ‘reactive approach’, are important, have disciplinary impact which unfortunately fades away over a period if not implemented continuously. A multi-disciplinary approach must be implemented. Social and reformative actions to deal with the core of social norms and values of the people engaged in plying autorickshaws and similar public transport modes is the need of the hour. Providing safe transport environment to women is directly linked with attaining gender equality guaranteed in the Constitution of India. Every autorickshaw driver and staff employed in public transport system must mandatorily be required to undergo a one full day workshop on gender sensitisation and related subjects every year, wherein character checks become an integral part. Education on women related laws and punishments for violations must become part of such workshops. Such workshops can also help in developing common database of autorickshaw drivers and other public transport operators. Such workshops must be held round the year at all districts across India. A ‘Women Transport Commission’ must be constituted, and such workshops and the system can be implemented through such a commission, which may work under the ministry of women and child development. Police system alone cannot deal with the subject. The police mechanism can on the other side work on the disciplinary and punitive approach. Government must significantly invest in public transport which leads to offering safe and convenient transport system for women, thereby reducing their dependence on private modes and autorickshaws. Today women are forced to travel by overcrowded buses which is very unpleasant for them. Police patrolling and vigilance through CCTV should be increased at isolated spots. Sexual harassment mostly happens at crowed places or isolated spots. Satya Muley Issue driver’s licence only after sensitisation programme The basic reason for this crime is lack of understanding of law, education and value building. A study of rickshaw, cab and truck drivers has found that most of them are Class 10th pass being given commercial licence. If the government authorities have made Class 10 as mandatory qualification for driving public transport vehicles, a training class also should be made compulsory for them. In Germany, one need professional qualification or certification as basic requirement for starting any business and drivers have to undergo compulsory 15-day orientation based on value building and ethical way of doing business and financial understanding. The country also rewards those who carry out work earnestly and honestly. India should also formulate such programmes for those starting businesses and in service sector. Background verification of those who are given driver’s licence should be done like it is carried out for issuing passport. A guarantor should be taken for commercial licence basically a indemnifier who is responsible for the behaviour of the person could be another way of looking at it. While these steps will be strict, it needs to be implemented to check these kinds of crime. Generally, autorickshaw drivers face a lot of public criticism because of their work style. CCTV camera surveillance on major roads will help keep a check of their activities. A 24x7 helpline facility like ambulance could be introduced for public transport where a distressed passenger can seek assistance. Sachin Bendre PMPML in bad shape for a reason Policy makers have intentionally kept public transport utility Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) an underdeveloped public asset for decades to aid the auto, petroleum and ancillary industries. This has sabotaged PMPML being the safest primary choice of intracity transport for the masses. Mismanagement in operations of PMPML have run it into losses. This has resulted in poorly maintained buses with no comfort or security systems, features commonly found today across the globe in other developing countries like India. Pushkar Kulkarni Overhaul public transport system Women who use public transport feel exposed to physical or verbal aggression, sexual harassment and other forms of violence or unwelcome behaviour. It is an issue that has ripple effects that can last a lifetime, not only for the person impacted but for families and communities. The painful truth is that our community are not immune to these societal problems. Technology can help law enforcement to investigate reports of crime, and hold people accountable for their behaviour. All trips arranged in-app GPS tracking for every trip means that there is a record for the exact time and location of trips - providing accurate, objective information. Team of law enforcement professionals who are on call to work with police 24/7 to respond to urgent needs. For this we need cooperation among stakeholders, education and training of transport employees, increasing public awareness, and the use of digital technology. Vaishali Patkar Promote women autorickshaw drivers Promote women autorickshaw drivers. An OTP-based app by road transport office (RTO)/Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) where a user input autorickshaw registration number and the OTP will be approved by passenger and autorickshaw owner to monitor start and end journey. Compulsory SOS system in such public transport facility should also be put in place. Bhushan Chincholkar Self-defence is only solution Women drivers can help in empowerment too. There is a need for more security cameras, and strict actions against offences, even minor ones. There should be an open data on rickshaw registration number to check details before boarding an auto. The drivers should have training and orientation before giving and renewing auto licence. Also, the authorities should look at increasing bus frequency. It will also help if we had some basic martial arts training and safety moves training for children and working women. The last one here is not for victim blaming but to put auto drivers on guard, something similar to gun philosophy in the US, not trusting anyone and focusing on self-defence. Subversion of women is not given importance even by women, let alone men, in our Indian society. Except may be for a few thinkers. I am not really sure what the solution can be. Education to some extent, but just that won’t be enough. Aditi Kale Punish the guilty The kidnap-rape cases of minors are a matter of grave concern. Pune was considered safe for women. The need of the hour is “safe” Pune and not “smart” Pune .The ones in power - the politicians, the police and the judiciary - needs to raise above politics and religion and ensure that the guilty are not be spared. Justice delayed is justice denied. The punishment should be swift and severe. All autorickshaw and taxi unions should themselves have a system to verify the credentials of their members and a set of guidelines. Maithily Manekwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-public-transport-safety-norms-101631966373057.html
18-09-2021||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about business events in Pune||4Fin raises pre-seed funding of $1.1 millionFintech Platform startup 4Fin announced that it has raised $ 1.1 million in a pre-seed round. 4Fin will use the investment to enhance its product development to make finance more accessible, offer personalised loan products and support its customers with its model of ‘4Fin Mitras’, designed to act as social-driven customer care. The investment was raised through Curesense Therapeutics, which is run by the investors behind the biotech company, Mylab Discovery Solutions. Amit Tewary and Ajit Sinha, co-founders, 4Fin said, “We are creating a completely new category of services in the lending space. Any person in India with a smartphone can access loans now. We will deliver unmatched customer care with help of our network of ‘4Fin Mitras’. We plan to enrol more than 50,000 4Fin Mitras by the end of this financial year.”Ecom Express’ delivery partner program to empower gig workforceEcom Express, a technology-driven end-to-end logistics solutions provider to the e-commerce industry, has launched its delivery partner program called Ecom Sanjeev Program (ESP), aimed at creating part-time work opportunities where individuals can work flexible timings to maximise earnings by delivering ecommerce packages to customers.In Maharashtra, Ecom Express is looking at engaging 1,000+gig workforce as independent delivery partners to handle upcoming e-commerce festive season shipment load in key cities and districts. Since its pilot run last year, the program has created opportunities for 15,000+ students, homemakers and individuals looking to supplement and maximise their income by delivering e-commerce packages during their spare time.Saurabh Deep Singla, Ecom Express, said, “The pandemic has pushed more traditional workers towards the gig working culture, especially in the current times when the country is trying to revive its economy. Maharashtra is a key market for us. For every delivery person on the street, more than 50 people are safe in their homes.”Peak secures $75 million in Series C funding led by SoftBank Vision Fund 2Artificial Intelligence company Peak has raised a $75 million Series C funding round led by new investor SoftBank Vision Fund 2, with participation from all existing investors, including MMC Ventures, Oxx, Praetura Ventures, Arete and Octopus Ventures. This brings Peak’s total funding raised to date to $119 million.This latest funding will fuel an global expansion, with new offices opening in both the USA and India, as well as increasing R&D investment in Peak’s Decision Intelligence software. Peak is planning to create more than 200 new jobs globally in the coming year.Atul Sharma, co-founder and CTO at Peak, says, “We will use the capital to deepen our tech expertise in product development, in building out our platform and strengthen teams across functions to deliver more features and functionality at pace. We have plans to more than double our product, engineering and data science talent capability in Jaipur and Pune.” Richard Potter, co-founder and CEO at Peak said, “We uniquely simplify the task of data scientists and engineers, who use Peak to rapidly create and deploy AI applications to business users. These applications empower day-to-day decision-makers across businesses to achieve transformational gains.” ‘Futurance’ phase 4 to identify high potential startupsHDFC Life and IvyCamp have jointly launched the fourth phase of Futurance, to identify startups developing innovative and next-gen capabilities. The partnership will scout for startups across use cases including measurement of vital signs with non-invasive, remote and wireless sensing technologies, health monitoring and wearables and fraud detection.Parvez Mulla, COO, HDFC Life, said “The fourth phase will help us get a fresh perspective on our existing problems while also expanding the boundaries of technology led innovations.”Prasun Gajri, chief investment officer, HDFC Life added, “Futurance was launched to co-create solutions for some of the industry’s pressing problems, and foster new thinking and innovation. The program will help us identify new use cases while exploring emerging technologies within the insurtech sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-business-events-in-pune-101631962593133.html
18-09-2021||Pune||Pune startup mantra: Let the robot clean it up - faster, cleaner and safer||PUNE Pune-based ‘Peppermint’ start-up has designed and built an industrial floor-cleaning robot that leverages a combination of physical scrubbing, chemicals and ultra-violet light to facilitate seamless cleaning of floors. These robots help in automating housekeeping and service operations across industries, warehouses, airports, offices and public spaces. This B2B service robotics company (Aubotz Labs) is now coming up with “commercial real-estate friendly” robots. In the beginning… Peppermint was founded by serial entrepreneurs Runal Dahiwade and Miraj C Vora. Dahiwade is orginally from Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh while Vora was raised in Kolkata and has currently settled in Bengaluru. Dahiwade and Vora initially met in 2006 during a quiz competition in Bengaluru. Dahiwade was pursuing his engineering and Vora was graduating in business administration then. Dahiwade was curious about entrepreneurship and startups, with Flipkart and Redbus sparking his introspection, and inspection, then. He got an opportunity to intern with Redbus after which he founded his first startup, Carkhana, in 2011. Vora also founded a profitable startup - a gamified sales-enablement software, Outsell. He wanted to make a global impact and knew Dahiwade had the same thoughts. Says Dahiwade, “I was interested in the automotive sector. Carkhana was an ecommerce marketplace for automotive spare parts and accessories. While we were looking for angel investment in 2012, we met Naveen Kumar Kshatriya, who then was managing director of Castrol India. In 2013 Kshatriya retired and started his own company TopWheelz and offered to acquire us. We accepted the offer. I stayed with the company for next three years. Later, I joined another company, Refreshed Car Care, in 2016 as its chief operating officer.” Robotics Dahiwade scaled the new company, but in 2019 there was an interesting turn of events. Dahiwade says, “Refreshed Car Care (RCC) was a car washing service business, which was human resources dependent. As we scaled, we turned into a manpower aggregator instead of a service provider. RCC Founder Chirag Shah, who is now also an investor in Peppermint, acknowledged the problem and asked me to find an automation solution. I quit my job and went back to Kshatriya for guidance. He suggested we look at a broader use case, critical for daily operations.” “Commercial housekeeping in public spaces, working spaces like airports, hospitals, schools, colleges, warehouses, industries, railways, was one such case. It was predictable, completely global and scalable. Interestingly, commercial housekeeping workflows globally are also same. Automation could solve all problems related to workforce dependence and quality of execution of work. I was convinced that housekeeping robots is the way to go,” said Dahiwade. Automation ecosystem Housekeeping is usually outsourced to facility management companies. Dahiwade met them to understand the nuances of business and operations. So Dahiwade says, “In Mumbai, compared to Pune, the engineering talent pool is not deep. Mumbai is also an expensive city, so we chose Pune. Besides, Pune also has a good ecosystem for automation companies. I shifted in March 2019 to Pune. We scouted for locations and finalised the Narhe-Ambegaon area. Since the renowned PARI company (Precision Automation and Robotics India) is situated here, there are plenty of automation suppliers – who adhere to global standards due to PARI’s requirements – in Narhe. Peppermint was officially founded in May 2019 and initially we were just four in our team. By November-December 2019 we knew this that we can build this in India.” IIT Bombay incubation Dahiwade went to the Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (SINE) at IIT Bombay, but since it was premature idea for incubation, they routed him through the Nidhi (National Initiative for Developing and Harnessing Innovations) and Prayas (Pomoting and accelerating young and aspiring technology entrepreneurs) grant, a pre-incubation initiative by Department of Science and Technology of the government of India. Peppermint received the grants in June 2019. Says Dahiwade, “By August 2019 it was clear that we were on the right path. Some investors from Carkhana supported us including Naveen Kshatriya. We raised a pre-seed round in September 2019. In November 2019 we got formally incubated at SINE. It gave us access and resources, because as a hardware startup, unlike software, our costs are way beyond manpower. Manpower is just one aspect. We have to plan for other basic necessities like machinery purchasing. We soon realised that we have to be wise or else we will spend our resources. We paced our goals and figured out we would require six more months to have a good product ready.” Product launchPeppermint launched its first robot in February 2020. Dahiwade said, “It was not open for deliveries, but for showcasing to potential customers and to assess feedback. In Mumbai it was done at IIT Bombay and in Pune at Narhe. We had a virtual incubation for six months in Venture Centre. Dr V Premnath helped us. Our hypothesis was proved and now the journey needed more people and more guidance.” Vora joined Peppermint full time in March-April 2020. He oversees all business and sales while Dahiwade oversees all product development and productions. By April 2020, in the middle of first lockdown, Peppermint was ready to start demos. Lockdown boonIn May 2020, Peppermint we got clearance as an essential service provider to government agencies. Says Dahiwade, “In June 2020 we did demos for some essential industries. We realised that in the next six months our prototype will turn into an actual product. We needed more resources and so we did a seed funding round in June 2020 led by Venture Catalysts. Existing investors also topped up.” “We moved our R&D team and operations team to Narhe and began scaling. By September 2020 we deployed the first few robots. These were paid customers including some from the pharmaceutical sector. In January 2021 we entered batch production. Now we have operations in Mumbai, Pune, Bengaluru, Chennai, Indore and Goa. In March 2021 we set up our first overseas distribution channel based out of Dubai. In July 2021, our first delivery of the Peppermint robot happened,” he said. Traction and the overseas market Says Dahiwade, “We knew we had enough traction. We had 10 customers including JSW Steel, Godrej and other large industries in India. We realised if they are finding value in our robots, it’s time to scale further and make Peppermint truly world-class. We decided to invest in production and so we raised another round of funds - Rs5 crore in June. This was led by Venture Catalysts, Indian Angel Network and supported by Vinners group.” Prakash Kelkar, a Punekar and one of the investors from Venture Catalysts, suggested eying the overseas automation robotics market. Says Dahiwade, “We see Peppermint as a global robotics company. There is no difference between a Delhi or Detroit or Doha. We had our plans to go overseas in 2022, but we said to him that we can expedite if you help us.” “After-sales support is an issue globally, especially in the Middle East. We as Indian manufacturers care for customers. We found that people appreciate that and realised that our philosophies and fundamentals are very good. In the Middle East we have three cities, Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Doha, where we have our channel partners,” says Dahiwade. With fresh round of funds, a world- class manufacturing capability is next. “We have the building blocks in place and now we have to convert into seamless assembly lines. We should exit this financial year with very stable manufacturing operation,” he added. Future plans Peppermint has regional service centers in Pune, Mumbai and Bengaluru. Dahiwade says the future is more of sales and that their distributors can rent or lease. He said, “At present we have industrial robots. By end of 2021 we will have commercial real estate friendly sized robots which will be slightly smaller in size for use in offices, hotels. These products will be dryer machines like vacuum cleaners, carpet cleaners, dry moppers. Our existing robots have payloads as per floor cleaning systems. We can program these same robots to bring tea, for material movement in warehouses, room service in hotels. Our game plan is to be a ‘B2B Service’ robotics company – the best and the largest in its space.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-startup-mantra-let-the-robot-clean-it-up-faster-cleaner-and-safer-101631962112892.html
18-09-2021||Kolkata||Uncertainty over Bengal BJP’s Durga Puja celebrations after party’s poll debacle||Less than a month remains for the biggest festival in West Bengal, the Durga Puja celebrations, to take off, but uncertainty still looms over the fate of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s puja celebrations this year.In October 2020, the party organised Durga Puja for the first time in the state with much fanfare. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had virtually addressed the people of West Bengal on the occasion of Durga Sasthi on October 22. This year, however, no such initiative and plans have been made so far, senior party leaders said. Even though the five-day-long Durga Puja starts this year from October 11, the festival extends for more than a week every year. Mahalaya this year would be held on October 6 and the immersion process would continue till 17.“I was not among the puja organisers last year. Some of those who had organised it are not there in the party anymore. As far as I know, no preparations have been made yet. I don’t know whether those who were there in the cultural cell of the party and had organised the puja last year, are doing anything this year. I had told last year too that it is not the party’s job to organize a puja. Some people went ahead and did it. I don’t know what are their plans this year,” said Dilip Ghosh, BJP’s president in West Bengal. In May, the party suffered a debacle in the assembly polls. While top leaders of the BJP including, the PM and Union home minister Amit Shah, had claimed that BJP would form the government with more than 200 seats, the party could manage only 77 seats. The TMC returned to power with a sweeping victory winning 213 seats and Mamata Banerjee took oath as the chief minister for the third consecutive row on May 5. “Last year, on the instructions of the party, the puja was organised by the party’s cultural wing, women’s wing and youth wing. This year, no such instructions have come,” said Amrita Banerjee, BJP youth leader. Senior BJP leaders, including the then Union minster Babul Supriyo, party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta were seen beating the dhak (drums) on the dais last year during the puja, while others such as MP Locket Chatterjee, the then vice president of the party Mukul Roy and BJP leader and former mayor of Bidhannagar Sabyasachi Dutta had played important roles in organizing the puja at EZCC in Salt Lake.“Last year, the durga puja was organised in the auditorium of the central organization named Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre. The assembly elections were ahead (scheduled in 2021). Now there are no elections. Again, they would organize another Durga puja ahead of the 2024 parliament elections,” said Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, TMC Rajya Sabha MP.While Mukul Roy has shifted to the TMC, Locket Chatterjee has been appointed as a co-in charge of the BJP in Uttarakhand for the upcoming Assembly election 2022. Babul Supriyo had said he was quitting politics even though he and Swapan Dutta had been made the party’s star campaigners for the upcoming Bhabanipur elections. Both Supriyo and Dasgupta had contested in the recently held assembly polls and had lost. Dutta has fallen silent. While Supriyo has joined TMC. The Durga Puja in West Bengal would be held this year following all the Covid-19 protocols, mandated by the high court and state government, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said.While at least 36,000 community pujas are held across the state, in Kolkata alone 2500 community pujas are held by various clubs. These are just the clubs that are registered with the state government. This apart there are pujas held in housing societies and residences. There are around 1500 pujas which are organised by women only. In 2020, the Calcutta high court had banned the entry of visitors inside puja pandals. A cap was put on the number of committee members, local residents and dhakis (drummers) who could enter the pandal as part of the celebrations. Last year, puja was celebrated in a muted manner which prevented a major spike in Covid-19 cases.According to a study commissioned by the state government in 2018, the economic value of the creative industries that crop up around the Durga Puja – the biggest festival in West Bengal – is worth ₹32,377 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/uncertainty-over-bengal-bjp-s-durga-puja-celebrations-after-party-s-poll-debacle-101631961289208.html
18-09-2021||Patna||Chirag writes to CM Nitish to recommend Ram Vilas Paswan for Bharat Ratna||After the first death anniversary of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Chirag Paswan wrote to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, demanding a recommendation for his late father for Bharat Ratna. He also pressed for the installation of his father’s life-size statute and his birth anniversary to be declared a state holiday.“A resolution in this regard has been passed by the LJP’s national executive in view of the late leader’s invaluable contribution in his nearly five-decade-long political career, during which he had the privilege to work with six prime ministers. He always strived to work for the nation’s development and build an egalitarian society without any discrimination,” Chirag Paswan wrote to the CM, with a copy to both the deputy CMs.Chirag Paswan’s demand comes in the backdrop of PM Modi’s emotional message on the late leader’s first death anniversary. The prime minister described Ram Vilas Paswan as a “close friend, a great son of the nation, Bihar’s pride and a strong voice for social justice”. Chirag had criticised the chief minister for staying away from the death anniversary function of his father, though Kumar did pay a tribute by issuing a statement. The bitterness between Chirag Paswan and Kumar deepened after the LJP announced candidates against the JD(U) in the last year’s assembly elections.The letter to CM from Chirag follows similar demands from the RJD and the BJP, as well as the split-group of the LJP led by union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras in the past. Soon after the split in the LJP, Chirag had also appealed to PM Modi for Bharat Ratna to his father after the national executive meeting was held in New Delhi.Senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi had also made a demand to declare the birth anniversary of the late leader a state holiday and installation of his statute. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has also been echoing the same. Former Bihar minister and senior BJP leader Prem Kumar had also demanded Bharat Ratna for Ram Vilas Paswan.Paras, who also visited Chirag’s home to attend the death anniversary function for the first time since the split, also reiterated the demand for Bharat Ratna and on Friday and organised a function to pay tribute to his elder brother Ram Vilas Paswan. Later, he said that he would like Nitish Kumar to forget political differences and recommend the LJP’s founder’s name for Bharat Ratna.Former Bihar CM Jitan Ram Manjhi had also made this demand. Manjhi recently also wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind, with an additional demand to convert the late leader’s 12, Janpath bungalow in New Delhi, to a memorial. The bungalow was in the news after Chirag installed a statute of his father, barely a few days after he was served notice to vacate it.JDU spokesman Neeraj Kumar said that everyone has the right to write to the CM. “But here, the matter is not to be decided by the state alone. He is the lone MP from his party and his party split due to his own policies. Now that he has written, he should be patient,” he added.BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said that it was for the government to decide on the letter. “We respect Ram Vilas Paswanji to the core. He has contributed to the society and polity of Bihar in a great way, not only as a Dalit leader but a mass leader. He always appreciated and supported our PM Narendra Modiji. We pay tribute to the great leader of his stature,” he added....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/chirag-writes-to-cm-nitish-to-recommend-ram-vilas-paswan-for-bharat-ratna-101631959594603.html
18-09-2021||Ranchi||7 girls drown in pond during Karma Puja immersion in J'khand's Latehar district||Seven girls aged between 12 and 20 years drowned in a pond at a village in Jharkhand's Latehar district on Saturday, officials said.The tragedy occurred at Bukru village within Balumath police station limits when the girls had gone to the pond for immersion after Karma Puja, a major festival in Jharkhand, Deputy Commissioner Abu Imran said.Rescue teams were rushed to the scene. Some people were also injured and three of them were hospitalised.The Deputy Development Commissioner of the district has been asked to hold an inquiry, Imran said. Karma is a major festival in Jharkhand related to worship of mother nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/7-girls-drown-in-pond-during-karma-puja-immersion-in-j-khand-s-latehar-district-101631958501603.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana gears up to douse paddy stubble burning||Haryana has put in place a robust strategy, including incentives and punitive steps, to put out farm fires ahead of the paddy stubble burning season. The harvest of paddy crop, spread over 34 lakh acres in Haryana, is set to start in a week. The challenge before the state government is to check farmers from burning the crop residue, blamed for poor air quality in the National Capital Region (NCR). Also read: PPCB chairman urges farmers to shun stubble burning practiceMonetary incentives to farmers, more custom hiring centres (CHC), staggered paddy harvesting, panchayats passing the zero-stubble burning resolution, awareness campaigns and committees from village to district levels to monitor farm fires and police complaints are among enforcement measures the government has planned to overcome the challenge. Micro-level planning for zero stubble burning Last year, farm fires in Haryana’s paddy fields dipped. There was an 11% reduction in stubble burning cases. 9% of the reduction in stubble burning was noticed in 20,900 hectares. Haryana reported 5,678 active fire locations (AFL) in the 2020 kharif season against 6,364 in 2019 and 9,225 in 2018, according to official data. The aim of the state agriculture department is to further reduce the number of farm fires and increase the area with zero stubble burning. According to additional chief secretary (ACS), agriculture, Sumita Misra, micro-level planning has been done on the basis of previous year active fire locations in red and yellow zones of the state. She said under the radar will be 922 (199 in red zone, 723 in yellow zone) hotspot villages. Fatehabad, Kaithal, Jind, Karnal, Sirsa and Kurukshetra districts are in the red zone. All applicants in the red and yellow zones have been allowed to buy the crop residue management machines this year. “The monitoring and enforcement measures have been chalked out in detail,” said Misra, who is also the Haryana State Pollution Control Board chairperson. Funds for crop residue management  ₹141 crore released for 2021-22 under the crop residue management (CRM) scheme will be used in curbing crop residue burning, while ₹58 crore, which was unspent under a particular plan, will also be utilised this year. Nodal officers are being deployed at the district, sub division, block and village levels. Two officials in the red category and one in the yellow category have been deputed in each village for ensuring farmers don’t burn crop residue. A team, comprising officers of the departments of pollution, revenue, panchayat, police, and agriculture, is being constituted at the village, block and tehsil levels for taking enforcement measures, such as issuing challans and lodging police complaints/FIRs, against defaulters. Staggered harvesting, awareness blitzkrieg Ensuring staggered harvesting is on the agenda for better machine availability. In Haryana, 57% of the 34.1 lakh acres of paddy is under basmati which matures two weeks later then the non-basmati type. Another paddy variety, Muchchal, covers 2 lakh acres and matures after basmati. Thus, staggering is automatically done because of this difference in maturity, officials said. Further staggering plan has been prepared by shifting baler units from one area to other. The machine operators/owners prefer to exhaust the GT Road belt first. Then they move towards the Sirsa-Fatehabad belt prominent for the 1401-Muchchal variety. The nodal officers at the village level have been asked to further advise the farmers to stagger their harvesting schedule. Plans are afoot to launch an awareness campaign that includes drawing 1,175 wall paintings in hotspot villages, erecting 800 banner hoardings at prominent places, and deploying 30 vans for demonstration and enforcement. About 1,900 camps in villages, 96 camps at the block level and 13 at the district level will be held to educate farmers about policies and incentives government has been offering to stop stubble burning. In these camps farmers, custom hiring centre owners, and youngsters of hotspot villages will be trained regarding the operation and maintenance of the crop residue management machinery. Prevention of crop residue: Broad strategies Haryana has launched an incentive-driven flagship scheme, Mera Pani Meri Virasat, for diversification from paddy to alternate crops. The government gives ₹7,000 per acre incentive to the farmers. In 2020-21, the government said 96,000 acres of paddy was diversified with alternate crops and over ₹45 crore incentive was disbursed among the eligible farmers. This year, farmers have registered 98,000 acres for diversification. At least 1,000 custom hiring centres (CHCs) at 80% subsidy will be established and 3,550 individual category machines at 50% subsidy will be provided, Misra said. While an incentive of ₹1,000 per acre will be provided to the farmers for baled paddy straw output, a tie-up is being made with gaushalas, brick-kilns, cardboard, paper, packaging, furniture, and handicraft industries utilising crop residue. The farmers are being made aware about these industries for disposal of the residue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-gears-up-to-douse-paddy-stubble-burning-101631958332340.html
18-09-2021||Other||‘Foreign tourists will be allowed in Goa soon’: PM Modi||India’s record vaccination rate will help tourism-dependent states like Goa to reopen quickly and safely, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. He, however, cautioned the state that if safety protocols are not observed, tourists, foreigners, will not arrive. Addressing state officials and health workers during an interaction to congratulate the state for having ‘officially’ completed vaccinating 100% of the population with the first dose - a target that has been achieved one and a half months after the deadline that was initially set - the Prime Minister said vaccination was key to revive the sector. “India’s vaccination drive is not (only) a cover for health, but a cover for livelihood too. It is important that tourism destinations open as soon as possible… the Char Dham yatra in Uttarakhand. Goa’s 100 percent vaccination has become important to revive the tourism sector,” Modi said. “You imagine, hotel industry people, taxi drivers, hawkers, shopkeepers... Once everyone is vaccinated (then) tourists can come to Goa with peace of mind. Politics aside, Goa is a part of a select group of tourist destinations where people are vaccinated,” he said. “Tourism can resume in the coming tourism season just like before. We are planning to allow foreign tourists to come here. Domestic and international tourists can take pleasure in coming here. This will be possible when we give as much importance to corona precautions as much as we have given for vaccinations. It is our duty,” he added. “Today, the number of cases have come down, but we still cannot take this virus lightly. You will get as many tourists and travellers depending on how much importance you give to safety and hygiene,” he said speaking during the online interaction. The prime minister also announced ‘fully guaranteed’ loans up to ₹10-lakh to people involved in the tourism industry and up to ₹1-lakh to registered tourist guides. “The central government is taking steps to welcome foreign tourists back. The government has decided to give 5-lakh tourists free visas. Travel and tourism stakeholders will be given loans up to 10-lakh with a 100% guarantee by the government. Tourist guides are being given the facility of taking a loan of up to ₹1-lakh. In the future too, the Central government will be ready to help those to take up the tourism sector forward,” the Prime Minister said. Responding to the prime minister, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said the industry will reopen fully when it is deemed safe to do so. “Tourism is the main business in Goa. He mentioned Sikkim and Kerala as touristic states that are nearing 100 percent vaccination,” Sawant said. “Tourists coming to Goa will consider themselves safe because of the 100 percent vaccination coverage, which will end up attracting national and international tourists to Goa. He (the prime minister) is very much concerned about the taxi drivers, hotel workers dependent on the industry,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/foreign-tourists-will-be-allowed-in-goa-soon-pm-modi-101631955873709.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab chief minister launches flagship health scheme. Details here||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh launches flagship health scheme. All you need to knowPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh extended insurance cover to include 15 lakh more families under the Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (AB-SSBY) across the state. These families were earlier been excluded from the scheme. Nearly 55 lakh families in the state are covered under this flagship universal health scheme of the Punjab government.Here’s more on the Congress government’s health scheme”1. The AB-SSBY scheme was Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s poll promise, which he made before the 2017 assembly elections.2. Singh made the announcement at a virtual meeting on Friday where the state health department proposed bringing these 15 lakh families under the government scheme on a co-sharing basis which would have entailed beneficiaries bearing part of the cost. However, Singh suggested that the insurance cover for these families should also be covered by the government.3. The Punjab state government’s flagship scheme will cost the exchequer a total of ₹593 crore per annum to cover 55 lakh families.4. This health scheme will provide an insurance cover of ₹5 lakh per family for secondary and tertiary care treatments in empanelled public and private hospitals in the state.5. Around 5.01 lakh farmers are also enrolled in this scheme and Singh has stated that they will not be required to register again this year. However, almost 3.5 lakh farmers registered as 'J' form holders and 'sugarcane weighment slips' after October 1, 2020, will need to apply on the government portal to avail of this scheme.6. Farmers who are registered under this scheme can avail of treatment at 642 empanelled private hospitals and 208 government hospitals for treatment facilities of up to ₹5 lakh.7. Farmers can avail cashless treatment for 1,579 diseases under this scheme.8. Apart from the family head, husband/wife, father/mother, unmarried children, divorced daughter and her minor children, widowed daughter-in-law and her minor children of farming families are also covered under this scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-chief-minister-launches-flagship-health-scheme-details-here-101631953375060.html
18-09-2021||Lucknow||Adityanath inaugurates prototype train for Kanpur, Agra Metro projects, says more cities to get services||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday inaugurated the first prototype train of the Kanpur and Agra Metro projects and said quick efforts were being made to provide the services in other cities in the state. "It is a matter of pride to be invited for the inauguration of the first-ever prototype train of Kanpur and Agra Metro. Congratulations to the Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) and Alstom Transport India Limited for this. This is a matter of pride for us," Adityanath during his virtual address, according to news agency ANI.The UP chief minister said that four cities in the state are currently using Metro trains. "Metro is a necessity today. Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida are currently using the Metro. We are working quickly on the Kanpur and Agra Metros. I hope that by November 30, we will be able to dedicate it to the nation and have Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurate it,” he said. “Efforts are underway to bring Metro trains to Gorakhpur, Prayagraj, Jhansi, Varanasi and Meerut too. Detailed Project Reports (DPR) for these have been either sent or are in its final stages," he added.Also read | BJP govt able to start, finish development projects on time: PM ModiThe country used to be dependent on western companies for transportation projects but it is now advancing in fulfilling Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of a self-reliant India, he said.Adityanath also praised the efforts of UPMRC during coronavirus pandemic. He said, "They worked tirelessly and even Covid could not be an obstacle for them."The construction of the Agra Metro project was inaugurated by PM Modi in December 2020. The Agra Metro will connect major tourist attractions like the Taj Mahal, Agra Fort and Sikandra with the city's other transport nodes like the railway station and bus stands. The civil construction works of Kanpur Metro's priority corridor from IIT to Motijheel was awarded last year and is being executed at a brisk pace since the re-opening of the state after Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/adityanath-inaugurates-prototype-train-for-kanpur-agra-metro-says-more-soon-101631951852495.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress heads for showdown at CLP meet today||The warring factions in the Punjab Congress are headed for a fresh showdown, with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s detractors being all set to push for his removal at the meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) convened by the party high command in Chandigarh on Saturday. The dissenting cabinet ministers and MLAs, who are close to newly appointed Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu and had met Congress general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat last month to seek Capt Amarinder’s ouster, have been demanding a meeting of the legislature party to settle the issue. Also read: Punjab cabinet okays free insurance for 15 lakh more families, milling policyBoth the Capt Amarinder and Sidhu camps are claiming support of a majority of party MLAs in the state. The Congress has 80 MLAs in the 117-member assembly and the state elections are less than five months away. Liberate Congress moment: Mustafa “The high command’s decision to call the meeting means they have heard us and want to settle the matter. There can be no other reason to summon such an urgent meeting. We will speak our mind there,” an MLA from the dissenting group said, requesting anonymity. However, Sidhu’s principal strategic adviser Mohammad Mustafa called it a “liberate Congress moment” for 79 of the 80 party MLAs to redeem the party and its honour. “Punjab gave Congress 80 MLAs. Sadly, paradoxically Congmen didn’t get a Cong CM as yet. Time to have one after a long agonising wait of 4 and half yrs with an opportunity to choose one and reelect Cong again to have party CM with pain of Punjab and Punjabis at heart for five years (sic),” tweeted the former Punjab DGP. Mustafa’s wife Razia Sultana is a cabinet minister in the Congress government. Capt hosts lunch for supporter MLAs While Amarinder is still to comment on the high command’s move, he has gone into a huddle with his political aides and has called MLAs supporting him for a luncheon meeting at his farmhouse before the CLP meeting. While the chief minister is the leader of the CLP and calls the meeting, the AICC’s move to call the meeting at the party headquarters and direction to the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee to facilitate is seen as unusual. Ajay Maken, Harish Chaudhary to be observers The Congress leadership has appointed party leaders Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary, who will be accompanying Rawat, as observers for the CLP meeting. ‘They will probably have a one-on-one meeteing with each MLA and then a one-line resolution is likely to authorise the Congress president to take a decision,” said a senior party leader. Rawat had made the announcement about the CLP meeting on Friday night. “The AICC has received a representation from a large number of party MLAs, requesting to immediately convene a meeting of the legislature party of Punjab,” he posted on Twitter, asking all MLAs to attend the meeting at 5pm. Minutes later, Sidhu also took to the microblogging site to inform the party MLAs. “As per the AICC directive, the Congress Legislative Party meeting has been convened at @INCPunjab PPCC Office, Chandigarh, on 18 September 2021 (Saturday) 5pm,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-heads-for-showdown-at-clp-meet-today-101631948611473.html
18-09-2021||Other||Manipur plans to roll out first of its kind door-door healthcare service in Northeast||After the successful implementation of the Chief Minister Hakshelgi Tengbang (CMHT), a popular health assistance scheme, Manipur is planning to roll out ‘Chief Minister’s Health for All’, a door-to-door healthcare service scheme which is said to be the first of its kind in Northeast.Chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh made an announcement in this regard while attending a cleanliness drive in Imphal on Friday to mark the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Stating that the objective of the ‘Chief Minister’s Health for All’ scheme is to conduct health check-ups for all the citizens at their doorsteps, he said the primary focus would be early identification and diagnosis of 10 non-communicable diseases (NCD) diseases - hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, kidney ailments, chronic respiratory disease, mental health problems, tuberculosis besides three common cancer - oral, breast and cervical.Informing that the broad components are detection, treatment and follow-up, he said the beneficiaries would be given medicines at their doorsteps and added that the scheme would especially benefit elderly patients above 60 years, bed-ridden patients and NCD patients, who are not on regular follow-up or who have not visited health centre due to financial or physical problems.A senior official of the state health department said ‘CM’s Health for All’ scheme which aims to complete the primary health check-up for all citizens of the state with a primary focus on early detection and diagnosis of 10 NCD, is scheduled to roll out from the first week of October this year.In the first phase, 1118 villages which are linked to 154 government facilities including 118 primary health sub-centres, will be selected comprising all 16 districts of the state which has around 2500 villages, the official said.“Apart from the detection, treatment and follow up, the beneficiaries will be given medicines at their doorstep and field workers of the department will provide health care services,” the official added.It may be noted that the CMHT, the state’s popular healthcare, was formally launched on the statehood day of the state on January 21, 2018. Till August this year, around 4.19 lakh beneficiaries had been enrolled under the scheme which had won the award for the country’s best implemented public health programme in 2018, according to reports.Under CMHT, the eligible households are given a health card to avail cashless treatment as it provides medical cover up to ₹2 lakh per family per year for seven critical diseases and up to ₹50,000 for primary and secondary ailments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manipur-plans-to-roll-out-first-of-its-kind-door-door-healthcare-service-in-northeast-101631947172896.html
18-09-2021||Other||Odisha plans to develop dams areas into learning and recreational spots||Odisha plans to develop the area around big dams like Hirakud dam to places of learning and recreation spots with museums, audiovisual shows, guided tours, boating and camping facilities, officials said.Chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mahapatra, who discussed the modalities of developing the dams into recreational spots at a high-level meeting on Friday, said since the big dams are larger engineering marvels, these can be good spots for learning through pleasure trip activities, more particularly for students.“The students should be educated about different utilities of a dam including, its eco-system, the process of irrigation, power generation etc. There should be guided tours for the students to the dam and its periphery for giving them direct exposure to the practical outcomes of the dam project,” he instructed officials. He also asked the officials to set up the museum with audiovisual equipment for explaining to the students about the scientific knowledge and type of technology used in the construction of dams.Development commissioner Pradeep Jena asked the officials to select the dams closer to the towns and growth centres having more potential for attracting people. It was decided to take up 3 to 4 such dams in the first phase and gradually expand the intervention to other popular dams based on the learnings from the first phase. It was estimated that around ₹4 crore would be invested for the development of the area around each dam.Odisha has around 20 medium and small dams with Hirakud dam in Sambalpur district topping the list. The dams are Lower Indra in Kalahandi district, Salia dam in Khurda, Upper Jonk (Patara dam) in Nuapada, Upper Kolab dam in Koraput, Samal Barrage in Angul, Balimela dam in Malkangiri, Harabhangi dam in Gajapati, Kuanaria dam in Nayagarh, Ghodahad dam in Ganjam, Badanalla dam in Raygada, Bhanjanagar dam in Ganjam, Pitamahal dam in Sundargarh, Kanjhari dam in Keonjhar, Kansabahal dam in Sundargarh, Salandi dam in Keonjhar, Sanamachhakandana MIP in Keonjhar, Dhanei dam in Ganjam, Khadkhai dam in Mayurbhanj, Indrvati dam in Kalahandi and Hadagada dam in Keonjhar district.Hirakud dam with a length of 21 kilometres, is the longest dam and forms the largest artificial lake in Asia. It has an area of 746 sq km and a shoreline over 640 kilometres.From April this year, water sports on the right dyke of Hirakud dam with jet ski, speedboats, water scooter, bumper boat, banana boat, kayak and paddleboat rides were to be started at the reservoir. However, the plans were put on hold due to pandemic restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-plans-to-develop-dams-areas-into-learning-and-recreational-spots-101631943452921.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal cabbage crop hit by fungal disease||Cabbage crop in a dozen villages of the remote Chhota-Bhangal valley in Kangra district has been hit by a fungus causing blackleg disease. Scientists visited Dyot, Kothikohar, Nalhota, Badagran and Lohardi villages, the main cabbage-producing areas, earlier this week to examine the vegetable crops, particularly cabbage. Also read: Rawat & team in Chandigarh today for meet as Punjab Congress continues to boil“The cabbage crop has been hit by blackleg disease, caused by a fungus called Phoma lingam. It attacks many brassica crops and spreads rapidly. Plants can be affected at the seedling stage or at any stage in the field. Common symptoms are slight lesions on stems at cotyledon scars which elongate, turn brown with a black to purplish border, and become sunken, causing the stem to girdle and blacken,” said Arun Sood, the principal extension specialist, extension directorate of Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University (HPAU), Palampur. Farmers told about sprays to treat crop Infected plants wilt, lodge, and die. On root crops, symptoms occur in the form of cankers on the fleshy roots and a dry rot may appear in storage.Sood said black rot has been found infecting the cabbage crop. “Farmers have been told to treat the crop by spraying a solution of 3gm copper oxychloride per litre of water or 1% Bordeaux mixture,” he said.Farmers have been advised to treat the seed with Bavistin fungicide while sowing.The infected plants must be uprooted and destroyed and drainage of water in fields should be ensured, the scientist said. A total of 152 hectares is under cabbage cultivation in the valley.Monoculture increases disease riskKangra deputy director, agriculture, Jeet Singh Thakur said farmers have been urged to adopt the crop cycle to avoid infection. Continuous cropping increases the possibility of disease spread. The farmers in Chhota-Bhangal grow only one crop in a year. This is also an off season crop there.Phoma lingam can survive for up to four years in the seed and three years in infected crop debris. “So, crop rotation is the best way for disease management. Radish, potato, coriander and French beans could be options. They can rotate these crops for the next two-three years so that the pathogen dies in the soil,” he said, adding that farmers of Chhota Bhangal have abandoned potato farming otherwise it was grown there in abundance.The scientists found that the kidney beans crop was also affected by angular leaf spot disease, which can be treated by spraying 1gm Bastivin/litre of water solution.Besides Sood, the team of experts comprised district agriculture officer Sushil Kumar and specialist Renu Sharma.Chhota Bhangal valley is a remote village in Baijnath sub division of Kangra district. The main source of income of locals is cultivation of cash crops such as cabbage, cauliflower, and kidney beans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-cabbage-crop-hit-by-fungal-disease-101631941230816.html
18-09-2021||Other||Nadda to virtually launch BJP SC wing’s national executive meeting in Kashi today||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda will inaugurate the two-day national executive meeting of the party’s Scheduled Caste (SC) wing (morcha), starting in Varanasi on Saturday, via video link, said the wing’s national president Lal Singh Arya.Arya arrived in Varanasi on Friday to attend the meeting. Addressing a press conference later, he said the life and times of the unsung revolutionaries and martyrs from the Scheduled Castes, who did not find a place in the pages of history, will be discussed in the meeting.Several office-bearers of the party’s SC wing will attend the meeting, he said, adding that all preparations for the meeting had been completed. Several MPs and MLAs will also attend the meeting, Arya said.On September 19, BJP national general secretary Dushyant Kumar Gautam, national and regional office bearers of the party’s SC wing, several party MPs and MLAs will offer prayers at Sant Ravidas Temple in Varanasi, said Arya.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath would attend the concluding session of the meeting on Sunday, Arya added. Political analysts observe that the venue of the national executive suggests that eastern Uttar Pradesh is crucial for the upcoming UP assembly polls. The BJP will focus more on eastern UP where the BJP had fared well in the 2017 assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nadda-to-virtually-launch-bjp-sc-wing-s-national-executive-meeting-in-kashi-today-101631937271703.html
18-09-2021||Other||‘Despite CRZ notification, built-up area along Goa’s coast grows manifold’: Study||Despite the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) notification being in force since 1991, which disallows any fresh construction up to 500 metres from the high tide line along the coast, Goa’s popular beach stretches have seen an increase in built-up area by as much as 20 percentage points since then, largely fueled by tourism, a study that analysed satellite imagery to track development along the coast has found. The study, which was presented as a conference paper late last year, focused on two of Goa’s most populous talukas - Bardez that is home to beaches such as Candolim, Calangute and Anjuna and Pernem which is home to beaches like Morjim, Arambol and Tiracol - and has tracked reducing vegetation, water bodies and increase in the built-up area consisting of permanent residences, hotels, resorts, temporary tourist facilities, shacks, etc. “The built-up has increased from 19.6% to 40.3% (as a percentage of the total area), from 1991 to 2019 within the 500mts buffer... (and) from 15.12% to 36.79% within the 200mts buffer from 2012 to 2019. This includes permanent residential houses, resorts and temporary shacks. Whereas the 50mts buffer from HTL shows built-up and vegetation as 36.79% and 36.91% respectively in the year 2019,” the study said. The CRZ notification issued first in 1991 prohibited any construction between 200 metres from the coast which was to be considered a no-development zone and regulated construction between 200-500 metres from the coast. Except for the reconstruction of preexisting structures belonging to the traditional fishing communities on the existing plinth, no other constructions were to be permitted. This comes even as the Goa government delayed by more than six years the finalization of the Coastal Zone Management Plan and has now sought yet another month to complete the exercise. The study further states that according to a host of people they interviewed, the increased built-up area would serve to destroy the tourist’s experience of the coast. “With changing CRZ regulations, huge beach areas which today are public spaces will be used for commercialization under the banner of development. Tourists visit Goa for its beauty and open space where land meets the sea. If these spaces are taken over, the tourism industry which survives on natural beauty will be at stake as beaches will be already crowded. Neither tourists nor locals will have proper access to the beaches. The coast as a resource will not remain sustainable in future,” the study stated. Speaking to HT, Goa environment minister Nilesh Cabral admitted that there were “a lot” of coastal CRZ violations. “There are a lot of violations but we are acting and demolishing them as and when they are detected. People (the violators) also approach the courts and secure a stay on demolitions. But we have taken action against even big violators and resorts,” Cabral said. “A part of the problem is up to now we have been relying on the 1996 CZMP (Coastal Zone Management Plan) for which detailed scaled maps are not available. Once we are done with the current process of finalizing the CZMP plan for the CRZ 2011 then we will have a base on which to tackle violators,” Cabral said. “The government intends to have real-time monitoring of at least some portion of the coast that is prone to violations using satellite imagery for which we have to finalise the current plan first,” he added. Gaps in coastal regulation in Goa has for long been marred by patchy enforcement despite repeated adverse orders from the Bombay High Court at Goa. As far back as 2009, the Bombay High Court at Goa initiated a suo moto petition against illegal constructions along the coast and had asked coastal panchayats to detail what actions they propose to take against the violators. More recently, the High Court noted “an extremely disturbing feature as to how constructions are put up in CRZ areas without bothering to obtain any permissions from any authorities and thereafter some sort of immunities are claimed based on the completion of such constructions at breakneck speeds” by taking advantage of lax enforcement. This the High Court said was possible because the violators “are firmly convinced that as long as they race to complete the illegal construction and occupy the same, the law will never be able to catch up with them. The attempt thereafter is to institute all sorts of proceedings and delay the action against the wholly unauthorized construction put up in an eco-sensitive zone without seeking permissions from any authorities.” The NGT too had called for an ‘effective monitoring mechanism.’ “We may add that the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) appears to be working only based on complaints against illegal structures and a large number of illegal structures continue to exist despite the directions of the High Court… It may be desirable to have an inventory prepared in respect of such structures based on an independent annual survey, to be updated periodically to avoid selective action against the violations of the CRZ,” the NGT bench led by chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel, said. “An effective monitoring mechanism needs to be set up by GCZMA to advance the rule of law,” the NGT bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/despite-crz-notification-built-up-area-along-goa-s-coast-grows-manifold-study-101631936971812.html
18-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan passes bill to register child marriages, oppn calls it a black day||Rajasthan has passed a bill to amend an act on mandatory registration of marriages, including child marriages, with the opposition staging a walkout from the assembly. The assembly passed the Rajasthan Compulsory Registration of Marriages (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which amends the Rajasthan Compulsory Registration of Marriages Act, 2009, on Friday and under which information on child marriage must be furnished by their parents or guardians within 30 days of the wedding.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators walked out of the House and questioned the need for the registration of child marriages and demanded the withdrawal of the bill. The Congress government in the state, however, said that the bill has been brought on the basis of a Supreme Court order.“It will be a black day for the assembly if this bill is passed. Does the assembly permit us to unanimously allow child marriages? By a show of hands, we will be permitting child marriages. The bill will write a black chapter in the history of the assembly,” BJP MLA Ashok Lahoti said, according to news agency ANI.Rajasthan parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal, however, said that the amendment does not say that child marriages will be valid. “You say that child marriages will be validated. Nowhere does this amendment say that such marriages will be valid. A marriage certificate is a legal document, in the absence of which a widow won't receive the benefit of any govt scheme,” Dhariwal was quoted as saying by ANI.The bill passed in the Rajasthan assembly will now allow the government to appoint an additional district marriage registration officer (DMRO) and block marriage registration officer to register marriages. Before this, only the DMRO was authorised to register the marriages in the state. Under Section 8 of the Compulsory Registration of Marriages Act, If the girl's age at the time of marriage is less than 18 years and the boy's age is less than 21, then her parents will have to inform the registration officer within 30 days.The opposition objected to the amendment of Section 8 of the 2009 act, saying that it should be done away with. The bill was passed by voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-passes-bill-to-register-child-marriages-oppn-calls-it-a-black-day-101631936261255.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: His meals on wheels||His midday meal is always like a moveable feast, each day in a different setting. Vishal Kumar is lunching today here on Mathura Road. Yesterday he had his lunch in distant Anand Vihar. The day before he lunched in Moti Bagh. There is no knowing the site of tomorrow’s lunch. “Depends on the sawari (passenger) I’ll get,” he says, tearing a piece of roti as gently as a sensitive man might pluck a rose.An auto driver, Mr Kumar never eats “bahar ka khana”, the outside food, not even any light snack. He rides his auto across the city from morning to evening, and during these long hours of exhaustive work, he eats only once, which is the lunch. It’s always home-made.Every morning at 6, while he’s still asleep (and so are the kids Arjun and Adisha), his wife, Rekha, quietly starts her day with the chores of dawn. And that principally involves cooking the lunch. “Rekha prepares the food for all of us in one go so that she doesn’t have to cook again in the day,” explains Mr Kumar. Today’s menu is sukhe aloo, channa-urad mixed dal, and rotis. “Sometimes Rekha keeps four rotis, sometimes she keeps five rotis.”As is the case with the wives of most auto drivers, Mr Kumar points out, “my wife too constantly worries for me the whole time I’m out… particularly these days when it’s raining so hard and so often.” She calls him numerous times on mobile to assuage her anxieties, and repeatedly asks the same two questions. The first is: “Khana kha liya (had your food)?” This query naturally ends with the lunch. The other most frequent question remains — “Abhi kahan par ho (where are you right now)?”Mr Kumar never enquires into his wife’s lunch plans and eats whatever she gives him for the day. “When there is a festival or a birthday, she cooks rajma chawal, my favourite.”One evening two weeks ago, he casually expressed a craving for this dish. Without giving him any hint, Rekha left a bowl of rajma beans to soak in water overnight and the next day’s lunch was a pleasant surprise. “Rekha works so hard,” Mr Kumar observes.By now, the meal is done. He drinks water from a bottle, carefully puts back the empty metallic lunch boxes inside the red thermos, and prepares to resume his business. Mr Kumar will return home to his family in Rohini by 9 in the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-his-meals-on-wheels-101631925393980.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||Najafgarh-Dhansa bus stand extension of Delhi Metro's Grey Line to be inaugurated today||The Najafgarh-Dhansa bus stand extension of the Delhi Metro's Grey Line is set to be inaugurated for public use on Saturday. Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will jointly inaugurate the corridor via video-conferencing, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) officials said.The 891-metre long extension of the Najafgarh-Dhansa bus stand section will add to the over 4.2-km long Grey Line (Dwarka-Najafgarh corridor) and benefit the residents of the interior areas around Najafgarh, DMRC said in a statement. Passenger service on this section will start around 5pm on Saturday evening.The Dwarka-Najafgarh corridor was inaugurated in October 2019, which connected the urban village area of Najafgarh to the rapid transit network for the first time. This stretch was scheduled to be inaugurated on August 6 but it was postponed to over a month later due to issues with an approach road to the station.On May 20, a portion of the road near the then under construction Dhansa Bus Stand Metro station caved in due to heavy rainfall, following which Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot undertook an inspection of the area on May 21 and directed an inquiry.The Dhansa bus stand metro station on the Dwarka-Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand corridor will house the first-ever underground floor dedicated to the parking of vehicles. This integrated parking facility will allow commuters to park their vehicles and move to the concourse area directly, DMRC said in July.The Dhansa bus stand metro station has been decorated with artwork and photographs displaying the heritage, culture, flora and fauna of the national capital region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/najafgarhdhansa-bus-stand-extension-of-delhi-metro-s-grey-line-to-be-inaugurated-today-101631923731508.html
18-09-2021||Bangalore||5 family members, including 9-month-old baby, found dead in Bengaluru house||Five members of a family, including a nine-month-old baby, were found dead in a house in Bengaluru on Friday night, multiple reports said citing the police. A two-and-a-half-year-old girl, who starved for almost four days, was also found unconscious in the house on Chetan Circle fourth cross in Thigalarapalya of Magadi Road, the reports added. The girl, who the police said might have fallen unconscious after starving for almost four days, was sent to the hospital.According to the police, the family might have killed themselves four days ago. Police have found in their preliminary investigation that all four adults were found dead in different rooms of the house, which doors and windows were closed, according to one of the reports. “The baby was found dead on the bed. We have sent all the dead bodies for postmortem and the investigation has started,” Sanjeev M Patil, deputy commissioner of police (West), was quoted as saying by the Indian Express.The incident came to light on Friday after the house owner, who is a journalist with a local newspaper, came back. According to the reports citing the police, the owner was away for the last few days and came to check on his family members after they did not pick up his phone calls. A case of unnatural death has been registered at the Byadarahalli police station and further investigation is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/5-family-members-including-9-month-old-baby-found-dead-in-bengaluru-house-101631922984253.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t know why PM gets angry when I talk about holding dialogue with Pak: Mehbooba||The president of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and former J&K chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti, on Friday said that Centre’s tall claims of Articles 370 and 35-A being the biggest impediments in the development of Jammu and Kashmir were “totally wrong”. She also asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi why he does he get “angry” whenever she talks about holding dialogue with Pakistan. Addressing party workers during her visit to Manjakote and Thannamandi in Rajouri district, Mehbooba again recalled how her father late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed convinced the Centre to open border routes with Pakistan for trade and people-to-people contact. “I told the PM that if you talked to Pakistan and restored ceasefire on the borders, then why you don’t take up the matter of resumption of trade from Muzaffarabad and Rawalakot. I also asked him why does he get angry when I talk about holding dialogue with Pakistan. Didn’t Vajpayee ji talk to them? Wasn’t there talk before with Pakistan? Pakistan is our neighbourer and if you don’t talk, then how will you move forward? Was Vajpayee an anti-national when he went to Pakistan and extended a hand of friendship from the land of Kashmir?” she questioned. She added, “The tall claims of development do not match the ground reality. Wherever people met me, they complained of erratic electricity, poor roads, and unemployment.” “Even recruitment rallies for youth in the border areas for jobs in battalions are not taking place. Youths with graduation, postgraduation and even PhDs are jobless,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-know-why-pm-gets-angry-when-i-talk-about-holding-dialogue-with-pak-mehbooba-101631919028396.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||BSF DG reviews security scenario on Indo-Pak border||The newly appointed director general of the Border Security Force (BSF), Pankaj Kumar Singh, on Friday visited RS Pura and Arnia sectors along the Indo-Pak International Border in Jammu and took stock of the situation. The DG was accompanied by BSF IG (Jammu Frontier) NS Jamwal and other officers. Jamwal told Singh about the complexities of management of RS Pura and Arnia border area under prevailing security scenario. “The BSF DG reviewed the overall deployment of BSF and the domination plan. He also visited the critical areas of Aik nullah, Phalku nullah and other areas of RS Pura and Arnia border areas and held discussion with sector and unit commanders on the ground and reviewed security situation,” said a spokesperson. He also interacted with jawans through a ‘Sainik Sammelan’. On Thursday, the DG had visited the critical areas of Basantar river, Tarnah nullah, Bain nullah, Chhap nullah and other regions prone to infiltration in Samba and Kathua districts. On August 16, the former DG, SS Deswal, had said that Afghanistan situation was being closely monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-dg-reviews-security-scenario-on-indo-pak-border-101631918428185.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||In brief: Kishtwar police arrest another former militant||Kishtwar police on Friday apprehended another former militant, who was evading arrest for the past 20 years. He was identified as Abdul Gani alias Mavia of Rar in Marwah area of Kishtwar. “On specific information received through reliable sources, a special team from Marwah police station led by SHO Parvaiz Ahmed raided the suspect’s locations and arrested the absconder,” said a police spokesperson. Abdul was wanted in case registered under sections 302 and 364 of the IPC and 7/27 of the Arms Act. “The absconder was produced in a court in Kishtwar, which sent him to judicial custody,” he added. On Wednesday a former militant, who was absconding for the past 12 years in Kishtwar district, was arrested. He was identified as identified as Nazir Ahmed, son of Noor Mohammand Gorsi, a resident of Budhar Bonjwah in Kishtwar. Another set of arbitrary decisions: Tarigami on new passport rules in J&KCPI(M) general secretary Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami on Friday said the latest orders of J&K administration on employees is another set of arbitrary decisions. Tarigami said that the latest orders of the Jammu and Kashmir administration that employee’s alleged involvement in terrorism, subversion will lead to his termination and no passport will be given to employees till they get vigilance clearance are another set of arbitrary decisions which need to be reconsidered.“A government employee is a tool to implement policies of the government. If the same employee is made a suspect and put in the basket of suspicion repeatedly, it will adversely affect his working and in turn affect overall functioning of the government,” Tarigami, who is the spokesperson of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-brief-kishtwar-police-arrest-another-former-militant-101631918188287.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Won’t allow enemies of peace to disturb it: J&K DGP||Citing examples of three encounters in the Jammu region, J&K DGP Dilbag Singh said elements across the border were continuously trying to foment trouble and disturb peace in the UT by pushing militants.For the past many days, he had been reviewing the security situation in the UT and held several review meetings in different parts of J&K. This year so far, forces have killed more than 100 terrorists in various encounters.The latest review meeting was held on Thursday at Shopian district in south Kashmir, which is considered one of the most sensitive districts in South Kashmir.The DGP told the officers to continue to put in their best efforts not only to maintain peace and order in Jammu and Kashmir, but also to ensure that the dividends of a peaceful environment are further consolidated. “Jammu and Kashmir Police, along with the other security forces, have contributed in a big way in building the current conducive security scenario and would not allow enemies of peace and people to disturb it.”He said the peaceful atmosphere has been achieved after a lot of sacrifices and hard work and the police would not allow anybody to disturb it. “Forces should remain more vigilant in view of increased infiltration bids by terrorists from across the International Border and Line of Control so that nefarious designs of anti-peace elements are foiled,” he added.The DGP said that many successful operations on the borders have not only thwarted infiltration bids considerably but also killed many infiltrating elements. He told the officers to intensify operations against those involved in the narco trade as well. He said that Pak-sponsored elements were also trying hard to spread false and fabricated stories and propaganda by circulating some old videos and warned that strong action will be taken against those involved in such activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wont-allow-enemies-of-peace-to-disturb-it-j-k-dgp-101631917948002.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Dalai Lama wishes PM Modi on his 71st birthday||Tibetan spiritual leader The Dalai Lama on Friday congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 71st birthday. “I congratulate you on the growing confidence you have brought about, despite challenges such as the Covid-19 pandemic that has affected people around the globe,” the 86-year-old spiritual leader wrote in a letter to the PM. As the most populous democratic nation in the world, the Dalai Lama wrote, India’s success benefits not only the people of the country, but also contributes to the development of the world as a whole. “Whenever I have the occasion to do so, I regularly commend India for its robust democracy, its deeply rooted religious pluralism and for its remarkable harmony and stability,” added the Dalai Lama. For us Tibetans living in exile, he added, India is not only our spiritual refuge, but for more than 62 years has also been our physical home. He also thanked the government and people of India for the warm and generous hospitality they have received.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dalai-lama-wishes-pm-modi-on-his-71st-birthday-101631917648213.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 209 Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh recorded 209 fresh Covid infections on Friday, which took the state’s tally to 2,16,639. No death was reported due to the contagion. Of the new cases, 58 were reported in Kangra, 47 in Hamirpur, 43 in Mandi, 27 in Bilaspur, 14 in Una, 11 in Shimla, four in Solan, three in Kinnaur and two in Kullu. No case was reported from Chamba, Lahaul-Spiti and Sirmaur. The active cases have gone up to 1,580 while recoveries reached 2,11,412 after 197 people recuperated. 155 test positive in Jammu and KashmirIn Jammu and Kashmir, 155 tested positive on Friday and one person died due to Covid. There were 122 cases in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 33 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 135 with active cases reaching 1,449.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 753 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 138 and 132 such cases, respectively. The overall number of people who have recovered was 3,21,765 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.2%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have reached 3,27,621 and the death toll stands at 1,416.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-209-covid-cases-101631917107984.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rise above party politics, Anurag tells Himachal leaders||Union minister of information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur on Friday appealed the leaders to rise above the party politics and come up with a development agenda for brighter future of the state. He was speaking at a function to felicitate sitting and former members of HP Vidhan Sabha after the President’s address in the state assembly. “Instead of talking about who contributed and who failed to perform, we need to work collectively for the betterment of the state,” he said. If everyone starts speaking about the works done by them or by their government then only division would be created and the programme would become a political event, he said. It is seen as a counter remark to leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, who had listed contribution of Virbhadra Singh in development of the state.Thakur said Himachal developed in terms of roads, infrastructure building, and hydropower production. The state has protected its forests which are like lungs of the country, he said. “We need to chalk out a road map to make Himachal number one state in the country. Public opinion should be taken into account while setting the agenda,” he added. “As the President has asked to make Himachal ‘Sirmaur’ (top) state in the country, we need to work together to achieve the target,” said Thakur.Thakur, who also holds the youth services and sports portfolio, said besides the political leaders, the citizens should also get united and contribute towards the development journey by any possible means. He requested the speaker of Himachal Vidhan Sabha, Vipin Singh Parmar, to open the library of the assembly for students so that they can take a peek into its glorious past and where Himachal has reached today. All the quality speeches of the former members should be compiled and shown to the students, he added. Himachal Pradesh is celebrating the 50 years of its statehood. The state government had planned series of 51 events to be held round the year to mark the special occasion.These events were slated for last year but couldn’t be held due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rise-above-party-politics-anurag-tells-himachal-leaders-101631916748163.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||MeT dept predicts wet weather in HP till Sept 23||The meteorological department has predicted wet weather in Himachal Pradesh till September 23 with a yellow weather warning for heavy rains, thunderstorms and lightening issued in 10 districts on coming Sunday and Monday.Meanwhile, parts of the state received moderate to heavy rains on Friday. Jogindernagar was the wettest place in the state with 90mm rainfall, followed by Dharamshala (60mm) and Jahu (58mm).Amb in Una got 56mm rainfall, Kasauli 53mm, Gohar 36mm, Una 34mm and Bharari 28mm whereas Dharampur and Naina Devi received 27mm rainfall, Jhandutta 25mm and Kandaghat 22mm.No appreciable change was recorded in minimum and maximum temperatures and mercury was 1-2 notches above normal.Keylong was the coldest with minimum temperature at 9.5 degrees Celsius while Una was warmest with 35.3 degrees Celsius. The rains also triggered multiple landslides across the state.The Chandigarh-Manali highway was closed for traffic in the morning hours after a landslide at Aut.Meanwhile, Manali-Leh highway that was closed for traffic due to landslide at Nehru Kund since Wednesday has been cleared. Shimla-Kinnaur highway which was closed at Chaura has been opened for pedestrians. Efforts were on to open the road for traffic.The highway is closed for the last four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/met-dept-predicts-wet-weather-in-hp-till-sept-23-101631916569354.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Yoga, naturopathy conference concludes in Chandigarh||The second day of the two-day Hybrid National Conference on “Role of yoga and naturopathy in the management of post Covid-19 symptoms”, jointly organised by Haryana Yog Aayog and Government College of Yoga Education and Health, on Friday commenced with inaugural session.Sarpreet Singh Gill, IAS, education secretary UT, Dr Pallika Arora, PCS, director school and higher education, UT, were the guests at the event.College principal Dr Sapna Nanda said, “The collaborative efforts of the college and Haryana Yog Aayog aimed towards spreading the message of yoga to every nook and corner of the country.”Chairman of Haryana Yoga Aayog Dr Jaideep Arya stressed upon the holistic benefits of yoga and naturopathy to attain overall well-being and urged everyone to include traditional practices like fasting and healing through natural herbs in daily practice.Sarpreet Singh Gill in his presidential address said, “The urge to imbibe yoga must come from within and it should not be imposed.” Dr Pallika Arora assured everyone of the administration’s whole-hearted support for the inclusion of yoga in school and college level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yoga-naturopathy-conference-concludes-in-chandigarh-101631916508000.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||CBI nabs female Chandigarh cop in ₹10,000 graft case||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Friday arrested a female sub-inspector while accepting a bribe of ₹10,000 at the Sector-34 police station. Sub-inspector Sarabjit Kaur was caught red-handed following a complaint by a resident of Kajheri.The complainant had alleged that Kaur had demanded ₹1 lakh from him for settlement of a rape case registered at the Sector-36 police station in February. He had already paid ₹50,000 to Kaur, and the remainder was to be paid in five instalments of ₹10,000 each. A voice recording of the demand is also in CBI’s possession.Police sources said the accused was due for promotion as inspector. She is now facing a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Blot on khaki February 15, 2021: CBI arrested ASI Harbhajan Singh of the Chandigarh Police for taking bribe of ₹10,000 for not registering a case against a loan defaulterJune 30, 2020: CBI booked inspector Jaswinder Kaur, SHO, Manimajra, for demanding ₹5-lakh bribe from a man to drop cheating charges against him June 19, 2020: Three constables at the Maloya police station were suspended after being booked by CBI for trying to implicate a man in a false case November 27, 2019: A CBI court awarded four-year jail to a former UT sub-inspector in a 2012 graft case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbi-nabs-female-chandigarh-cop-in-10-000-graft-case-101631914350122.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid cases drop by half in 24 hours||After logging 14 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, highest in 20 days, the tricity saw its daily case count fall to seven on Friday.Against eight cases the day before, Mohali reported three fresh infections, while Chandigarh’s tally remained the same at four.Panchkula reported no case, the seventh time this month, after two on Thursday. Also, no new casualty was recorded in the tricity.Tricity’s active caseload decreased from 98 to 92 in the past 24 hours. It includes 43 infected patients in Mohali, 34 in Chandigarh and 15 in Panchkula.Those found infected in UT are residents of Sectors 39, 42, 43 and 50. Mohali’s three cases included two from Kharar and one from Mohali city. Chandigarh has recorded 65,172 cases till date. As many as 64,320 of these patients have successfully recovered, but 818 have died.Mohali’s caseload stands at 68,690, including 67,586 recoveries and 1,061 deaths.In Panchkula, 30,318 patients out of the total 30,710 have been cured and 377 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-cases-drop-by-half-in-24-hours-101631914349118.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sero survey: 80% of Chandigarh’s adults have Covid antibodies||As many as 80.2% people in Chandigarh, aged above 18, have acquired antibodies against Covid-19, the sero-survey conducted by Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has revealed.This was the first sero-survey of the adult population in the UT since the pandemic broke out in March 2020.The survey, which examines how many people have recovered after being infected or acquired antibodies post vaccination, is conducted by using an antibody test, also known as a serology test. “In July, the department of biochemistry collected 1,200 samples from 30 randomly selected clusters in Chandigarh. Among these 16 were in urban areas, 11 in rehabilitation colonies and three in rural areas. Both vaccinated and unvaccinated people were sampled, and 80.2% of them were found having antibodies against the virus,” said hospital director-principal Dr Jasbinder Kaur.At 84.1%, urban population was found with highest sero-positivity, followed by rehabilitation colonies with 77.8% and rural areas with 69%.A similar survey conducted for paediatric population, by PGIMER in August, had revealed that 72.7% of the children, aged six to 18, had acquired antibodies against Covid-19.‘Third wave may harm adults, kids equally’Dr Kaur said, “The survey results suggest development of herd immunity in Chandigarh. Besides, UT has also achieved 100% first dose coverage among the eligible population. But people should not be complacent. Covid-appropriate behaviour must be followed to avert the third wave.”“Children as well as adults have acquired antibodies, but new variants of coronavirus, which can be more transmittable and destructive, can affect any person,” she cautioned.“People must get vaccinated at the earliest and follow Covid guidelines. Hospitals must also ramp up their infrastructure for both paediatric and adult population before the third wave arrives,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.Walk-in OPD to resume at GMCH-32 from Sept 20In view of the decline in Covid-19 cases, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has decided to resume its walk-in OPD facility from September 20 (Monday). “Patients can either walk-in for physical consultation or take prior online appointments. Tele-consultation and e-Sanjeevani facilities will also continue,” said Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal GMCH-32. Before the pandemic, over 2,500 patients visited the hospital’s OPDs daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sero-survey-80-of-chandigarh-s-adults-have-covid-antibodies-101631914347989.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Worker hurt in roof-collapse in Chandigarh, house belongs to Dara Singh’s son||A labourer was injured after a part of the roof of a house caved in at Sector 4 on Friday afternoon. The house belongs to Amrik Singh Randhawa, the son of late actor and wrestler Dara Singh. The victim, Sajid Kumar, 34, hailing from Bijnore in Uttar Pradesh, and currently living in Zirakpur, was working at the house to fix the roof damaged due to water seepage. While he was working, a part of the roof gave way, burying him under debris. Police and fire brigade rushed to the spot, along with an ambulance. But the victim could not be rescued for nearly an hour in the absence of a JCB machine. It was eventually arranged from a site near Matka Chowk, but that took around 40 minutes. “The JCB machine with the disaster management team was occupied somewhere, so we had to arrange one. All this while, we continuously kept talking to the labourer to boost his morale,” said Charanjit Singh, DSP (Central), Chandigarh. After being rescued, Sajid was rushed to PGIMER where he was treated for a fractured foot. Amrik and his two daughters were away at Mumbai when the incident took place. They have been informed, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/worker-hurt-in-roof-collapse-in-chandigarh-house-belongs-to-dara-singh-s-son-101631914294490.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Scribe arrested for false news, promoting enmity in Ambala||Police on Friday arrested a journalist of a vernacular newspaper on charges of furnishing false information and creating enmity in a report related to the arrest of a purported ISI-linked terrorist by the Punjab Police in Ambala. Apart from the reporter, Sunil, who works for Dainik Bhaskar, a Hindi daily, the Ambala Cantt police station also booked the newspaper’s zonal news editor, Sandeep Sharma. The complaint in this case was filed by sub-inspector (SI) Radheysham, in-charge, Parao police station, with regards to the report “Punjab Police claim terrorist arrested near IOC depot in Cantt, Ambala Police say we don’t have any information, were not asked for help”, published in the newspaper’s Ambala edition on Thursday.In his statement, the SI said he received a call from Sunil on Wednesday night, informing him of a terrorist’s arrest by the Punjab Police near IOC depot in Parao area. “I told him that neither did I receive any intimation about the arrest nor any help was sought from my police station. Despite this, Sunil published the news without any verification,” he alleged. The Ambala police claim that the arrest was not made from the said location. Therefore, the report created an environment of “panic and terror”. While Ambala Range IG Bharti Arora and SSP Hamid Akhtar remained unavailable for a comment, inspector Vijay Kumar, station in-charge, Cantt police station, said, “The reporter was arrested and a search is on for the other person. The matter is under investigation.” The FIR against the duo has been lodged under Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 177 (furnishing false information), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 505 (2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) of the Indian Penal Code.Legal expert Rohit Jain said except Section 505 (2), all were bailable offences, adding that if proven guilty under the said section, the accused can be imprisoned up to three years. Speaking on behalf of the publication, Mahesh Kumar, editor, Haryana, said, “The arrest of our journalist is alarming. The newspaper is seeking legal advice on the case.”Journalists and politicians, including Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, state Congress treasurer Rohit Jain, HDF general secretary Chitra Sarwara, INLD’s national vice-president Prakash Bharti, former Ambala Sadar deputy mayor Sudhir Jaiswal and several former councillors, condemned the arrest.Selja wrote on Twitter, “….to protect fair journalism, it is necessary that this matter should be investigated impartially and any police action should be taken only after thorough observation of the facts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/scribe-arrested-for-false-news-promoting-enmity-in-ambala-101631914293400.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traffic police to get own station soon||The Chandigarh Police will soon send a proposal to set up a dedicated station for the UT traffic police on par with other major cities. UT director general of police (DGP) Praveer Ranjan announced this at Sukhna Lake on Friday. He was speaking at a function where the initiative to install convex traffic mirrors in the city was launched.The DGP said most cities had a separate station for the traffic police. “We will go over the cases and in due course of time, a proposal regarding this will be sent to the authorities,” he said.Mohali and Panchkula already have dedicated traffic police stations with a station house officer. In Chandigarh, people pay challans and collect impounded vehicles from Traffic Lines in Sector 29. A Children’s Traffic Park is also set up in Sector 23 to spread awareness about road safety. Senior superintendent of police (SSP, Traffic) Manisha Choudhary said, “The idea behind a dedicated traffic police station is to ensure scientific data collection of road accidents and to thoroughly investigate all fatal and non-fatal road accidents. In a regular police station, investigation of road accidents may be neglected due to law and order, and other sensitive crimes happening. This concept is already prevalent in southern states like Karnataka, Pondicherry.”More sub-divisionsThe traffic police are also working on creating more traffic sub-divisions, in line with the police proposal to increase sub-divisions of local police from three to five. The traffic police have three sub-divisions right now, including central, east and south divisions.“Chandigarh has around 100 fatal and 200 non-fatal accidents every year. Because the volume of traffic has increased, road capacity is decreasing and innovative solutions are required,” said Ranjan.He explained how cameras had already been installed for an Intelligent Traffic Management System in the city and a control room to man these will be set up by the municipal corporation. The DGP also said the decrease in fatal accidents in 2020 was not only due to the lockdown but also due to enforcement by the traffic police.107 convex mirrors to be installed in cityA total of 107 convex mirrors will be installed in the city to provide better visibility at blind spots. The mirrors have been provided by ICICI Lombard as part of their corporate social responsibility initiative. Speaking about this, DGP Ranjan said, “The traffic police have identified 97 blind spots in the city. These convex mirrors with their wide-angle view will provide greater visibility, preventing accidents.”The first of the mirrors was unveiled at Sukhna Lake by UT adviser Dharam Pal in the presence of various officials of the UT administration, municipal corporation, ICICI Lombard and police. The remaining will be installed in the coming days by the UT administration and MC authorities, along with the traffic police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-traffic-police-to-get-own-station-soon-101631914292344.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police crack Sector-27 robbery with arrest of two||From a makeover to staying in hotels to consuming drugs, the main accused in the Sector 27 robbery – a cook and a car washer – fulfilled all their desires after robbing a model-cum-actor of ₹6.2 lakh on September 7, police said on Friday.On the run for 10 days, the main accused, Arjun, alias Nepali, 26, of Shahimajra village, Phase 1, Mohali, and Arjun Shrestha, 24, of Mataur village, Mohali, have finally landed in police net. Having spent most of the booty to enjoy a lavish lifestyle, the accused were found in possession of just ₹40,000. “They visited several places in Himachal Pradesh after hiring cabs and stayed at expensive hotels. They also spent big on getting a makeover, including tattoos, and hair rebonding and colouring,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. He added, “Both are addicted to drugs and went to Kasol, Himachal Pradesh, where they purchased more intoxicants. They were arrested from the Sector 43 ISBT after they returned to Chandigarh.” Apart from the two accused, police have already arrested their other two accomplices, Sunil, alias Sunny, alias Bihari; and Prem, alias Motu, an auto-rickshaw driver. ₹11,000 in total and the victim’s Apple AirPods were recovered from them. One stood guard outside, three robbed victimOn September 7, while Prem stood guard outside the 27-year-old victim’s house, the other three entered her house. They easily made their way into the premises around 12.30pm, as the door was left open by the domestic help. Holding the home-alone victim captive at knifepoint, they took her debit card and forced her to reveal the PIN, following which Sunil and Prem left to withdraw money from her account.As the two other robbers started to search the house for valuables, the victim grabbed the ₹6 lakh kept in a room and locked herself in the bathroom. But she handed over the cash after Nepali cut open the bathroom’s mesh window. Visited sister for Rakhi after robbery After the robbery, Nepali and Shreshta returned to Phase 1, Mohali, in an auto-rickshaw, and using the looted money, went on a shopping spree for clothes and shoes. They also visited Nepali’s sister in Mundi Kharar, where they celebrated Rakshabandhan. After presenting her ₹4,000, the duo returned to Chandigarh, where they stayed at a hotel in Sector 52 for three hours, before leaving for Bhunter, Himachal Pradesh. Main accused already convicted of burglaryNepali has already served a three-year sentence at the Ropar jail in a burglary case and was released in May this year. He was lodged in the Patiala jail also in connection with another case. A trained cook, who works at a furniture shop in Mohali, Nepali has been arrested thrice previously by the Mohali Police as well. Shrestha earns a living by washing cars. The victim had identified Nepali, as one of the four men who had delivered furniture at her house on August 30, after his saffron patka came off during the robbery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-crack-sector-27-robbery-with-arrest-of-two-101631914289679.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding sedan runs over woman napping in Mohali parking lot||A speeding Hyundai Verna ran over three asleep female sanitation workers, killing one of them, at a parking lot in Phase 10 on Friday.The deceased was identified as Om Veeri, 50, and the injured as her daughter-in-law, Mamta, and the latter’s mother, Ram Veeri, all residents of Jagatpura Colony, Mohali. Both injured women are battling for life at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.The accused driver, Harpreet Singh, 22, a private college student, who lives in Phase 11, was nabbed by other sanitation workers and handed over to the police. As per information, the victims work for the Delhi-based Lions Private Limited company. After having lunch, they were taking a nap in the parking area near Hotel Sarao in Phase 10 around 2pm. Meanwhile, Harpreet, who along with his friend, was recklessly driving his sedan car, ran over all three. Other workers raised the alarm and together hauled the car up to rescue the women.“The victims were rushed to GMCH-32, where Om Veeri was declared brought dead. The accused was arrested and booked under Sections 279, 304, 337 and 338 of the Indian Penal Code at the Phase 11 police station,” said Mohit Kumar Singla, DSP (under training) and in-charge of the station.Sonu Kumar, field officer for Lion Private Limited, said the car was being driven at a high speed and ran over the women in front of their eyes, leaving everyone aghast. After the incident, several workers of the firm reached the Phase 11 police station and demanded strict punishment for the accused. He will be produced in court on Saturday.The deceased is survived by her husband, son and daughter-in-law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-sedan-runs-over-woman-napping-in-mohali-parking-lot-101631914288533.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||PM’s birthday: Chandigarh unit of BJP organises blood donation camp||As part of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s “seva and samarpan abhiyan” to mark the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the party organised 71 works of service in the city.State spokesperson Kailash Chand Jain said, “A blood donation camp was organised by Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar district of BJP in collaboration with the team of PGI Blood Bank at the community centre of Sector 37.”Tree plantation drives were carried out in Sectors 51, 35, 32, and vaccination camps were organised in Sectors 22, 52 and 32.“Other activities included an eye camp for school children of Sahapur Colony, immunity booster distribution in Sector 22, cleanliness drive in Dadumajra Colony, distribution of wheelchairs in Sector 50 dispensary, felicitation of farmers and jawans by Kishan Morcha in Kishangarh, distribution of stationery to the children at Hallo Majra school,” added Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pms-birthday-chandigarh-unit-of-bjp-organise-blood-donation-camp-101631914167836.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC approves policy for taxi stands||The fund-starved Mohali municipal corporation has approved a policy for taxi stands and also increased vending sites for coconut sellers to rake in more revenue. Both revenue heads are expected to raise ₹15 lakh per month. The policy is also aimed at reining in mushrooming of illegal taxi stands. Currently, the city has nearly 40 taxi stands, of which only eight are approved. The illegal stands are mostly located in parking areas of markets.Under the policy, all illegal stands will need to be regularised, with payment of arrears since the stand started operating. A refundable security of ₹10,000 will also be levied.A taxi stand owner will have to pay ₹1,000 per taxi per month to the civic body, and each stand shall not have less than 10 taxis. The area for the stand will be provided on rent, with provision for 5% annual hike. The pre-fabricated structures for these stands will be approved by MC for uniform appearance across the city. Each taxi stand should have a proper toilet, and washing of vehicles and clothes will not be allowed. Taxi fares will be regulated and displayed at each stand.City mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said taxi stand owners had encroached upon parking lots and other places with impunity: “No taxi will be allowed to function beyond the allotted space.”Meanwhile, the vending sites for coconut sellers have been increased from 18 to 38. “MC expects to generate ₹5.5 lakh from taxi stands and ₹10 lakh from coconut vendors every month,” said Kamal Kumar Garg, MC commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-approves-policy-for-taxi-stands-101631913691204.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Three held for ATM fraud in Ludhiana, 72 debit cards recovered||A gang of ATM fraudsters with busted with the arrest of three of its members. As many as 72 ATM cards of different banks were recovered from them.Those arrested are Tarun Sharma, 23, of Surjit Nagar; Shubham Singh, 23, of Gurdaspur and Pankaj Kumar, 27, of Bihar; while their accomplice Gurdev Singh of Giaspura is yet to be arrested.The accused would offer help to those struggling to withdraw money from the ATM, particularly the elderly and the illiterate, and then exchange their ATM cards after getting their PIN number. Additional deputy commissioner of police Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said a roadside eatery on Lohara Road was raided, following a tipoff. The accused were caught while they were waiting outside an ATM. The accused, who were produced before a court on Friday, were sent to police custody. A case under sections 420 (cheating), 34 ( common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused.Four cases of cheating are already registered against the accused at Division 7 and Moti Nagar police stations while Pankaj is wanted in a drug peddling case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-held-for-atm-fraud-in-ludhiana-72-debit-cards-recovered-101631913087638.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Snatching: Two men on bike rob fruit vendor of ₹17,000, phone in Mohali||Two motorcycle-borne men robbed a roadside fruit seller of ₹17,000, his mobile phone and debit card near the Verka roundabout in Phase 6 on Thursday night.The victim, Prabhu Chaudhary, a resident of Phase 1, told the police that the robbers approached his cart around 11.30pm. They thrashed him, before fleeing with his money, phone and debit card.Chaudhary suffered injuries and was admitted to the civil hospital in Phase 6. A case under Sections 379B and 323 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused. Police are scanning nearby CCTV cameras for leads about the robbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/snatching-two-men-on-bike-rob-fruit-vendor-of-rs-17-000-phone-in-mohali-101631912967897.html
18-09-2021||Dehradun||Ludhiana number-one in Punjab in crimes against women||The most populous district and the industrial hub of the state has also earned the unsavoury tag of being the most unsafe for women, leading as it is in crimes against women, as per data released by the National Crime Records Bureau. Though Ludhiana saw an improvement in the number of crimes against women reported in the district as compared to 2019 and 2018, it still reported more cases than other districts. Punjab cumulatively registered 4,838 cases of crimes against women in 2020, of which 418 were reported in the Ludhiana Commissionerate. Patiala was second in the state with 340 cases, while Jalandhar and Amritsar reported 221 and 227 cases, respectively.The district had recorded 595, 662 and 535 crimes against women in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Cops attribute the improvement in statistics to the pandemic-induced lockdown. An official, requesting anonymity, said, “Movement was restricted due to the lockdown. Moreover, minor girls, who are vulnerable to sexual assault, especially in labour quarters, remained safe as their parents were with them all the time.” Of the 37 rape cases reported in 2020, 36 were against women who were of age. Forty-five cases of use of criminal force against women with intent to outrage her modesty, 12 cases of cyber crime and 74 cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act were also registered. Gruesome hall of fame A drug addict murdered his elderly mother in Haidon village on September 13, 2000. The accused slit his mother’s ankles and she bled to death. The 70-year-old victim was the widow of a war hero. The couple had adopted the accused. in another case, a 30-year-old mentally unstable woman who had lost her way while returning from a shrine was gang-raped by an auto-rickshaw driver and his accomplice on November 23, 2020. The next day, the woman was found in Ganna village of Phillaur, 20km away from Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ludhiana-number-one-in-punjab-in-crimes-against-women-101631912488414.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Labour room quality: Chandigarh govt hospitals best in country for pregnant women, newborn care||The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday awarded the first prize to Chandigarh for the year 2020-21 in the small states category for implementing the “LaQshya” initiative in government hospitals’ maternity operation theatre and labour rooms.The project is a labour room quality improvement initiative, which ensures best medical facilities to every pregnant woman and newborn while delivering in public health institutions. The LaQshya certification is a continuous process to ensure that quality is maintained and further upgraded by state assessment on a yearly basis.The parameters on which the states were assessed included service provision, patients’ rights, support services, clinical services, infection control, quality management and outcomes.The Union ministry scored 99% points for Sector-22 civil hospital’s labour room and 97.16% for the hospital’s maternity operation theatre. Also, the sub-divisional hospital at Manimajra scored 98.33% for labour room and 97.66% for maternity OT. The Sector-45 civil hospital got 95% points for labour room and 96.33% for maternity OT. Finally, the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, scored 98.66% points in the labour room category and 93.16% in maternity OT.“We would like to congratulate health staff and UT administration for this award and we are dedicated to providing best medical services and support services to pregnant women and newborns in Chandigarh,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/labour-room-quality-chandigarh-govt-hospitals-best-in-country-for-pregnant-women-newborn-care-101631912369124.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana witnesses waterlogging, traffic jams||Incessant rain, which continued through the night, left most areas in the city inundated, due to which commuters had to navigate waterlogged roads and long traffic jams on Friday morning. Potholed roads exacerbated the commuters’ misery. Waterlogging was primarily seen at BRS Nagar, Model Town Extension, Dugri, Chaura Bazar, and Haibowal. Water also accumulated on the Model Town-Jawadi Road, Ferozepur Road, Chandigarh Road, Gill Road, Dholewal Chowk, and Dugri road and the underpasses on Ferozepur Road and Lodhi Club. The situation outside the deputy commissioner’s residence near Rakh Bagh and at Malhar Road (which is being developed as a smart road) and the parking area outside the municipal corporation’s Zone C office was not any better. Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust member ,Tribhuvan Thapar, said the area outside the freedom fighter’s ancestral house was flooded and that authorities had failed to resolve the issues despite multiple complaints.  “People have to wade through the accumulated water, which also breeds vectors,” said Thapar. Paramjeet Singh, a resident of Sector-39, Chandigarh Road, said,”We had registered a complaint with the chief minister’s office also, but to no avail. It is difficult to step out of the house after a downpour and overflowing sewer lines stink up the area. Potholes, which cannot be seen due to the flooding, put commuters’ lives at risk. MC superintending engineer, Rajinder Singh, said, “Our staff was on the field and the accumulated water was drained out within in a few hours. Complaints regarding choked sewer lines will be resolved at the earliest.” ‘Newly developed Leisure Valley lacks sound drainage’ In absence of a sound drainage system, the recently developed Leisure Valley in Bhai Randhir Singh (BRS) Nagar was inundated after the downpour on Friday. The Valley, which has become one of the favourite haunts of joggers, is in dire need of maintenance. A BRS Nagar resident, Gursharan Singh, said, “Creating a green belt was a good initiative and the number of people coming to the area for morning and evening walks was also increasing by the day. However, people are now avoiding the area as it is not being maintained and the drainage system is not up to the mark.” Ludhiana Improvement Trust superintending Engineer , Buta Ram said that the contractor has been directed to clear the accumulated water. “Staff has already been deployed and the water will be drained out in soon . The contractor has also been directed to make concrete arrangements to avoid water logging in future as well.Portion of Hambran Road caves in A portion of Hambran Road, where interlocking tiles were installed by the LIT a few months ago, caved in after the incessant rain. The incident took place near the Kali Mata Temple and no accident was reported on the spot.Buta Ram said that the field staff had been directed to inspect the site and take required steps to repair the portion. The reason behind the incident is not known so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-witnesses-waterlogging-traffic-jams-101631912009762.html
18-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad administers over 73k Covid jabs in fifth mega vaccination drive||The goal for Friday was to administer 85,000 Covid-19 vaccination shots -- the highest single-day target set for Ghaziabad district till date. And while the district failed to meet that goal, it ended up administering 73,328 doses by 8.50pm, according to the Co-WIN portal on Friday. The district officials pointed to weather conditions and a lack of awareness for them not being able to meet the target. Friday was the fifth mega vaccination day in Ghaziabad -- the district administered 79,822 doses in the first mega drive on August 3; 42,444 doses in the second drive on August 16; 67,040 doses in third drive on August 27, and 69,248 doses during the fourth drive on September 6. “We are still hopeful of getting closer to the 85,000 mark. The entries are getting uploaded slowly on Co-WIN portal. However, we have done well despite the weather conditions that kept people indoors and also the lack of awareness about Friday’s drive,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer. However, officials privy to the mega drive said the health department only had a stock of about 95,000 doses, of which only 70,000 were Covishield, the vaccine most preferred by people. “We had 70,000 doses of Covishield and about 22,000 doses of Covaxin. Since beneficiaries prefer Covishield more, they were reluctant to take Covaxin doses which were sent to different Covid vaccination centres. That is why we could not achieve our set target,” said an officer from the district health department, asking not to be named. The district on Friday operated the mega drive with 165 vaccination centres. According to the Co-WIN portal figures, with 2,442,067 doses administered so far, Ghaziabad ranked second in the state. The district has a second dose coverage of 598,748 till date. Of the 75 districts, Lucknow is first in terms of total doses-- the district administered 3,328,335 doses so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-administers-over-73k-covid-jabs-in-fifth-mega-vaccination-drive-101631911828832.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||‘Ghar Ghar Naukri’ scheme meant for Cong leaders’ kin: SAD on job to Kangar’s son-in-law||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday said the blatant manner in which all rules were thrown to the wind to give the job of an excise and taxation officer (ETO) to the son-in-law of revenue minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar proved that the Congress’ ‘Ghar Ghar Naukri’ scheme was restricted to family members of party leaders. Terming the appointment of Gursher Singh, the minister’s son-in-law, as patently illegal, former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said it was a cruel joke on lakhs of youth of Punjab who had trusted chief minister Amarinder and his promise to provide one job in each household of the state. “Forget providing any job to meritorious and needy youth, the government is bent on adjusting kin of its leaders by bending the rules. Earlier, former chief minister Beant Singh’s grandson was given the job of a deputy superintendent of police even though he was not eligible for the post,” Majithia said. “Two more appointments — those of the sons of Congress legislators Fatehjang Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey — were also cleared by the cabinet but their joining was averted after a vociferous protest by the SAD and people at large,’ he added. The Akali MLA said the Congress government had not learned from its mistakes. “The revenue minister’s son-in-law has property worth crores of rupees which makes him ineligible for an appointment on compassionate grounds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ghar-ghar-naukri-scheme-meant-for-cong-leaders-kin-sad-on-job-to-kangar-s-soninlaw-101631911827549.html
18-09-2021||Noida||Against single-day target of 32,000 Covid jabs, Gautam Budh Nagar inoculates over 25,000||The aim on Friday was to inoculate 32,000 people in Gautam Budh Nagar during the special vaccination drive, but the district could administer only 25,160 doses from its 114 government vaccination centres -- a little more than 78% of the target, officials said. Glitches in the Co-WIN portal slowed down vaccination pace at several centres, they added.Chief medical officer Dr Sunil Sharma said despite allowing walk-in vaccinations at several centres, technical issues were reported by officials at vaccination centres. “The health officials were facing a lot of problems in uploading the details of beneficiaries on the Co-WIN portal. As a result, such vaccination centres couldn’t achieve their target for the day,” he said.Sharma, however, claimed that since the district health department has already given the first jabs to around 95% of the eligible population in the district, the low jab rate on Friday will not have much effect on the district’s overall vaccination performance. “We have informed the higher authorities about the glitches in the portal and it’ll soon be rectified,” he said.Dr Neeraj Tyagi, the district immunisation officer, said of the total 25,160 beneficiaries who took their jabs on Friday, 16,492 took their first vaccination doses. “The remaining received their second doses. The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme began on January 16 this year. In the time since then, Gautam Budh Nagar has administered 2,299,193 jabs, and 653,910 have received both doses of the vaccine. Over two million jabs administered in the district are Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, while a bulk of the remaining doses are Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/against-single-day-target-of-32-000-covid-jabs-gautam-budh-nagar-inoculates-over-25000-101631911707633.html
18-09-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar reports 2 fresh dengue cases in 24 hours, tally reaches 13||Gautam Budh Nagar has reported two fresh dengue cases on Friday, taking the total tally in the district to 13, officials said.After a major dengue outbreak in nearby districts of Uttar Pradesh, like Mathura and Firozabad, Gautam Budh Nagar has been put on alert to prevent the spread of the vector-borne disease.According to the officials, the two fresh cases were reported from the district hospital in Sector 30. Out of the total 13 dengue patients in the district since September 6, 2021, only one patient is under treatment at the district hospital, they added.“Since September 6, the Child PGI has reported five dengue cases (till September 15), and the district hospital has reported eight cases. Some suspected dengue cases have also been reported at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, but because they tested negative for enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Elisa), they are not being counted in the district tally,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.The district has also reported three scrub typhus cases, all of which have recovered now. “Last month, a private hospital in Greater Noida reported two scrub typhus cases, and the district hospital reported one case which was referred from Ghaziabad. At present, there are no active cases of scrub typhus in Gautam Budh Nagar,” Sharma added.Meanwhile, the total number of malaria cases in the district stands at 23, as a monthly report for the same is yet to be compiled.Talking about the preparations to tackle vector-borne and viral fever cases in the district, district magistrate Suhas LY said that the health department is fully equipped to handle any crisis situation. “The district health department is on alert regarding the dengue cases, and cleanliness and sanitation drives are being carried out across the district to prevent breeding of mosquitoes which cause such diseases. The health department has also prepared rapid response teams (RRTs) to handle emergency situations, and have also reserved beds in case such a situation arises. City authorities, local bodies, nagar panchayats, and gram panchayats have all been instructed to create awareness among the people regarding dengue, and measures to be taken to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-reports-2-fresh-dengue-cases-in-24-hours-tally-reaches-13-101631911467628.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Eyebrows raised as SGPC seeks police deployment in Golden Temple complex||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has written to police seeking deployment of their personnel in the Golden Temple complex, particularly the parikarma (circumambulation around the holy ‘sarovar’), to check “criminal and anti-social elements” active there. The move, which comes nearly one-and-a-half months after the SGPC observed the anniversary of the 1955 police entry into the shrine to contain Akali Dal activists during the Punjabi Suba movement, has drawn a flak from members and office-bearers of the gurdwara body itself. The entry of police personnel in 1955 was widely opposed by sections of the Sikh community. Slamming the move, SGPC member Kiranjot Kaur said, “It is to demand security from the police for the shrine. It is tantamount to admit that we are not able to manage the gurdwara and asking the police to take over it. The SGPC employees get salaries in lakhs What are they doing? What is the use of its task force if it cannot curb criminal elements active in the shrine complex?”SGPC executive committee member Amrik Singh Shahpur said, “It is quite unfortunate that we cannot guard the shrine on our own. Are we not competent to guard our holiest shrine? Where is the SGPC task force?” Shrine chief manager Gurinder Singh Mathrewal, who wrote the latter to Amritsar police commissioner Vikramjeet Duggal, said, “We are yet to receive a response from the police official in this regard.”In the letter, Mathrewal said the galliara near the shrine complex has turned into a haven for drug addicts. “We often receive complaints of such people looting the devotees. It brings a bad name to the shrine,” it reads. “Also, both men and women police personnel should be deployed round the clock around the parikarma, serais and the langar hall in plainclothes. Entrances of the shrine should also be guarded to prevent any untoward incident. Senior police officials must carry out screening in the area themselves,” it further reads.Entry of police into the shrine complex has never gone well with various Sikh bodies. The SGPC has been targeted by the Sikh bodies for allowing police to “interfere” in the affairs of the shrine which is visited by an average 1 lakh devotees daily. However, police personnel, including senior officers, are deployed at the shrine on June 6, the anniversary of Operation Bluestar, every year, to avert any clash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eyebrows-raised-as-sgpc-seeks-police-deployment-in-golden-temple-complex-101631911347523.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Day’s 133mm rainfall surpasses Ludhiana’s monthly average for September||The withdrawing monsoon brought 133mm rainfall to the region on Friday, which exceeds the average precipitation for September.As per the Punjab Agricultural University meteorological department, a monthly average of 109mm is normal for September, but the city received record rainfall of 133mm in a single day. So far, the city has received 181mm rainfall this month. Climate change and agricultural meteorology department head Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu said the maximum temperature had plummeted to 28°C, an anomaly for this time of the year. “The temperature dropped by 5.6°C after the rainfall,” she said, adding that more rainfall could be expected in the coming days.“The weather system will remain active in the region till September 20, but the intensity of the rain will lessen,” said Sidhu.“The present spell of rainfall is in no way harmful for the paddy crop. It rained for a long time, which will help recharge the groundwater level,”she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/days-133mm-rainfall-surpasses-ludhiana-s-monthly-average-for-september-101631911168142.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Couple who attacked neighbour with pistol butt arrested||Police have finally arrested the couple who had attacked their neighbour in Sector 42 with a pistol butt on June 30 after she had refused to loan them money.The accused were identified as Vineet of Muzaffarnagar and his wife Kajal hailing from Dharamsala. They were arrested from the bus stand on a tip-off. The accused, while on the run, had stayed in different places in Himachal Pradesh and kept changing their mobile SIM cards to avoid being traced.Victim Rita had sustained injuries on her head and hands. After the attack, the police had recovered the toy pistol used in the attack. Sita Ram, who works as a scrap dealer, stays on rent with his family on the first floor of a three-storey building.Victim’s husband Sita Ram told the police that the accused couple had shifted on the top-floor around two months back. During the lockdown, the accused had earlier, too, borrowed money from him. He said that on June 30, accused Vineet and Kajal, who lived on the top floor, had come to their house and asked his wife to lend them some money. When she refused, the accused attacked her with a pistol and repeatedly hit her on the head with its butt. Rita raised an alarm and the accused fled leaving behind the weapon. A case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-couple-who-attacked-neighbour-with-pistol-butt-arrested-101631911107538.html
18-09-2021||Noida||Family faked woman’s abduction in Greater Noida: Police||Police on Friday found a 20-year-old woman in Gonda district, a day after her family alleged that she was abducted from Badalpur, and said the family had lodged a false complaint. The woman had gone to a friend’s house on Wednesday, and the family filed a false complaint on Thursday morning, said police. The woman’s father, in his police complaint, had said that the four siblings usually go for a morning walk in the neighbourhood. “As usual, they had left home at 5am on Thursday. My older daughter was walking ahead while her three siblings were following her. When they neared Rail Vihar colony, some people reached the spot in a white car. They started harassing my daughter. When she resisted, they tore her clothes, pulled her inside the car, and abducted her,” he said.He also said that when the other three siblings tried to rescue their sister, the suspects beat them up. A case was registered against unknown persons under Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), Section 354 (assault of criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and Section 364 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code at Badalpur police station. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that the police formed five teams to investigate the matter. “We found the statements of woman’s parents and siblings inconsistent. We scanned the woman’s call record details and found that she had been in touch with a man for two years. The woman recently bought a new SIM card,” he said. Chander said this new mobile phone number’s location pinged in neighbouring Acheja village in Greater Noida. “The location was subsequently traced to Ghaziabad, Sahibabad, Dankaur, Mathura and Agra and then it was found to be switched off,” he said.Ankur Agarwal, additional DCP Noida Central, said the woman’s previous mobile phone’s location was active in Gonda. “A police team was sent to Gonda where the woman was found at her friend’s house,” he said. He said the woman had met the man through social media two years ago. He added that she had caught a bus and gone to his place on Wednesday, and her family knew about it. However, the family hid the information. “We will take action against her family members for filing a false complaint and blocking the road in protest,” Agarwal said. Police said it appeared the family faked the incident to cover up the woman’s elopement. Police have not taken any action against the woman and her friend as they are adults. Chander said the police scanned multiple CCTV cameras in the neighbourhood but the suspects’ car was not spotted in anyone of them. The police then started investigation from other angles. He said the woman’s uncle is an assistant sub-inspector in Delhi Police and had allegedly assisted the family in creating this plot. Chander said the sub-inspector will be questioned.Vrinda Shukla, DCP, women’s safety, said that the woman’s family had also asked their minor children to lie and mislead the police. “They had also blocked NH-91 for two hours in protest. This had created a negative image of police among the public,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/family-faked-woman-s-abduction-in-greater-noida-police-101631910987493.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Forensic experts from NIA, NSG visit motorbike blast site at Jalalabad||Teams of the National Investigating Agency (NIA) and the National Security Guard (NSG) on Friday inspected the site of explosion that took place at Jalalabad in Fazilka district on Wednesday night.Balwinder Singh, alias Luv (22), resident of Jhugge Nihanga Wala in the adjoining area of the Ferozepur district, succumbed to injuries he sustained when the fuel tank of a motorbike he was riding exploded due to unverified reasons. He died during treatment of severe burns at the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College in Faridkot on Thursday. Jalalabad deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Palwinder Singh said forensic experts from the central agencies inspected the blast site and collected samples.“The district police are probing the matter from all angles. No person has been detained or arrested,” he added. Eyewitnesses said Balwinder was tossed several feet up in the air due to the explosion. It was the NSG’s bomb data centre wing that visited the blast site, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/forensic-experts-from-nia-nsg-visit-motorbike-blast-site-at-jalalabad-101631910867466.html
18-09-2021||Noida||Four held for burglary at factory after exchanging fire with police in Noida||Four people allegedly involved in the theft of raw materials and finished goods from a leather garment factory in Noida’s Sector 9 were arrested after an encounter with police in Sector 8 on Thursday night. The suspects were identified as Ram Khiladi (50), a resident of Firozabad; Shakir (36), a resident of Bulandshahr; Kuldeep Kumar (30), a resident of Karawal Nagar in Delhi; and Aslam (28), a resident of Khoda Colony in Ghaziabad. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said on the night of September 5, the suspects burgled a leather garment factory in Sector 9. Thakur Singh, the factory’s administrative executive, filed a complaint at Sector 20 police station. “The workers had left the factory at night. We reached the office in the morning and found the lock damaged. Finished leather products and raw materials were stolen from the factory,” said Thakur in his complaint. Kumar said on Thursday night, police received information about the movement of some suspects in a Maruti Suzuki Baleno in Noida’s Sector 8. “The police team put up a barricade and asked the suspects to stop for checking. The suspects opened fire at the police team and tried to flee. When police returned fire, Khiladi and Shakir were injured on the leg and later arrested,” said the officer adding that the two other suspects were also apprehended. During interrogation, Khiladi said that he previously worked as a security guard in the same leather factory for a few days and later quit the job. “Khiladi engaged a few more men and committed the burglary at the factory,” said Kumar. Police recovered two countrymade guns, four live cartridges, 23 leather sheets, and one car from their possession. Police are trying to recover the stolen valuables, some of which have been sold by the suspects. The four men were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-held-for-burglary-at-factory-after-exchanging-fire-with-police-in-noida-101631910807407.html
18-09-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Interest on default amount for Yamuna eway plot allottees reduced||In a major relief to plot allottees, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has brought a one-time settlement (OTS) scheme by reducing the rate of interest on the defaulting amount for the plot allottees. Plot owners, except realtors, who own group housing land, will now have to pay a lesser amount for defaulting, officials said on Friday.The move came after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed Yeida to only levy simple interest on a defaulted amount, and not a compound interest. According to the rules, Yeida considers a plot or flat allottee as a defaulter if he or she fails to pay three installments at least. On the defaulted amount, Yeida imposes a compound interest up to 15% or even higher, instead of a simple interest such as 8.5%, they said.The move, which will benefit 32,000 property allottees who bought properties from 2009 to 2021, will be open for the people from October 1 to November 30, 2021, according to the officials.“Property allottees will have to pay a compound interest on the defaulting amount after November-end. If they want to avail the benefit of the scheme, they must deposit 30% of the total default upfront between October 1 and November 30,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO), Yeida.Yeida allots properties on an installment basis: It first takes 30% of a property’s total cost, and then the remaining 70% in installments. If the defaulting amount keeps increasing, the authority, too, increases the compound interest, which the plot allottees claim to be a “financial hardship” for them. Thus, the Uttar Pradesh government introduced the OTS scheme to provide relief to the people amidst the Covid-19 crisis, said the officials.Many plot allottees have welcomed the move. “We have been asking for an interest waiver for the past two years, amidst the coronavirus pandemic. We have also demanded a waiver of interest for a period, as the authority delayed possession of plots. Yeida has finally given a waiver on the compound interest. It is a welcome step,” said Rishabh Nigam, secretary, Yamuna Expressway entrepreneurs’ association (YEEA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-interest-on-default-amount-for-yamuna-eway-plot-allottees-reduced-101631910447629.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Woman dies by suicide in Ludhiana, husband among 6 held||A 40-year-old woman penned a suicide note on the palm of her hand and ended her life in Jhungian Kadar village of Koomkalan on Thursday.On the basis of her suicide note, six people, including her husband, sister-in-law, two nephews, niece and her husband’s friend, have been arrested. The victim had married the accused 12 years ago and is survived by two daughters, aged 10 and eight. The victim’s brother said, his brother-in-law, an orchestra artiste, would beat up his sister and had deserted her. Of late, he had been living with his brother’s wife along with his children.“My sister was not allowed to meet her children. Harassed and humiliated by her husband and his friends and family, she consumed poison,” the complainant said. She was rushed to a hospital, where she died during treatment. Sub-inspector Harshpal Singh, SHO, Koomkalan police station said, a case had been registered under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-dies-by-suicide-in-ludhiana-husband-among-6-held-101631910388790.html
18-09-2021||Noida||Arun Vihar residents oppose Noida authority’s vending zone plan in Sector 29||Residents of Arun Vihar in Noida Sector 37 have opposed the Noida authority’s plans to establish a vending zone in Sector 29. They said that the pavement is meant for pedestrians, and the proposed zone will pose serious health hazards, especially to senior citizens, and security issues to the people.The residential area in Arun Vihar, opposite Sector 29, majorly houses retired armed forces personnel.The Noida authority put up a board opposite Arun Vihar-Ward 11, from the road along Christ Church in Sector 29 to Ambedkar Nagar market in Sector 37, on Wednesday. The board says that the area on both sides of the road has been marked for Vendor Zone No-1 for 100 vendors.This has riled up the residents of Arun Vihar, who said that the area is meant for the pedestrians, and if occupied by vendors, the residents will not get any space to walk there.Colonel (retired) IP Singh, chairman of Arun Vihar residents’ welfare association (RWA), said that the residential area already has a “crowded” shopping area -- Brahmaputra Market -- in Sector 29, and inviting more street vendors there will only create nuisance for the residents.“Under the new vending zone policy, the Noida authority is creating vending zones on both sides of the road from Christ Church in Sector 29 to Ambedkar Nagar market in Sector 37. There is a lot of resentment among the residents regarding this as the authority did not consult them about the move. Once the vending zones are allotted, it will become difficult for us, especially the senior citizens, to even reach our homes as the vendors may end up crowding near the entry gates of our localities. Moreover, there is a high risk of contracting infection amidst the Covid-19 pandemic,” Singh said.The RWA has raised a complaint with authority regarding the matter, he said, adding, “If our complaints are not being heard, and vendors start putting up shops here, the residents of Arun Vihar will protest at the site,” he added.Meanwhile, the Noida authority officials said that they will visit the area and talk to the residents on this. “We will visit the site to attend to the residents and hear out the issues. Our officials will try to solve the matter at the earliest,” said Rahul Sharma, Noida authority in-charge of Work Circle-2, where the vending zone has been put up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/arun-vihar-residents-oppose-noida-authority-s-vending-zone-plan-in-sector-29-101631910387796.html
18-09-2021||Noida||UP pollution body starts monitoring air in Ghaziabad’s Kaushambi||The Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB) on Friday initiated special monitoring of air and noise pollution in Kaushambi for five days, said officials.UPPCB officials said that the move came in connection with a petition filed by Kaushambi apartments residents’ welfare association (Karwa) to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to resolve different pollution-related issues in the township.The officials have installed equipment at three locations near Meenakshi Hospital, Kaushambi police post, and Panchmarhi Tower for monitoring particulate matter (sum of all solid and liquid particles suspended in air, many of which are hazardous) and noise pollution (elevated sound levels).“Monitoring has been initiated, and if the weather permits, we will devote five days to capture data of particulate matter -- PM10 and PM2.5 -- for which equipment will be installed by Friday. We will capture the data and submit a report on the same to the NGT... We have our real-time air quality monitoring station in Vasundhara which is about two or three kilometres aerial distance. We installed the new equipment, especially at the township, to gather localised information about the pollution levels,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer, UPPCB.The township has 22 high-rise residential towers and is adjacent to Anand Vihar border in Delhi. It is also opposite Kaushambi inter state bus terminal (ISBT) and Sahibabad industrial area site IV.On August 23, after hearing the petition filed by Karwa, the NGT directed the divisional commissioner of Meerut, district magistrate of Ghaziabad, superintendent of police of Ghaziabad, and regional officer of UPPCB to appear before the tribunal on October 25.In a meeting held between officials of Ghaziabad district administration, Ghaziabad municipal corporation (GMC), UPPCB, and Karwa among others, the GMC gave its nod for installing 400 trees to curtail pollution, and a sluice gate to prevent backflow of water from Sahibabad drain to Kaushambi.“UPPCB is monitoring air and noise pollution in the area, but the collected data will not be accurate as the city has been receiving rainfall and the air pollution levels have been dropping considerably. So, we will raise this point before the tribunal and request it to conduct another monitoring drive in November or December,” said VK Mittal, president, Karwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-pollution-body-starts-monitoring-air-in-ghaziabad-s-kaushambi-101631910328436.html
18-09-2021||Lucknow||Known for politics, Amethi now witnessing real wrestling: Smriti Irani||Union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani on Friday said Amethi was prevously known just for “siyasi dangal” (political wrestling) but was now witnessing “asli dangal” (real wrestling) as the times had changed. She was speaking after the inauguration of the national wrestling championship, which is being held in Amethi, Irani’s Lok Sabha constituency in Uttar Pradesh, for the first time.She won the Amethi seat in 2019 Lok Sabha elections by defeating the then Congress president Rahul Gandhi.“This is the first time when a wrestling championship has taken place in Amethi. So far, Amethi was known only for political wrestling. The holding of this national event on the occasion of PM Modi’s birthday would inspire our wrestlers,” she said. Union minister Giriraj Singh, national wrestling federation chairman Brajbhushan Saran Singh, the BJP MP from Gonda, and UP’s sports minister Upendra Tiwari were present on the first day of the championship. “I have come here for the first time and whatever development has taken place here is all because of the BJP and Smriti Irani. As for wrestling, it is in India’s DNA. From Bhim to Jarasandh and Duryodhan (Mahabharat age), our country has seen some great wrestlers,” Giriraj Singh said. “Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the sporting mood of the country has changed. Now, our Olympic medal winners have been feted for their great show and rewarded handsomely. So much so that now even foreign players feel like playing for India. Pakistan is busy producing grenades and we are creating world class sportspersons,” the Union minister said. On the first day of the wrestling championship, wrestlers from 23 states participated. Celebrity wrestlers Bajrang Punia and Babita Phogat of Dangal fame also took part.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/known-for-politics-amethi-now-witnessing-real-wrestling-smriti-irani-101631910207355.html
18-09-2021||Gurugram||After court intervention, evicted allottee gets house back in Gurugram||A week after getting evicted from his residence in Sector 52, Praveen Bhargava, a former Delhi Jal Board chief engineer, got his house back on Friday after the intervention of a city court. Though the court has directed Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) to restore possession of the house to Bhargava, the matter is still subjudice and the next date of hearing is September 28. Bhargava was evicted based on the complaint of one Sushila Devi, who complained to the police that the plot was her property, and had been sold on the basis of fake documents. Four months ago, the HSVP cancelled the re-allotment and occupation certificate and got Bhargava to vacate the house. Bhargava then approached a local court, which asked the authority to submit the documents on the basis of which re-allotment was cancelled. Following the court directions, the HSVP submitted two letters in which it cancelled its order withdrawing re-allotment to Bhargava. It also withdrew the eviction order after arguments in the court, after which the court appointed a commissioner to ensure possession was given back to Bhargava. On being given the possession back, Bhargava said, “I had no option but to approach the court and it is due to intervention of the court that I have got my house back,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/after-court-intervention-evicted-allottee-gets-house-back-in-gurugram-101631910098273.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Alert man foils ATM robbery in Ludhiana||An alert Gandhi Nagar resident foiled an ATM robbery on Thursday night. The accused, who introduced himself as Akshay Kumar of Jalandhar, managed to escape before the police could reach the spot. The complainant, Surinder Parsad of Gandhi Nagar, said he was out for an evening walk around 8.30pm when he noticed some suspicious activity at an HDFC bank ATM in Gandhi Nagar. On inspection, he found Kumar tinkering with the air-conditioner installed in the kiosk. He caught the accused and called the police.Assistant sub-inspector Prem Lal, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 511 ( attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on for his arrest. The ATM had no night security guard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/alert-man-foils-atm-robbery-in-ludhiana-101631910028515.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet okays free insurance for 15 lakh more families, milling policy||The Punjab cabinet on Friday approved free insurance cover for 15 lakh more families under the Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (AB-SSBY) which were earlier not covered by the scheme. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced this at a virtual meeting where the state health department proposed bringing these families under the government scheme on co-sharing basis which would have required the beneficiaries to pay for part of the expense. However, Amarinder suggested making the insurance cover for these families also completely free in line with his government’s promise of universal healthcare for the people of Punjab. Also, the cabinet gave the go-ahead to the Punjab Custom Milling Policy for the 2021-22 kharif season for conversion of paddy procured by state procurement agencies —Pungrain, Markfed, Punsup and Punjab State Warehousing Corporation (PSWC) — into custom milled rice and its delivery into the central pool. Barring the families of government employees and pensioners who were already covered under Punjab Medical Attendance Rules, all the remaining nearly 55 lakh families in the state will now come under the ambit of the scheme, an official spokesperson said. The state government will now be bearing a total annual cost of ₹593 crore to cover 55 lakh families to provide insurance cover of ₹5 lakh per family for secondary and tertiary care treatment in empanelled public and private hospitals. The health and family welfare department has been asked to formulate the process for the enrolment of these families under the scheme. Nearly 39.38 lakh families, including 14.64 lakh identified as per the 2011 ‘Socio-Economic Caste Census’ (SECC), 16.15 lakh smart ration card holder households, 5.07 lakh farmers, 3.12 lakh construction workers, 4,481 accredited journalists and 33,096 small traders and their families, are already availing the scheme since August 2019 having got cashless medical treatment to the tune of ₹913 crore in the last two years, it was informed. Job regularisation agenda deferred The agenda of regularisation of over 37,000 contract employees, who have completed 10-year service in different departments, boards and corporations, was deferred by the cabinet after discussion. Local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, who is the head of the cabinet sub-committee on the issue, raised demand that the minimum period of regularisation should be 3-5 years against 10 years as fixed by the government, it is learnt. “The matter was sent for legal opinion by the cabinet,” a minister said. Ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who joined the cabinet meeting from Punjab Bhawan, rued poor audio quality during the conference. Bajwa even asked the CM to convene meetings in person for better decision-making. “When other programmes are being held without any hindrance, why convene cabinet meetings through video-conferences?” he questined. 160 assistant professors for new colleges To ensure smooth running of 18 new government colleges in the state, the cabinet approved recruitment of 160 assistant professors and 17 librarians. The recruitments will be made by the departmental selection committee after taking these posts out of the purview of the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC). The cabinet also gave the nod to constitute the selection committee comprising former University Grants Commission (UGC) chairman Prof Ved Prakash as head with Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) vice chancellor, representative of principal secretary, department of social justice and empowerment and 3 subject matter experts as its members. The committee has been mandated to carry out the recruitment process by strictly following the selection criteria as per the UGC guidelines. Other cabinet decisions: To facilitate quick and effective implementation of the Mission Lal Lakir, the cabinet decided to cut down by half the time for filing objections prepared under the SVAMITVA scheme from the existing 90 to 45 days. Nod to the Punjab Micro and Small Enterprises Facilitation Councils Rules, 2021, under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development (MSMED) Act, 2006, to facilitate promotion, development and competitiveness of MSMEs. Nod to enhancing monthly subsistence allowance of terrorism/riot affected families from ₹5,000 to ₹6,000 and monthly financial assistance being given to Kashmiri migrants as ration money from ₹2,000 to ₹2,500 per family. To eliminating the pendency of the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and rape cases, the cabinet also approved setting up of nine fast-track special courts and creation of 117 posts for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-okays-free-insurance-for-15-lakh-more-families-milling-policy-101631910027492.html
18-09-2021||Gurugram||Demolition drive continues in DLF Phase 3, owners of 10 houses, 11 shops face action||The enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning continued its drive against illegal constructions in DLF Phase 3 on Friday. The enforcement officials demolished internal walls in six illegally constructed houses in S, U and V Blocks. The team also demolished 11 shops, which were constructed on residential plots. All these structures were also sealed by the department. On Thursday, the department demolished the internal walls of 10 houses, in which there were additional constructions in violation of rules. DLF Phase 3 has 2,600 plots reserved for the economically weaker section, and last week, the department had carried out a survey to check building plan violations, additional constructions and commercial activities. Based on that survey, the department has now initiated action against such violations, said officials. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that the demolition drive started around 11am and continued till late evening. “We hired 50 labourers and pressed two earthmoving machines into action to carry out the demolitions. We have been forced to do this because despite notices the owners have not removed violations. Additional constructions in violation of rules will not be allowed,” said Bhath. Bhath also said that along with U block, the team also sealed shops and houses in S and V blocks, where illegal construction was found.Around 100 policemen from Gurugram Police maintained law and order during the drive and supported the enforcement officials. On Thursday, the department had also deployed a drone to keep a watch on the locals as they opposed the drive. Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, enforcement, said that a guest house being operated in the area was also sealed for violating rules. “All the vacant rooms of the illegal guest house were sealed as it was operating in violation of rules. Our team also interacted with local residents and made them aware about the danger of constructing such buildings,” said Sharma. Officials said that action against illegal constructions will continue and also appealed to people to remove additional construction and floors themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/demolition-drive-continues-in-dlf-phase-3-owners-of-10-houses-11-shops-face-action-101631909727606.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet nod to job for minister Gurpreet Kangar’s son-in-law||The Punjab cabinet on Friday gave the go-ahead for the appointment of state revenue minister Gurpreet Kangar’s son-in-law Gursher Singh as excise and taxation inspector on compassionate grounds. Chairing the cabinet meeting through video-conferencing, the chief minister noted that Gursher’s father Bhupjit had played a crucial role in blowing the lid off the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) scam involving then chairman Ravi Sidhu, an official spokesperson said. Bhupjit, who was posted as excise and taxation officer (ETO) and died in 2010, had helped the vigilance bureau catch Sidhu giving 5 lakh bribe red-handed, it was claimed. The spokesperson claimed that the applicant was considered for the post in view of the qualification of candidate and the contribution made by Bhupjit, and the cabinet decided to make an exception on special grounds. As per the government policy, the ward of a deceased employee has to apply for employment within one year from the date of death. The policy also clarifies that if there is a genuine cause for delay, the candidate’s application can be considered up to 5 years after obtaining special approval from the personnel department. Interacting with the media after the cabinet meeting, Kangar said, ““Bhupjit Singh passed away in 2010 and Gursher was not eligible for the job then. He got married to my daughter in 2016 and applied for the job that year. Does being my son-in-law deprives him of the right to get a job as per the government policy?” This is the fourth instance of the cabinet in the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government of giving the go-ahead to jobs to the family members of party leaders on compassionate grounds. Earlier, the government had appointed late chief minister Beant Singh’s grandson and brother of Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu as a deputy superintendent of police (DSP). This year, a controversy erupted when the cabinet okayed appointment of Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa’s son as a DSP and Ludhiana (North) legislator Rakesh Pandey’s son as a naib-tehsildar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-nod-to-job-for-minister-gurpreet-kangar-s-soninlaw-101631909667237.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Man killed as bike crashes into stationary truck in Ludhiana||A bike-borne man was killed after he crashed into a wrongly parked stationary truck in Katani Kalan on Thursday evening. The truck driver, Nishan Singh of Amritsar, has been arrested and his truck seized. The impact of the collision was so strong that the victim, Chandan Sharma of Mohali, was killed on the spot. The victim’s brother, Murari, said Chandan, 34, had come to Ludhiana to visit his brother-in-law. Assistant sub-inspector Dilbag Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case has been registered under Sections 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 304 A ( Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the truck driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-killed-as-bike-crashes-into-stationary-truck-in-ludhiana-101631909610198.html
18-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram civic body forms committee to improve sanitation, implement Swachh Bharat Mission parameters||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has formed a four-member committee to help improve sanitation, and implement Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) parameters in the city, officials said on Friday.The committee, formed by MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Thursday, was given a seven-day deadline, September 23, to submit a report on their findings and suggestions on improving each aspect of SBM. A meeting will be organised in the fourth week of this month to deliberate on the matter, said MCG officials.The committee includes MCG chief town planner (CTP) Madhusmita Moitra, deputy municipal commissioner Dr Vijaypal Yadav, joint commissioner (headquarters) Hariom Attri, and additional municipal commissioner Rohtash Bishnoi.“These officers will submit their report in seven days after assessing all the parameters set under the Swachh Bharat Mission in their respective zones and thereafter will suggest means to improve cleanliness and evaluate the implementation of Solid Waste Management Rules-2016. The said officers will also visit their respective areas to assess the ground reality regarding cleanliness in their respective zones,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO), MCG.As per officials, all MCG joint commissioners have also been directed by Ahuja to join the officers in their respective zones during the evaluation process.MCG officials said that they will be focusing on the garbage-free city (GFC) category to improve the city’s rankings.The Swachh Bharat Mission’s GFC rating has 25 key components, such as the door-to-door collection of waste, sweeping, scientific waste processing, storage bins, penalties for violations, cleaning of drains and water bodies, among others.In both the 2020 and 2019 surveys, the city ranked poorly in the GFC category.In the 2019 survey, the city got two stars out of a possible seven in the category while last year’s survey found two municipal wards in the city were not swept.After the 2020 survey, former MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh identified GFC as the main category the MCG had to improve upon.For the 2021 survey, the GFC rating amounts to 1,800 points of the total 6,000 points of the Swachh Bharat Mission ranking.In last year’s survey, GFC was under the certification category-- in which the city scored 500 out of 1,500 points. The city scored 600 out of 1,250 points in 2019 in the same category.“Around 30% of all points in the 2021 survey will be under the GFC category, in which Gurugram has performed poorly. Unless we make changes, the city’s score will plummet and it will reflect in the rankings against the rest of the country. Hence, we will prioritise the GFC category and look at weak points and ways it can be improved,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-civic-body-forms-committee-to-improve-sanitation-implement-swachh-bharat-mission-parameters-101631909607571.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC removes 55 street vendors from Phase 7 market||Three days after officials of the enforcement wing were given a month’s time to clear the encroachments in the markets, the civic body officials swung into action and held a major drive in Phase 7 on Friday, confiscating articles of 55 illegal vendors.Most of these vendors were removed from the parking area and market corridors. The drive began at 5pm and continued till 6pm.Secretary-cum-enforcement officer Ranjeev Kumar said, “Now the drives will be regularly held in the mornings and evenings. We have warned them several times, but they are adamant. They will be challaned on the basis of the articles. For one rehri, we charge ₹1,000 as fine.”Earlier in the day, the drive was also carried out in Phases 11 and 4, and Sectors 70 and 71.On September 14, Mohali MC had divided the area under its jurisdiction into four zones to tackle encroachments in markets. While chairing the civic body’s monthly General House meeting on September 14, mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu had said the area inspectors heading the teams would be responsible to get rid of encroachments in a month: “If they fail to do so, they will be charge-sheeted or suspended.”During the visit, it was found that vendors are fearlessly operating in parking lots and on the main road in the markets of Phases 7, 3B1, 3B2, 9, 10 and 11. Also, shop owners in all these markets have encroached upon the corridors, leaving no space for visitors. Under the Street Vendors Act, there are 993 vendors in the city. However, the number of those actually operating in the markets is close to 2,000 who can be seen selling a variety of products, including apparel, footwear, jewellery and eatables, in market corridors and parking areas. In some markets, there is no space to even walk in the corridors. The enforcement wing of MC has only two vehicles including a truck, a Bolero jeep, which caters to the entire city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-removes-55-street-vendors-from-phase-7-market-101631909487409.html
18-09-2021||Lucknow||GST Council decides to set up two GoMs||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council on Friday decided to decided to set up two Groups of Ministers (GoMs), the first to look into rate rationalisation and the second to examine the issues of e-way bills, FASTags, technology and compliances. Both the GoMs have been given two months’ time to submit their reports. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman made the announcement about the two GoMs after the GST Council’s 45th meeting in Lucknow. She said there were clear anomalies in the structure as rates have gone up and down. Sitharaman also said a number of “people centric” decisions were taken at the GST Council meeting that met physically after a gap of nearly two years. The GST Council is an apex federal body on indirect taxes. The GST Council also decided that food delivery aggregators like Swiggy and Zomato would now be responsible for the collection of GST from consumers instead of the restaurants from where the food is bought. A decision in this regard has been taken following reports that some restaurants were either not depositing the tax or it disappeared after collection of GST from the consumers. “This is no new tax,” said Sitharaman. She also said petrol and diesel would not be brought under the GST regime at this stage. “This is not the time to bring them under the GST,” she said while speaking to media persons after the meeting. Sitharaman said the issue was taken up on the GST Council’s agenda only in view of the directives of the Kerala high court that asked the council to consider the matter. She said many members said they didn’t want this and the council will report back to the Kerala high court. About the extension of deadline for compensation to states for the shortfall in their GST collections beyond July 2022, she said the law provided the compensation against shortfall in GST for five years. She said the cess to be collected after July 2022 (up to March 31, 2026) would be used for the purpose of payment of loan and interest taken last year or this year due to shortfall in the revenue. She said the collection of cess would be used for repayment of loan. A number of states have been demanding that the deadline be extended for five more years. “We demanded extension of the deadline for payment of compensation to states beyond five years,” said West Bengal minster of state (independent charge) for urban and municipal affairs Chandrima Bhattacharya. Commenting on the decision not to bring petrol and diesel under GST, Professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of the department of economics at Lucknow University, said, “The people at large will be disappointed to know that the GST Council did not agree to bring the petroleum products under the GST regime which would have brought down the prices of petroleum products substantially. This would have given the much needed relief to the common man.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gst-council-decides-to-set-up-two-goms-101631909367502.html
18-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram authority to repair key roads, conduct annual maintenance of others||After the monsoon, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will start repairing key roads in the city by filling up potholes and stretches damaged due to heavy rain, said officials on Friday. GMDA has proposed three projects to specially repair the road from Huda City Centre to Subhash Chowk, undertake the annual maintenance of roads on the left (Delhi to Jaipur) side of National Highway-48 and repair the road from the toll gate on NH-8 to Kapashera border. Most of these roads provide access to residential areas in the city and have been damaged due to heavy rain this monsoon. “We will be starting the repair work for these roads within two months after we receive suggestions from the citizens on what kind of work they would like done. Our primary focus is filling up potholes and repairing patches that are broken. The repair work is likely to be completed within six months to one year, ensuring that the roads are ready for the next monsoon,” said a senior official from infrastructure-I division of GMDA. Officials had earlier said that repair and maintenance work of roads was delayed due to pending approvals and the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, which began in April this year. To repair the road from Huda City Centre to Subhash Chowk, the authority will carry out measures such as overlay treatment with 40mm bituminous concrete, repair of footpath to facilitate pedestrian movement, mandatory and cautionary sign boards for assistance of traffic. The road from Huda City Centre to Subhash Chowk is one of the busiest roads in the city. The roads leading from Subhash Chowk and Huda City Centre have six lanes from west to east, with service roads on both sides and a right-of-way of 60 metres each. For roads on the left of NH-48, the authority will focus on filling potholes using a granular sub-base or wet mix macadam method (a compact method of road construction), repairing patches with dense bituminous macadam or concrete, and repairing damaged road markings. The authority will also start repair work on four key roads from November, which include the outer road of Sector 114, the master road of sectors 62/65, 58/61 and 59/60 and construction of a 200-metre service road for the sectors 59/61 road. Around four kilometres of roads will be repaired as part of these projects across all locations, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-authority-to-repair-key-roads-conduct-annual-maintenance-of-others-101631909127281.html
18-09-2021||Gurugram||Two arrested for running fake call centre in Haryana’s Gurugram||Two persons were arrested for allegedly running an illegal call centre from the basement of a house in Sector 44 in Gurugram and duping United States (US) nationals of money. Acting on a tip-off, the police searched the call centre on Wednesday night and found that employees were engaged in calling US nationals despite having no licence or permission to run such a facility. The police said a case under Section 75 of IT Act, 2000, Section 66D of IT Act, 2008, and sections 120B and 420 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Cyber Crime police station on Thursday. The two suspects have been identified as Nikhil Kumar and Jitender Sharma, who had taken the basement on rent in August 2021, and started running the fake call centre, said police. Police said their employees used to call US citizens posing as representatives of a large online retailer. They would tell the intended victims that someone had used their online accounts to purchase iPhones. The employees of the bogus call centre would “assure the US citizens that they would resolve the problem” and then ask them to pay a fee between USD 300-500 by purchasing gift cards. The numbers of these gift cards are then obtained from the intended victim and the money is transferred fraudulently, said police. During questioning, the employees said they used a database of US citizens, which was obtained by their employers online, said police. The police also said the two men failed to furnish any permission for operating the call centre. A number of items, including computers, phones and other documents were seized from the office. Subash Boken, spokesperson, Gurugram police, said, “The matter is being probed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-arrested-for-running-fake-call-centre-in-haryana-s-gurugram-101631908587404.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||BCCI selection committee: Ex-Punjab cricketer Krishan Mohan appointed member||Former Punjab cricketer Krishan Mohan has been appointed member of the junior national selection committee by the Board of Cricket Control in India (BCCI).Former Tamil Nadu batsman Sridharan Sharath has been named the chairman of the committee. While S Sharath is the representative selector from South zone, former Gujarat wicketkeeper-batsman Pathik Patel is the selector from West zone and former Bengal medium-pacer Ranadeb Bose is from East zone.Krishan is the North zone selector while ex-Madhya Pradesh pacer Harvinder Singh Sodhi is the selector from Central zone.The 53-year-old former Punjab cricketer has been involved with Himachal Pradesh Cricket Academy as a coach. He was a member of the Punjab Ranji Trophy winning team that clinched the title in 1993. Born in Amritsar and now a resident of Mohali, Krishan was an all-rounder and played 45 first-class and nine list-A matches for Punjab before retiring in 1996. He takes over the charge as junior selector (North zone) from Amit Sharma, who was also part of that Punjab team that clinched their only Ranji Trophy title.Bharti Vij, who played most of his first-class cricket with Krishan, expressed his delight over his appointment. “He was such a talented and a wonderful cricketer. He once led the Punjab team also. He never got his due in the playing days. It is so good that a cricketer of his stature and transparent conduct has been given this role. The U-19 World Cup is going to happen next year, so the BCCI is going to focus greatly on the U-19 cricket. India is defending champions of the U-19 World Cup,” said 54-year-old Bharti, who is Punjab’s highest wicket-taker ever with 319 wickets in first-class cricket in 72 matches and now is an umpire.Krishan, who was an off-spinner and batsman, took 69 wickets and scored 1,834 runs in his first-class cricket. The Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association recently won the JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament for Trident Cup under Prashant Chopra and with Krishan as coach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bcci-selection-committee-ex-punjab-cricketer-krishan-mohan-appointed-member-101631907387193.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Health services in rural Punjab have come to standstill: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday claimed that the government health services in Punjab’s rural and remote areas had come to a complete standstill. Addressing a press conference, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema accused the previous Akali and the present Congress government for weakening the government health system in rural areas in the state. “Till 1980, the state’s public health service was number one in the country and above national standards, but it is lagging behind Bihar in many aspects today,” he claimed. The AAP leader said there were 4,400 sanctioned posts of doctors in 1980 and all of which were filled. “While there are still 4,400 posts, about 1,000 of them are vacant. Of these, there are 516 posts of specialist doctors which were abolished by the previous SAD-BJP government,” he said. Cheema said the decision of the Capt Amarinder government in 2006 to hand over 1,186 rural dispensaries under the rural development and panchayats department had cost the rural population dearly. He demanded that rural dispensaries should be handed over to the health department immediately. “If this is not done, we will start a struggle to guard the interest of people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/health-services-in-rural-punjab-have-come-to-standstill-aap-101631907147180.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sirsa takes mandatory Punjabi exam, Delhi HC to a take call||Former president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Friday took a Punjabi exam, mandatory to become a member in the gurdwara committee. In the exam, he was told to recite Gurbani and also write verses from Guru Granth Sahib. Sirsa said he recited Gurbani but refused to write verses. Despite adequate knowledge of Gurmukhi, he doesn’t want to commit inadvertent error showing disrespect to Gurbani amounting to sacrilege, he said. Director, gurdwara ,polls got videography done during the test. “I filed my nomination paper in gurmukhi. I was not supposed write Gurbani so I lodged a protest,” he said, quoting the provisions of DSGMC Act of 1971, and clarified that he possesses adequate knowledge of Punjabi as mandated in the act. People privy to the development said Sirsa’s knowledge of Gurmukhi was limited. Sirsa’s Punjabi test was necessitated after some members of the opposition groups, Shiromani Akali Dal (Delhi) and JAGO Party raised questions on Sirsa’s knowledge of the language in the last meeting of newly elected 46 members held on September 9. Harvinder Singh Sarna of SAD (Delhi), who defeated Sirsa from the Punjabi Bagh segment in the gurdwara polls held on August 22, had moved the Delhi high court challenging latter’s knowledge of Gurmukhi. Subsequent to this, the court asked director, gurdwara election, to submit report. The poll results were declared on August 25. Meanwhile, two members, SAD (Delhi) president Paramjit Singh Sarna, and Vikram Singh Rohini, belonging to the Badals-led SAD were co-opted in the last meeting on September 9, while Sirsa’s selection as Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak committee (SGPC) nominee was put on a hold. According to director, gurdwara election, Narinder Singh the results of Sirsa’s test can’t be disclosed as the high court has asked for the report in a sealed cover and the court will give a final judgment. “I will send report to the court on September 20,” he said. Section 10 of the Act of 1971 mandates a member to have adequate knowledge of Punjabi and Gurbani, should be an amrtidhari Sikh and wear all five kakars (symbols) as per the Sikh rehat maryada. The next meeting is scheduled on September 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sirsa-takes-mandatory-punjabi-exam-delhi-hc-to-a-take-call-101631907027299.html
18-09-2021||Lucknow||GST Council gives relief on cancer, other lifesaving medicines||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council on Friday decided to bring down the rate of GST on the Keytruda medicine for treatment of cancer from the prevailing rate of 12 per cent to 5 per cent and exempt the lifesaving drugs Zolgensma and Viltepso, used in the treatment of Spinal-Muscular Atrophy (when imported for personal use).Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the decisions on the cancer and other medicines after the meeting of the GST Council in Lucknow. As for the Covid-19 related relief, the Council approved concessions in the GST rates and decided to extend the existing concessional GST rates up to December 31, 2021. The concessions were currently valid till September 30, 2021. These medicines include Amphotericin B (nil), Remdesivir (5 per cent), Tocilizumab (nil) and anti-coagulants like Heparin (5 per cent).It decided to reduce the GST rate to 5 per cent on more Covid-19 treatment medicines (up to December 31, 2021) that include Itolizumab, Posaconazole, Infliximab, Favipiravir, Casirivimab and Imdevimab, 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose and Bamlanivimab and Etesevimab. A uniform rate of 18 per cent would be applicable on all kinds of pens, cartons, bags, packing containers of papers (against current 12 to 18 per cent) while specialized renewable energy parts would invite 12 per cent GST against the existing 5 per cent.Miscellaneous paper goods like cards and catalogues would invite 18 per cent tax against the present 12 per cent.It decided to provide certain relief in tax for implementation of government schemes bringing down the rate of GST on fortified rice kernels for schemes like ICDS (Integrated Child Development Scheme) from 18 per cent to 5 per cent.It clarified that the coaching institutions and the NGOs providing coaching services to students under the central scheme of “scholarship for students with disabilities” is exempt from GST.It decided to make the Aadhaar authentication of registration mandatory for filing any claims for refunds. The Aadhaar authentication would also be required for cancellation of registration.The refund would be disbursed in the bank account, linked with same PAN on which registration has been obtained under GST. It decided to extend the validity of GST exemption on transport of goods by vessel and air from India to outside up to September 30, 2021.The GST Council clarified that the ice cream parlours selling already manufactured ice creams would attract 18 per cent GST.It further clarified that admission to amusement parks having rides attracts GST rate of 18 per cent and the GST rate of 28 per cent would apply only to admission to such facilities that have casinos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gst-council-gives-relief-on-cancer-other-lifesaving-medicines-101631906787211.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Witness air show from Sukhna Lake on September 22||The Chandigarh Air Force in association with the UT administration is organising an air show of Surya Kirans and other aircraft at Sukhna Lake on September 22 at 4.30pm for an hour on the occasion of Swarnim Vijay Diwas of 1971 war.The event also coincides with the celebration of the diamond jubilee year of the Chandigarh Air Force Station, which was established in 1961.Over the years, 12 Wing Air Force Station Chandigarh has become one of the biggest/pivotal air bases of the Indian Air Force equipped with the latest aircraft. The Formation Aerobatics Units of the Indian Air Force called the Suryakiran Aerobatic Team is equipped with HAL-built Hawk aircraft.The team’s motto is “Always the Best” and it will be undertaking low-level aerobatic displays over Jalandhar on September 18, over Chandigarh on September 22, over Srinagar on September 26, and over Air Force Station Hindon for Air Force Day and Pune on October 16.The mega event is free and open to all to witness around the walking track of Sukhna Lake. No admission, however, would be permitted without the face masks. Citizens and tourists can also witness the show on September 21 on rehearsal day to avoid rush during the main event. People have also been advised to witness the show from their rooftops, wherever possible.The Chandigarh Police have been instructed to strictly enforce Covid appropriate behaviour during the event. The air show can also be viewed @suryakiran_iaf on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-witness-air-show-from-sukhna-lake-on-september-22-101631906607536.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||8kg heroin seized near border in Fazilka dist||In a joint operation, Punjab Police and Border Security Force (BSF) recovered 8.5kg of heroin near the Pakistan border in Fazilka district.A BSF spokesperson said the illegal drug consignment was recovered on Thursday from the Abohar sector in the area of Mouzam Base.According to the director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta, the recovery was made on the basis of a disclosure made by an accused, Jasvir Singh, alias Gaggu, a resident of Fazilka’s Mahalam village.Following inputs from the counter-intelligence wing about suspicious activities of few residents along the International Border, Ferozepur police registered a case against Jasvir, said the DGP.After his arrest, the accused gave the location of the contraband that he and his associates had arranged from Pakistan, added Gupta.The BSF undertook a combing operation and heroin was found packed in eight packets lying about 15 meters from the border fence.The DGP said that under an ongoing drive against drugs, the state police have recovered over 232kg of heroin in the past 100 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/8kg-heroin-seized-near-border-in-fazilka-dist-101631906548208.html
18-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana top cop extends ban on open sale of acid in city||Commissioner of police Naunihal Singh has extended the ban on the open sale of acid for two months and asked traders to renew their licenses timely to avoid police action. The traders have been asked to keep a photocopy of the buyer’s identity proof and have been prohibited to sell acid to buyers below the age of 18 years.The top cop has asked the institutions and organisations who use acid for different purposes to maintain a record of its usage and depute nodal officers. No sale, breeding of Thai Magur fishCommissioner of police has banned the sale and breeding of Thai Magur fish in all areas falling under the jurisdiction of Ludhiana police commissionerate as it is harmful to health, preys on its breed, and also harms village ponds and animals.Ban on use of dronesThe police chief also banned the use of drone cameras in the city. He stated that anti-social elements could execute crimes by fastening explosives with drones. If someone needs drones for coverage of a marriage function, rally, etc, they have to take permission from the ministry of home affairs 15 days before the event.Ban on songs promoting drugs and liquorThe commissioner of police extended the ban on songs promoting the consumption of liquor and drugs during live music concerts in the city. In the orders issued on Thursday, Naunihal Singh said that such songs instigate clashes among the youngsters and encourage them to consume liquor and drugs. The orders will be in effect for the next two months.No firearms inside marriage palacesSingh also banned the carrying of weapons in marriage palaces during functions. The top cop also ordered the marriage palace owners to ensure the same. He also said that if any incident occurs, the police will also take stern action against the marriage palace owner. The ban will be effective for two months.The police chief also extended the ban on bursting crackers on busy roads under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Depute security guards at ATMs during nightThe police chief has ordered all banks to deploy at least one security guard at all ATM kiosks located under the jurisdiction of Ludhiana police from 8pm to 6am daily. In his orders issued under Section 144 of the CrPC, the top cop said during the stipulated time, no ATM would be allowed to remain open without a security guard. These orders would remain in force till the next two months.Parking lot contractors told to keep record of owners of parked vehiclesSingh has ordered parking lot contractors and their employees to keep a record of owners of the vehicles parked on their premises. Ban on sale of tobaccoIn view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the commissioner of police has banned the sale of tobacco in the city to deter spitting in the open.The police chief has extended the ban on begging in the city. The top cop also banned playing loud music and DJ between 10 pm and 6 am. CCTVs at petrol pumpsThe commissioner of police also ordered owners of petrol pumps, LPG gas agencies, marriage palaces, and money exchange shops to install CCTVs on their premises within 30 days so that criminal activity could be checked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-top-cop-extends-ban-on-open-sale-of-acid-in-city-101631906546979.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||AICC calls Punjab CLP meet today, tells all MLAs to be present||In what is likely to spell trouble for chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the Congress high command has called a meeting of the legislature party in Punjab in Chandigarh on Saturday. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat made the announcement at around midnight. “The AICC has received a representation from a large number of party MLAs, requesting to immediately convene a meeting of the legislature party of Punjab,” he posted on Twitter. The CLP meeting has been convened at the Punjab Congress office here at 5pm. All the MLAs have been asked to attend the meeting. “AICC directs the PPCC to facilitate this meeting,” he said in another tweet, tagging former party president Rahul Gandhi, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu.Minutes later, Sidhu also took to the microblogging site to inform the party MLAs. “As per the AICC directive, Congress Legislative Party meeting has been convened at @INCPunjab PPCC Office, Chandigarh, on 18 September 2021 (Saturday) 5 pm,” he tweeted.The Congress has 80 MLAs in the 117-strong state assembly.While the chief minister is the leader of the CLP and usually calls the meeting, the AICC directive is being seen as unusual, signalling fresh fireworks in the faction-ridden state unit. Several cabinet ministers and MLAs close to Sidhu have been demanding the meeting of the legislature party. There were reports that a letter signed by four cabinet ministers and several MLAs was sent to the central leadership on Wednesday asking for a meeting of the CLP at the earliest to discuss the election strategy. Last month, four ministers and 24 legislators had after a meeting at cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s house demanded the chief minister’s removal. A few of them had later met Rawat in Dehradun to press their demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aicc-calls-punjab-clp-meet-today-tells-all-mlas-to-be-present-101631906429171.html
18-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana smart city projects: BJP highlights ‘discrepancies’, submits memorandum with MoHUA secretary||Highlighting discrepancies and alleged large-scale corruption in different projects being taken up under smart city mission, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders submitted a memorandum with secretary, ministry of housing and urban affairs, Durga Shanker Mishra at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Friday.Mishra was in the city to review different flagship schemes/projects launched by the union government including, the smart city mission.BJP leaders, including district president Pushpinder Singal, state vice president Parveen Bansal, state executive member Bikram Sidhu handed over the memorandum to Mishra.Seeking CBI inquiry into the alleged embezzlement and wastage of funds, BJP leaders also sought public participation in the projects and slammed the authorities for ignoring the basic needs of the city while planning them.Bikram Sidhu alleged that only one builder is being allotted most of the projects under the smart city mission.“He was also allotted the project to construct Pakhowal road ROB/RUBs even when another firm was ready to complete the project at a lower price. Around 16 crores has been spent just for replacing tiles in Sarabha Nagar main market in the name of a retrofitting project,” said Sidhu.“These things point towards large-scale corruption, misappropriation of funds, and wasted at large. The officials are working negligently on the behest of a cabinet minister, and we have sought a CBI inquiry into the matter. Mishra has assured action on our complaint,” said Sidhu.The BJP leader demanded that a committee be formed at the local level with prominent personalities from the city as participants so that their suggestions can be sought while planning the projects. Parveen Bansal stated that no information is being shared about the projects approved, the cost of projects, the design, etc.“Around ₹3.5 crore is being spent on renovation of Mini Rose garden in Kidwai Nagar even though that project could have been completed in a few lakhs. Around ₹38 crore has been spent on Malhar road and Sarabha Nagar main market. The width of Malhar road has been reduced from 120 feet to 46 feet resulting in traffic snarls. The parking space in Sarabha Nagar market has been reduced under the project, which was aimed at developing the infrastructure there,” he said.“Funds are being wasted to develop the areas that already fall under the posh category. No heed is being paid to the problems being faced in old city areas, including, contaminated water supply, potholed roads, traffic jams, etc. The projects should be planned properly, and suggestions should be sought from the public also during the planning process,” said Bansal.Factionalism in BJPFactionalism was witnessed between the two groups of BJP leaders which were led by Parveen Bansal and Bikram Sidhu. Both the groups tried to meet Mishra separately but ended up handing over the memorandums jointly.NGOs seek transparency in ₹650-cr Buddha Nullah projectSeeking transparency in the ₹650 crore project to clean the Buddha Nullah, members of Public Action Committee (PAC), a group of NGOs, submitted a memorandum with secretary, ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), Durga Shankar Mishra, at the railway station on Friday.The members of the committee rued that the officials have failed to make public the details of the projects being taken up under the smart city mission including, the construction of sewer treatment plants (STP), etc., which might result in misuse or wastage of funds.Amandeep Bains from PAC said they have been raising concern over Buddha Nullah pollution and the Sutlej river in the past.“An environmental expert should lead the Buddha Nullah project committee , as it is not just a civil engineering project, but also concerns the health of residents and the environment. Further, the process to shift the dairy units situated in Haibowal and Tajpur road dairy complex should be expedited. The project to establish the effluent treatment plants in the dairy complexes should be stopped, as it will lead to wastage of money as the dairy units have to be shifted,” he said.The common effluent treatment plants (CETP) being established to treat the waste of the dyeing industry situated at Tajpur Road and Focal Point area should also be made operational at the earliest. The authorities should also come up with a plan to prevent dyeing units from dumping effluents into the MC sewer lines.CoE also submits memoSlamming MC for not involving the public in the smart city project, the Council of Engineers (CoE) also submitted a memorandum with Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-smart-city-projects-bjp-highlights-discrepancies-submits-memorandum-with-mohua-secretary-101631906188354.html
18-09-2021||Lucknow||PM’s leadership has given new direction to the country, says Yogi||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday distributed tool kits to 21,000 beneficiaries under the ‘Vishwakarma Shram Samman Yojana’ and ₹171 crore financial assistance (loans) to 11,000 beneficiaries of ‘Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana’ on the occasion of Vishwkarma Jayanti that coincided with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday. “Our government is organizing a Vikas Utsav from September 17 to October 7 to commemorate PM Modi’s able leadership that has given a new direction to the country. Today’s function is being organized to honour the talent of handicrafts artisans,” the CM said while speaking on the occasion. This date (September 17), he pointed out, was important in two ways — it was Lord Vishwakarma’s birth anniversary, and the day also marked the birthday of the world’s most popular leader and country’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi who was completing 20 years of public service on October 6. Adityanath said while Vishwakarma was the God of construction and creation, PM Modi had given a new model of Indian economics, which was proving helpful in making traditional entrepreneurs and handicraft artisans self-reliant. He said adoption of PM’s ‘vocal for local’ mantra alone could materialise the dream of a prosperous India. He said UP government’s ‘one district, one product’ scheme had shown new direction to handicraft artisans and entrepreneurs. Yogi Adityanath said his government provided jobs to all 40 lakh migrant workers who came to the state during the lockdown last year. The CM claimed that UP’s unemployment rate was far lower than that of other states in the country. “The unemployment rate in UP was as high as 17% in 2017, which has now been reduced to mere 4 to 5%,” he pointed out. He said more than 68,400 people had been trained under the ‘Vishwakarma Samman Yojana’ so far with each trainee getting ₹250 as daily wages. He directed the MSME department to chalk out a plan to distribute tool kits to 75,000 handicrafts artisans in the next three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pms-leadership-has-given-new-direction-to-the-country-says-yogi-101631906187255.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||‘Mentorship for girls offers an alternative vision’||Thirteen-year-old Bhavna Pandey from Hyderabad aspires to be an Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer. Nothing extraordinary about that ambition except for Pandey’s circumstances: she studies at the St Albert High School, described as a “budget private school” by its principal, B Sunitha Kumari. Most of the students’ parents are daily wage earners, or blue collar workers like Pandey’s father, who is a driver. During the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the school struggled to get funds to deliver groceries to the families, who were hard-hit by the lockdown. Yet for Pandey, it was the pandemic that kindled her ambition. In 2018, Varsha Adusumilli, a BITS-Pilani graduate and entrepreneur wrote a book called Wonder Girls, which told the stories of 15 young women who had chosen jobs and careers despite the odds stacked against them. I was struck by the book and felt convinced that every Indian girl must read it. Concurrently, Soumya Jain, the founder of iTeach Schools, an educational not for profit, expressed an interest in introducing the Wonder Girls book as part of the secondary school curriculum. When an opportunity to teach the book in classrooms arose, I offered to sponsor the provision of 5000 copies. The same year, Varsha started the Wonder Girls Foundation Programme in partnership with fellows at education non-profits Teach For India and iTeach. The teaching fellows taught the book along with the school curriculum to educate adolescent high schoolers about young female role models from diverse professions. In the pandemic, the Wonder Girls team moved the programme online to facilitate direct classroom interaction with role models: since August 2020, over 250 individual sessions have been conducted with 92 teachers in schools across the country. Pandey and her classmates had an hour-long live call each with five women — an IAS officer, a scientist, an actor, a flight commander and a software engineer based in the United States and working for a search engine giant. One of these five speakers was Apurva Pandey, an IAS officer who scored 39th rank in the Union Public Service Commission who made quite an impression on the teenager. “We could see the challenges that these women have faced in their lives. Our families have suffered a lot of losses due to the pandemic. But these women motivated our children in such a way that they started dreaming big, and felt more confident,” Pandey’s principal, Kumari said. The importance of encouraging young women cannot be stressed upon enough especially as the pandemic has seen women fall off the grid from the formal and informal workforce as well as the classroom. The State of Working India 2021: One year of Covid-19, a report by the Centre for Sustainable Employment at the Azim Premji University finds that “women were much more likely to lose jobs and much less likely to recover than men. .. While 61 per cent of men followed the no-effect [employment] trajectory over this period, the corresponding figure for women was only 19 per cent. Further, while only 7 per cent of men followed a no-recovery trajectory, the figure for women was 47 per cent. Women were also much more likely to also experience a delayed job loss even after the lockdown relative to men.” The report was based on data collected by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), which tracked labour participation rates in both the formal and informal work sectors. As early as March 2020, the UNESCO warned that the “economic hardships caused by the crisis will have spill-over effects as families consider the financial and opportunity costs of educating their daughters... Education responses must prioritize the needs of adolescent girls’ at the risk of reversing 20 years of gains made for girls’ education.” Millions of Indian adolescent girls are vulnerable to early marriage, trafficking and violence; the Covid pandemic has only exacerbated the conditions in which such practices would flourish. Given what faces young women of the country, how can a mentorship programme really help? It is imperative for young women as well as the systems within which they operate -- schools, peer networks, families and broader communities -- to recognise their capacity and capability. Encourage adolescent girls to aim higher, show them that alternatives are possible. “Just randomly saying, ‘I want to become an IAS officer’ and working towards it, are two different things. Apurva Pandey shared all the preparations she went through to become an IAS officer, from fifth grade onwards. She gave a lot of good advice which some are following,” Kumari said. A 2017 study by the Girl Scout Research Institute in the United States, which could be considered a proxy programme, finds that “having a supportive adult in Girl Scouts is especially beneficial for girls of lower socioeconomic status (SES). In our study, lower-SES Girl Scouts were significantly more likely than lower-SES non–Girl Scouts to say they have an adult in their lives who helps them pursue their goals,” which is essential to career success. “I see sustainable impact. The programme has opened a dialogue, and a space for different conversations apart from academics. It is a good platform to talk about how well women are doing in different fields,” says Varalakshmi Ayyagari, a former Teach for India fellow who taught the programme in Hyderabad. Individual stories of gritty hopefuls, such as Pandey, routinely make the headlines in India. What is needed is sustained social and economic mobility for all adolescent girls and young women. (The author is a columnist with Mint, author and senior advisor to the Wonder Girls programme).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mentorship-for-girls-offers-an-alternative-vision-101631906068156.html
18-09-2021||Other||Two mandi secretaries in Karnal suspended over illegal irregularities in records||The chief administrator of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) has suspended two mandi secretaries of Karnal district for alleged irregularities in the records of the arrival of paddy in the mandis.As per information, Karnal market committee secretary Hakikat Rai has been suspended on report submitted by ZMEO of Hisar HSAM board, based on an inspection of the grain market, as there were of huge discrepancies as the arrival of PUSA 1509 paddy variety was allegedly shown less than the actual arrival was more.Secretary of the Taraori market committee Mohit Beri was suspended on report submitted by the Karnal DMEO for not deploying employees on gates for the record of the arrival of paddy in the mandi even after the instruction given by the department.As per information, CA Vinay Singh had himself inspected the grain market two days back and found the discrepancies.HSAMB zonal administrator Gagandeep Singh has confirmed the suspensions and said there are strict instructions to maintain the records of every produce coming into the mandis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-mandi-secretaries-in-karnal-suspended-over-illegal-irregularities-in-records-101631905947112.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Congress questions Haryana govt over delay in filing chargesheets in criminal cases||Congress general secretary and former Haryana minister Randeep Surjewala on Friday accused the BJP-led government in Haryana for converting the state into a crime hub.Citing the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) statistics, Surjewala said three murders, four rapes and eight kidnappings were occurring each day in the state.“In terms of cognisable crime rate under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Special and Local Laws (SLL), Haryana stood fourth nationwide. It is a matter of shame for the state government,” he said.He questioned chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, his deputy Dushyant Chautala and state home minister Anil Vij for delays in filing chargesheets against the IPC and SLL offenders.“Why is Haryana last among the bigger states (except Manipur and Meghalaya) in terms of filing chargesheets in criminal cases. The national average rate in filing chargesheets was 82.5%, but why Haryana a laggard at 39.7%,” he said.The Congress leader said due to laxity in filing the chargesheets against the criminals and the casual attitude of the government, crime in Haryana has been increasing continuously for the last seven years.The people of the state are suffering but the government seems careless about their woes. In 2020, 1,165 murders, 163 gang rapes, 1,373 rape, and 2,949 kidnappings occurred in Haryana despite lockdown and the epidemic, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-questions-haryana-govt-over-delay-in-filing-chargesheets-in-criminal-cases-101631905767944.html
18-09-2021||Gurugram||Barricading, farmers’ blockade lead to congestion at Sirhaul toll plaza in Gurugram||Barricading by Delhi traffic police at the Sirhaul toll plaza on Friday led to congestion on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, affecting the movement of vehicles going towards Delhi. The congestion was at its peak between 9.30am and 11.30am, when commuters took nearly 30 minutes to cross the stretch.Due to a protest march by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders in central Delhi against the three farm laws introduced by the Centre exactly a year ago, Delhi traffic police officials set up multi-layered barricades across all its major borders, including the Sirhaul toll plaza.Agitating farmers had first gathered at the Sirhaul toll plaza around 11.30pm on Thursday and blocked the movement of vehicles on the carriageway heading towards Delhi.According to Ravinder Singh Tomar, DCP, Gurugram traffic police, a joint team of Gurugram Police and Delhi Police then asked the farmers to vacate the area, and after 1am, vehicular movement started returning to normal.“In the interim, we diverted heavy traffic from Gurgaon-Faridabad Road and Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway, due to which congestion at the toll plaza was managed,” said Tomar.During the morning, Delhi traffic police had set up heavy barricading at the toll plaza and started screening vehicles at random as they headed towards Delhi.“After Thursday night’s situation, Gurugram Police and Delhi Police were on alert. Delhi Police already had prior notice about possible disruptions. Around 9am, a group of 15-20 farmers tried to block the expressway again. However, they were quickly dispersed, after which the intensity of checking increased,” said Tomar.Coinciding with peak morning hour traffic, for two hours, between 9.30am and 11.30am, the congestion at the toll plaza was at its worst.“It took me nearly 30 minutes to cross from the end of the Shankar Chowk flyover till Rajokri. There was heavy barricading by Delhi police and they were stopping vehicles at random and letting others through,” said Uday Mishra, a resident of GK 1.As updates regarding the Sirhaul toll plaza barricading were shared via word-of-mouth and on social media, commuters altered their travelling plans accordingly.“My brother had informed me about the congestion at the toll plaza. I had to drop a relative at the airport and instead of the highway, I drove via MG Road. On my way back to Gurugram, the carriageway was completely empty, and I could see the situation was far better on the other carriageway than an hour ago,” said Sandeep Kumar, a resident of DLF 5.Tomar and officials deputed at the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) control room said that post noon, the traffic situation improved as Delhi traffic police started barricading the carriageway only at intervals.“After 12pm, there was only minor congestion at the toll plaza, compared to the situation in the morning. Delhi traffic police were closing the barricades at random, and opening the carriageway completely soon after, whenever they observed traffic build-up,” said an official at the control room.“Our workers were protesting across all Delhi border entry points from Thursday night onwards, such as Delhi-Gurugram border, Tikri border, and Singhu border. We had given prior notice that we will be holding a peaceful march in central Delhi on Friday. Despite this, our workers and the vehicles they were travelling in were being stopped at border areas. We had no choice but to protest at the border points,” said Dr Daljit Cheema, spokesperson, Shiromani Akali Dal.Cheema also said that more SAD workers were stopped at border areas from 9am onwards by Delhi Police and a lot of them weren’t able to make it into Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/barricading-farmers-blockade-lead-to-congestion-at-sirhaul-toll-plaza-in-gurugram-101631905766910.html
18-09-2021||Other||Green Grove Public School, Ludhiana observes World Ozone Day||Green Grove Public School observed World Ozone Day. Class 11 students Mehak Hundal, Sukhjot and Pridhi, and Shreya of Class 9 presented speeches and Powerpoint presentations to enhance the knowledge of people and inspire them to help in saving the ozone layer by small but effective efforts. Depletion and protection of ozone layer discussedWorld Ozone Day was celebrated at the Centre for One Health, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University. The event was held under the ICAR- Institutional Development Plan-National Agricultural Higher Education Project (IDP-NAHEP). More than 90 participants including, students and faculty joined this event. Randhir Singh, co-organising secretary and professor of Centre for One Health, welcomed Lakhvir Kaur Dhaliwal, professor, agricultural meteorology, department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, Punjab Agricultural University. During her expert talk, she spoke about ‘Depletion and protection of ozone layer’.BCM Kindergarten celebrates nutrition weekBCM Kindergarten, Basant Avenue, Dugri, Ludhiana, celebrated nutrition week. Teachers told students about the importance of fruit day, vegetable day, grain day, protein day, and dairy products day. Children shared pictures with their healthy plates. Teachers told students to maintain a healthy routine.BVM, Kitchlu Nagar honours Swachhta ambassadorsBVM, Kitchlu Nagar, Ludhiana, generated community awareness under Swachhta Pakhwada. The school organised a community outreach programme, green school drive, Swachhta participation, hand wash day, personal hygiene day, and Swachhta exhibition. The school also honoured Swachhta ambassadors. Junior students picked up paper bits, dry leaves, caring and watering plants. Sangeeta Gupta shared the scientific benefits of Swachh and homemade food.Ramgarhia Girls College students shine in PU examinationThe students of Ramgarhia Girls College,Ludhiana, brought laurels to the college by bagging top positions in Panjab University’s MA vocal music fourth semester examination. Tanishq Kaur Anand topped the university by attaining 86.7%, Harmandeep Kaur got third position with 86.3%. Priyanka secured eighth position in the university with 83.7%. Damanpreet Kaur bagged the ninth position with 83.6% and Daljeet Kaur got tenth position by scoring 83.3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/green-grove-public-school-ludhiana-observes-world-ozone-day-101631905706947.html
18-09-2021||Other||Lone Covid case detected in Ludhiana||A single person tested positive for the coronavirus disease in the district on Friday. On Thursday, one death and four cases were reported in Ludhiana. As many as 87,517 people have tested positive for the virus so far, of which 85,391 have defeated the virus. The death toll stands at 2,100. There are 26 active cases in the district at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lone-covid-case-detected-in-ludhiana-101631905647959.html
18-09-2021||Other||Woman held after seizure of 104 MTP kits, 28,230 prohibited medicines in Karnal||The crime investigation agency of the Karnal police have seized 28,230 prohibited medicines and 104 medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) kits during a raid at a house in Karnal and arrested a woman in this connection.According to the police, CIA-II of Karnal police got information that Kamal Sikka, of Prem Nagar in Karnal, was involved in supply of the prohibited medicines and he had brought a large quantity of intoxicants, MTP kits and other banned medicines from Delhi.He has kept some medicines at home and has gone to supply the rest to someone.Based on the credible input, a police team along with drug authorities conducted a raid at the house. A search by the team led to the seizure of 13,000 prohibited tablets, 10,800 prohibited Tramadol capsules, 1,200 tablets of Alprazolam, 2,880 Lomotil and 350 other prohibited tablets. Police arrested wife of the accused.The investigation also revealed that the accused was earlier arrested in 2015 also by the Karnal police with prohibited medicines and he came out of jail a few months back after serving a five-year sentence.A case has been registered in this connection and efforts are being made to arrest the key accused and further probe is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-held-after-seizure-of-104-mtp-kits-28-230-prohibited-medicines-in-karnal-101631905586980.html
18-09-2021||Other||Man stabs self, gets new lease of life at Ludhiana civil hospital||A 40-year-old resident of Moti Nagar got a new lease of life at the civil hospital on Thursday after he had stabbed himself in the stomach. He was rushed to the hospital at around noon where a team of doctors performed a four-hour-long rare surgery on him.Dr Varun Saggar, who had led the team, said that the family members had alleged that the patient had inflicted the injuries upon himself following a heated argument with his wife.The wound was 4.5 inches long, due to which the patient had lost a lot of blood and his haemoglobin had dropped to 4.5 g/dl.“The patient is AB positive. We had only one unit of AB positive blood group in the blood bank therefore, we decided to use O- negative blood instead as it is a universal donor,” said Dr Saggar.Dr Varun Saggar, Dr Jagpreet Singh, Dr Neelam, and Dr Shinu managed to reconstruct the stomach that was punctured from the left side.“While four units of blood were used during the surgery, one unit was administered to the patient today,” said Dr Saggar.He said that the patient had also suffered a one-inch deep wound on his neck, and it appears that first, the patient had tried to stab himself in the neck and later in his stomach.The patient was provided psychiatric counselling and later kept under sedation as he is susceptible to inflicting injury upon himself again.Dr Saggar informed that the patient is now in a stable condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-stabs-self-gets-new-lease-of-life-at-ludhiana-civil-hospital-101631905408336.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||In HC, Haryana Police blame farmers for Karnal episode||Blaming farmers for August 28 incident in Karnal, the Haryana Police in an affidavit filed in the high court have demanded that farmers be directed not to block highways under the “guise of right to protest”.The police have also told court that the video wherein the then Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha can be heard instructing cops to “break the heads” of any protester who crossed the barricades was filmed 13km away from the place of lathi charge (Bastara toll plaza) and no policeman from there had joined the force at the toll.The affidavit was filed by inspector general of police (IGP), Karnal range, Mamta Singh, in response to a plea seeking judicial inquiry and alleging that Sinha’s instructions violated the fundamental rights.Scores of farmers had sustained injuries in the lathi-charge on August 28 evening after farmers blocked the Ambala-Delhi highway. As the video featuring Sinha went viral, it had resulted in a major controversy and farmers sat on a dharna in Karnal. Subsequently, the state government agreed for a judicial probe.The police say farmers were supposed to protest in Karnal city on August 28 where chief minister ML Khattar was to attend an event.However, farmers, around 800 in number, gathered at the toll, which is 13 km away from the city and allegedly surrounded the vehicle of state BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar and sat on a dharna.Authorities tried to pacify the farmers but they did not agree and resorted to stone-pelting, resulting in mild use of force by police upon direction from the duty magistrate.The police say farmers have been sitting on dharna at the toll plaza for nine months now and only five lanes were operational. There was no major deployment at toll but as the farmers gathered 200 more policemen had to be sent there.The police also claim that farmers were armed with sticks, iron rods and farm implements.Two of the petitioners attacked police with ‘kassi’ (spade) and a farmer received head injury when he was trying to attack policeman and fell down. The farmer was given first aid by the same cop, the police have claimed, submitting videos on various incidents of that day.The police further claimed that only four farmers were injured against 24 policemen and an FIR stand registered; in addition to an SIT probing the matter.“The petitioners talk about the right to protest but right cannot be enjoyed at the cost of right to freedom of movement and right to life and liberty,” it says, citing various judgments against the blockade of highways and that police acted to follow court orders.The police have lamented that in recent years there has been a growing trend of blocking highways to pressure authorities.Since November 2020, the police are facing serious law and order problems due to protest calls at the events of ministers and BJP leaders and to ensure their safety and maintain law and order has become a challenge for the police.When such protests turn unruly and police are forced to act, the farmers would sit on dharnas and put pressure to get FIR cancelled, it says, adding that 211 FIRs have been registered related to farmers’ protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-hc-haryana-police-blame-farmers-for-karnal-episode-101631905355215.html
18-09-2021||Other||Another key accused held in Haryana Police constable paper-leak case||The crime investigation agency of Kaithal police have arrested another key accused in the Haryana Police constable paper-leak case on Friday.As per police, accused Mohammad Afzal Dar, of Srinagar, was carrying a reward of ₹2 lakh and was arrested from Delhi.Kaithal superintendent of police (SP) Lokender Singh said the arrested accused was among the main accused who had leaked and sold the answer keys and question paper of the written exam of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission that was to be conducted for recruitment of male constables.He said Afzal is a resident of Wasim Bagh, Hazrat Bal in Srinagar.According to the SP, police have already arrested accused Muzaffar Ahmed, who carried a reward of ₹2 lakh, from Jammu. He said that total 40 people have been arrested in the case so far and police had announced a reward of ₹50,000 each on six accused and ₹2 lakh on two accused.The police have also recovered four mobile phones used to circulate the answer keys by the main accused.The Kaithal police had busted the racket by arresting seven people on the first day of the exam on August 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-key-accused-held-in-haryana-police-constable-paper-leak-case-101631905292262.html
18-09-2021||Other||Private helicopter service inaugurated in Ludhiana||A private helicopter service was launched at Atam Vallabh Janpath, Sidhwan Canal Road, on Friday.Punjab sports and youth affairs minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi inaugurated the service.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and commissioner of police Naunihal Singh said that the services would give impetus to the overall development of the region.Mahesh Goel, MD Janpath Estates, who has rented out two helicopters said the service will come at ₹1.25 lakh (plus GST) for one hour of flying.The helicopters will be available for flying to Chandigarh, Delhi, Dharamshala, Dehradun, Jammu and Kashmir, Kasauli, Manali, Shimla, and Jaipur, he added.“For the dual engine chopper which comes with enhanced security, the price will be double that is ₹2.5 lakh plus GST for one hour of flying,” said Goel.While Goel is hopeful that the flight will benefit the business fraternity of Ludhiana and also in emergency cases, a similar private jet service which was launched in 2016 was grounded after some months of operation as it could not find any takers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/private-helicopter-service-inaugurated-in-ludhiana-101631905288151.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers protest stricter norms for paddy purchase||Farmers under the banner of the BKU-Dakaunda staged a protest in Patiala on Friday against new quality specification fixed by the central government for paddy procurement.The protesters alleged that instead of giving relief to them, the government has come up with stringent specifications, which are uncalled for.As per new specifications in case of paddy unloaded at grain markets, the central government has reduced the moisture content limit from 17% to 16%, while the permissible limit of foreign matter (organic and inorganic) has been lowered from 2% to 1%. The percentage of discoloured, sprouted and damaged grains has been reduced to 3% from 5%.Gurmail Singh, district president of the union, said: “We were demanding increase in the moisture content, but the government has done completely opposite by reducing it in the new specifications.Jagmail Singh, secretary of the union, said the state and centre governments should stop seeking revenue records of the farmers when these are available online. “We also want state government to cancel FIRs registered against the farmers for burning stubble during the previous harvesting season,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-stricter-norms-for-paddy-purchase-101631905287013.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||PMC Bank case: Doctors from pvt hospitals can assess Rakesh Wadhawan’s condition at KEM||The Bombay high court (HC) has permitted expert doctors from private hospitals to assess the health condition of Rakesh Wadhawan at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital. Wadhawan, a promoter of Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL), has been arrested on money laundering charges in the multi-crore Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank Ltd fraud case. The single judge bench of justice Bharati Dangre, while hearing Wadhawan’s bail application on medical grounds, was informed by his counsels that he was seriously ill and needed immediate care for heart and pulmonary ailments. They submitted a list of specialist doctors who could examine Wadhawan, who has been admitted in KEM Hospital since September 1. In the hearing on August 27, the prison authorities had informed the bench that Wadhawan was being referred to KEM Hospital whenever required for cardiac treatment as the prison hospital. The court had directed the medical superintendent of the prison to submit a report of Wadhawan’s health and medical condition. On September 9, after the medical report furnished to the court stated that Wadhawan was shifted to KEM Hospital on September 1, HC had sought a report from the hospital. On Friday, senior advocate Aabad Ponda for Wadhawan said owing to his client’s serious condition and the fact that even KEM Hospital did not have sufficient facilities to treat him, doctors from private hospitals should be allowed to check on the accused. Ponda also submitted a list of doctors and sought directions to allow them to examine Wadhawan, who also needed a pacemaker. Additional public prosecutor Prajakta Shinde for the prison authorities submitted that a report of KEM Hospital’s dean stated that while the hospital had the facilities required, a decision on further course of action could be taken after further consultation. However, advocate Hiten Venegaonkar for the Enforcement Directorate (ED) submitted that Wadhawan was already admitted in the medical intensive care unit of the hospital and was being treated by expert doctors, including pulmonologist, nephrologist and cardiologist, and was under constant medical care. After hearing the submissions, the bench noted that though Wadhawan was getting medical attention, specialist doctors from private hospitals as per the list submitted by Wadhawan’s counsel can be permitted to examine him at KEM Hospital. The court sought a further medical report and posted hearing of the application to September 24. Wadhawan has been named as an accused by the economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police and ED for his alleged involvement in the PMC Bank case. His earlier bail applications, seeking temporary release due to Covid-19 pandemic, were rejected by the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court, which had observed that the allegations against him were of a serious economic offence that had caused losses worth crores of rupees. Thereafter, Wadhawan had approached HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-case-doctors-from-pvt-hospitals-can-assess-rakesh-wadhawan-s-condition-at-kem-101631905226980.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Jat quota violence: Jha Commission completes probe, yet to submit findings||Five years and several extensions later, the SN Jha Commission of Inquiry (CoI), constituted by the BJP government to inquire the 2016 Jat quota violence that left 30 persons dead in Haryana, has completed its probe.The two-member Commission, however, is yet to submit its findings to the state government despite the fact that its term had ended in July. The state government, it is learnt, was disappointed with the tardy progress being made by the Commission and was not keen to give any more extensions.As per the Commissions of Inquiry Act, the government has to lay the report of the Commission along with a memorandum of the action taken before the state assembly within six months of the submission of the report by the Commission.Was to submit report in 6 monthsThe Commission, which was given several extensions to complete the inquiry, was originally mandated to complete the probe in six months from its first sitting.Chairman of the Commission, justice (retd) SN Jha said they have completed the probe and the inquiry report is now with the secretary of the Commission. The chairman did not elaborate as to why the report has not been submitted by the Commission so far. “The secretary is also competent to submit the report,” he said.The CoI was mandated to inquire into the sequence of events leading to the agitation and all facts and circumstances relating to the occurrence of violence leading to loss of lives, damage to properties — both private and public, including roads, canals, railway stations, police stations — and illegal felling of trees besides violation of human rights from February 18 to 23, 2016, in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonepat, Jind, Hisar, Kaithal and Bhiwani.It was to also inquire into the existence of a deep-rooted conspiracy, if any, to damage the social fabric of the society and any such matter as may be found relevant in the course of the inquiry.‘Poor progress due to court case’Till January 2020, the Commission had made little headway in the inquiry and the chairman of the Commission had told HT that due to a court case the Commission was not able to proceed further. He recently said they were finally able to overcome the litigation and finish the probe.Virender Kumar, a close aide of former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, had filed a plea in the high court challenging the constitution of the Commission on grounds that the same had been constituted to nullify the findings of the Prakash Singh Committee.The petitioner had also submitted that during pendency of investigation by the special investigating team (SIT) of police, there was no necessity of setting up a commission as its entire proceedings were based on the FIR itself.The Prakash Singh Committee constituted in February 2016 had indicted high-ranking officials of the police and state administration in its probe pertaining to the role of officers of civil administration and police during the Jat reservation agitation.On January 7, 2020, the counsel for the petitioner had submitted before the HC bench of justice Lisa Gill that he, along with the co-accused, have been discharged in a criminal case of looting, vandalism and arson (FIR number 101 of February 24, 2016) registered at Rohtak Civil Lines police station pertaining to the quota violence.Haryana advocate general BR Mahajan, however, on February 5, 2020 had informed the HC that as far as the discharge of the petitioner is concerned, it is only one of the grounds which the petitioner is entitled to take before the Commission.There is no decision on the part of the state to not proceed against the petitioner, Mahajan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jat-quota-violence-jha-commission-completes-probe-yet-to-submit-findings-101631905108721.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Faridkot medical college identified as Covid training hub under US project||The state health department has identified the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, as the state-level hub and centre of excellence (CoE) to provide Covid-19 training to health workforce under the USAID-RISE (Reaching Impact Saturation and Epidemic Control) project to build capacity of health workers. To strengthen Punjab’s Covid-19 response, the state government has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with John Hopkins University, USA, to get technical support to provide skill training to master trainers, who will further teach medical staff across the state. John Hopkins Programme for International Education on Gynaecology and Obstetrics (JHPIEGO), which is a non-profit organisation for international health affiliated with Johns Hopkins University, will provide assistance to the GGSMCH. The JHPIEGO team will work with the Faridkot medical college under the global initiative USAID-RISE project funded by the US Agency for International Development (USAID), which works across the countries to achieve a shared vision of attaining and maintaining epidemic control. The GGSMCH will conduct four training sessions to cover all the districts. Under this project, training will be provided to specialists (paediatricians, anaesthetists, pulmonologists), medical officers and staff nurses. The first batch of the medical officers started two-day training at the GGSMCH on Friday. In the first batch, training will be provided to medical officials of six districts -- Barnala, Fazilka, Mansa, Mohali, Sangrur and SBS Nagar. Dr Andesh Kang, director health services, and Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state Covid-19 nodal officer, connected virtually with the participants and encouraged them. Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), said: “We will train master trainers, who will help in the skill development of medical officials at the district Covid facilities. There will be seven participants from each district. The participants will have the opportunity of hands-on experience on ventilators, BiPAPs, CPAPs, non-invasive ventilation (NIV). Dr Rajeev Sharma, principal GGSMCH, and Dr Shashikant Dhir, HoD paediatrics department, have been working to finalise the content of the training programme. A plan has been made to conduct the training on “Acute Care and Emergency Response in Management of Covid-19 for Paediatric Patients” for all the districts of Punjab. Besides capacity building of the health workforce, the USAID-RISE Project will support the state in strengthening the oxygen ecosystem and Covid-19 diagnostics labs. The project will also provide technical assistance to the GGSMCH to set up its skill lab where doctors and nurses can be trained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/faridkot-medical-college-identified-as-covid-training-hub-under-us-project-101631905106995.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||ED raids premises of producer Parag Sanghvi in Mumbai||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday raided the premises of Bollywood film producer Parag Sanghvi in connection with a bank default case. He was also brought to ED’s south Mumbai office at Ballard Estate on Friday afternoon and was questioned for several hours. Senior ED officials confirmed the development but did not share details of the case registered against him. Sources said ED is probing a money laundering case against the producer, who is the chief executive officer (CEO) of Alumbra Entertainment and Lotus Film Company.Sanghvi was also questioned by Thane Police in 2018 in connection with the Indian Premier League (IPL) betting racket, in which many bookies were arrested. Later, Thane Police gave Sanghvi a clean chit and said that he was not involved. The police had made him a witness in the case along with the actor Arbaaz Khan. As a film producer and financer, Sanghvi is known for his association with hit movies such as Sarkar, Partner, Bhoot Returns, Ab Tak Chappan, Vaastu Shastra, Darna Mana Hai and Golmaal-Fun Unlimited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-raids-premises-of-producer-parag-sanghvi-in-mumbai-101631905049030.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra opposes proposal to bring fuel prices under GST ambit||The Maharashtra government has opposed the proposal to bring petrol and diesel in the ambit of the goods and services tax (GST). The GST Council in its meeting on Friday discussed the proposal in order to bring down fuel prices.Opposing the move, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who also handles the finance portfolio, said that the existing tax system should not be changed to maintain financial autonomy of the states that are already in financial trouble owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. He demanded that the Centre reduce its taxes imposed on fuel, which will help in providing relief to the citizens from inflation and price hikes.Pawar was speaking to the media in Pune as he could not attend the GST Council meeting held in Lucknow. His request that he be permitted to attend the meeting online was not accepted. “I have made it clear before the GST Council in writing that VAT (value added tax) should be continued as part of the existing tax regime on petrol and diesel prices and they should not be brought in the ambit of GST. VAT imposed on fuel plays a major contribution for the funds required for development works,” Pawar said.“Before GST was implemented, the local bodies used to earn revenue from octroi. It was replaced by LBT (local body tax) and later, VAT and sales tax were introduced, replacing LBT. Ever since GST was introduced, most of the things (over collection of taxes) have started going under the jurisdiction of the Central government. Our view is very clear, the powers of the Centre to collect taxes should remain with them as the entire country runs on this tax system including defence. But the Centre is also gradually encroaching upon the power of the states to impose taxes,” he remarked.“After GST was imposed, additional revenue sources of the states have become limited, which has automatically impacted the development works. The states should get autonomy to explore revenue sources, which is important and necessary as well,” he pointed out.The finance minister said states also need funds for development works, which was badly impacted owing to Covid-19.“All are facing financial trouble due to Covid-19 pandemic; people are struggling with inflation and hikes in fuel prices, and the Maharashtra government is also worried about it. We demand that the Centre reduce its taxes on fuel prices. If that happens, people will get relief from inflation,” Pawar said.Pawar said that the Centre gets ₹32.90 per litre on petrol and ₹31.80 per litre on diesel through various taxes. During the Covid period, it has got a revenue of ₹44,000 crore alone from Maharashtra in the form of taxes on fuel.The deputy CM further said they cannot approach the Centre all the time for funds. In addition, they are also providing their contribution from the state’s budget for the welfare schemes jointly run by the Centre and the state government.He reminded that the promises made to the states while bringing the GST must be fulfilled in letter and spirit by the Centre. “The states were promised reimbursement against revenue losses for five years between July 2017 and June 2022. It was further said that the period will be extended for another five years with 14% annual rise. Our two years were wasted in Covid-19 and thus, we requested the GST Council to continue the reimbursement for another five years,” Pawar said.State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit has announced to hold an agitation against the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for opposing the proposal to bring fuel under the ambit of GST. Former CM Devendra Fadnavis said, “This issue has brought the real face of Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) before people. They are the one who were holding agitations over hike in fuel prices and now when the Central government is trying to reduce them by ₹25- ₹30 per litre by bringing fuel under GST, they are opposing the move. If MVA choses to oppose the proposal, then we will agitate against MVA government,” Fadnavis told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-opposes-proposal-to-bring-fuel-prices-under-gst-ambit-101631905046900.html
18-09-2021||Other||MoHUA secretary says Ludhiana’s smart city projects have picked up pace||At a time when different projects taken up under the smart city mission are moving at a snail’s pace, Durga Shanker Mishra, secretary, ministry of housing and urban affairs(MoHUA), reviewed the ongoing projects during his visit to the city on Friday.Mishra visited the city to review the projects being taken up under different flagship schemes of the union government and conducted a meeting with the officials at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). Officials from Amritsar, Kapurthala, Patiala among other areas were also invited to give presentations on the projects being taken up in their respective districts.Mishra stated that the situation has improved and directed the authorities to further expedite the projects and keep a check on the quality of work.Following this, he conducted field inspections to check the ongoing work at the sewer treatment plant (STP) in Jamalpur area; Sarabha Nagar main market; Malhar Road; mini rose garden in Kidwai Nagar; Sidhwan canal waterfront projectand animal birth control centre (stray dog sterilisation centre) in Haibowal dairy complex. Mishra also met a few beneficiaries of PM Awas Yojana in Anandpuri Mohalla in Subhash Nagar near Basti Jodhewal.During his visit to Sarabha Nagar main market, Mishra also interacted with a fruit vendor. He appreciated that the vendor was registered under PM Street Vendors AtmaNirbhar Nidhi scheme(SVANidhi yojana) under which loans are provided to street vendors. Encouraging digital mode of payment, he purchased fruit from the vendor and paid him for the same online.AK Sinha, principal secretary, local bodies department, and Pardeep Sabharwal, MC commissioner, among other MC officials, accompanied Mishra.Mishra said,” The visit was scheduled to review projects which have been proposed and are taken up under the mission. The smart city projects were moving at a slow pace initially when Ludhiana was selected among those to be developed as smart cities. But the situation has improved now and the projects have picked up pace.”MC authorities remain on toesMeanwhile, the MC authorities remained busy making last-ditch efforts to present a cleaner look of the city. MC teams of dog catchers were seen catching stray dogs from Sarabha Nagar even during rainfall as Mishra was supposed to visit the market in the evening. Teams were also deployed to drain out rainwater that was accumulated in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohua-secretary-says-ludhiana-s-smart-city-projects-have-picked-up-pace-101631904988160.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 29 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Friday reported 29 fresh cases of coronavirus that took the infection tally to 6,01,206, according to a medical bulletin.With no fatality reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll stood at 16,467.Among the new Covid cases, six were reported in Amritsar, five in Pathankot and four in Jalandhar, the bulletin said.The number of active cases came down to 309 in the state. Thirty-one people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have recovered to 5,84030, the bulletin said.The state reported the positivity rate of 0.07 %. A total of 1,40,95,509 samples have been collected for testing in the state so far of which 41,084 were tested on Friday. As many as 2,32,742 doses of the vaccine were administered on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-29-fresh-covid-cases-101631904929348.html
18-09-2021||Other||Central team on cleanliness visits 3 villages in SBS Nagar||Jalandhar A team of officials from the Swachh Bharat Mission Grameen (SBMG) visited three villages in Aur block of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district on Saturday. They were here to participate in ‘Swachhta hi Sewa’ activities and to monitor the progress of Swachh Bharat Mission (Grameen) phase-II in villages. Their visit is part of ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, which is commemorating the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence. The team comprised Karanjeet Singh, joint director SBM (G) and Ayan Mujumdar and they visited Bakhlour, Bharta kalan and Kariam, where they met gram panchayats and impressed them to stop use of single-use plastics, an important part of maintaining cleanliness. The team also visited the solid waste management project, where Karanjeet said, “It is good that villagers have these waste management projects, but the endeavour has to be ensure that households aim for zero waste. Treated water can be used for irrigation and other purposes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/central-team-on-cleanliness-visits-3-villages-in-sbs-nagar-101631904926913.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Maha CM Uddhav Thackeray assures support for Mumbai to Nagpur bullet train||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced full support for the proposed high-speed rail corridor between Mumbai and Nagpur. While backing the proposed project, Thackeray also lamented that they expected the first bullet train to be Mumbai-Nagpur project and not the Mumbai-Ahmedabad route.Thackeray, who was on a tour of Aurangabad on the occasion of the Marathwada Liberation Day – celebrated on September 17 in the state – also announced slew of projects for the region. The day, also known as Marathwada Mukti Sangram Din, observes the anniversary of the region’s accession to the Indian Union after the Nizam of Hyderabad was defeated by the Indian troops. Thackeray on Friday offered a tribute to the martyrs who had helped the region gain independence from the Nizam. The CM also participated in a flag-hoisting ceremony.Minister of state for railways and parliamentarian from Jalna in Marathwada region, Raosaheb Danve, during his speech at the event, said that he “expected” the state government’s support for the bullet train project.Speaking at the programme to lay the foundation stone for the administrative building for Aurangabad zilla parishad, Thackeray said, “Yes, there are expectations from each other. Raosaheb, I give you my word in front of everyone here that if you are going to take initiative for a Mumbai-Nagpur bullet train [project], then this government will stand firmly by you in every step.”He added that a bullet train between Mumbai and Nagpur is “our wish, expectation, and dream.” He further said, “I don’t want to bring in politics in this but instead of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train, our expectation was the corridor connecting Maharashtra’s capital and winter capital [would have been initiated], as we initiated the Hinduhriday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray Samruddhi Mahamarg,” he said, reiterating support for the proposed bullet train project. “You have my word. I am with you even if you don’t give me a presentation [on the project].”The projects announced by Thackeray included the redevelopment of 150 Nizam-era schools in the region, setting up a Sant Peeth – an institute that will teach the preaching of saints at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University. While announcing the plan to redevelop 150 Nizam-era schools, Thackeray said, “The period under the Nizam and the structures are not a matter of pride. Children say they are going to the Nizam-era schools, which will change now.”“The government will set up a Sant Peeth, where teachings of the saints will be taught. It can be turned into a university later. The government has also planned a medical college in Parbhani,” he added. CM also announced a plan for safari park and a zoo, which will become new tourist attractions, apart from the archaeological sites in the region.The All India Majalis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) on Friday, held protests in Aurangabad ahead of Thackeray’s visit. The protesters held placards, sarcastically thanking him and showered flowers for resolving various problems faced by the city and the Marathwada region. Thackeray, without naming AIMIM, said, “A few people stood with boards in their hands to welcome me. But the development that has taken place so far is not the real development...You will see the real development from now on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-cm-uddhav-thackeray-assures-support-for-mumbai-to-nagpur-bullet-train-101631904869218.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||BSF allows 300 visitors a day to Wagah-Attari retreat ceremony||The Border Security Force (BSF) allowed visitors to the Beating Retreat ceremony at the Attari-Wagah border’s joint check post (JCP) after around one-and-a half year. The JCP, which comprises a gallery with a capacity to accommodate nearly 30,000 spectators to witness the flag lowering ceremony at the zero line of India and Pakistan border, was closed for the spectators in the first week of March 2020.A senior BSF official said they are allowing a maximum of 300 spectators at the ceremony since Wednesday. The entry to the JCP is on first come, first served basis.The BSF resumed the ceremony, which is performed daily in the evening, in February this year after 10 months.Due to the closure of the JCP, thousands of traders and small vendors had been hit and they were demanding early re-opening of the gallery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-allows-300-visitors-a-day-to-wagah-attari-retreat-ceremony-101631904808209.html
18-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Agri experts urge farmers to adopt DSR technique||The department of extension education, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a field day on direct-seeded rice (DSR) at Pabbian village, Jagraon block. A total of 70 farmers participated in the programme organised in collaboration with the department of agriculture and farmers’ welfare under the aegis of the directorate of extension education, PAU. Kuldeep Singh, head, department of extension education, informed that the Pabbian village has been adopted for conducting various extension activities and this field day was conducted to make farmers aware of DSR technology. Dharminder Singh, senior extension scientist, urged the farmers to adopt DSR and other water-saving technologies in their fields to save depleting underground water. He also stressed record-keeping for profitable agriculture. Lakhwinder Kaur, extension scientist, motivated the participating farmers to adopt the nutrition garden model and shun away the practice of crop residue burning. The university scientists highlighted the benefits of canola oil and shed light on canola sarson varieties recommended by PAU. They also apprised the farmers of various agronomic practices of canola sarson for better yield in the coming rabi season. Later, PAU literature and vegetable kits were also provided to the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-agri-experts-urge-farmers-to-adopt-dsr-technique-101631904747050.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Raghav Chadha kicks up row for calling Sidhu ‘Rakhi Sawant of Punjab politics’||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha took personal swipes at each other on Twitter on Friday over the three agriculture laws, with the latter calling the cricketer-turned-politician “the Rakhi Sawant”, an actor, of state politics. The war of words between the two leaders broke out on the microblogging site after Sidhu hit out at Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal, accusing the party of staging a drama over the issue. “Exploitation of farmers and decreasing prices even on crops where MSP is announced – @ArvindKejriwal Ji you notified the Private Mandi’s central black law! Has it been de-notified or the masquerading is still going on?” the Punjab Congress chief tweeted. Sidhu also posted a video message in which he accused the AAP of tearing copies of the central laws in the Delhi assembly to stage a drama. Chadha, who is also national spokesperson of the AAP, got back at the Congress leader by raking up his rift with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. “The Rakhi Sawant of Punjab politics – Navjot Singh Sidhu – has received a scolding from Congress high command for nonstop rant against Capt. Therefore today, for a change, he went after Arvind Kejriwal. Wait till tomorrow for he shall resume his diatribe against Capt with vehemence,” he tweeted. The AAP leader’s tweet triggered outrage on the microblogging site as several twitterers slammed him for the comparison. Congress leader and a one-time AAP legislator Alka Lamba said that Chadha’s remarks showed the anti-women mentality of the ruling AAP that is akin to RSS’s thinking. Responding to the AAP leader’s personal dig in equal measure, Sidhu tweeted, “They say man descended from the apes and the monkeys. Looking at your mind @raghav_chadha I believe you are still descending! You still haven’t answered my question about notifying the Farm Laws by your Government (sic)”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/raghav-chadha-kicks-up-row-for-calling-sidhu-rakhi-sawant-of-punjab-politics-101631904688053.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||No coercive action against Narayan Rane till September 30: Maha govt to HC||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked Union minister Narayan Rane to file separate petitions to challenge the various first information reports (FIRs) registered against him across different cities regarding his remarks against Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on August 23. Rane had filed a petition seeking the quashing of FIR by the Nashik Cyber police and had sought to include other cases registered at Mahad, Thane, Pune, Ahmednagar and Jalgaon in the plea as well. However on Friday, after the state government assured that no coercive action will be taken against Rane till September 30, the court directed him to file separate petitions instead of one. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing Rane’s petition, was informed by senior counsel Ashok Mundargi and advocate Aniket Nikam that the Rajya Sabha member has amended the plea and had included details of all six FIRs registered against him. In the earlier hearing, after the state had given an assurance that it would not take coercive action against Rane with regards to the FIR registered at Nashik, the minister had sought similar assurances regarding other cases as well so that he could amend the petition and add details of the other FIRs. On Friday, after the court was told that details of all FIRs had been included in the petition, the court said, “The FIRs are of different police stations of different jurisdictions. Let the challenge to each of the FIR be in separate petitions. It will be more convenient for prosecution in taking instructions from each police station.” When the bench added that all petitions would be tagged and heard together, Mundargi agreed but sought a blanket interim protection in all FIRs till the petitions were filed. Additional public prosecutor JP Yagnik for the state government informed the bench that after the petitioner had assured of cooperating with the Nashik Police on August 25, the state had assured that it would not take any coercive steps against Rane till the next date of hearing. However, as he has been asked to appear before Nashik Police on September 25, the state was willing to extend its assurance. Rane has been issued a notice under Section 41A of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) by Nashik Police which Mundargi said he will do through videoconference on September 25. While speaking at a press meet on August 23, the Union minister, who was on Jan Ashirwad Yatra, had stated that he would have slapped CM for “not knowing the year of India’s Independence.” A day later, he was arrested and granted bail by the Mahad magistrate court. When Rane moved HC on August 25 stating that the Nashik Police commissioner was working under pressure from the ruling party (Shiv Sena), senior advocate Amit Desai for the state had informed the court that no coercive action would be taken against Rane in the FIR. However, in response to Rane’s claim that multiple FIRs were lodged against him with the only intention to “harass him by launching a false prosecution”, Desai had refused to make a blanket statement of protection in all FIRs as there were no details of those. Rane had challenged the Nashik Cyber police FIR under Sections 153 (B) (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 500 (criminal defamation), 505 (2) (intent to incite) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), among others. The petitions will come up for hearing on September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-coercive-action-against-narayan-rane-till-september-30-maha-govt-to-hc-101631904629200.html
18-09-2021||Other||LIP criticises SAD for trying to fool farmers with ‘crocodile tears’||Lambasting the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) over allegedly shedding crocodile tears by observing ‘black day’ against the three farm laws in Delhi, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) leaders burnt the effigy of SAD president and former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Badal, former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and former union minister Harsimrat Badal at Jagraon bridge on Friday.The LIP leaders stated that when the SAD was in alliance with the BJP, it had given its consent to the farm bills. Now, when the SAD is facing the ire of farmers in the state, its leaders are trying to befool them by shedding crocodile tears, they added.LIP leader Randhir Sibia and Pawandeep Madaan stated that LIP had raised concern over the farm bills when they were introduced by the BJP union government but SAD had supported those bills and played a major role in getting them passed in the parliament. “SAD is responsible for the problem due to which the farmers are sitting in protest at the Delhi borders for months now. The SAD is now trying to build back its image ahead of assembly elections but it cannot befool the farmers anymore. The LIP will continue to raise the voice in favour of farmers,” said Sibia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lip-criticises-sad-for-trying-to-fool-farmers-with-crocodile-tears-101631904626953.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||SAD holds march against farm laws in Delhi; Sukhbir, Harsimrat detained||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal were detained by Delhi Police on Friday as they led a protest march in the national capital to mark the first anniversary of the passage of three contentious farm laws.The SAD, which walked out of the ruling coalition at the Centre last year over the farm laws, is observing September 17 as “Black Day”.The protest march was taken out from Gurdwara Rakab Ganj to the Parliament House.“The protest march today not only symbolises the farmers’ dissent but will also be remembered as a historic event that struck at the root of tyranny. Let’s unite to mark this day as the beginning of a renewed revolt to bring justice for farmers,” the SAD president tweeted.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal along with 15 other party leaders have been detained at Parliament Street police station.According to the police, the leaders were detained for taking out the protest march in violation of Covid-19 guidelines. They were subsequently released.The protest march led to massive traffic snarls in several parts of the national capital, including Lutyens’ Delhi and ITO.Harsimrat, who resigned from the government last year over the farm laws, said in a tweet that the massive participation in the protest march shows the public anger.“Farmers have been protesting at the Delhi border for a year, but the Centre is keen on quashing them. We are proud to have quit the NDA. Akali Dal will continue to resist despotism,” she added.Alleging that the Delhi Police tried to stop their protest march, SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said: “It is an undeclared emergency in New Delhi.” A section of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, has been protesting at Delhi border points against the Centre’s three farm laws for over nine months now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-holds-march-against-farm-laws-in-delhi-sukhbir-harsimrat-detained-101631904570365.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||Ageing public bus fleet an opportunity to roll out e-buses, says experts||India has a total of about 140,000 state-run buses for public transport of which at least 22% are overage, meaning they are 12 years or above, said experts attending the Connect Karo-2021 conference on Friday, pointing out that the Centre should consider this as an opportunity to roll out electric buses as they have zero carbon footprint.Sudhendu Sinha, advisor (infrastructure connectivity and electric mobility) at NITI Aayog, said India’s target of rolling out at least 10,000 electric buses by 2025 will need active participation from not just states, but also original equipment manufacturers (OEM) and banks. “The financial arrangement that is developed for deployment of electric buses must be a win-win situation for all involved stakeholders, otherwise, e-bus adoption may not be as smooth and rapid as expected. Hence, equitable risk allocation is the key,” he said. Prof HM Shivanand Swamy, director emeritus, centre of excellence in urban transport at CEPT University, said the switch to e-buses must be well calibrated. “There are four reasons to switch to electric buses - reduced pollutant emissions; lowered fiscal deficits due to oil; limited operating costs, and; decreased greenhouse effect,” he said. Giving the example of China, which is a global leader in EVs both in terms of technology and mass manufacturing, Lulu Xue, urban mobility manager, WRI China, said increasing the contract period for electric bus operation from eight years to 15 years can help in bringing down the costs of procurement. “In China, e-buses were deployed on shorter routes to align with their ranges. Post that, their deployment was extended to longer routes with multiple buses, which brought down their replacement ratio against diesel buses – that practice may suit the systems in India, as well,” she said. The panel concluded that transit agencies that have deployed electric buses have mixed feedback on the technology. While some consider the e-bus rollout fruitful, others have faced challenges in smoothly operating them due to their limited driving range. They also find that the actual on-road performance of electric buses is substantially lower than the assured ranges indicated by electric bus OEMs. However, many STUs also found that electric bus deployment was more successful on low-frequency and less congested routes. Another issue that was discussed was the lack of relevant details of routes or existing fleet operations in tender documents and also during pre-bid consultations which is a common challenge which e-buses OEMs or bus operators face. The panelists said that the lack of information makes it difficult for bidders to understand operational requirements and enter into service-level agreements with transit agencies, and attributed the information gap to transit agencies’ limited understanding of electric bus operation and their lack of preparedness prior to issuing tenders.Gerald Ollivier, lead transport specialist, World Bank, said, “Scaling up electric bus deployment and leveraging the economies of scale can reduce their procurement costs by 10%. Balanced tweaking of some contractual clauses can reduce costs by a further 15% and effective unbundling of services can support a further 15% decrease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wri-connect-karo-2021-experts-say-ageing-public-bus-fleet-an-opportunity-to-roll-out-electric-buses-101631904568334.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest two for extorting 250+ people||New Delhi: The police on Friday said they arrested two men from Rajasthan for extorting money from over 250 people after threatening to post “objectionable videos and photographs” of them on social media.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said that on July 1, one Bhupendra Kumar filed a complaint alleging that he was being threatened into paying ₹15,000 after befriending a woman, who went by the name Komal Sharma, on a social media platform.Kumar approached the police and a case was registered at the Begampur police station. The district’s cyber cell was asked to identify and nab the suspects. Investigators identified the suspects and traced them to Bharatpur in Rajasthan. A team travelled to the state and arrexted Jahil (25), and Minaj (23), and seized three cellphones. from them. “The two confessed to extorting money from over 250 people. We are trying to verify their claims and identify the victims,” added DCP Tayal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhipolice-arrest-two-for-extorting-people-by-threatening-to-post-objectionable-videos-and-photos-101631904569259.html
18-09-2021||Other||Punjab to hold Ghar-Ghar Rozgar function at PTU on September 23||Jalandhar The Punjab government will hold its 7th state-level function under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar scheme at Inder Kumar Gujral Punjab Technical University in Kapurthala district on September 23. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh will be chief guest and will hand over job letters to candidates. Principal secretary, technical education, who is also PTU vice-chancellor Ramesh Kumar Ganta has already taken a meeting to review preparedness for the function. Kapurthala district bureau of employment and enterprise, Neelam Mahey said the CM will hand over letters to 24 candidates during the function, after which varsity students will present a cultural performance. Sources added that the CM will also visit Dera Sachkhand Ballan, a prominent dera of dalits, in Jalandar district the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-to-hold-ghar-ghar-rozgar-function-at-ptu-on-september-23-101631904386762.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena says I-T action against Sonu Sood will boomerang on BJP||The Shiv Sena has attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the Income-Tax (I-T) department’s searches on the properties owned by actor Sonu Sood on Wednesday. The Sena has said that action against the actor was initiated after Sood was appointed as the brand ambassador of Delhi government’s ”Desh ka mentors” programme. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece said such “narrow mindedness” will boomerang on the BJP. Party’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said the BJP had supported the actor during the first wave of Covid-19 when he had helped migrants reach their hometowns, but when he was made the brand ambassador of Arvind Kejriwal government’s programme, I-T action was initiated against him.“The greatness of the rulers lies in respecting those with opposing views, even if there is a (non-BJP party) Opposition party in power in the states or people with contrasting views. Making false allegations against ministers and delaying the appointment of 12 persons to the legislative Council in Maharashtra as well as the I-T department searches on Sood are signs of narrow mindedness and such a childish game will boomerang on them [BJP] one day,” the editorial said. Raut said when Sood was helping people, the BJP was appreciative of his work and had questioned the Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government why it was not able to do what the actor was doing for migrants. “The BJP was at the forefront in lauding Sood’s work and constantly projected that he was ’our man’. But when Sood decided to do social work as the brand ambassador of the Kejriwal government’s educational programme, I-T department’s action on his premises started,” the editorial added. As a policy, state BJP unit does not respond to Saamana editorials .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-says-i-t-action-against-sonu-sood-will-boomerang-on-bjp-101631904270054.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||WRI Connect Karo 2021: ‘Nature-based solutions best to tackle water pollution’||With most sources of water pollution traced to urban areas, there is a need for nature-based solutions and better planning in cities to tackle the issue in metropolitan areas, said experts at the 2021 edition of the World Resources Institute (WRI’s) annual flagship event, Connect Karo, on Friday.The experts also highlighted the need to secure urban riverfronts and critical ecological and social challenges along these sensitive zones, mainly due to rapid urbanisation, pollution and extreme weather events driven by climate change. The event also saw the launch of a book, titled ‘Guidance Note for Environmentally Sensitive, Climate Adaptive and Socially Inclusive Urban Riverfront Planning and Development’, by WRI-India for conserving the river Ganga under the Union government’s ‘Namami Gange’ project.Launching the book, Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, director-general, National Mission for Clean Ganga, said in his keynote address that water restoration is required in all its forms, be it for rivers, groundwater, rainwater or other small water bodies. “This book is a pathway to look at urban riverfronts as social spaces and thriving ecosystems...,” said Mishra. He added that cities need to combat climate crisis by adopting various water conservation strategies. “People are the most important part, therefore connecting them with water is key. Several initiatives such as friends of river/wetlands/science club etc are being established. By providing amenities, promoting a sense of ownership for riverfronts and ghats, these can become pleasant spaces,” he said. Experts said that ecological and environmental heritage are as important as the city’s heritage. “The current riverfront development plans are more focused on built environment and potential economic benefits. There are limited considerations of social, hydrological and ecological impacts. The objective of the guideline is to act as an appraisal tool to support decision-making, inform about environmentally sensitive, climate adaptive and socially inclusive riverfront developments,” said Samrat Basak, director, Urban Water, WRI-India. Also, experts highlighted the need for a fundamental change in managing water and rejuvenating landscapes, beginning at the top of catchments areas. Victor Shinde, lead, water and environment, National Institute of Urban Affairs, said that sustainable economic development cannot happen without integrating rivers to the city’s planning. “Water is the primary medium through which climate crisis manifests its impacts. Urban rivers have a strong role to play in this,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wri-connect-karo-2021-nature-based-solutions-best-to-tackle-water-pollution-101631904268618.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||Harsimrat, Sukhbir among 14 detained as SAD marches against farm laws in Delhi||Fourteen senior leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), including former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and Sukhbir Singh Badal, were detained on Friday during a protest march of thousands of farmers, activists, and party workers who had gathered in Delhi to mark one year of the three contentious farm laws. Although the proposed march – from Rakab Ganj gurdwara to Parliament House – was not allowed by the Delhi Police on Friday citing Covid-19 restrictions, SAD leaders held a symbolic march along Pandit Pant Marg till the entry to Parliament House Annexe, barely 500 metres from the gurdwara, with banners and flags demanding a repeal of the three contentious farm laws. Police said nearly 1,500 protesters under SAD’s banner gathered at Rakab Ganj to begin their protest march in the morning. “To handle the situation, an adequate number of security personnel from Delhi Police and central armed forces was deployed and barricades were placed to prevent agitators from marching towards Parliament. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal were among 14 people removed from the protest venue and briefly detained at Parliament Street police station. All of them were later released,” said deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav.However, the proposed march and multiple barricades led to massive snarls on arterial roads in the national capital. In central Delhi, all roads leading to Gurdwara Rakab Ganj and Parliament House were barricaded and checking of vehicles intensified. Commuters were stuck in jams at several places till late afternoon. Police said they received information that around 10,000 farmers were planning to take part in the Delhi march.SAD has been extending support to farmers protesting at the Delhi border points of Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur since last November, demanding a repeal of the farm laws. “The party also submitted a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, through the executive magistrate. Besides asking for a repeal of the black laws, it demanded a commitment from the Centre that farmers would be consulted before bringing in any new legislation affecting their lives,” SAD said in a press statement on Friday.In the memorandum, Sukhbir Singh Badal said the three laws “virtually threaten the farmers’ very existence, putting a question mark over their sources of livelihood and even their hold on their lands”. He also said the party broke off its alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party after the government ignored its concerns over the farm bill and enacted the laws. The party put forward five demands, including revoking the three laws, legal and constitutional guarantee of the minimum support price, and a resumption of talks with protesting farmers to resolve the deadlock. Leaders from Samyukta Kisan Morcha – an umbrella platform of over 40 farmer groups which are leading the farmer agitation since last year – did not attend the protest. “None of the SKM members went because it was a call given by a political party. At Singhu, we continued with our everyday events and speeches. If any farmer attended the protest, it would be in his own individual capacity,” said an SKM member, asking not to be named. Hundreds of farmers and activists started arriving in Delhi from Thursday afternoon in cars and private buses and were mostly put up at the three gurdwaras in the city -- Rakab Ganj, Bangla Sahib, and Sisganj -- and also at the farmer agitation spots at Delhi borders. Amritpal Singh, who arrived from Punjab earlier this week and was staying in Singhu, was among the hundreds who came to attend the protest march. “Several roads leading to the guudwara were blocked and some of us coming from Singhu were stuck at various points. Our friends and relatives travelling from Punjab were not allowed to enter Delhi. Police at the border points misbehaved with those coming to protest and many could not even enter Delhi,” said Singh, who came from Khatrai Khalan village in Amritsar district. Delhi Police brass said since they were receiving intelligence inputs that nearly 10,000 people from neighbouring states such as Punjab and Haryana may enter the city and try to reach the protest venue, deployment of personnel at all border points was stepped up and vigil intensified. The personnel were directed to check all vehicles entering Delhi, especially through the borders of Haryana and Punjab. Narendra Singh Bara, a member of SAD, said they condemned the police action of barricading various points in the city. “Along with protesters, public too faced issues in commuting because of the barricades near Mukarba Chowk and other areas. We don’t understand the point of barricading when the police ultimately allowed us to march to Parliament. The crowd would have been double had it not been for the restrictions and checking by Haryana and Delhi police.” Delhi Police officers said protesters were contained till the Rakab Ganj gurdwara roundabout, which is near the Parliament House Annexe gate, as they did not have permission to hold the march. Police said in a September 15 letter to SAD’s president Sukhbir Singh Badal and the party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema, DCP (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav informed them that their proposed protest march was not allowed in view of the existing guidelines framed in compliance of Supreme Court’s order on holding protests only around Jantar Mantar area and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA’s) latest Covid-19 guidelines, prohibiting all kinds of gatherings till September 30.  No case was registered till Friday evening in connection with the violation of the police orders and the DDMA’s Covid-19 guidelines, Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/harsimrat-sukhbir-among-14-leaders-detained-as-sad-takes-out-protest-march-against-farm-laws-in-delhi-101631904267229.html
18-09-2021||Other||3,254 Ludhiana youth get recruited by 47 companies at job fair||As many as 3,254 youngsters got jobs at 47 companies during the fourth job mela organised by the state government under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar scheme at CICU Focal Point on Friday.A total of 3,461 youngsters had applied for jobs at 47 companies that participated in the job mela held under seventh state-level mega job fairs by the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise (DBEE).Addressing the gathering after inaugurating the mela, Punjab Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation (Backfinco) vice-chairman Mohammad Gulab said that the mega job fairs being organised by the state government are opening new vistas of employment for the youth of the district.Gulab said that while job melas provided jobs to the needy youth in the district, they also provide skilled manpower to the local industry.CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja said that the students were selected purely based on merit, following a transparent system.Employment officer Ranjeet Kaur and deputy CEO Navdeep Singh were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3254-ludhiana-youth-get-recruited-by-47-companies-at-job-fair-101631904146940.html
18-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan allows classes 6-8 to open from Sept 20, primary classes from Sept 27||Jaipur: In-person classes for government and private school students of classes 6 to 8 can resume from September 20 and that of Class 1 to 5 from September 27 in government and private schools, the Rajasthan government said in a fresh set of guidelines on Friday. The classes can be conducted with 50% capacity. The state government has already allowed students of classes 9 to 12, colleges, universities, and coaching institutes to resume in-person classes from September 1. The educational institutions are, however, still not allowed to hold assembly prayers and open the school canteen. Rajasthan’s principal secretary, home, Abhay Kumar said the Covid-19 cases were consistently declining but the state still needs to continue to adhere to the test, track and treat protocol and vaccination, compulsory wearing mask, and social distancing. According to the ‘three-layered public-discipline 6.0’ guidelines issued by the Rajasthan home department, there will be a night curfew in the entire state from 11 pm to 5 am every day. The order will come into effect from September 20, Monday.It allows 200 guests to participate in marriage functions. Government and private offices have been allowed to run with full staff while maintaining the protocol including wearing masks, using hand sanitizer and maintaining physical distance.Cinema halls and multiplexes have been allowed to run with 100% capacity from 9am to 10pm whereas yoga centres and gyms can be opened from 6 am to 10 pm with staff having at least one dose of vaccination. Swimming pools have also been allowed to open from September 20 on the condition that the staff has taken at least one dose of the vaccine.Public and political programs, sports events, cultural and religious rally or program, fair etc will continue to remain banned. However, exhibition and social gatherings with a maximum capacity of 200 people will be allowed between 6am to 10pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-allows-classes-6-8-to-open-from-sept-20-primary-classes-from-sept-27-101631904026918.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||Police ATS teams meet to discuss intel sharing, assess security situations||Days after six men who were allegedly part of a Pakistan-linked terror module plotting serial blasts in the country were arrested, officers of the anti-terrorism squad (ATS) of several state police forces held a meeting at the Delhi Police headquarters to discuss intelligence sharing and also take stock of security situation on the ground in the backdrop of political developments in Afghanistan.The meeting was also attended by Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) chief Samant Kumar Goel and head of the Intelligence Bureau, Arvind Kumar.No senior police officer, authorised to issue press statements, shared details of the meeting, which started at around noon and ended at 6pm.A Delhi police officer, who asked not to be named, said that during the meeting, the police officers discussed about the need for effective intelligence sharing between states.“The conference on Friday was organised by the special cell. The ATS officers of many states of north India attended the meeting. During the meeting they shared details about the revelations by the six men, who were arrested recently. The meeting was also held in the backdrop of the political developments in Afghanistan and its ramifications for the security in India,” said an officer, who asked not to be named.The Delhi police and the Uttar Pradesh police’s anti-terrorism squad (ATS) had on Tuesday arrested the six men -- identified as Jaan Mohammad Shaikh (47), Osama alias Sami (22), Moolchand alias Saaju (47), Zeeshan Qamar (28), Mohamed Abu Bakr (23), and Mohammed Amir Javed (31) -- and claimed to have averted serial blasts and targeted killings in at least three states during India’s festive season.During the press briefing, Delhi police had said that Anees Ibrahim, brother of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, currently suspected to be hiding in Pakistan, was connected to this module and was tasked with smuggling arms and ammunition into the country. Police had said that of the six men, at least two of them -- Zeeshan Qamar and Osama – were trained in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-ats-teams-meet-to-discuss-intel-sharing-assess-security-situations-101631903971693.html
18-09-2021||Other||Agriculture is Punjab’s lifeline: CM Amarinder Singh||“Kheti (agriculture) is Punjab’s lifeline. The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has contributed tremendously to the ushering in of Green Revolution in the country through the development of varieties PV 18 and Lerma Rojo 64. Punjab, a small state, is making the maximum contribution to the food buffer of India, a big country,” said chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh while inaugurating PAU’s two-day virtual Kisan Mela on Friday.“PAU and the state department of agriculture and farmers’ welfare are making all-out efforts for the prosperity of farmers and agri-development. Punjab farmers should reap full benefit from it,” he added.Pointing out agricultural challenges, he said water issues are increasing due to scanty rainfall and snowfall and are leading to electricity woes. The CM called upon the farmers to refrain from sowing water-guzzling varieties and instead adopt less water-consuming varieties and drip irrigation techniques.Referring to the ongoing protests against three contentious farm laws, the Punjab CM called upon the Central government to scrap the three laws. He informed that the state government has given a compensation of ₹5 lakh to the families of farmers who have lost their lives during protests and jobs to their wards.Suresh Kumar, chief principal secretary to Punjab CM, was the special guest.Anirudh Tewari, additional chief secretary (development), Punjab, and vice-chancellor, PAU, said the mela’s theme ‘Efficient paddy straw management keeps mother earth exultant’ is aimed at promoting in-situ management of paddy straw.Advising the farmers to use PAU happy seeder and super seeder technologies, he said the university has also developed a new technology named ‘PAU Smart Seeder’ for crop residue management.Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor, GADVASU, said GADVASU has collaborated with 18 Krishi Vigyan Kendras of PAU for training in animal husbandry. Besides, GADVASU has tied up with 10 international ranking universities in the field of academics and research, he added.Navtej Singh Bains, director of research, urged the farmers to purchase quality and improved seed, planting material, and farm publications for updating and enhancing their agricultural knowledge.Tejinder Singh Riar, the additional director of communication, conducted the programme. Panel discussions were held on crop residue management and the scope of horticultural and forestry crops during the mela.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agriculture-is-punjab-s-lifeline-cm-amarinder-singh-101631903970608.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi court pulls up police for ‘lackadaisical’ probe in riots cases||A Delhi court has pulled up the city police and the prosecution for their “lackadaisical” approach in handling the Delhi riots cases and said that no action has been taken by the commissioner and top officials despite repeated orders.“Such a lackadaisical approach on the part of the prosecution as well as the investigating agency in riots cases has been repeatedly brought to the notice of not only the DCP [deputy commissioner of police] North East and joint CP (Eastern Range) but also brought to the notice of the Commissioner of Police, Delhi”.“However, no steps for proper prosecution of the cases seem to have been taken by either of them, or if taken, have not yet been brought to the notice of this court. The aforesaid failure on the part of said police officers to take appropriate measures for prosecution of riots cases is causing avoidable delay in committal/trial of riots cases,” chief metropolitan magistrate Arun Kumar Garg said.The court’s remarks came as the prosecutor failed to appear before the court despite repeated calls and the investigating officer (IO) appeared before the court late without reading the police file. The IO was also not able to answer the court’s queries. It was dealing with the arguments on framing charges against the accused in one of the riots cases.The judge said that the record shows that the special public prosecutor has not appeared in the case on several occasions and that during the previous hearing, he arrived only after the matter was adjourned.He directed the Delhi police commissioner to personally look into the issues and ensure proper prosecution of the riots cases, failing which he will be constrained to pass “an adverse order”, including imposition of adjournment costs on the state with a direction to deduct the same from the salary of the officers responsible for imposition of the cost.He directed that an order copy of this case be sent to DCP north-east, joint CP (eastern range), the Delhi Police commissioner and the state Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-pulls-up-police-for-lackadaisical-probe-in-riots-cases-101631903969346.html
18-09-2021||Other||Declare districts free of manual scavenging by Sept 22, says Safai Karmachari Commission||Chandigarh Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission on issued instructions to all municipal commissioners and additional deputy commissioners (Urban Development) for ensuring the strict compliance of the law on no manual scavenging. They have also asked these officers to furnish a report declaring their districts as Manual Scavenger Free by September 22. The law the commission wants enforced is ‘The Prevention of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013’. Commission chairman Gejja Ram Valmiki said that in a letter dated September 3, 2021, the commission had expressed concern over the violations of this law and asked all authorities to deploy only those sewer men of municipal corporations, municipal councils and nagar panchayats that had been equipped with fully safety gear. The chairman added that local government department has also entrusted all municipal commissioners and ADC (UD) with the duty of getting confirmation from the DC concerned that their district is free from manual scavenging. He added that the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board chief executive officer has also been asked to ensure strict compliance of the Act in all institutions under its purview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/declare-districts-free-of-manual-scavenging-by-sept-22-says-safai-karmachari-commission-101631903966914.html
18-09-2021||Other||Vet varsity celebrates World Ozone Day||World Ozone Day was celebrated at the Centre for One Health, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University.The event was held under the ICAR- Institutional Development Plan-National Agricultural Higher Education Project (IDP-NAHEP). More than 90 participants including, students and faculty joined this event.Randhir Singh, co-organising secretary and professor of Centre for One Health, welcomed Lakhvir Kaur Dhaliwal, professor, agricultural meteorology, department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, Punjab Agricultural University.During her expert talk, she spoke about ‘Depletion and protection of ozone layer’.Dhaliwal discussed different factors responsible for the depletion of the ozone layer.She mentioned that in addition to the effect on the environment, UV rays are also harmful to marine life. She suggested ways to prevent further depletion of the ozone layer depletion. She addressed the attendees’ queries during the question-answer session.SPS Ghuman, principal investigator -IDP, and Dean, College of Veterinary Science, appreciated the efforts of the faculty, Centre for One Health.Rajnish Sharma, co-organising secretary, extended the vote of thanks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vet-varsity-celebrates-world-ozone-day-101631903726215.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||R-Day violence: Delhi court grants anticipatory bail to Lakha Sidhana||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to gangster-turned-social activist Lakha Sidhana for allegedly attempting to kill police personnel and instigating the mob to break down barricades during the farmers’ protest rally on Republic Day this year.Additional sessions judge Jagdish Kumar granted relief to Sidhana after noting that he has already joined the investigation and has been granted bail in a conspiracy case related to violence that ensued at the Red Fort on January 26.Sidhana had sought anticipatory bail in the case related to the clashes which took place between the farmers and police at Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar.During the hearing, the prosecution submitted that even though Sidhana has joined the probe, one of the mobile phones he handed over to the police is protected with a password which he did not provide. During the hearing, special public prosecutor (SPP) Madhukar Pandey submitted that Sidhana told the police that he has “forgotten” the password and is not cooperating in the investigation. “If, that is the situation, how can the court presume...[that he is] deliberately not disclosing the code for unlocking the mobile phone,” the judge said, dismissing the prosecution’s argument. The court further noted that Sidhana has admitted that he was part of the mob. The accused has been released on anticipatory bail on the condition that he has to join the probe as and when required and not influence the witnesses in any manner. The SPP opposed the bail plea and told the court that Sidhana, who was part of the unlawful assembly, attempted to “kill some police officials” and instigated the mob to break the barricades.The prosecutor added that the gangster even hugged some people to celebrate after breaking the barricades.He said that Sidhana is currently involved in 20 heinous cases including those related to murder and attempt to murder. Senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, along with advocates Jaspreet Singh and Jasdeep Singh Dhillon, who represented Sidhana, told the court that their client is not even named in the FIR and added that the police does not have any evidence against him. Sidhana moved the court saying he had grave apprehension that he may be arrested as his first cousin, Gurdeep Singh, was allegedly abducted and tortured by the Delhi Police and was made to forcibly sign certain blank papers, the counsel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rday-violence-delhi-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-lakha-sidhana-101631903666935.html
18-09-2021||Other||Ulhas Pawar’s presence at NCP event draws criticism from city Congress leaders||PUNE Artist Surekha Punekar on joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) at an event where senior Congress leader and former MLC Ulhas Pawar was presentCongress leaders in the city have criticised Ulhas Pawar for being at the event. Punekar joined the NCP in the presence of MP Supriya Sule.A senior leader from the Congress party, speaking anonymously, said, “We have great respect for Ulhas Pawar. He is a senior. When NCP is expanding their wings, ideally he should avoid attending such programme. It gives wrong a message to the workers.”Another Congress leader said, “NCP is finishing the Congress party though it has alliance with the party. They plan to attract more workers from the city considering the municipal elections. Pawar’s presence gives the message that we are supporting the NCP spreading its wings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ulhas-pawar-s-presence-at-ncp-event-draws-criticism-from-city-congress-leaders-101631903487961.html
18-09-2021||Other||Banned SFJ module busted in Punjab; 3 held with secessionist literature||Chandigarh Punjab Police on Friday busted a secessionist module of the banned ‘unlawful association’ Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) with the arrest of three of its members. Police have also recovered lakhs of secessionist pamphlets promoting ‘Referendum 2020’ from their possession during a raid conducted at Rampur village in Khanna. A truck had to be called in to carry all the banned propaganda material. In July 2019, the Centre had banned the SFJ under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for its involvement in promoting secession as well as violent militancy in Punjab, specifically the Sikh Referendum 2020. “Their activities were aimed at creating a divide between communities and disturbing the peace and communal harmony in the Punjab,” the Centre had said. Those arrested on Friday are Gurwinder Singh of Rampur in Khanna; and Jagwinder Singh and Sukhdev Singh, both of Morinda in Ropar. The police have also booked Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, Harpreet Singh, Bikramjeet Singh and Gursahai Makhu, all based in the US, and Jagjeet Singh Mangat of Khanna.A police spokesman added that they, in the presence of a duty magistrate, conducted raids at Rampur village in Khanna and recovered over 2.8 lakh pamphlets carrying propaganda material related to ‘Referendum 2020’. A printer, spray pump and spray bottles for writing secessionist graffiti on walls, one laptop, three mobile phones and one Honda City car were also recovered.During preliminary investigation, it has been found that the accused Gurwinder Singh was radicalised and motivated over a YouTube channel, US Media International, being operated by JS Dhaliwal, who introduced him to Pannun. A police spokesperson added that on Pannun’s instructions, Gurwinder hoisted Khalistani flags on the premises of the government school in Rampur village. Police claimed that Gurwinder had enroled 20-25 persons to promote ‘Referendum 2020’ by distributing pamphlets for different groups in the vicinity of Doraha, Ludhiana. All these persons were paid for their service at the behest of Pannun. A police spokesperson added that Gurwinder had also written wall graffiti, promoting Sikh Referendum 2020 activities (in English and Punjabi), under bridges and on signboards on the road stretch from Khanna to Singhu Border in Delhi. On August 15 night, he spray painted pro-Sikh Referendum 2020 and anti-Indian slogans. “For promoting these kinds of secessionist activities, the accused received huge funds from Pannun via human carriers, the hawala route etc,” a police source added. An FIR has been registered under Sections 124A (sedition) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) and others of the IPC and Sections 17, 18, 20, 40 of the UA(P) Act in SAS Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/banned-sfj-module-busted-in-punjab-3-held-with-secessionist-literature-101631903487299.html
18-09-2021||Other||Weather system over Bay of Bengal to decide fate of monsoon’s revival||PUNE As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD, though rainfall activity has reduced, another system over the Bay of Bengal may make the monsoon active again.Currently, Pune district has received seven per cent excess rainfall for the period between June 1 and September 17.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune said that Pune city in the coming days, will witness light to very light rainfall.“The weather across Pune city will be cloudy till September 19. During the afternoon, the city may witness light to very light rainfall during this time,” said Kashyapi.Across four subdivisions in Maharashtra, from September 19 onwards, rainfall is likely to make a return.“From September 19 onwards, isolated parts of central Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Konkan and Goa may witness rainfall along with thunderstorms and lightning till September 21,” said Kashyapi.Maharashtra, between June 1 and September 17 has reported 13 per cent excess rainfall.The met department also added that the monsoon trough lies south of its normal position. It is very likely to remain south of its normal position till September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/weather-system-over-bay-of-bengal-to-decide-fate-of-monsoon-s-revival-101631903427703.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||SAD's rally throws traffic out of gear in Delhi||Massive snarls and congestion were seen on Friday on several arterial stretches in the national capital, especially around central Delhi, owing to a farmers’ protest march organised by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) to mark one year of the enactment of the three contentious farm laws. Although the proposed march – from Rakab Ganj gurdwara to Parliament House – was not allowed by the Delhi Police on Friday citing Covid-19 restrictions, SAD leaders held a symbolic march along Pandit Pant Marg till the entry to Parliament House Annexe, barely 500 metres from the gurdwara, with banners and flags demanding a repeal of the three farm laws. Throughout the day, the Delhi traffic police used its social media handles to alert commuters about intermittent closure of specific roads and to suggest diversions to avoid inconvenience. However, despite these warnings, snarls were seen at Dhaula Kuan, ITO, Vikas Marg, Delhi Gate, Karol Bagh, Sardar Patel Marg, Moti Bagh and Rao Tula Ram Marg, among others. Because of the restrictions put in place in central Delhi, a ripple effect of these jams was also seen around Tilak Marg, the India Gate hexagon, Teen Murti Marg and adjoining roads. Via a series of tweets, the Delhi traffic police informed commuters about the closure of roads at Jharoda Kalan border (with Haryana) and suggested alternative routes to avoid getting stuck in the farmer protests. “Gurdwara Rakabganj Road, RML Hospital, GPO, Ashoka Road, Baba Kharak Singh Marg will be closed for traffic movement due to the farmers’ movement. Please avoid using these routes,” traffic police tweeted. In another tweet they said, “Both carriageways of the Jharoda Kalan border have been barricaded due to the farmers’ movement, please refrain from using this route.” During the day, the police also intermittently stopped the traffic moving from Gurugram towards Sardar Patel Marg, while the traffic coming from Naraina loop was diverted to the Ring Road towards Moti Bagh. This also led to long tailbacks along RK Puram, Moti Bagh, Sarojini Nagar, and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), with vehicles queuing up all the way till Lajpat Nagar on the Ring Road. Earlier in the day, traffic from the Pusa roundabout towards Shankar Road was also diverted towards Pusa Road, the traffic police said. Around afternoon, the Narela-Bawana road was also closed temporarily, traffic officials said. Many took to social media to complain about commuting hassles and some of them even uploaded pictures of stationary vehicles. A few airport-bound commuters, who were particularly stressed by these unprecedented jams, also complained about the lack of preparedness by the authorities. “The entire central Delhi and Ring Road towards the airport was jammed on Friday. My parents had to take a flight in the evening and seeing these worrying tweets, we left home an hour earlier than usual. Despite that, they just about managed to make it on time. There was no police personnel on the road to manage the traffic; vehicles were being diverted randomly. If they (authorities) knew about these protests, why did they not make proper announcements and arrangements in advance?” said Ankur Khanna, a resident of east Delhi’s IP Extension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhisad-protest-march-throws-traffic-out-of-gear-as-cops-shut-roads-divert-commuters-101631903427132.html
18-09-2021||Other||Removal of chambers: Agra lawyers meet BCI chairman||A delegation of Yuva Adhivakta Sangh, an organization of young lawyers of the Taj city, met chairman of the Bar Council of India (BCI) in Delhi and drew his attention to the recent order of the Registrar General, Allahabad high court for removal of advocates’ chambers in civil court compound of Agra besides other districts. The young lawyers sought construction of alternative chambers before removal of the lawyers’ chambers in Agra. A memorandum was submitted to press the demand for enhancing facilities for lawyers and arrangement of chambers on court premises. Nitin Verma, divisional president of Yuva Adhivakta Sangh, along with others, met Bar Council of India chairman Manan Kumar Mishra and raised the issue of recent order of the Registrar General, Allahabad high court for removal of advocates’ chambers in civil court compound of Agra besides other districts in Uttar Pradesh. “We demanded that first proper facilities be provided to lawyers, specially the youth and alternate chambers be given to them and then only proceedings for removal of chambers of lawyers be initiated. Such order for removal of chambers without making alternative arrangements would be against the principles of natural justice,” said Nitin Verma. “If the order is implemented, the worst affected would be the youths among the lawyers. So, there is need to reconsider the order,” added Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/removal-of-chambers-agra-lawyers-meet-bci-chairman-101631903307994.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||Breathalysers are allowed, why not herbal hookahs, HC asks Delhi govt||The Delhi high court on Friday asked the city government how its prohibition on herbal hookah in public places to contain Covid-19 is justified when police are allowed to conduct breathalyser tests for motorists (to ascertain drink driving).Justice Rekha Palli said the Delhi government should reconsider its decision while hearing five separate pleas by restaurants and bars seeking directions to the city-state and the police to not interfere with the sale of herbal flavoured hookahs.“Issue notice…Delhi government counsel seeks time to get instructions as to why August 3, 2020 order is not reconsidered when breathalyser test is being allowed now. It is expected that DDMA will consider this aspect urgently,” the court said.Separate petitions were filed by Breath Fine Lounge and Bar, TOS, R High Speedbar and Lounge, Verandah Moonshine and Sixth Empirica Lounge in West Punjabi Bagh, challenging the order of joint commissioner of police (licensing unit) prohibiting and excluding the sale or service of herbal flavoured hookahs in restaurant/ bars.The pleas said the petitioners are serving herbal hookahs for which no licence is required as they are without tobacco but the police are still conducting searches and seizing equipment and issuing fines.Appearing for the Delhi government, advocate Santosh Kumar Tripathi opposed the petitions and said people are moving about with their masks on even when they by themselves in the car. Then how can hookahs be allowed in public places, he asked.He argued that for a single mistake, entire Delhi would have to pay a heavy price and allowing hookah consumption in public places may lead to the spread of Covid-19 since several people would be sharing a single hookah.“Herbal or non-herbal, we are not allowing any type of hookah. We are wearing masks even when we are driving a car alone. How can we allow hookah to be shared from one person to another? Hookah is not that important, our lives are more important,” he said.When the petitioners’ counsel said she was giving an undertaking that each customer will be using a separate hookah in the restaurant, the Delhi government counsel said not even a single hookah could be allowed.Following this, the court asked the government to decide on the matter and said, “It can’t go on like this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/breathalysers-are-allowed-why-not-herbal-hookahs-hc-asks-delhi-govt-101631903128240.html
18-09-2021||Lucknow||Now, specific biomarker to help treat liver cirrhosis patients||Doctors of the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) have discovered specific biomarker to extend the life expectancy of patients with alcoholic liver cirrhosis. Through this biomarker, the cause of the problem in liver cirrhosis patients will be detected in just one to two hours. Hence the direction of treatment will also be decided within hours. Patients with liver cirrhosis have many problems including intermittent bleeding, ascitis (water filling in the stomach), imbalance in sodium-potassium levels, hallucinations and delusions. By treating these problems quickly, the quality of life could be increased to a great extent, said professor Gaurav Pandey of the department of gastroenterology. . According to prof Gaurav Pandey, the cause of this problem is infection or inflammation. The neutrophil CD64 biomarker plays an important role in determining the cause. “This we have proved after research on 128 patients of alcoholic liver cirrhosis. If the CD64 count is low, the cause is inflammation. If the number is high, then there is infection. If there is an infection, we immediately start antibiotics and the patients get relief. If the cause is inflammation, then doctors can immediately start immunosuppressive drugs. Acute liver failure (ACLF) is a common problem in liver cirrhosis patients. We have four to five hours to decide the direction of treatment. If the right treatment is not received at the right time, it can be life threatening. After this research, the misuse of antibiotics will stop. Antibiotic resistance will be less among patients undergoing treatment. The cost of treatment will also go down,” he said. The research on the utility of neutrophil CD64 in bacterial infection or inflammation in severe alcoholic hepatitis has been accepted by the scientific community. Research by prof Vikas Agarwal and Dr Durga Prasanna of the department of clinical immunology and professor Gaurav Pandey of the department of gastroenterology has been published by Scientific Report Journal . Increased level of TLC deceives doctors According to professor Vikas Agarwal, till now doctors used to take increased TLC (total leucocyte count) as a marker of infection and antibiotics were started but the patient did not get relief. “Our research proved that TLC usually keeps increasing in 90 to 95 per cent patients but infection does not occur in 50 to 60 per cent of them. We found that TLC can also increase due to inflammation. Infection was found in 58 out of 128 patients. That’s why going for CD 64 count is important. The facility of this test is available in the institute,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-specific-biomarker-to-help-treat-liver-cirrhosis-patients-101631902946681.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||No unlicensed rickshaw allowed in revamped Chandni Chowk from Sept 25||Unlicensed rickshaws will not be allowed to operate on the revamped Chandni Chowk boulevard after September 25, officials of the North Municipal Corporation of Delhi (North MCD) said on Thursday. The civic body has asked all cycle rickshaw pullers in Chandni Chowk to procure licences before that date in order to continue plying on the revamped stretch from Red Fort to Fatehpuri Masjid. The North MCD has also circulated a public service announcement outlining the details and procedures of procuring a licence. Over a hundred refurbished cycle rickshaws have been pressed into service on the revamped Chandni Chowk stretch that was inaugurated on Sunday. These colour-coded rickshaws are driven by people who have been given a licence by the North MCD. Going forward, only these licensed rickshaws will be allowed to operate on the stretch. For wider dissemination of the registration/ licence procuring process, the corporation has crafted a public service message that is being circulated across various media, including WhatsApp. “Only rickshaws having North MCD licences can ply on the stretch between Lal Jain Mandir and Fatehpuri Masjid. Without a licence, no rickshaw will operate in the Chandni Chowk zone. If a rickshaw puller or vendor wishes to operate a rickshaw on the stretch, they can procure a licence and registration form from the DC office in Kashmere Gate. The last date for submitting registration forms is September 25,” the recorded public service message circulated by the DC office said. Shashanka Ala, DC City, Sadar Paharganj Zone, North MCD, said the corporation will facilitate the process of refurbishment of rickshaws. “We will refurbish the rickshaws of individuals who register with us. Unregistered rickshaws will not be allowed on the stretch at any cost,” said Ala. She said there will be a cap on the number of rickshaws that will operate on the stretch but only after an assessment of the demand. “There will be a cap on the number of rickshaws but only after we study what the demand is,” she said. Bhim Singh, 42, a rickshaw puller, said while he had paid ₹500 for procuring the licence, he could not afford to refurbish his rickshaw. The refurbished rickshaws have a different design and are red in colour. “I got the licence made after paying ₹500 but my rickshaw is still the old-style one. For refurbishing the rickshaw, we would have to shell out more money, about ₹1,500-2,000. We don’t earn enough and can barely make the ends meet; how willwe bear the additional cost?” said Singh. Intizar Ali, a 27-year-old rickshaw puller who secured a licence recently, said he was unsure by when he’d be able to get the refurbished rickshaw. The contractor through whom he rents the rickshaw has only old-style rickshaws, he said. “I got my licence made online but we need to get the rickshaw redesigned. Our vendor is not ready to do that. I am not sure how the entire process will pan out if the vendors don’t have the rickshaws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-unlicensed-rickshaw-allowed-in-revamped-chandni-chowk-from-sept-25-says-civic-body-101631902586761.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi issues 14-point guidelines for construction firms to curb dust pollution||Ahead of the annual winter pollution spike in the national capital, the Delhi government on Friday issued an ultimatum to construction agencies, as it released a 14-point set of dust mitigation guidelines and gave them 15 days to adhere to the directions to control dust pollution in their sites. The move comes days after the state government banned the sale, storage and use of firecrackers on Diwali, to be celebrated on November 4 this year.Addressing the media on Friday, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said he issued the guidelines at a meeting with over 50 private construction agencies in the city.“We held a meeting at the Delhi secretariat today [on Friday] with all the private agencies doing construction work in Delhi today and apprised them about the guidelines issued by the Delhi government to check dust pollution. During this meeting, suggestions were also taken from the representatives of private construction agencies,” Rai said.The national capital’s air quality starts deteriorating every year around mid-October when crop stubble burning starts in neighbouring Punjab and Haryana. This, along with Delhi’s own local pollution sources and unfavourable weather conditions such as low wind speeds make things worse for the Capital every winter. Dust and debris from construction sites also exacerbate the city’s pollution problem, which has forced the state to issue curbs on such activities during the winter. Despite a blanket ban on crackers for the last four years, unchecked cracker bursting also contributes to Delhi’s hazardous winter air.The state government will release a holistic winter action plan by September 30 this year, for which agencies have been asked to submit their own plans by September 21.The government’s 14-point guidelines for construction agencies included that all construction agencies in Delhi will have to mandatorily cover the periphery of their sites with tin walls of appropriate height so that dust from the site does not blow out. Further, all sites operating in an area over 20,000 sqm built up area will need to install anti-smog guns to ensure that dust generated is settled.The guidelines also mandate that the agencies cover construction material with a tarpaulin or a green net; ensure that vehicles carrying construction material and debris are regularly cleaned and its wheels washed; the construction material are fully covered during transportation and does not spill onto the roads; and that material is stored properly on-site and is not dumped along roads and pavements.Rai said that agencies will also need to ensure that no construction material or construction and demolition waste is left uncovered.“It was also advised that wet jets be used for the cutting and grinding of stones. Such activity will not be allowed in the open. Unpaved surfaces and areas with loose soil should be adequately sprinkled with water to suppress dust, roads around construction sites must be paved and blacktopped, and construction and demolition waste should be recycled on-site or transported to authorised recycling facility and due record of the same should be maintained,” Rai said.Apart from these, agencies were also asked to provide adequate safety gear such as masks to all workers involved in activities such as loading, unloading and handling of construction material and waste. .Rai also stressed on his government’s focus on fighting the pollution levels in Delhi that tend to rise every winter and urged the cooperation of all government and private agencies, and public participation in this fight.“We all have to fight for our breath together. Therefore, all of us will have to fulfil our responsibility with full sincerity. All private agencies should appoint an employee at their construction sites to see whether the norms are being followed or not. Everyone has to make changes in their daily behaviour,” he added.The Delhi government had issued a similar set of guidelines last year before the pollution season, and several construction agencies, including government and government-funded agencies such as the Public Works Department (PWD) and the NBCC (India) Limited, were slapped with hefty fines for violating dust mitigation guidelines.Earlier this week, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also announced a complete ban on the sale, storage and use of firecrackers in the Capital this Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-issues-14-point-guidelines-for-construction-firms-to-curb-dust-pollution-101631902226954.html
18-09-2021||Delhi||DDA plans to develop Sanjay Van as ecotourism hub||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is planning to develop Sanjay Van in south Delhi, the 783-acre green lung of the national capital, as an ecotourism destination with facilities for activities such as rock climbing, aerial trails (canopy tour or ziplines), forest safari, cycling, picnic and camping spots, among others. The landowning agency has invited expressions of interest (EOI) from companies interested in taking up the project.
18-09-2021||Delhi||‘Gangster’ wanted in gang war murder cases arrested from south Delhi||New Delhi: A 21-year-old alleged criminal, wanted in four cases of murder and an attempt to murder case related to incidents of gang rivalry, was arrested from south Delhi on Thursday, with the police claiming to have recovered a sophisticated automatic pistol and five cartridges from his possession. Police said the suspect carried a reward of ₹1 lakh on his arrest.Police identified the suspect, Govind Singh Thapa alias Danny, as a member of Hashim Baba gang, which is operational in south and east Delhi. The gang, which is currently led by Shahrukh after Hashim Baba‘s arrest, has been in a rivalry with the Ravi Gangwal gang over establishing supremacy in south and eastern parts of Delhi. Police said three murders and the attempt to murder cases in which Thapa was involved, were reported between March and May in south and east Delhi. “These crimes were committed by Shahrukh, Thapa, Aman, Pawan and others,” said joint commissioner of police (crime) Alok Kumar.“Shahrukh wanted to establish his supremacy in south and east Delhi areas after the arrest of his gang leader Hashim Baba. Shahrukh’s main rival in south Delhi was Ravi Gangwal and his gang and he started taking them on,” said Kumar.On the night of March 22, Shahrukh, along with Thapa and some other aides, went to Dakshinpuri with firearms and ammunition and allegedly opened fire at Amit Madrasi, a close associate of Ravi Gangwal. Madrasi, however, managed to escape despite receiving gunshot injuries.“Immediately after that, Shahrukh, Thapa and their associates started searching for others in Gangwal’s gang. After spotting one Kunal, brother of Sunny, an important member of the Gangwal gang, they shot him multiple times and killed him on the spot in Ambedkar Nagar. Accordingly, cases of murder and attempt to murder were registered,” said the joint CP.A fortnight later, the same group allegedly killed one Farman, alias Nanhe, a rival of Hashim Baba, in east Delhi’s Mandawali. On May 25, they were also involved in another murder due to an old rivalry in northeast Delhi’s Jafarabad. In 2020, Thapa was booked in a murder and attempt to murder case registered at the Preet Vihar police station. The details of this crime were not shared by the police. A special task force (STF) formed to nab the suspects first caught Shahrukh’s brother Sahil with firearms, following which, on September 13, they nabbed Aman Khan, an alleged hit man from the gang. Police said their interrogation led to the arrest of Thapa from near Sriniwaspuri depot in south Delhi on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangster-wanted-in-gang-war-murder-cases-arrested-from-south-delhi-101631900786647.html
18-09-2021||Mumbai||I-T department raids premises linked to Anil Deshmukh in tax evasion case||The investigation wing of the Income Tax (I-T) department conducted searches on Friday at the residence and offices of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in Nagpur, Mumbai and Pune for suspected tax evasion.According to people familiar with the matter in the department, multiple I-T teams started search operations on Friday morning. The searches continued till the evening.In Nagpur, Deshmukh’s residence was searched by I-T officials accompanied by personnel from central security forces. The Nagpur city police deployed additional security outside the residence as many of the leader’s supporters gathered outside following the searches, said a senior police officer. The tax department neither shared any details nor released a statement in connection with the searches. Deshmukh was not available for a comment. The former minister has been at the centre of controversies this year. On August 23, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) filed a charge sheet against his personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde in a money laundering case, in which the former minister is the main accused. The charge sheet also includes a statement from dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, one of the accused in the Antilla bomb scare case, and in the murder of Mansukh Hiran. In his statement to ED, Vaze has claimed that ₹40 crore was collected from ten deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) and “paid to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and transport minister Anil Parab” for “letting the order of then city police commissioner Param Bir Singh to transfer them go through”.Vaze claimed that Deshmukh and Parab were not happy with Singh’s order regarding transfer and postings of the 10 DCPs and got the order reversed. “After 3-4 days, I came to know that after some adjustments and consideration of money, the said order was issued,” Vaze told ED.The money laundering case against Deshmukh and his aides was registered after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) against the minister on April 21. The basis of the FIR was corruption allegations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh. Singh alleged that Deshmukh demanded a monthly collection of ₹100 crore from Mumbai’s bars and restaurants, a claim that eventually forced Deshmukh to resign.According to the ED charge sheet, Vaze also corroborated the allegations of corruption against Deshmukh. “The I-T department’s action against Deshmukh is very surprising as his tax assessments (files) are clear. He has never received any intimation or notice in the past 20 years from the I-T department. The action (searches) is nothing, but pure political harrasment,” Deshmukh’s lawyer Inderpal Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/it-department-conducts-search-at-anil-deshmukh-s-premises-101631879424558.html
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||45.6mm rain lashes Chandigarh, third-highest this season||In the 90 minutes between 6pm and 7.30pm, the city recorded 45.6mm rain, which was third highest this monsoon season, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). While the temperature was around 33°C at 5.30pm, the showers caused it to drop to around 24°C. Chances of rain will continue from Friday onwards, but the intensity is likely to be lower. Chandigarh had recorded the heaviest spell of monsoon rain (55.4mm) on August 4, while the second-highest was 47.2mm on June 12, considered part of pre-monsoon showers. Thursday’s rain also surpassed 14mm, the highest precipitation recorded in September last year on the fourth.IMD Chandigarh director Manmohan Singh said, “The heavy rain came about due to a Western Disturbance combining with the monsoon system. It was highest in the southern parts of Haryana. Chances of light rain will continue in the coming days and another heavy spell like this can be expected around September 19.”Monsoon still 31% deficientSince the onset of monsoon in June this year, there has been 551mm rain, against a normal of 802mm – a deficit of around 31%.Meanwhile, at 34.6°C, the average maximum temperature of the city remained unchanged between Wednesday and Thursday. The minimum temperature also went up from 25.1°C to 26.2°C. Over the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain around 35°C and the minimum between 25°C and 26°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/456mm-rain-lashes-chandigarh-third-highest-this-season-101631825411532.html
