19-09-2021||Other||Delhi: Cyber crime helpline receives over 3,000 complaints since its launch in April||Kiran Saxena (74), a retired Delhi electricity department employee, got the shock of her life on August 24, after ₹6.20 lakh were siphoned off from her account in a matter of 45 minutes after she dialled a customer care number available on the internet to enquire about some income tax forms. Similarly, a doctor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) lost ₹4.90 lakh to cyber criminals in June, after he clicked on a link of a text message, which he received on his phone, that said his internet banking application was blocked. Although Saxena and the AIIMS doctor, who asked not to be named, were conned in separate ways and probably by different cyber gangs, what is common between them is that they both got a part of their stolen money credited into their accounts within hours of reporting the crime to Delhi Police’s cyber crime helpline ‘155260’. While Saxena got back ₹2.25 lakh, ₹3.15 lakh was reverted to the doctor’s account. HT spoke to many officers in the cyber crime unit, who confirmed that of every 100 people who are duped online, only about 10 get their money back. But even these 10% victims getting their money back was made possible only after the national helpline ‘155620’ came into effect in Delhi in April this year. On June 17 this year, the Centre, under its scheme ‘Citizen Financial Cyber Fraud Reporting and Management System’, operationalised the helpline in some states for reporting all kinds of cyber crime and preventing loss of money in cases of cyber frauds. According to data by the Delhi Police’s Cyber Prevention, Awareness and Detection (CyPAD) Centre, the Delhi Police received total 3,112 complaints of cyber financial frauds on the helpline between April and August. The total amount siphoned off from the accounts of the victims, whose complaints were found to be genuine after verification, was nearly ₹14 crore. “Nearly 10% ( ₹1.42 crore) of the total defrauded amount was returned to the victims as they had alerted about the cyber frauds on the helpline on time and cyber cell officials could block the suspects’ accounts with the help of the concerned banks, online wallet firms and payment gateways,” said deputy commissioner of police (CyPAD) Anyesh Roy. Of the 3,112 complainants, nearly 800 people prevented the money from reaching the wrong hands by timely reporting about the frauds to the helpline. Around 300 of the nearly 800 victims got the stolen money credited to their bank accounts. For the rest, the refunds are partial and under process for reversal by the respective banks, merchants, online wallets and payment gateways, show CyPAD’s data. Earlier, victims of cyber frauds had to run from pillar to post to register their case and get their stolen money back. While there was hope of getting the stolen money back when the cases were solved and the suspects arrested, reversal of the amount was a tiresome and time-consuming task, said cyber experts and police officers HT spoke to. But, that has changed now. With the launch of the cyber crime helpline, the police, in coordination with the financial institutions, immediately crack down on the cyber criminals by blocking the accounts into which the defrauded money gets transferred or cancelling the delivery of the goods that the suspects order using the stolen money, said cyber security expert Amit Dubey. “By blocking their accounts, the agencies prevent the defrauded money from reaching the fraudsters,” said Dubey, who works as a resource person with 16 states police, including Delhi Police and Uttar Pradesh police, in solving cyber crimes. Officials say that many complainants could not get their money back because either they contacted the helpline late or their defrauded money had turned “irreversible” by the time police took action. DCP Roy said, “In case of cyber frauds, timely reporting of the crime is the key. Almost all the cases, where the victims’ money was retrieved, were reported within 24 hours of the crime. The chances of recovering the cheated money are certain till the illegal transactions don’t become irreversible, meaning the amount is either withdrawn in cash or reaches a stage where it is immediately not possible for the concerned financial institution to block the account.” Police officers said the quick reversal of the transaction in cyber frauds has become possible only after the helpline became functional. Earlier, people only had the option of filing their cyber crime complaints through emails or complaints at the police stations. Since converting the complaint into an FIR and beginning the investigation was a time-taking process, victims got their money only when the suspects were caught or cases were solved. “The victims got their money back only through the courts. There was nothing called immediate respite in terms of crediting back the defrauded amount,” said an officer posted in the cyber cell of east district. Rakshit Tandon, another cyber expert, believes that although the cyber crime helpline has been productive in terms of helping victims of cyber frauds, digital policing is the need of the hour keeping in mind the steep spike in such crimes. Lack of awareness among the public regarding cyber frauds and how and where to report about such cases on time is the main reason why people fall prey to such frauds and lose money. “Providing a safe and secure eco-system for digital payments is the objective of all financial institutions; no company wants their reputation to be compromised because of cyber criminals. It is important to have an extensive network of digital policing to safeguard money transactions. And for that, the agencies should ensure that no SIM card or bank account is activated without full proof verification. If these two areas are brought under check, cases of cyber frauds will certainly come down,” said Tandon. How cops act after receiving cyber fraud complaints on the helpline As a person informs the helpline about a cyber fraud, the policeman attending the call fills an online form using personal and transaction related details provided by the complainant. Once the form is submitted, the system generates a ticket for the complainant and sends an alert to the concerned banks, merchants, payment gateways or online wallets, where the stolen money gets transferred. The concerned financial institutions immediately block the money and return it to the complainant after verification. In Saxena’s case, the suspects had ordered three high-end iPhones costing over ₹3 lakh through an e-commerce site and the delivery address was in Patna. The cyber cell officers alerted the company, which cancelled the order and returned the money to Saxena’s account. “We have only got ₹2.25 lakh out of the ₹6.20 lakh that we lost. Although, we faced problems getting in touch with the cyber cell officers through the helpline, their response was quick once they received our complaint. My mother was in complete shock but she got some respite when some amount was reversed,” said Saxena’s daughter Ruchika Saxena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-cyber-crime-helpline-receives-over-3-000-complaints-since-its-launch-in-april-101632075190882.html
19-09-2021||Bangalore||‘None of you should take the opposition lightly’: Yediyurappa||Former Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday cautioned his party colleagues against taking the opposition lightly in the upcoming elections. "I have a suggestion to all of you. None of you should take the opposition lightly. They have their own calculation and strengths," Yediyurappa said at the BJP Core Committee meeting here. The Lingayat strongman claimed that a few Congress leaders are in touch with some BJP leaders. "You need to tread with confidence without giving chance to such incidents (defection). We have to make a sincere effort for the BJP to come back to power with 140 seats in the next assembly elections," Yediyurappa, who stepped down as the Chief Minister on July 26, said here. He said the party can be strengthened by inducting into the BJP leaders from SC/ST and OBC communities. Further, he asked to include a team of 20 to 25 women and the BJP youth wing leaders at the booth level organisation. Yediyurappa also appealed to the party functionaries to make the welfare programmes of the Centre and the state government reach every household. He also told the gathering that he would take up a state-wide tour shortly to strengthen the party base. Yediyurappa reminded the core committee members that the BJP has to win both Hanagal and Sindagi assembly bypolls because its failure will send the wrong signals. "No one here should assume that Hanagal and Sindagi are easy turfs," Yediyurappa said. Speaking about the demolition of temple in Nanjangud in Mysuru recently, which drew widespread criticism, Yediyurappa said a decision has been taken not to allow destruction of any temples anywhere. He also said that the BJP government will file a review petition in the Supreme Court seeking "correction" in the judgment. "Whatever has happened is now over. It will not be repeated. Those party workers who are upset should take note of this," Yediyurappa said. BJP state chief Nalin Kumar Kateel and BJP national general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh too addressed the gathering. In his address, Kateel took a dig at Congress leader and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah regarding his criticism of temple demolition in Nanjangud. He said this is one instance which occurred without the knowledge of the government but the Congress government turned a blind eye to the attacks and murders of many BJP workers in Karnataka. Senior party functionaries such as union ministers Pralhad Joshi, Shobha Karanjlaje and D V Sadananda Gowda, Karnataka ministers, former chief minister B S Yediyurappa, his son and BJP state vice-president B Y Vijayendra, BJP MLAs, MLCs, MPs and district level BJP functionaries are attending the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/none-of-you-should-take-the-opposition-lightly-yediyurappa-101632072838236.html
19-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath says govt raised farmers' income, removed middlemen||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath attacked the former governments and chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh claiming that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government under his leadership did more to uplift the conditions of farmers than previous governments.Speaking in Lucknow’s Lok Bhawan, Adityanath claimed that the UP government led by him ensured timely payment to the sugarcane farmers and revived old sugar mills while opening new ones. He said that farmers were dying due to hunger before the Adityanath government came to power and the BJP ensured adequate support.“The previous governments did the work of ruining the condition of farmers where they were forced to commit suicide. Our government revived all the shut sugar mills and even set up new ones. With this, our government also ensured timely payment to the sugarcane farmers,” Yogi Adityanath said.The chief minister also claimed that during the rule of the BJP sugarcane farmers received twice the amount of money than they received during the earlier regimes. “It is noteworthy that during Mayawati's tenure from 2007-2012, 30 lakh cane farmers were paid ₹52,131 crore and during the Akhilesh regime from 2012-2017, a payment of ₹95,215 crore was made to 33 lakh farmers. The payment made by the BJP-led UP government is twice the amount that was made by the former Bahujan Samajwadi Party government and 1.5 times more than the Samajwadi Party government,” the government highlighted in a press release.Yogi also said that the government procurement of crops during the rabi and kharif season increased under his government. He said that the government was focused on removing middlemen and purchasing directly from farmers.“During 2016-17, only 6 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was procured through the middlemen, and not directly from the farmers. The farmers did not get the benefit of the MSP. Even during the Covid period, more than 66 lakh metric tonnes of paddy were purchased from the farmers at MSP by our government,” he said.He further added that the government procured at least 56 lakh metric tons of wheat directly from the farmers.Direct Benefit TransferThe chief minister said that the state government transferred ₹37,388 crores to more than 2.54 crore farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana along with hiking the amount of MSP.Adityanath said that the government waived ₹36,000 crore of about 86 lakh farmers to help them get back on their feet. “The pro-farmers approach of the state government played a huge role in the production of 2,399 lakh MT of food grains during the past four and a half years. Furthermore, the government has also provided compensation of ₹2,376 crore to the farmers under Prime Minister Fasal Bima Yojana,” the chief minister said.The government in the release also said that it paid over ₹4.72 crore to farmers as crop loans, made at least 45 agricultural produce free from mandi duty, set up 220 more markets for the sale of farmers' crops, modernised 27 old mandis, reduced mandi duty by 1% and also established 291 e-NAM mandis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-says-govt-raised-farmers-income-removed-middlemen-101632072568824.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Anandpur Sahib sacrilege: Expose the conspirators, says SAD chief||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday slammed the Congress government for its failure to expose and act against conspirators behind the recent sacrilege at Takht Kesgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib. In a statement, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief said it was condemnable that the conspirators behind this heinous crime were not being brought to book. “No attempt is being made to investigate the antecedents of the culprit and find out whether he was instigated to commit this ghastly act to spoil the peace of the state,” he said. Sukhbir added that it was unfortunate that the police had not acted in the matter even five days after the sacrilege of Sri Guru Granth Sahib. “Incidents of sacrilege are taking place on a regular basis, but the police are not able to uncover the conspiracy,” he said. The SAD president said that even earlier peace and communal harmony of Punjab was destroyed through acts of sacrilege in both gurdwaras and temples. “This time, too, the Congress government is failing to prevent these planned incidents of sacrilege, which have the propensity to lead to communal clashes and spoil the peace and communal harmony of Punjab. If this conspiracy is not nipped in the bud, then the state could go back to the dark era,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/anandpur-sahib-sacrilege-expose-the-conspirators-says-sad-chief-101632069961063.html
19-09-2021||Other||Alleging negligence by officers, Haryana MLA threatens to withdraw support||Alleging negligence of the elected representatives by the officers Independent MLA from Kaithal’s Pundri assembly constituency in Haryana, Randhir Gollen, has threatened to withdraw support from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) alliance government if the required steps were not taken.“I personally feel that the bureaucracy is dominating everywhere (in the government) and nobody is ready to listen to the elected representatives, whether they are ministers or MLAs,” Gollen said in an interaction with the media persons at Kaithal.Without naming anybody, he alleged that the officers are not taking the elected representatives seriously. “If they (officers) will not listen to us, what is the importance of an elected MLA?” he added.The MLA said that in the democracy he was elected by the people so that he could work for them but what will he do if the officers will not listen to him and what is the role of the elected representatives in the democracy. “How will we help the people who have elected us if the officers will not listen to us?” he added.Gollen said that he will take up this issue with the chief minister and will try to take strict action against such officers. “Even, if I fail to take action against these officers I will not even hesitate to quit everything,” said Golan, who is also the chairman of the Haryana Tourism Corporation.“I am committed to working for the people of my constituency. I don’t have any interest to remain in this government if I am not allowed to work for the people of my constituency,” he added.On being contacted, Gollen said that the officers were not giving importance to the MLAs. He also alleged corruption in police stations and tehsils. He said that he will soon take up this issue with the chief minister.In July, Randhir Singh Golan, along with his two sons and wife, was allegedly booked for dowry demand and harassment on the complaint of his daughter-in-law.Gollen was earlier associated with the BJP but he left the party and contested independently from the Pundri assembly seat as the party did not give him a ticket and fielded Advocate Ved Pal. Reacting to a video in which he was heard saying that he will not hesitate to come out from the government if his concerns were not addressed, Gollen told HT that he has threatened to leave chairmanship and other facilities provided to him if the action was not taken on the concerns he raised.“The chief minister is an honest person but there are problems at the ground level, especially in tehsils and police stations,” he added. He, however, did not disclose the names of any officer involved in corruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alleging-negligence-by-officers-haryana-mla-threatens-to-withdraw-support-101632069122884.html
19-09-2021||Lucknow||UP CM confident of winning 350+ seats in 2022 assembly elections, lauds his govt’s pro-business stance, Covid efforts||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday expressed confidence that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would return to power by winning more than 350 seats in the 403-seat state assembly. The CM also said that his government has reinforced the rule of law in the state and provided good governance in a transparent manner.“We delivered on all the promises we made before coming to power in 2017 catering to all the sections including youth, women, farmers, poor without any discrimination on caste or religion basis,” said Adityanath and further claimed that every individual is happy in the state because of the transparent development model. Further, he also said that it was because of this that his party was confident of winning more than 350 seats in the upcoming UP assembly elections next year. He made the claims during an event to celebrate the completion of four and a half years of his government.While slamming the previous regime for frequent riots in the state between 2012 and 2017, Adityanath also claimed that there were no riots under his rule. “My government may well boast of having no single riot during the last four and a half years, the criminals were shown their place and the property of mafias, acquired through unscrupulous manner, worth over ₹1800 crore was either seized or demolished,” he said.“The habitual criminals and mafia were directly under government patronage during the previous regime and the period between 2012 and 2017 witnessed riots every three-four days,” he had also said.‘UP now second largest economy’Claiming that Uttar Pradesh, which used to be the sixth largest economy, has now become the second, the CM said that over three lakh crore rupees have been invested in the state after his government held the investor summit in 2018.Also, the CM said that the state used to be at 14th position in the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ rankings in 2016 and has now reached the second rank. “With a conducive environment created by the government in terms of controlled law and order, transparent processes and prompt decision-making, it came as no surprise that even the companies from China relocated their businesses in Uttar Pradesh,” the CM said.“We have reached the position where the exports are at 1.61 lakh crore making Uttar Pradesh as the export hub while the MSME sector which was lying in the dumps during the previous government has become growth engine of the economy with the flagship scheme One District One Product (ODOP), promoting the traditional crafts and craftsmen, has been a grand success,” he added.Covid-19 managementAdityanath also said that the health infrastructure in UP was created during the most trying times and his government’s Covid-19 management was a “torchbearer” for many states. He also claimed that the relief given during disaster situations could not reach the beneficiaries for months, but his government enabled providing instant relief to those in crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-confident-of-winning-350-seats-in-2022-assembly-elections-lauds-his-govt-s-pro-business-stance-covid-efforts-101632068701398.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Hours before resigning as CM, Amarinder expressed anguish in letter to Sonia||Hours before he formally resigned as the Punjab chief minister on Saturday, Captain Amarinder Singh wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, expressing “anguish” at the political events of the past five months, which he said were “not based on understanding of the national imperatives of Punjab and its concerns”. “Notwithstanding my personal anguish, I hope this will not cause any damage to the hard-earned peace and development in the state, and that the efforts I have been focusing during the last few years would continue unabated, ensuring justice to one and all,” Amarinder said in the letter, while informing Sonia about his decision to relinquish office. Also Read: Amarinder Singh extends best wishes to Charanjit Singh ChanniAt the same time, he expressed satisfaction at having done his best for the border state that has many geo-political and internal security concerns. “The people of Punjab are looking up to the Indian National Congress for its mature and effective public policies,” he said, while listing his government’s achievements in the past four-and-a-half years. Amarinder said he had worked wholeheartedly for the welfare of the people of Punjab, the state he loves from the core of his heart. “This was satisfying for me because I won eight out of 13 seats in the Parliament elections of 2019 (besides winning) panchayat and urban local bodies elections decisively,” he said. ‘Fulfilled 89% promises’The two-time chief minister claimed that his government had fulfilled 89% of the promises while work was in progress on the remaining commitments. “The state is today nearly free from the pandemic, and efforts are continuing to improve health infrastructure and provide care to the deserving people free of cost to prevent the anticipated third wave,” he said, adding that Punjab was fully geared to meet the future challenges.On the sacrilege cases and subsequent police action of 2015, Amarinder said his government had established a judicial commission of inquiry, whose report was received on August 16, 2018. The report was accepted and full legal action was taken thereon, he said. With regard to the controversial power purchase agreements (PPAs) that were signed during the Akali regime, Amarinder said his government had invested ₹3,709 crore in electricity transmission and distribution infrastructure and released about ₹11,000 crore per annum for the benefit of 22 lakh scheduled caste and backward class consumers and 14 lakh farmers. “For the first time, we supplied subsidised power to the industry at an annual cost of over ₹2,000 crore,” he said, adding that the review of PPAs was underway. Talking about agricultural sector, Amarinder wrote that his government had provided debt relief of ₹4,624 crore to 5.64 lakh farmers and ₹526 crore to 2.68 lakh farm workers. Referring to his promise to break the back of drug peddlers and smugglers in the state, he said he had done so relentlessly by establishing a special task force that led to 62,744 arrests. He noted that with the revamp of the mining policy in 2017, the state’s yearly revenue had increased from ₹35 crore to ₹300 crore. Amarinder also drew Sonia’s attention to the fact that Punjab had been ranked at top in school education by the ministry of human resource development. He said of 19,000 schools in the state, 14,000 had been developed as smart schools, while the work is underway in the remaining 5,000 schools. “We have also started eight new universities in private and public sector, and established 19 new government colleges and 25 new ITIs,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-hours-before-resigning-as-cm-amarinder-expressed-anguish-in-letter-to-sonia-101632068761014.html
19-09-2021||Delhi||Vehicle owners beware! ₹10K fine for not carrying valid pollution certificate||Delhi government on Sunday asked vehicle owners to carry valid pollution under control (PUC) certificates to avoid punitive actions which also include suspension of driving licence for three months.A public notice issued by the Delhi transport department on Sunday stated that if vehicle owners are caught without a valid PUC certificate then they may face imprisonment up to six months or fine up to ₹10,000 or both. The vehicle owners will also be disqualified from holding their driving licence for three months.“The Transport department, Government of NCT of Delhi, in its ongoing efforts to control pollution and improve air quality in Delhi, requests all motor vehicle owners in Delhi to ply their vehicles only with valid pollution under control certificate,” the notice said.“All registered vehicle owners are requested to get their vehicles checked from the pollution checking centres authorised by the Transport department to avoid any penalty/ imprisonment/ suspension of driving licence,” the notification further said.Vehicles are tested from time to time for their emission standards for various pollutants like carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide after which they are given PUC certificates. Delhi has over 900 authorised pollution checking centres which are set up across various petrol pumps and workshops in the city for the convenience of motorists. These centres issue UC certificates to vehicles complying with prescribed pollution norms after conducting pollution checks.The fee for pollution checking in case of petrol and CNG driven two and three wheelers is ₹60. For four-wheeled vehicles it is ₹80. The fee for pollution checking certificate of diesel vehicles is ₹100.According to the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, all motor vehicles (including those conforming to BS-I/ BS-II/ BS-III/BS-IV as well as vehicles plying on CNG/LPG) is required to carry a valid PUC Certificate after the expiry of period of one year from the date of its first registration. The validity of four-wheeled BS-IV compliant vehicles is one year and for other vehicles it is three months.The order comes as the winter season begins and as pollution levels are expected to spike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vehicle-owners-beware-rs-10k-fine-for-not-carrying-valid-pollution-certificate-101632065625764.html
19-09-2021||Patna||Vice President to be chief guest at 2nd RPCAU convocation||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu will be the chief guest at the second convocation of the Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University (RPCAU) at Pusa in Samastipur on November 8.“We had sent an invitation to the Vice President. After we got his consent, we went to thank him,” said vice-chancellor Dr Ramesh Chandra Srivastava under whose guidance the Sukhet model was started and is now set to expand to various districts of the state and outside.Created in 2016 by converting the erstwhile Rajendra Agricultural University into a central university, the institution was recently in the news after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his Mann Ki Baat programme, appreciated its ‘Sukhet Model’ initiative -- which incentivises waste management in rural management by making available organic fertilisers to farmers and providing assistance for the purchase of LPG cylinders, thus dealing with the problem of pollution and encouraging organic farming.The VC said that the model has huge potential to transform villages and also generate plenty of resources for the villagers, besides incentives in the form of money for cooking gas cylinders and encouragement for organic farming.The university has already started preparation for the convocation. The students have to apply by September 15 for obtaining a degree in person. Nearly 750 students are expected to receive their degree in person, said the VC.“Dr GR Chintala, chairman of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), is also set to visit the university to discuss the Sukhet model and how it could be funded for adoption in other places. Some entrepreneurs and non-government organisations have also evinced interest and want to adopt the Sukhet model. Some people also want to use funds under Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) for this. We are setting up units in seven more districts (Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, East and West Champaran, Gopalganj, Siwan and Saran) except Supaul and Mokama where the units are already working,” said Srivastava.At the first convocation of RAU in 2018, President Ram Nath Kovind had delivered the Convocation Address and underlined the growing need to modernize agriculture to face the emerging challenges both on the climate and productivity fronts. In 2019, the university had planned to invite Prime Minister to the convocation, but due to political developments, it could not materialise while 2020 was lost due to Covid disruption.Kovind had, in his address, exhorted the university administration to take the students to the birthplace of India’s first President Dr Rajendra Prassad at Jeeradei in Siwan district to draw inspiration from the personality of great freedom fighter.Srivastava said a Kisan Mela was organised at Jeeradei in Siwan after that. A big project is also in the pipeline for the place, he said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/vice-president-to-be-chief-guest-at-2nd-rpcau-convocation-101632065762731.html
19-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan education dept issues advisory for parents, teachers against online games||Parents and teachers in Rajasthan have been advised not to let children become addicted to online games in order to avoid what is known as “gaming disorder”. In this age of technology, online gaming is very popular among children. The closure of schools due to the Covid-19 pandemic has increased the use of mobile and internet among children, due to which the trend of online gaming among children has also increased rapidly. These online games are easily available to children and are played on devices like computers, tablets, and mobile phones, a release issued by the education department stated. These games are designed in such a way that they excite the player to the extent of passion to play further. This is the reason why players become addicted to it and eventually suffer from gaming disorder due to which the educational and social life of the child is adversely affected, said the release.In order to prevent the increasingly negative effects of online gaming in children and to make parents and teachers aware in this regard, an advisory has been issued by the Rajasthan School Education Council in which effective ways to overcome the ill effects of online gaming have been shared. The advisory contains the do’s and don’ts for parents and teachers to protect their children from online gaming addiction. “The parents and teachers are asked to keep a watch if the child is behaving abnormally and whether they are mostly involved in online activities. They must also watch out for a sudden increase in time spent online, especially on social media or if they switch the screen or the window on being or turn aggressive after using the internet,” the advisory stated. Child specialist, Dr Ashok Gupta said too much screen view is increasing among children which has resulted in physical and mental illnesses such as obesity, depression, anxiety, insomnia, sleep, and stress disorders. “We need to make proactive intervention, control and move them from online to real-time. The children need to be associated with sports,” he said. Rajasthan Teacher Association (Shekhawat), spokesperson, Prakash Mishra said children are into mobile and screen for a long these days which not only affects their eyes but also their attention and development of the brain – this leads to irritation and aggressive nature. Due to the pandemic, they were into mobiles. In school, they play together, study, and eat together, which strengthens their social behaviour,” he added.A mother of a 9-year-old boy, Poonam Dhaiya, said, “due to the pandemic, the children who used to spend more time in playgrounds are now spending most of their time using mobile phones or laptops. They are only supposed to attend online classes but there are chances that they may dive into other activities like gaming, instead of completely focusing on class. The parents cannot watch their children all the time and this creates a scope for children to get engaged in other activities without any monitoring of elders,” she said. Keep an eye on reducing grades and social behaviour of the child, and inform the school authorities. Establish an internet gateway at home that will help in effective monitoring, logging, and use of content by the child, the advisory said. Ensure that the child uses a computer that is placed in the family space. The advisory directs parents to use antivirus and firewall programs and configure the browser safely. “Take a screenshot (pressing print screen on keyboard) if something goes wrong while playing the online game and ask children to use a screen name instead of the real name. Inform if a stranger initiates inappropriate talks or asks for personal details”.The guidelines suggest asking children not to use a webcam, personal messaging or online chatting with strangers as it increases the possibilities of threat and misbehaviour from other players.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-education-dept-issues-advisory-for-parents-teachers-against-online-games-101632062582137.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Illegal sand mining racket busted in Moga district||An illegal sand mining racket has been busted with the arrest of eight men in Punjab’s Moga district, police said on Sunday.The men were carrying out illegal sand mining on the Sutlej riverbed at Sherpur Taiba village, said police. Eight vehicles, including five tractor-trailers and tippers loaded with sand and three earthmoving machines, were also recovered.Dhruman H Nimbale, senior superintendent of police, Moga, said a police team raided the site on a tip-off and caught the accused red-handed. “Mining activities are prohibited, even at authorised sites, in Punjab due to the monsoon. The accused men were carrying out sand mining at an unauthorised site,” he said. Police also recovered some receipts from them, which they were using to pass off their activities as legal. “We have forwarded these receipts to the state mining department for verification,” said the SSP.The accused have been identified as Karnail Singh, Sukhwinder Singh, Surjan Singh, Malkit Singh, Jaspreet Singh, Rajanpreet Singh, Sahib Singh and Surinder Singh. They have been booked under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code besides under the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-illegal-sand-mining-racket-busted-in-moga-district-101632060121406.html
19-09-2021||Other||Srinagar’s accounts for 50% of J-K’s Covid-19 caseload, L-G cautions people||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday urged the people of Srinagar to follow precautions against Covid-19 as 50 per cent of the daily cases in the Union territory were contributed by the summer capital.The L-G cautioned the people saying that if they don’t follow SOPs, the administration might resort to change in the measures which so far had been towards normalization.“Of all the new Covid-19 positive cases, half of them are coming from Srinagar district. Here, mostly the people of Srinagar are present, I would mostly humbly request that we are trying for more and more vaccinations and you please cooperate in this,” Sinha said during a public function in Srinagar.He said that they would have to change the measures if things start looking grim.“If we don’t follow the SOPs then God forbid the same (past) situation might come (at a time) when all the things have become normal, and we have to bring the change again,” he said.He made fervent appeals to people to be cautious. “I request you with folded hands, all of you are educated and bright, please follow the SOPs and urge others like your neighbours and relatives to follow the SOPs. It is a bigger social service,” he said.For the past 10 days, the Summer capital Srinagar has recorded a minimum of 41 and a maximum of 96 cases of Covid-19 on a daily basis while the daily cases in Jammu and Kashmir in these 10 days ranged between 86 and 173.Between September 9 and 18, the Union territory saw 1,463 cases of which 706 were reported in Srinagar alone.Out of 1,479 active cases across J&K, Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 773 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 144 and 135 active cases respectively till September 18.Srinagar is the second affected district in terms of fatalities with 838 deaths owing to the Covid-19 infection. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,143 fatalities.Earlier this week, Srinagar DC Ajaz Asad had said the district had 88 containment zones.“Currently, we have 88 containment zones in Srinagar, 22 of which were added in the past one week. Due to special congregations, there has been a spike in the cases from certain areas or pockets of the city,” he had said.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 327,773 while the death toll stands at 4,416.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/srinagars-accounts-for-50-of-j-k-s-covid-19-caseload-l-g-cautions-people-101632059881267.html
19-09-2021||Kolkata||4th finance panel in Bengal flouted Constitution norms, alleges guv Dhankhar||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday alleged that the fourth state finance commission in West Bengal continued beyond its five-year term in violation of Constitution. In a series of posts on Twitter, Dhankhar claimed said members of the panel are "liable to return salary" and "all expenses need to be recovered as public money cannot be so squandered".SFC under constitution is for five years. Fourth SFC @MamataOfficial continued beyond in violation of Constitution. Chairman and Members are liable to return salary and perks to State and all expenses need to be recovered from concerned as Public money cannot be so squandered.Abhirup Sarkar, the chairman of the fourth state finance commission, however, said the members of the panel did not receive any fee after submitting their report to chief minister Mamata Banerjee in February 2016.“There were three part-time members of the commission. They used to get sitting fees for their meetings. We have not received any money after submitting our report in February 2016. No new SFC has been formed yet,” Sarkar was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The West Bengal government constituted the fourth finance panel in April 2013.Dhankhar also claimed that state finance commission in West Bengal did not make recommendations to the governor since 2014, which, he described as "collapse of constitutional mechanism". Recommendations to Governor are for principles that should govern the distribution between State and Panchayats/Municipalities of net proceeds of taxes, duties, tolls & fees leviable @MamataOfficial , which may be divided and allocated between State and Panchayats/Municipalities.Dhankhar posted on Twitter that the recommendations to the governor are for principles that should govern the distribution between state and panchayats or municipalities of net proceeds of taxes, duties, tolls and fees leviable, which may be divided and allocated between state and panchayats/municipalities.Dhankhar has been at loggerheads with Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal ever since he assumed office in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/4th-finance-panel-in-bengal-flouted-constitution-norms-alleges-guv-dhankhar-101632057057754.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Gold worth ₹39 lakh, concealed in capsules, seized at Amritsar airport||The customs officials seized 822 grams of gold from a passenger after his arrival from Dubai at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar on Sunday.The officials said the passenger had concealed the gold in form of paste in three plastic covers shaped like capsules in an attempt to deceive the security. “On Sunday, a passenger, who had arrived at the Amritsar airport from Dubai in Air India’s flight number 930, was intercepted on the basis of suspicion and intelligence-based information. When the passenger was questioned, he admitted the concealment of gold in paste form in three capsules,” said a spokesperson of the customs preventive commissionerate, Amritsar. The officials said the value of the recovered gold is ₹39 lakh. The passenger’s name was not disclosed, citing ongoing investigation. On August 24, the customs officials had seized 1,600 kg gold worth ₹78 lakh from a man who landed at the airport on an IndiGo flight from Sharjah. This gold was also melted in paste form to deceive the security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gold-worth-39-lakh-concealed-in-capsules-seized-at-amritsar-airport-101632056519852.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Charanjit Singh Channi to be first Dalit CM of Punjab||Three-time Congress MLA Charanjit Singh Channi will be the next chief minister of Punjab. The Dalit leader’s name was announced by Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat on Twitter after a series of meetings and feedback gathered by two central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary from the party legislators. He will be the first Dalit chief minister of the state. Also read: ‘Captain’s target is Gandhi family…’: Sidhu aide on Amarinder Singh“It gives me immense pleasure to announce that Sh. Charanjit Singh Channi has been unanimously elected as the Leader of CLP of Punjab,” Rawat tweeted, tagging Congress president Rahul Gandhi. Channi represents the Chamkaur Sahib assembly constituency and was a minister in the state cabinet. Channi meets governor, stakes claim to form govtAccompanied by Rawat, central observers and several ministers, Channi met governor Banwarilal Purohit on Sunday evening at Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh and staked claim to form the government. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and former state unit chief Sunil Jakhar were among the other party leaders whose names were considered by the party leadership.“The formal announcement of Randhawa’s name was delayed as Sidhu was not in favour of the party naming a Jat Sikh leader other than him for the CM’s post . It’s then that another cabinet minister, Charanjit Singh Channi’s name was being suggested by a section of legislators,” a party leader familiar with the developments said. Randhawa and Sidhu are Jat Sikhs. Earlier, Congress president Sonia Gandhi was in favour of Rajya Sabha MP Ambika Soni, but she declined the offer, advocating that a Sikh leader should be made the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charanjit-singh-channi-to-be-punjab-cm-101632055559649.html
19-09-2021||Dehradun||Char Dham yatra leads to surge in pilgrim footfall in Haridwar, over 5k arrive daily||With the High Court allowing Char Dham yatra with Covid-19 curbs, pilgrim influx in Haridwar has suddenly witnessed a major spike. On a daily basis, over 5000 pilgrims and tourists are arriving at Har-Ki-Pauri with many of them heading towards Char Dham situated in Chamoli, Rudraprayag, and Uttarkashi districts. Owing to Haridwar falling in Garhwal division and being the entry point of the revered Char Dham shrines of Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath along with, Hemkund Sahib, pilgrims from other states start their journey from Haridwar. From ancient times, taking sacred Ganga dip prior to going on Char Dham pilgrimage is considered auspicious. Booking and occupancy in hotels, guest houses, lodges, dharamshalas and ashrams have increased manifold in just two days after the opening up of Char Dham shrines for devotees. Ganga ghats at Har-Ki-Pauri, along with hotels and dharamshalas, are witnessing a major rush as just less than 45 days are left for the closure of the Char Dham portals. Travel Association of Haridwar general secretary Sumit Shrikunj pointed that already a large number of enquiries and bookings by pilgrims and tourists from neighbouring states are being received. “We have sent people on Char Dham pilgrimage with adherence to Covid-19 guidelines. There is much relief that finally the High Court and the state government has allowed the annual Char Dham pilgrimage which is linked to the livelihood of thousands of people here,” said Travel Association general secretary Shrikunj. Hotelier Neeraj Kumar said that the previous year, Char Dham pilgrimage also got affected due to Covid-19 which resulted in a major loss to the hotel industry in the state. Hoteliers have also started calling additional staff to cater to the rise in the number of bookings on a daily basis. Hotel rooms as low as ₹500 to 5000 are available in Haridwar with the majority of hotels complying with Covid-19 SoP. Tour Traveler Association is charging 3.90 lakh for 10 days for a 27 seater tempo traveller and 75,000 for a five-seat car for nine days of Char Dham pilgrimage from Haridwar. Mansarovar Vyapar Mandal president Rakesh Khanna thanked chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami for presenting the legal as well as the religious, spiritual and economic aspect of the opening of the Char Dham pilgrimage. “Allowing Char Dham pilgrimage is a welcome step. Traders are a happy lot as for the past 20 months, the trader fraternity has got severely affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It is a good indication that pilgrims are flocking to the Garhwal region for religious and adventure tourism,” said City Trader Union president Kamal Brijwasi. Saint community has also urged pilgrims to arrive for Char Dham pilgrimage adhering strictly to Covid-19 guidelines and preventive measures. “Had met CM Pushkar Singh Dhami twice in this regard. He had given assurance and now finally Char Dham pilgrimage has once again restarted,” said Mahamandaleshwar Shri Panch Dashnam Juna Akhada Swami Yatindranand Giri While chief medical officer Haridwar Dr Shambhu Kumar Jha said that Covid-19 testing has been increased in view of the opening-up of Char Dham pilgrimage and Haridwar being the entry city for the revered shrines. “Vaccination, as well as Covid-19 testing facility, is in place and we are also urging pilgrims to maintain social distancing, wear face masks and adhere to Char Dham specific Covid SoP,” said CMO Haridwar Jha. Senior Superintendent of Haridwar police Yogendra Singh Rawat said that at Har-Ki-Pauri and border entry points, police personnel are also generating awareness about Covid-19 guidelines and Char Dham-specific SoP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/char-dham-yatra-leads-to-surge-in-pilgrim-footfall-in-haridwar-over-5k-arrive-daily-101632054059473.html
19-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh relaxes Covid-19 cap on wedding guests||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday increased the maximum number of people allowed at weddings and other celebrations to 100. Earlier, this limit was capped at 50, for events taking place in both closed and open locations.According to an order issued by additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi, a maximum of 100 people would now be allowed in wedding and other ceremonies that are taking place in open spaces and closed spaces, following strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol. Also, a Covid-19 help desk should also be set up at the entrance of the location, the order said.Further, the seating arrangement for the guests should be done maintaining a distance of two yards (six feet) at the venue of the event or the ceremony, the order said. Proper arrangement for cleanliness and sanitation should be made at toilets in the venue, the order also said. However, all other restrictions that are existing in the state would continue to be in effect.Earlier on September 7, the state government had also relaxed the night curfew in the state by an hour, citing the falling number of infections. Night curfew which was initially imposed between 10pm and 6am is now in effect between 11pm and 6am.The announcement came a day after the state reported nine new Covid-19 cases and no fresh deaths. The total positive cases so far in UP reached 1,709,652 while the death toll remained at 22,887, a bulletin from the state health department showed.The state also has 193 active cases of the disease, according to the latest data. Also, 94,153,859 doses of the vaccine have been administered in UP as of 7am on Sunday, of which 77,509,869 are first doses and 16,643,990 are second doses, according to the data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-relaxes-covid-19-cap-on-wedding-guests-101632051709139.html
19-09-2021||Delhi||BJP expels three councillors on allegations of corruption, extortion||Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Adesh Gupta on Sunday expelled three municipal councillors from the party for six years on allegations of corruption. Gupta warned that if any other lawmakers are found involved in financial irregularities they will not be spared.Gupta’s action comes months ahead of the municipal elections in the three municipal corporations early next year. Gupta said that even officers of the civic bodies will not be spared if they are found involved in corruption. “Not just councilors but officers of the municipal corporations (MCDs) will also not be spared if they are found involved in corruption”, Gupta was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Saidulajab councillor Sanjay Thakur in South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), New Ashok Nagar councillor Rajni Babloo Pandey in East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) and Mukherjee Nagar councillor Pooja Madan in North Delhi Municipal Corporation were removed from the BJP.“You are informed that due to numerous complaints of corruption against you, you are removed from the primary membership of the party for six years. You were many times made aware of this and asked to mend your corrupt behaviour but to no avail. You are removed from the party for six years with immediate effect,” the expulsion letters sent to the councillors read.Delhi’s three civic bodies are governed by the BJP while the government is led by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). The AAP is the primary opposition party in these three MCDs. The AAP and Congress plan to use the corruption in these civic bodies in the upcoming civic body polls.The BJP in the 2017 civic polls did not give nomination tickets to any of the councillors as they faced allegations of corruption. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal over the past years alleged that corruption and mismanagement in civic bodies by BJP councillors led to poor financial situation of the three municipalities.Notably, AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj accused ousted BJP councillor Sanjay Thakur of having a nexus with local builders and extorted money from individuals in April this year. AAP leader Durgesh Pathak too complained in August that ousted councillor Rajni Babloo Pandey and her kin was involved in extorting money from people who were involved in illegal constructions in the area.The party released an audio recording between a builder and the councillor's brother-in-law where a person said he gave money to civic officials and also to the councillor's brother-in-law but the construction was stalled, news agency PTI reported. HT could not verify the authenticity of the audio clip. Both the councillors in respective occasions called the allegations ‘baseless’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-expels-three-councillors-on-allegations-of-corruption-extortion-101632052036936.html
19-09-2021||Delhi||Court slams culture of ‘backdoor entry’, says it insults meritorious students||The Delhi high court observed that it is necessary to stop the practice of backdoor entries in all categories of educational institutions. The court said this practice demeans millions of students across the nation who work hard and toil to secure admissions on the basis of merit.“It is high time that such backdoor entries in educational institutions, including medical colleges, should stop. Lakhs of students all over the country work hard and toil to secure admissions to educational institutions on the basis of their merit,” a bench headed by Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh said.The observation made by the court came while it dismissed an appeal by five students who were granted admission in 2016 by Bhopal's LN Medical College Hospital and Research Centre, but did not undergo the centralised counselling conducted by the Department of Medical Education (DME), which is a prerequisite set by the Supreme Court for admissions in all government and private medical colleges. The counselling is done on the basis of the NEET examination results.The Medical Council of India (MCI) sent several letters of discharge to the students and the medical college but neither party paid any attention to them. Instead of discharging the students, the college treated the petitioners as students and allowed them to attend the course, sit for exams and also get promoted.The students filed a petition seeking quashing of the discharge communications issued by the MCI and for a direction that they be permitted to continue their studies in the medical college as regular medical students. The petition was dismissed by a single judge which was challenged by the students. It was later quashed again by the Delhi high court when a bench led by justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh observed that the appeal lacked merit.“To permit any backdoor entry to any educational institution would be grossly unfair to those who are denied admission, despite being more meritorious, on account of the seats being taken and blocked by such backdoor entrants,” the bench observed. The bench also said the petitioners are responsible for the mess they find themselves in. The court said that if the students would have paid heed to the letter and acted according to the discharge instructions in April 2017 then they could have saved four years of their lives. “They did not, and acted recklessly. Despite not having any interim orders in their favour in their writ petition, they continued to attend the course – obviously, at their own peril,” it said.The MCI counsel T Singhdev said that no party paid heed to the warnings despite the authority issuing discharge letters as early as April 2017. He said that they continued to ignore it even after repeated communications. He also highlighted that the petitioners did not obtain any interim order from the court and continued to take admissions in subsequent years.Singhdev said that they took examinations in the college at their own peril. He said that the petitioners were aware that their admission to the college was ‘irregular and illegal, being in the teeth of the judgement of the Supreme Court.’The counsel for the petitioners requested that some leniency be given to them and contended that they ranked higher in the NEET examination than even those who were granted admission through the central counselling conducted by the DME in relation to the medical college.The court said that if the medical college informed the DME on time regarding the vacant positions, the body would then have conducted further counselling and sent names on merit on the basis of the NEET examination conducted in 2016. “It is quite possible that the names of other candidates, more meritorious than the five petitioners, may have been sent,” the court said.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-slams-culture-of-backdoor-entry-says-it-insults-meritorious-students-101632050529767.html
19-09-2021||Bangalore||Police nab 2 in connection with moral policing in Bengaluru||The Bengaluru police on Sunday said it arrested two persons on Saturday night in the case of moral policing by at least two men who assaulted a biker for carrying a woman of different faith as pillion rider on his two-wheeler.“A video of the assault on a bike rider travelling along with a woman from a different faith was viral on social media. In this connection, a case has been registered in SG Palya, Suddaguntepalya Police station. Our police swiftly acted on this and arrested two accused within 12 hours. Further investigation is going on,” said Joshi Srinath Mahadev, the deputy commissioner of police (South-East division) on Sunday.In the video, one of the two accused threatens and assaults the biker and the other taunts and humiliates the woman.“Remove your burqa and do whatever you want,” the perpetrator is heard saying.They then force the woman to give them her husband’s mobile phone number and hurl abuses in the husband’s name for shaming the entire “community” by allowing his wife to travel with a stranger.The incident comes at a time when there has been a visible increase in the number of hate crimes and moral policing with vigilante groups often resorting to violence in the name of safeguarding the religion.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that such incidents will not be tolerated and will be dealt with an iron hand.“In connection with the case of assault on a man travelling with a woman of different faith,@BlrCityPolice has acted swiftly, identified, secured 2 accused persons, registered case & legal action is initiated. My Govt deals with such incidents with an iron hand,” the chief minister of Karnataka tweeted from his official handle on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/police-nab-2-in-connection-with-moral-policing-in-bengaluru-101632047458747.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Taking a plunge to glide over my fear of heights||Acrophobia, the fear of heights, has haunted me ever since childhood. I remember being afraid of standing near the parapet or the railing of a bridge. I don’t know where the fear of heights stemmed from, but it certainly grew with age. I avoided elevators, high-rise buildings, standing in the balcony or for that matter even driving in the hills gave me anxiety attacks. But somewhere in my heart, I nurtured a wish to break the shackles of my fear. Whenever I watched people paragliding in the hills, I yearned to fly like a bird, too. But I couldn’t gather the courage to take the plunge. This summer, I decided to give wings to my desire and fly over the steep hills of Bir-Billing in Himachal Pradesh. When I shared my yearning, my wife laughed it off. “Leave aside the jump from the top of the hill, I doubt if you’ll even make it to the hilltop without a panic attack,” she chided. Somehow, I persuaded her to accompany me to the haven of paragliders. A friend provided me with the contact number of an expert at tandem paragliding. An amiable and energetic guy, he assured us of a safe and smooth sailing and lodged us and the paragliding equipment in an SUV before taking us on a 12-km perilous ride through the dense forest to reach the highest peak of Billing. A thick canopy of clouds and the lush surroundings at the height of 8,000 feet were absolutely surreal. A paragliding wing and harness were tied to my waist and a selfie stick with a camera was handed over to me to record my adventure. When the pilot paraglider was apprising me of the dos and don’ts, I went numb with fear. I was supposed to run down towards the edge of the hill for my paragliding wing to trap the wind in its sails to help me fly over the hills. While the pilot was urging me to run with the maximum strength, my heart was thumping aloud, and I was sweating profusely in the freezing cold. I found it hard to take even a single step towards the edge of the cliff. “Okay dear, I quit. I will come back tomorrow,” I pleaded with my mentor. “No sir! This is an adventure sport. If you don’t do it today, you won’t be able to do it ever again. Remember ‘darr ke aage jeet hai’,” he said before giving me a gentle push towards the valley. With my heart in the mouth, I gingerly darted towards the gorge. A trot of merely 10 steps and a strong current of the wind filled the canopy and took control of the paraglider. There I was! Sailing over the clouds and verdant hills dotted generously with Rhododendrons, deodars and oaks, like a bird. In the blink of an eye, I was in serene heaven and my fear of heights had vanished into thin air. A smooth landing after half an hour of flying was the icing on the cake. I bade farewell to my paragliding pilot, Yash Thakur, with the promise to return in winter to fly over the snow-laden hills to experience the sublime divinity, once again. rajivsharma.rs201067@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/taking-a-plunge-to-glide-over-my-fear-of-heights-101632047398971.html
19-09-2021||Dehradun||Kejriwal promises job to each family, ₹5000 to unemployed Uttarakhand youth||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced that if elected to power in Uttarakhand, AAP will ensure employment in every household of the state (Har Ghar Rozgar) and provide ₹5,000/monthly stipend to unemployed youth. He also announced that AAP will provide 100,000 government jobs within six months of coming to power in the state.Kejriwal, who is on a day-long visit to Haldwani in Nainital, said his party will provide 80% reservation for Uttarakhand residents in the jobs in the state.“An online job portal will be launched on the lines of Delhi. It will contain the data of both the job provided and those who get jobs. When such a portal was started in Delhi, more than 1 million people got employment”, he said.Kejriwal said apart from this, a ministry of employment and migration affairs will be formed in the state. “This separate department will make effective policies only for employment generation and checking of migration from the hill state” he said.Taking a dig at the frequent change of chief ministers in Uttarakhand in the last few months, the AAP national convenor said if people vote for the BJP, they will get a new CM every month. “If they vote for AAP, they will get a CM who will give employment for five years”, he said.On the question of the feasibility of providing free power when the economic condition of Uttarakhand was weak, he said, “Government should have the will power. And we showed it by giving free electricity in New Delhi.”Kejriwal also said that there were good people in many parties including the BJP and the Congress, who were feeling suffocated there. “Such good people were welcome in AAP, ‘’ he said.Later, Kejriwal took out a roadshow and also held a public meeting at Ramlila Maidan in Haldwani.This is Kejriwal’s third visit to the hill state this year. On his last visit on August 17, Kejriwal announced Colonel Ajay Kothiyal’s (Retd) name as party’s chief ministerial candidate for the 2002 assembly polls and promised to make Uttarakhand the spiritual capital for the Hindus across the world if elected to power.During his visit on July 11, Kejriwal announced 300 units of free electricity to every household if AAP was elected to power here. Talking about replicating AAP’s Delhi model of governance in Uttarakhand, he had said that the party will bring a major change in the schools and health infrastructure if voted to form the government.With less than a year left for the next state assembly elections, AAP is aggressively busy in poll preparations. Over the last eight to nine months or so, it has been attacking the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on various issues including alleged corruption, unemployment and on the front of health infrastructure.In July, the AAP state unit also launched ‘Kejriwal Muft Bijli Guarantee Card’, under which party’s 10,000 workers will visit households in all the 70 assembly constituencies and urge residents to register for free electricity and give them the Kejriwal card as a token of guarantee for free power if the party is voted to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/kejriwal-promises-job-to-each-family-rs-5000-to-unemployed-uttarakhand-youth-101632045658567.html
19-09-2021||Mumbai||Ganesh Visarjan: Thousands take to streets in cities across Maha amid curbs||Thousands of devotees across Maharashtra were seen taking one last glimpse of the elephant as the 10-day subdued Ganeshotsav came to an end on Sunday.While the administration has imposed strict restrictions on immersion of idols in all cities, including Mumbai, for the second time in a row amid an unrelenting coronavirus pandemic, volunteers and a lot of devotees were found taking to the streets as part of the final processions. Some of the revellers were wearing masks and following social distancing, many weren't.Also read | Do’s and Don’ts for Mumbai on Ganesh idol immersion dayIn Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has issued strict orders to ensure social distancing and Covid-appropriate behaviour, besides putting a cap on the number of people to be allowed to enter the designated immersion venues. A large number of idols were immersed on the fifth day of the Ganpati festival on Wednesday in the sea, rivers, lakes and water bodies.On the commencement of the festival last Friday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had urged citizens to launch a strong movement against the coronavirus. Thackeray had said he prayed to Lord Ganesh to destroy all "evil and negativity" as fears of an impending third wave of the virus loomed large.Separately, the Mumbai Police was on high alert and beefed up security across the city for the day in the wake of recent arrests of terror suspects. On Friday, the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad had nabbed a person in the city in connection with an alleged terror plot unearthed by Delhi Police. Processions, the hallmark of immersion days, are also banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ganesh-visarjan-thousands-take-to-streets-in-maha-cities-amid-curbs-101632043185522.html
19-09-2021||Kolkata||Three iconic Kolkata restaurants get heritage tags||Three iconic Kolkata restaurants — Mocambo, Kwality, and Trincas —are set to receive the prestigious Indian Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage’s (Intach) heritage tag this Sunday. These popular Park Street eateries will have a heritage plaque by their entrances letting patrons and passers-by know that they have existed for at least six decades and are embodiments of the spirit and culture of the city.Intach awarded them the honour in December 2019, along with 13 other Kolkata eateries, but the plaque unveiling ceremony was delayed due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. “Fifteen restaurants had been given the heritage tag but due to the pandemic, the ceremony was delayed. Now that restaurants have opened, we felt it was the right time to celebrate the industry and boost morale,” GM Kapur, Intach Calcutta convenor, told reporters in early September.The City of Joy’s (as Kolkata is historically known as) first three restaurants to receive the honour have been in operation for over 60 years, and their menus have remained more or less unchanged, with a few additions over the years. Both Kwality and Trincas changed their menus, with Trincas introducing live musical performances and a full menu in 1959 and Kwality introducing a range of north Indian delicacies to its menu a few months after starting operation in 1952. Mocambo, however, has remained unchanged, both in terms of menu and its decor.Trincas shares a close associations with singers and performers like Usha Uthup, Biddu Appaiah, Savages, Flintstones, Checkered Tricycle—a band that had as drummer Indian rock music veteran Nondon Bagchi—Beat Four, Benny Rozario, Toto Wallang, Eve, Jenny, Linda and Flora. On Mocambo’s menu, the word ‘H’ can be found next to some dishes, such as Devilled Crab, Chicken ala Kiev and Chicken Tetrazzini, which stands for ‘Heritage’ and signifies dishes which date back to when the restaurant opened in 1956.These restaurants in Park Street have also been credited for introducing legions of Indians to the wonders of Jazz music through their live performances. Park Street, the popular Kolkata destination which houses all three restaurants, has been widely portrayed in films and televisions. Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan is also known for having a soft corner for this neighbourhood and the many restaurants that line this street. “Calcutta was the epitome of the celebration during these times in the entire country. Trinca’s, Moulin Rouge, Mogambo (Mocambo), Grand Hotel, Blue Fox. Louis Banks, Pam Craine… ahhh.. such delightful days, and the nonstop partying…” the actor said in a blog post in 2019.The other popular eateries currently in the pipeline to receive their heritage plaques includes the famous College Street sherbet outlet Paramount, and Indian Coffee House. The latter has been a den of students and intellectuals in its heyday, and continues to be ventured by writers, poets and filmmakers to this date. Allen Kitchen, Niranjan Agar, Eau Chew, Bhim Nag, KC Das, Nabin Chandra Das, Dilkush, Girish Chandra Dey, Nakur Chandra Nandy, are some of the other iconic eateries awaiting their plaques, representing an eclectic mix of everything from local Bengali delicacies to authentic Chinese delicacies to sherbets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/three-iconic-kolkata-restaurants-get-heritage-tags-101632040979927.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Day after Capt Amarinder’s exit, Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda resigns||A day after Captain Amarinder Singh’s resignation as Punjab chief minister, state advocate general Atul Nanda also put in his papers on Sunday. Also read: ‘I believe Punjab CM should …’: Ambika Soni after refusing to hold top postNanda, a senior advocate in the Supreme Court, was Capt Amarinder’s first choice for his government’s top law officer in 2017 as he was considered a “family friend” and had defended him in criminal cases registered during Parkash Singh Badal’s tenure as chief minister. Says appointment co-terminus with Capt’s “My appointment as advocate general was co-terminus with his (Amarinder) appointment and also according to constitutional convention, I have tendered my resignation,” a message sent out by Nanda to the state’s law officers’ team said. Nanda termed the present team of law officers as “the best the AG office has had in recent times” and said that he got immense support from younger and senior law officers. He thanked the members of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association stating that he was initially thought to be an outsider, but later welcomed as a friend and made a member of their family. Tenure mired in controversies Nanda’s stint as AG has been mired with controversies even though he tried to steer clear of representing the state on contentious issues. He roped in senior lawyers from Delhi in the politically sensitive 2015 sacrilege cases and recently in cases pertaining to former director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini. But with him being the top law officer, whenever the court decisions came against the state government, his office was criticised and on a number of occasions, the demand for his resignation came from senior leaders such as former Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Partap Singh Bajwa and incumbent Navjot Singh Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-after-capt-amarinder-s-exit-punjab-advocate-general-atul-nanda-resigns-101632041158519.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||BJP counters Congress' claims of Amarinder Singh's waning popularity||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Pralhad Joshi hit out at the Congress over Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s resignation, alleging that Singh’s growing popularity was the reason behind his “removal”.“They've (Congress) removed him because they were apprehensive that he was growing more popular than Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi,” Joshi told reporters on Sunday.Singh resigned from the post of the chief minister on Saturday evening, just five months before Punjab heads for polls. Contrary to what Joshi claimed, sources within the Congress told Hindustan Times that Singh’s waning influence among party MLAs and his former advisor Prashant Kishore’s warning to Congress on the party tailing Aam Aadmi Party in Punjab influenced the Grand Old Party’s decision to make changes in the order of business. Singh, the source claimed, has also become unpopular among the farmers in Punjab.Singh has also been locked in a tussle with former BJP legislator Navjot Singh Sidhu, and experts opined that Sidhu’s appointment as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief in July despite Singh’s strong objection signalled the former chief minister’s influence was waning.Joshi also criticised Congress for questioning the ruling party, insisting that responding to their questions is not worth it. “People who're stuck in such a deep mess are questioning us. It's not worth reacting to them,” he added.News agency ANI reported on Sunday that veteran Congress leader Ambika Soni was offered the post of the chief minister but she turned it down citing health issues. Sidhu, former Punjab Congress unit chiefs Sunil Jakhar, and Pratap Bajwa are currently the top choices in the race to replace Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-counters-congress-claims-of-amarinder-singh-s-waning-popularity-101632040561877.html
19-09-2021||Mumbai||Do’s and Don’ts for Mumbai on Ganesh idol immersion day||For the second year in a row, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has imposed restrictions on immersion of Ganesh idols, to ensure social distancing and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, as hundreds of Ganeshotsav mandals head to immersion points across Mumbai city. Devotees are not being allowed to enter the water at immersion sites to immerse the idols, and have to instead hand over the idols at BMC helpdesks, which will immerse them into the sea, or at lakes, or in artificial immersion ponds. Not more than ten people are allowed at the time of immersion of public Ganesh idols, and not more than five people are allowed at the time of immersion of household Ganesh idols. In addition, those gathering at such immersion spots should be fully vaccinated, and 15 days should have passed since their second dose, according to the guidelines issued by the BMC. It also makes it compulsory to wear a face mask, and maintain social distancing. While urging children and senior citizens not to be a part of such processions, BMC has appealed to public Ganesh mandals to give priority to the nearest artificial immersion sites, set up at 173 places apart from the 73 natural immersion spots across the city. Harshad Kale, deputy municipal commissioner overseeing these arrangements said, “More artificial immersion sites have been set up this year, to avoid overcrowding, in light of Covid-19.” BMC has also directed Ganesh mandals to minimise use of garlands and flowers, to minimise generation of ‘nirmalya’ to be disposed of. The BMC guidelines also urged households to immerse their idols in buckets at home if possible, or prioritise the nearest artificial sites for immersion. Household idols in entire buildings or chawls should not be taken together to such immersion sites to avoid overcrowding at the site, it said.The guidelines also requested that the devotees should perform the final ‘Aarti’ at home, so that minimum time is spent at the immersion sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dos-and-don-ts-for-mumbai-on-ganesh-idol-immersion-day-101632039358120.html
19-09-2021||Jaipur||Gehlot’s OSD resigns following tweet seen as criticism of Congress brass||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s officer on special duty (OSD) Lokesh Sharma submitted his resignation after a tweet he posted on Saturday was seen as a comment on the Congress high command’s handling of the crisis in its Punjab unit leading to Captain Amarinder Singh’s resignation as chief minister, triggering a row. Amarinder Singh later said he felt he had been “humiliated” thrice by Congress leadership and added that he won’t accept Punjab Congress unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu as the party’s face in the coming polls. Sharma, who is OSD in charge of IT-cell, tweeted two lines in Hindi, “Majboot ko Majboor, Mamuli Ko Magroor Kiya Jaye...Baad hi Khet Ko Khaay, Us Fasal Ko Kaun Bachaye!!”. When loosely translated, the verse means that when a strong person gets forced and an insignificant person gets an ego massage then nobody can save the crop from getting eaten by the fence itself.After his tweet raised eyebrows within the Congress circles with some reading it as a cryptic comment on the party high command’s handling of the Punjab crisis, Sharma sent his resignation to Gehlot late on Saturday night with an apology. Sharma has been associated with Gehlot for over a decade now and has been looking after his social media. He was made the OSD after Gehlot came to power in December 2018. Offering an explanation on his tweet, Sharma said he had been active on the micro-blogging site since 2010 and had never crossed party lines or made “wrong” comments about any leader of the party. He also claimed that he had stopped posting political tweets after becoming the CM’s OSD. However, he offered an apology if his tweet had unintentionally hurt either the party, or the government or the party high command in any way. Like Punjab, discontent is simmering within Rajasthan Congress too, with many wondering if the uneasy truce between factions lead by CM Gehlot and his one-time deputy Sachin Pilot will last long. It was also reported earlier that CM Gehlot was not fully in favour of the solution suggested by the party high command for power sharing in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/gehlots-osd-resigns-following-tweet-seen-as-criticism-of-congress-brass-101632033777554.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ambika Soni out of Punjab CM race, CLP meeting deferred as Congress mulls names||The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting to elect the next chief minister of Punjab after Amarinder Singh resigned from the top post in the poll-bound state has been deferred, party leaders said on Sunday. As several names are being talked about as the next Punjab chief minister, senior Congress leader Ambika Soni has declined the offer for the top job, according to reports.NDTV reported citing people familiar with the developments that Ambika Soni declined the offer to become Punjab chief minister at a late-night meeting with Rahul Gandhi. Ambika Soni, who belongs to Punjab's Hoshiarpur district and has been a Rajya Sabha member from the state several times, said at the meeting with Rahul Gandhi that not having a Sikh as the chief minister will have "ramifications", according to the news channel.Also read | ‘Humiliated’, says Captain as he resigns as Punjab CMNewly appointed Punjab Congress unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, former Punjab Congress unit chiefs Sunil Jakhar and Pratap Bajwa are said to be the frontrunners for the top job in the state. State ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa are also said to be the contenders for the post of Punjab chief minister. Senior party leaders Brahm Mohindra, Vijay Inder Singla, Punjab Congress working president Kuljit Singh Nagra and MP Partap Singh Bajwa are also said to be among the contenders.“With a Hindu CM, the party may also go in for two deputy CMs – a Jat Sikh and a Dalit leader,” a person familiar with the matter said. “The Congress high command is keen on going into the polls with a Hindu-Sikh combination. Since Sidhu heads the state unit, the choice for the CM has narrowed down to Soni, Jakhar and cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra for the Hindu CM face,” according to a party leader.The CLP meeting is to be held in the presence of All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and two central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary.Also read | Move to convene CLP confirmed Cong leadership’s loss of trust in CaptainWorking president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) Pawan Goel said that Congress interim President Sonia Gandhi would take the decision on the next Chief Minister of state on Sunday. However, he refused to comment on the prospective candidate for the post of Punjab CM. "A meeting of MLAs was held with Harish Rawat and Ajay Maken yesterday. The MLAs have sent their opinions to Sonia Gandhi. A resolution was passed that the Congress chief's decision will be final on this matter. Today you will get to know her decision," the Congress leader said.On Saturday, the CLP unanimously passed a resolution to give Sonia Gandhi power to nominate the next chief minister of Punjab after Captain Amarinder Singh stepped down. In a second resolution, the CLP praised Amarinder Singh for his leadership and his role in developing Punjab. Amarinder Singh quit on Saturday ahead of the meeting of party legislators in the faction-ridden state unit ahead of assembly polls early next year. The 79-year-old Amarinder Singh later launched a no-holds-barred attack against Sidhu, describing the cricketer-turned-politician as a "total disaster".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambika-soni-out-of-punjab-cm-race-clp-meeting-deferred-as-congress-mulls-names-101632030530707.html
19-09-2021||Jaipur||Gehlot aide quits hours after sharing not-so-cryptic post on Twitter||The officer on special duty (OSD) to Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Lokesh Sharma, put in his papers late on Saturday night, hours after he shared tweets that seemed to be a not-so-indirect attack on the handling of the power-sharing tussle in the Punjab Congress by the grand old party’s central leadership.One of Sharma’s tweets written in Hindi when loosely translated meant “making the strong desperate and the weak proud...how to save the crops when the fence only eats away the field.”मजबूत को मजबूर, मामूली को मग़रूर किया जाए...बाड़ ही खेत को खाए, उस फसल को कौन बचाए !!He also shared a quote of renowned humourist Kaka Hathrasi that meant “look at the fast-changing nature, see the changing particles. You remain stuck thinking of fate. Leave it, friend. Leave the ‘dufli’ (musical instrument), bring change in life. Set some standards as you rise above the tradition.”प्रकृति बदलती क्षण-क्षण देखो, बदल रहे अणु, कण-कण देखो।तुम निष्क्रिय से पड़े हुए हो, भाग्य वाद पर अड़े हुए हो।छोड़ो मित्र ! पुरानी डफली, जीवन में परिवर्तन लाओ।परंपरा से ऊंचे उठ कर, कुछ तो स्टैंडर्ड बनाओ।-काका हाथरसीThe social media posts coming from the senior official in the wake of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s resignation following months of tussle within the state unit and the veteran alleging humiliation is said to have raised a few eyebrows in the political of Rajasthan, one of the last remaining states where the Congress is in power and is struggling to control rebellion and dissent.Also read | After Amarinder Singh, these Congress leaders are in race to become Punjab CMIn his resignation letter, however, Sharma said that he tweeted regularly and never intended to hurt the Congress' interests ever since he had been assigned official responsibilities. Stating that his posts were still being given a political colour, Sharma urged Gehlot to decide to in resignation. Rajasthan | Lokesh Sharma, Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, has offered resignation after a tweet he posted on 18th September sparked controversy amid the political developments in Punjab pic.twitter.com/0ZmD0cMope  Gehlot is under pressure to make more space for his former deputy Sachin Pilot, who has been waiting in the wings for a while now and has made his intentions clear to the central leadership on more than one occasion.The desert state was engulfed in a major crisis in July 2020 when Pilot’s office issued a statement saying the Gehlot government was in minority, following which he was sacked as the deputy chief minister. The Congress had somehow managed to douse the rebellion at the time, but the embers remain and continue to spark once in a while.Meanwhile, Punjab Congress MLAs authorised party president Sonia Gandhi to pick a new legislature party (CLP) leader to succeed Singh as the chief minister of the state.Multiple reports suggested the name of the new leader is likely to be announced in a CLP meeting that has been convened at 11am on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/gehlot-aide-quits-hours-after-sharing-not-so-cryptic-post-on-twitter-101632023305612.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab set to get new chief minister today||The Congress is set to name the new chief minister of Punjab on Sunday with former state Congress president Sunil Jakhar and incumbent president Navjot Singh Sidhu emerging as the frontrunners.However, the Congress Legislature Party (CLP), which was to meet at the Punjab Congress Bhawan in Chandigarh at 11am to elect the new leader, was deferred at the eleventh hour.Also watch: New Punjab CM: Sidhu, Jakhar, Bajwa or dark horse - whom will Sonia Gandhi pick?The meeting, which was to be held in the presence of All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and two central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary, is learnt to have been deferred as a consensus is yet to be reached on the name of the new CLP leader.The CLP had on Saturday passed a resolution, authorising Congress president Sonia Gandhi to take the final decision.The central observers are now calling up the party MLAs to reach a consensus on the CLP leader, who will be the new CM after Capt Amarinder Singh resigned on Saturday evening.The state elections are less than five months away.Going to the polls with Hindu-Sikh combination“The Congress high command is keen on going into the polls with a Hindu-Sikh combination. Since Sidhu heads the state unit, the choice for the CM has narrowed down to Soni, Jakhar and cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra for the Hindu CM face,” according to party leaders familiar with the developments.While Congress president Sonia Gandhi is learnt to have thrown her weight behind Rajya Sabha MP Ambika Soni, her son and former chief Rahul Gandhi is backing Jakhar. Soni opted out of the race and reportedly told the Congress leadership that a Sikh should be made the chief minister. “With a Hindu CM, the party may also go in for two deputy CMs – a Jat Sikh and a Dalit leader,” one of the persons quoted above said. However, some MLAs, who met Rawat and the two central observers on the sidelines of the CLP meeting on Saturday, pushed for a Sikh CM.Punjab has never had a non-Sikh CM since the reorganisation of the state in 1966.Sidhu, who was named the state unit president two months ago, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa and cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa are among the Sikh leaders whose names are doing the rounds in party circles. A few MLAs conveyed their preference for Sidhu as the leader of the CLP. Randhawa and Sidhu are learnt to have conveyed their preference for Soni in case the party decides to opt for a Hindu chief minister, the person quoted above said.However, a few others stressed that the new leader should be from among the MLAs. Soni, Jakhar and Bajwa are not MLAs.Capt not going to take ‘humiliation’ lying downChief minister Capt Amarinder Singh was pushed to resign from the post after the Congress central leadership summoned a meeting of the party MLAs, saying that he feels “humiliated”.He had submitted his resignation along with that of his council of ministers to governor Banwarilal Purohit at Raj Bhawan half an hour before the CLP meeting. “This is the third time they (Congress high command) have called the MLAs. Apparently, they do not have confidence in me and didn’t think I could handle my job. But I felt humiliated at the manner in which they handled the whole affair,” the two-time former CM told reporters outside the Raj Bhawan after submitting his resignation on Saturday evening, dropping enough hints that he is not going to take his humiliation lying down.The governor accepted the resignation of Capt Amarinder Singh as chief minister and that of his council of ministers. He asked Amarinder and his council of ministers to continue in office, for transaction of routine business, till alternative arrangements are made, according to an official statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-set-to-get-new-chief-minister-today-101632023456470.html
19-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra tightens security on Anant Chaturdashi; Pune admin issues orders for Ganesh Visarjan||The Maharashtra government has tightened security across the state, especially in Mumbai and Pune, as devotees will bid farewell to Ganesha by immersing his idol on Anant Chaturdashi on Sunday. The state government has put special provisions in place for the last day of the Ganesh Chaturthi festival due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. The muted celebrations under heavy security measures will bring an end to a subdued Ganesh Chaturthi this year.Mumbai has been put under high alert and security has been enhanced across the city for Anant Chaturdashi after the Delhi Police’s special cell busted a terror module in the city and arrested six terror suspects. One of the suspects is a resident of Dharavi, the police have claimed.The Mumbai Police have deployed security personnel at immersion points, extra lights, cranes, lifeguards, ambulances, and fire engines have been arranged in case of any eventuality on Anant Chaturdashi, deputy commissioner of police S Chaitanya told reporters. Around 100 additional officers, 1,500 personnel from the Local Arms and other branches, at least three companies of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), one company of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), 500 home guards, and 275 constables from outside units will be stationed throughout the city.Maharashtra deputy chief minister and Pune’s guardian minister Ajit Pawar announced on September 17 that all shops across the city will remain closed but essential services and businesses like restaurants and hotels will be exempted from the order.Anant Chaturdashi, the auspicious Hindu festival associated with Lord Vishnu and Ganesha, will be celebrated on Sunday. The 10-day festival of Ganesh Chaturthi ends with an immersion of the Ganesha idol on Anant Chaturdashi. Lord Ganesha is believed to depart for his heavenly abode on the day of Anant Chaturdashi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-tightens-security-on-anant-chaturdashi-pune-admin-issues-orders-for-ganesh-visarjan-101632017542508.html
19-09-2021||Lucknow||Will Priyanka Gandhi be UP CM candidate?: Up to her, says Salman Khurshid||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will decide whether she wants to be the chief ministerial candidate in the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, party leader and former Union minister Salman Khurshid has said. "Congress would contest the UP assembly polls under party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's leadership and she herself would decide on the issue of whether she would be party's chief ministerial candidate or not," Khurshid while speaking to reporters in Prayagraj on Saturday.Speaking about the party's president, he said, "We already have a party president so we do not need another party president and we are satisfied. It seems people from outside (Congress) are not satisfied." Meanwhile, the Congress social media department unanimously passed a resolution to make Rahul Gandhi the party president. Earlier this week, Delhi Pradesh Mahila Congress also passed a similar resolution.Also read | Expelled Congress leaders question Priyanka Gandhi's leadershipUttar Pradesh Assembly elections are scheduled to be held early next year. In the last assembly elections in 2017, the BJP won a landslide victory winning 312 seats and secured a 39.67 per cent vote share in the elections for the 403-member assembly. Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party (SP) won 47 seats, the BSP got 19 and the Congress managed to win only seven seats.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was in the state earlier this week and has asked party workers to work round the clock as she held meeting with senior leaders. On Saturday, she held a separate meeting with all the eight UPCC vice presidents, who are likely to be fielded as candidates in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly election. She also completed a review of the party’s organisation structure set-up at various levels in the remaining four of eight zones on Saturday. She had completed a review of four zones on Friday.Also read | Priyanka wants organisational structure in all panchayats by September 22Before that, Congress on Friday constituted a three-member screening committee for the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. “The Congress president has constituted the screening committee for the forthcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. The committee includes Jitendra Singh, Party MP Deepender Singh Hooda and MLA Varsha Gaikwad," the party said in a statement.While the committee will be chaired by Jitendra Singh, Priyanka Gandhi, party state chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, Congress Legislative Party leader Aradhana Misra Mona and all AICC in-charge secretary of Uttar Pradesh have been made the ex officio members.Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Giriraj Singh has said that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra won't make a difference even if she contests the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Singh exuded confidence that the BJP will form a government with a full majority in the upcoming assembly polls under the leadership of chief minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/will-priyanka-gandhi-be-up-cm-candidate-up-to-her-says-salman-khurshid-101632015521704.html
19-09-2021||Lucknow||With an eye on UP polls, Samajwadi Party to flag off special Dalit outreach programme from today||The Samajwadi Party will flag off its seven-phase special Dalit outreach programme across all villages in the poll-bound state of Uttar Pradesh from Sunday to what the party has said will be to expose the BJP. The Samajwadi Lohia Vahini will organise the “gaon-gaon Dalit samwad” (Dalit discourse across villages) will start from Prayagraj on Sunday and conclude in Lucknow on December 5, the SP said in a press release. Lohia Vahini state president Ram Karan Nirmal will be a part of the program in Kanpur, Etawah, Auraiya, Kannauj, Mainpuri, Farrukhabad, Agra, Firozabad, and Mathura, the party has said."The Samajwadi Lohia Vahini is starting this programme to expose the BJP government's anti-people, anti-farmer, anti-Dalit, anti-backward, anti-reservation policies and to take the socialist ideology, actions and policies among the people," SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary told reporters on September 18.SP national president Akhilesh Yadav has been hitting out at the Bharatiya Janata Party, insisting his party will give due respect and participation to Dalits and other backward sections, unlike the BJP. “The Samajwadi Party’s allies will get justice, respect and participation. The party will give respect to Dalits and other backward sections that the BJP did not do… When it comes to giving respect to your samaj (community), the SP will never backtrack. We assure you that we will not do the injustice done to you earlier. The SP will not hesitate to take forward your samaj,” he said in early September.The SP has also flagged off a Bramhin outreach program, ‘prabudh varg sammelans’ and ‘Shiv sewak sammelan’, from UP’s Ballia on August 23. It has followed the Bahujan Samaj Party’s (BSP), which was the first party in UP’s electoral fray to start a ‘prabudh varg sammelan’ from Ayodhya for Brahmins in late July.The Akhilesh Yadav-led SP has allied with the Janvadi Party (Socialist) for the 2022 UP assembly elections. The Janvadi Party (Socialist) is headed by Sanjay Singh Chauhan, who exercises strong influence in the Chauhan community in UP. The community has a significant presence across the state.Yadav, also the former UP chief minister, congratulated Chauhan for the eight-day Jankranti Yatra. “The BJP will be wiped out from all districts of UP from where this yatra has passed. That is why we have given the slogan “Abki baar 400 paar” (This time SP will cross the tally of 400 seats),” Yadav said in a reference to the UP assembly which has 403 members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/with-an-eye-on-up-polls-samajwadi-party-to-flag-off-special-dalit-outreach-programme-from-today-101632012233950.html
19-09-2021||Lucknow||BJP to hold parallel meet with ‘real’ farmers in Lucknow today||As the Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party completes four-and-a-half years of rule in Uttar Pradesh, the party is looking to hold a parallel meet with farmers – ones it considers “real” – even as another set of opposition-backed agriculturists continue to intensify their protests against the BJP over the central government's three farm reform laws. Yogi Adityanath, the chief minister of UP, will be felicitated in Lucknow on Sunday by the farmers' wing of the BJP to mark the completion of 54 years of his rule in the state. The meeting in Lucknow is part of the BJP's goal to step up the initiative to connect with those who the party describes as “real farmers”.Also Read | NHRC notice to Centre, 4 states over farmers’ protestsMeanwhile, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)-led farmers' protests at Delhi's borders show no indication of backing off; with farmer leader Rakesh Tikait warning on Saturday that the demonstrations will only keep intensifying until the three contentious laws are repealed.The protesters allege that a “nexus” is operating between the central government and corporates to “rob” the farmers of their rights. Recently, Tikait led a massive farmer ‘maha panchayat in Muzaffarnagar to put pressure on the central government to withdraw the three farm laws. He has also announced his intention to work to ensure the BJP's defeat in the upcoming UP elections on the issue of the three legislations.Amid such a backdrop, the BJP's parallel meet with farmers in Lucknow assumes a special significance ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly elections.Also Read | Delhi traffic hit as farmers mark 1 yr of controversial farm lawsThe BJP’s farmer wing chief in UP Kameshwar Singh said an estimated 20,000 farmers are expected at the Lucknow meeting. “Fifty farmers would come from each of the 403 assembly constituencies of UP to thank the chief minister for various pro-farmer measures,” he said, adding that only those assembly segments were selected which had a substantial presence of sugarcane farmers – about 60,000 strong, expected to be present in these meetings.The ruling BJP has sought to distinguish between these “real farmers” and ones agitating for ‘political reasons’.Referring to the anti-farm law protests, UP's deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said earlier this week, “Theirs is not a farmers’ agitation, it’s a political agitation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-to-hold-parallel-meet-with-real-farmers-in-lucknow-today-101632008602857.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||After Amarinder Singh, these Congress leaders are in race to become Punjab CM||After Amarinder Singh resigned as the Punjab chief minister, the Congress central leadership is likely to name the new leader in a legislature party meeting on Sunday, with under five months to go for the state elections. Punjab Congress legislators have authorised party president Sonia Gandhi to pick a new legislature party leader who will succeed Amarinder Singh as the chief minister of the state. Amarinder Singh resigned as Punjab chief minister, saying he felt "humiliated" at the way the party handled the infighting in the Congress state unit.The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting in Chandigarh has been called at 11am on Sunday. A resolution requesting Sonia Gandhi to pick the next Punjab chief minister was passed unanimously in a meeting of the CLP on Saturday.Apart from Sidhu, former Punjab Congress unit chiefs Sunil Jakhar and Pratap Bajwa are said to be the frontrunners for the top job in the state, which is scheduled to hold the assembly elections early next year. State ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa are also said to be the contenders for the chief minister’s post. Names of senior party leaders Ambika Soni, Brahm Mohindra, Vijay Inder Singla, Punjab Congress working president Kuljit Singh Nagra and MP Partap Singh Bajwa are also doing the rounds.Also read | Guest column: Once a soldier always a soldierAmarinder Singh, who led the Congress back to power in Punjab with an overwhelming majority in the last assembly polls in 2017, said after resigning “let them make anyone (next CM) whom they trust”. However, he added that he won’t accept newly appointed party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu as the next CM or the party’s face in the coming Punjab assembly polls. After resigning Singh targeted Navjot Singh Sidhu, calling him a “total disaster”.Also read | Losing support of 60 MLAs sealed Amarinder’s exitSenior Congress leader Ajay Maken, who is one of the two central observers deputed by the party, told reporters that a resolution praising and thanking the contribution of Amarinder Singh towards Punjab and the Congress was also unanimously passed at the CLP meeting. “We also expect that the party will continue to get guidance from Amarinder Singh,” he further said.Also read | How Punjab crisis snowballed despite enough warning signsMaken said the second resolution, moved by Brahm Mohindra and seconded by MLAs Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian and Amrik Singh Dhillon, in which the Congress president was authorised to pick the Congress legislature party leader was also passed unanimously. “Whosoever she picks will be unanimously accepted by everybody,” Maken said.Congress general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat said outgoing CLP leader Amarinder Singh led with great capability and ran a very good government. Singh confronted the challenges in Punjab and also found their solutions, Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-amarinder-singh-these-congress-leaders-are-in-race-to-become-punjab-cm-101632010309993.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Women are better at coping with loss of spouse||Life is such that we all have to cope with the grief of losing a loved one. After I lost my wife to cancer two years ago, I realised that each person has to find his or her own formula for living without spouse or a loved one. Having observed my mother, mother-in-law, two sisters and wives of some dear friends after they lost their husbands, I feel Indian wives are able to deal with the loss of their spouse in a more composed and dignified manner as compared to their husbands. After the birth of a child, a woman’s love gets divided between her husband and offspring. The laws of Nature dictate that she gets more attached to the children as she feeds them and gets engrossed in ensuring their general wellbeing. As the children grow, this bond becomes stronger. During this evolution, a woman’s love for the husband transforms and takes a back seat. So, when the husband is not on the scene, she finds solace and happiness in her children and grandchildren. Her life is consumed by their love till she herself bids goodbye to the world. In our patriarchal society, a husband is expected to be the breadwinner and remains busy with money making, sorting out household problems such as constructing a house, paying the bills and managing workplace relationships. When he loses wife, he is generally no more required to perform the routine role he had been used to and is uncomfortable in his new position without work and authority. Another reason of a woman’s composed behaviour after the loss of her husband is the change in her status from the dignified position she occupied in ancient India when gender equity was not a mere fantasy and present days when she is still fighting for parity with men. An ordinary woman understands her vulnerable position in absence of her husband and is prepared to accept it as her fate. She has often treated as inferior to her husband and her physical exclusion in the society was obvious to her. She is more open to sharing her grief believing that grief shared is grief halved. Most men consider sharing grief and shedding tears unmanly and prefer to put up a stoic front in presence of others while going through emotional upheavals. Over the years she develops unbound patience not as a virtue but as a necessity. Yet another reason is that most women are level-headed, which is why they make great managers. Also, their threshold to bear is much higher having gone through the physical and emotional pain of childbirth. Their empathy, sharing nature and patience makes acceptance of reality much easier for them. Since they are sensitive in perception and ‘feelers’ by nature, it is easier to communicate, persuade and motivate them into their changed role and they learn to lead a balanced life.colcheema1942@gmail.com(The writer is a Panchkula-based freelance contributor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-women-are-better-at-coping-with-loss-of-spouse-101632003640289.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Once a soldier always a soldier||The Punjab government has hiked the annuity payable to armed forces’ gallantry and distinguished service awardees by 80%, which is commendable as the state is already paying the highest annuity to its awardees. This is testament to the government’s respect and honour for soldiers. Besides, a considerable amount of time had passed since the last hike. I was reminded of December 16, 1971, the day ceasefire was announced in the war against Pakistan. All those who were involved actively in combat, heaved a sigh of relief for having come out unscathed. Soon the first list of gallantry award winners was published. In the general euphoria that prevailed in the country for a grand victory, politicians also decided to make hay while the sun was shining. States like Punjab and Rajasthan were quick to announce cash and land rewards for gallantry award winners. A soldier goes into battle to fulfil the contract that he makes the day he puts on the uniform. On the day of reckoning, a soldier has to defend the territorial integrity of the country and be prepared to make any sacrifice, including his life. That is the deal. Besides, no one goes into battle thinking that he will get a gallantry award for it. You go and do what you have been trained for to the best of your ability because defeat is not an option. If your superior officer is impressed with your performance and writes a citation for a gallantry award, it is taken as something that just happened while you did what you had to. If the Centre and state government decides to reward him,he just accepts it gracefully. He also expects that the governments will honour their commitment. In fact, it took 14 years for the Punjab government to honour the commitment, albeit partially. In lieu of the promised irrigated land, it gave ₹5,000 per promised acre. So, that was the end of it. A few years later the Punjab government started an annuity scheme for the gallantry award winners and their widows. It was a paltry sum of a few hundred rupees paid every quarter. Around that time, a pan-India organisation called ‘ The War Decorated’ was formed to mainly take care of the widows and elderly parents of deceased gallantry award winners. It interacted with the central and state governments to get certain benefits like free train travel, annuity and jobs for the children of the deceased soldiers. Punjab did better than other states but still it was nothing substantial. Then came the soldier politician, outgoing Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who served in the premier battalion of the Sikh Regiment. He served for a short period of three years in the ‘2 Sikh’. Despite his short service in the army, soldiering was in his blood. He kept in close touch with his battalion. He initiated a string of measures for the welfare of retired soldiers and the widows of deceased soldiers. The government job quota was earmarked for needy widows and their children. He also gave a substantial increase in the annuity being paid to the gallantry award winners of the state as also the widows of the deceased. It was raised to ₹23,100 for the Param Vir Chakra (PVC ), ₹17,556 for the Maha Vir Chakra( MVC ) and ₹10,165 for the Vir Chakra ( VrC ). A similar increase was made in the annuity of other gallantry award winners. Further, his government decided to give a substantial one-time lump sum award to new gallantry award winners varying from ₹25 lakh to ₹1 crore. Needless to say, it has been a big morale booster for ex-servicemen, especially the next of kin of the deceased gallantry award winners of the state. On September 15, the Punjab government doubled the lump-sum for the gallantry award winners. So, a PVC will get ₹2 crore, MVC ₹1 crore and a VrC ₹50 lakh. It is impossible to make up for the loss of family member. However, the financial and other help provided by states like Punjab helps to assuage the grief. The Capt-led government has set the benchmark in welfare of ex-servicemen for others to emulate. As the adage goes, ‘ Once a soldier, always a soldier’. bullysangha@gmail.com ( The writer is a Chandigarh-based defence veteran and Vir Chakra awardee. Views expressed are personal.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-once-a-soldier-always-a-soldier-101632001839584.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Another woman SHO transferred in Ludhiana||On the complaint of deputy mayor Sarabjit Kaur, a woman station house officer, sub-inspector Manjinder Kaur, was transferred to the traffic wing. She has been replaced by inspector Rohit Sharma. The deputy mayor had alleged that the SHO had not returned her phone calls, and incidents of crime, snatching, burglaries were on the rise in the jurisdiction. Joint commissioner of police (JCP, headquarters) J Elanchezhian said the transfer had been made on administrative grounds. On August 25, a Giaspura resident, Rajesh Veram, had alleged that the sub-inspector had implicated his son in a case of immoral trafficking.Now, the lone woman SHO remaining in the city is sub-inspector Madhu Bala of the Division 3 station. Earlier, five of 31 police stations had women SHOs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-woman-sho-transferred-in-ludhiana-101632001119644.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Portion of flyover caves in on Jalandhar-Panipat highway||A large portion of the flyover on the Jalandhar-Panipat highway (National Highway 44) caved-in at Basti Jodhewal on Saturday. No casualty was reported and the reason behind the collapse is not known so far. The incident has raised questions over the quality of the material used as the flyover was inaugurated in November 2019. The approach road leading towards the Jalandhar Bypass from Samrala Chowk was also damaged. The traffic was allowed to pass from around the damaged portion. Authorities suspect that the portion may have caved-in due to soil erosion during rainfall. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), project director, Virendra Singh, said, “The damaged side has been barricaded and the remaining portion is safe for movement of traffic. Repair work will commence on Sunday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/portion-of-flyover-caves-in-on-jalandhar-panipat-highway-101632000339625.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man dies in mysterious circumstances: Family stages protest, dera head booked||After a 29-year-old man died in mysterious circumstances, his kin, who have alleged that he was murdered, staged a protest outside a dera at Dehlon-Sahnewal Road on Saturday, demanding that the dera head be arrested.The victim, Mandeep of Jamalpur, was attached with the dera ‘Ali Da Shehar’ for the past six months. Family members of the victim said that dera head Surinder Pawar alias Sanju Baba had called Mandeep to paint the walls on Thursday. However, when he did not return home they started looking for him. The dera head and other followers did not give a satisfactory reply. Later, on Friday night, dera brought Mandeep’s body to the house and said that he had been vomiting and unwell. The family contended that if the victim was ill, the dera head should have sent him to the hospital. They also suspect that Mandeep’s neck was broken. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Vaibhav Sehgal and inspector Sukhdev Singh, SHO Dehlon said the body has been sent to the civil hospital for the postmortem. Later, the dera head was booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-dies-in-mysterious-circumstances-family-stages-protest-dera-head-booked-101632000039354.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||14 stolen bikes recovered, 1 held in Ludhiana||A man was arrested with 14 stolen bikes on Saturday. While Sunny Kapoor of Gill Colony, Lohara has been arrested, three of his accomplices, including Inderjit Singh of Kabir Nagar, Mohan Lal of New Aman Nagar and Amandeep Singh of Gurpal Nagar are yet to be arrested.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the accused was arrested near Mad Chowk, following a tip-off. Kapoor was riding a stolen motorcycle with fake number plates. One stolen bike was recovered from the house of his brother, Deepak Kumar of Gill Colony, while 12 others were recovered from different vacant plots. “The gang would stow away stolen vehicles in vacant plots and then sell them after a few days,” the ADCP said. A case was registered under Sections 379 (theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/14-stolen-bikes-recovered-1-held-in-ludhiana-101631999558770.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Disputes behind 44% of 55 murders reported in Ludhiana in 2020: NCRB||Despite coronavirus restrictions, the industrial hub reported 55 murders in 2020, most of which were caused due a variety of disputes, the National Crime Records Bureau report has revealed. One of the most gruesome murders reported in 2020 was that of a courier company employee, whom his colleague had bludgeoned to death with a bamboo stick and iron rod, during a curfew at the company’s office on Gill Road on March 25. The accused and victim had gotten drunk together before the incident and a spat over a petty issue had a fatal resolution. Five more people were killed over petty issues in the district. Of the 52 murder cases reported in the district, 44% (23) were caused due to disputes, of which 12 were family disputes, three were property disputes and water was the bone of contention in two disputes. As per the bureau’s report, the district had recorded 56, 53 and 59 murders in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Illicit relationships were responsible for five murders and the police could not establish the cause behind five murders. Personal gain was responsible for eight murders, while four people were murdered during robberies.Of the 55 murder victims, 38 were men and 17 were women. Most victims were 30 to 45 years old, while three were above 60 and 13 were aged between 18 and 30 years, of which four were women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/disputes-behind-44-of-55-murders-reported-in-ludhiana-in-2020ncrb-101631998117789.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Drug peddling case: Ex-SHO, 2 cops suspended for implicating man in Ludhiana||Former Meharban station house officer, sub-inspector Simranjit Kaur, and two of her colleagues have been suspended for implicating a man in a drug peddling case. Commissioner of police Naunihal Singh suspended Kaur, sub-inspector Rajandeep Singh and assistant sub-inspector Kamaljeet Singh. The FIR lodged against the victim, Gurdeep Singh, a farmer of Noorwala village, is being cancelled. Kaur had been transferred to Civil Lines after Gurdeep’s relative approached the police commissioner with footage, which showed the SHO and the two other suspended cops, arrest the accused from his house, while the police report said that the accused had been arrested with opium during a special checking. Action was taken against the cops on the recommendation of the special investigation team comprising additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, ADCP (City-1) Pragya Jain, and ADCP (City 4) Rupinder Kaur Sra.The police had arrested Gurdeep on July 25. The report says he was arrested from a checkpost at Noorwala village with 100g opium. Gurdeep’s family had presented CCTV footage of the arrest as proof and had also moved the Punjab and Haryana high court, which sought a response from the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-peddling-case-ex-sho-2-cops-suspended-for-implicating-man-in-ludhiana-101631997397556.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Plot owners a harried lot amid PSPCL’s deadlock with colony developers||The persisting deadlock between Punjab State Power Corporation Limited officials and colony developers has shrouded hundreds of individual plot owners in darkness with the power corporation refusing to provide connections without a no-objection certificate, regardless of whether a colony has been regularised or not. With the PSPCL seeking submission of bank guarantees and installation of electric infrastructure in the colony for providing the NOC, developers are contending that they have applied for regularisation under the policies floated by state government in 2013 and 2018, and they need not to apply for an NOC from the PSPCL, separately.Parvinder, a plot holder at the Smart City Enclave on Pakhowal Road, says,”The developer got the colony regularised by submitting a fee under the regularisation policy, and now that we have built the house, the PSPCL is denying us a power connection.We are unable to shift into the new house because of this deadlock between the developer and the PSPCL.”One Sarvjit of Gauri Enclave near Ladian village said that they have sent a legal notice to the PSPCL as they cannot deny basic services to residents. “The PSPCL has provided power connections to other plot holders and house owners in the same area in the past, but now they are denying us a power connection,” said Sarvjit.Developers say that as per the regularisation policies floated by government, plot holders can also get their individual plots regularised, if the developer is not getting the colony regularised.Punjab Colonisers and Property Dealers Association president GS Lamba said, “The issue has been going on for the last few months. The regularisation policy says that the government will provide basic facilities to colonies, if the developer submits the regularisation fee under the policy. Now, the PSPCL is asking the developers to apply for an NOC separately, which is not acceptable.”“We have taken up the issue at state level as not only developers, but individual plot holders are also on the receiving end. Authorities have assured us that the matter will be resolved soon,” said Lamba.Attempts to reach PSPCL chief engineer, Ludhiana, Bhupinder Khosla, were unsuccessful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/plot-owners-a-harried-lot-amid-pspcl-s-deadlock-with-colony-developers-101631996737324.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder resignation Congress’ admission of failure, says Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday said that Captain Amarinder Singh’s resignation as Punjab chief minister was an admission on the part of the Congress of its failure to perform in the state as it had nothing to show during its tenure of more than four-and-a-half years. In a press statement, the SAD chief said Amarinder had been “punished by nature” for lying while taking an oath on the Gutka Sahib and that every member of the Congress will suffer the same fate. “A mere change of guard will not save the Congress’ sinking ship in Punjab. The entire state cabinet as well as the ruling party MLAs are neck deep in corruption and are running sand, liquor and drug mafias. The ruling party cannot hope to save its incompetent government and befool Punjabis with change of a face, he claimed. “The devious ploy of the Congress high command to avert a backlash against the party by putting the blame on one person alone will not succeed. Punjabis know that the party has become synonymous with loot and lawlessness. Its ministers and MLAs patronised gangsters. They failed to undertake any development or infrastructure projects in the state,” the SAD chief alleged. Also, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra cannot not escape the blame of making Punjab suffer for more than four-and-a-half years, he said. “First of all, Sonia and Rahul were the force behind the Congress’ 2017 election manifesto. The Gandhi family not only kept Capt Amarinder Singh in power but also failed to move against any of his corrupt ministers. They also failed to prevail upon Amarinder to fulfill the promises made to the people,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-resignation-congress-admission-of-failure-says-sukhbir-badal-101631996196844.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Peon at Bathinda military station arrested for spying||The counter-intelligence wing of the Punjab Police on Saturday arrested a peon posted at the Bathinda military station for allegedly sending photos and documents of the Indian Army to his Pakistani handlers, officials said. Assistant inspector general of police (AIG intelligence) Desraj Singh said that the accused, identified as Gurwinder Singh, a multi-task staffer with the Military Engineering Service (MES), committed the offence after being honey-trapped purportedly by a woman agent of Pakistani spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Gurwinder, who was taken in custody in the wee hours of Saturday, has been charged under Official Secrets Act, said AIG Singh. Officials said that during preliminary questioning, the accused told the police that he came in contact with the woman, stated to be a Pakistan intelligence officer, posing as an officer at the principal controller of defence accounts at Chandigarh, through social media.The woman had identified herself as Khushdeep Kaur and started to ask him for photos, letters and other sensitive information related to the army. Honey-trapped, Gurwinder started sending ISI operative photos of confidential postal letters related to the army over WhatsApp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/peon-at-bathinda-military-station-arrested-for-spying-101631996017202.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Anandpur Sahib sacrilege: SGPC demands narco-analysis test, brain-mapping of accused||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Jagir Kaur on Saturday accused the Punjab Police of not exposing the conspirators of the recent sacrilege at Takht Kesgarh Sahib, Anandpur Sahib, and demanded narco-analysis test and brain-mapping of the arrested accused. Addressing a press conference in Amritsar, Kaur said, “The government’s intention in this case is not clear and that is why the conspirators are not being brought to the fore even as the connection of the arrested suspect, Paramjit Singh of Ludhiana, with Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda has been exposed.” Kaur said though more penal sections were added against the accused in the case at their request, the real culprits behind the incident are not being identified yet. “I have written to the Punjab chief minister and the director general of police (DGP) in this regard,” the SGPC chief added. Expressing dissatisfaction over the police action taken so far in the case, Kaur said, “No concrete information about the conspiracy behind this incident has been released by the police several days after the incident. All those involved should have been behind the bars by now. The incidents of sacrilege are constantly taking place in Punjab and the government machinery is caught sleeping.”She also raised questions on the working of government intelligence agencies. “Despite a large network of agencies, incidents that are detrimental to the peace of Punjab are taking place openly,” said Kaur.On a letter written by the Golden Temple manager to police seeking deployment of cops in the shrine complex, she said, “I am not aware of this but the SGPC is competent to guard the shrine on its own.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/anandpur-sahib-sacrilege-sgpc-demands-narco-analysis-test-brain-mapping-of-accused-101631995727064.html
19-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to make grain-based alcohol must for producers?||Citizens in Maharashtra may soon be able to say “cheers” to an enhanced taste of their favourite brand of liquor as the state government is planning to make it mandatory for liquor manufacturers to blend a certain percentage of grain-based alcohol in their products.While boosting the dormant grain-based alcohol industry in Maharashtra, the state is looking at overcoming likely fluctuations in supply of molasses-based spirit for liquor manufacturers owing to distilleries diverting their stocks to oil marketing companies (OMCs) for blending ethanol in petrol.Grain-based spirit is usually manufactured from maize and poor-quality or broken rice and jowar in Maharashtra. The proposed policy will cover country liquor (CL) and Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL).“Most of the grain-based distilleries in Maharashtra are shut. To revive them, we are planning to make it mandatory for liquor manufacturers to blend a certain percentage of grain-based spirits. The import duty on grain-based alcohol imported from other states will also be increased from the present ₹2 per litre to boost local industry,” said a senior state government official.Of the 34 grain-based distilleries in Maharashtra, only around nine are operational. Compared to the installed capacity of around 40 crore litres, the production averaged at about 8-8.5 crore litres.At present, manufacturers blend around 10% of grain-based spirits in their products, usually in premium brands, and the state plans to eventually increase this to around 40-50%.“With sugar mills and distilleries getting good rates from OMCs for ethanol blending in petrol, and the cyclical nature of the sugarcane crop, it is necessary to push the production of grain-based alcohol in Maharashtra,” the official explained. He added that though liquor prices could increase marginally, state excise revenues would also rise as the duty formula is based on cost of manufacturing. Farmers can also get better prices for their produce.“Increasing the blending of grain-based alcohol will improve the taste and quality... It will reduce our dependence on molasses and help launch new brands,” said a liquor manufacturer. He added that as of now only a couple of multinationals manufacture their entire portfolio using grain-based spirits.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) legislator Mansingrao Naik, who controls a co-operative sugar mill and operates a private grain-based alcohol unit in Sangli, said only around three grain-based distilleries were operating at optimum capacity due to lack of demand. “Unlike foreign countries, where liquor is distilled from grain, India has molasses-based products. Grain-based liquor is considered to be healthier than that using molasses,” he explained.He added that sugar factories found it remunerative to sell molasses for fuel blending, and hence, the demand for grain alcohol was likely to rise in the future. But the prices of molasses-based alcohol sold to liquor manufacturers were marginally lower, around ₹50 per litre, compared to around ₹53-54 for grain spirits.However, manufacture of grain-based spirit is a controversial issue in Maharashtra. The erstwhile Vilasrao Deshmukh government had launched a short-lived scheme—Food Grain-Based Distillery and Integrated Unit Financial Aid, 2007— to promote grain-based distilleries. This had raised the hackles of activists, who questioned the logic of diverting food-grains for producing liquor in a state that is food-deficit with endemic malnutrition and drought. The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) had also red-flagged lacunae in the scheme.Valsa Nair Singh, principal secretary, state excise, denied comment on the contours of the policy. In 2020-21, around 320 million litres of CL were sold in Maharashtra, followed by beer (300 million litres), IMFL (200 million litres) and wine (7 million litres).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-make-grain-based-alcohol-must-for-producers-101631995657930.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sexual assault on minor: Ludhiana police file chargesheet within 3 days||With Ludhiana leading the state in crimes against women as per data collated by the National Crime Records Bureau, cops in the district are working hard to expeditiously bring culprits to the book. Acting swiftly in a case registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, where a 16-year-old Dhillon Nagar resident had, on September 6, accused Krishan Ram of Basant Nagar of barging into her house and molesting her, the police filed a chargesheet in the matter within three days. The cops have also requested the sessions court to fast-track the trial so that the victim can get justice at the earliest.Appreciating sub-inspector Ranjit Singh for disposing of the case quickly, senior officers have recommended a Class-A certificate for him. Apart from the POCSO Act, an FIR was lodged under Section 354 (use of criminal force with intent to disrobe woman) of the Indian Penal Code, and the accused was arrested soon after. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Industrial Area-B), Randhir Singh, said, “Investigating officer, Ranjit Singh, had completed the investigation and prepared a chargesheet by September 8 and had filed it the next day.” The SI said, “The accused had met the 16-year-old at the house of his friend on August 20 and had exchanged phone numbers with her. On learning that the victim’s mother was not at home, he had barged into her house and attempted to rape her. He fled when the victim raised the alarm. Her siblings were also at home at the time.” The girl is drop out and had lost her father a few years ago. Her mother works in a factory. “There was nobody in the family who could pursue the case, so we did are best to complete the investigation at the earliest,” the SI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sexual-assault-on-minor-ludhiana-police-file-chargesheet-within-3-days-101631995656871.html
19-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 50% spike in Covid cases in September but fatalities down by 38%||Though cases in Maharashtra might have gone down in the first half of September as compared to those registered in August, Mumbai has witnessed an opposite trend. The city has witnessed spike of 50% in the number of cases reported in the first 17 days of September as compared to those recorded in August. However, the number of deaths in Mumbai has come down by 38% in September as compared to August’s fatalities.According to data, between September 1 and 17, around 7,407 Covid-19 cases were reported in the city – 50% more than the 4,943 cases recorded during the same period in August. Similarly, in the past one month, the number of active cases has also gone up from around 2,600 to 4,600 cases.Across Maharashtra, the cases have gone down. The state had recorded 57,120 cases from September 1 to 15, as compared to 88,664 infections recorded during the same period last month. This is a decline by 35%.Further, between September 1 and 17, the city reported 58 deaths due to Covid-19, which is 38% lesser than the 95 deaths recorded during the same period in August.Along with the 50% spike in the cases, the city has also witnessed a marginal surge – of around 13% – in the number of tests conducted. This indicates that the positivity rate in the city has increased. Between September 1 and 17, the city had conducted 601,438 tests, of which around 7,407 came positive and the city’s positivity rate reached 1.23%. In comparison to this, 521,721 tests were conducted during the same period in August, of which 4,943 came positive (0.94% positivity rate).The city reported 478 cases and six deaths on Saturday, taking the Covid-19 tally to 737,678 and toll to 16,048. The city’s recovery rate is 96% with 713,458 recoveries and the fatality rate is 2.17%. There are 5,719 active cases in the city.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said they are constantly monitoring the situation. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani on Friday said, “The period till October 5 will be crucial considering the effect of those coming to Mumbai after travelling for the Ganesh festival will be evident. We are targeting more such citizens and also appealing them to get tested.”Meanwhile, Dr Madhav Sathe, former microbiology professor at BYL Nair Hospital, said, “As far as I understand virology, I don’t think there will be a third wave or even if there will be, it will be very mild. The fifth sero survey by BMC has shown over 80% antibodies in citizens, and this is enough to conclude that even if there’s a third wave, it will be mild.”Dr Sathe added, “Right now, the surge we are seeing is due to the relaxations and unlocking. Hence, I say that a spike is possible but not a third wave. We are also having citizens who are vaccinated now and one sign that vaccine works is that the deaths are going down despite the rise in cases. Unless, the virus has a major mutation, we will not see a third wave or a major spike-like situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-50-spike-in-covid-cases-in-september-but-fatalities-down-by-38-101631995356735.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Admn orders closure of Gurdwara Bangla Sahib over Covid norms violation||New DelhiThe Chanakyapuri district administration has ordered the closure of Gurdwara Bangla Sahib in Delhi for alleged violation of Covid-19 norms, prompting outgoing Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa to demand action against the officials concerned.The order by the Chanakyapuri sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) was issued on September 16.The order stated that a report submitted by executive magistrate (Chanakyapuri) found that the management of Bangla Sahib Gurdwara “allowed visitors/prayers inside the gurdwara” in violation of DDMA directions.The order asked the management of the gurdwara, one of the most prominent Sikh shrines in the national capital, to be closed for visitors with immediate effect.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had earlier ordered reopening of religious places, but visitors were not allowed to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus infection.Meanwhile, SAD leader and outgoing DSGMC chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa fumed at the Chanakyapuri SDM order and demanded action from chief minister Arvind Kejriwal against the district officials.In a video message on Twitter, he said: “Cheap action by SDM Chanakyapuri by passing this order to close Gurdwara Sri Bangla Sahib for Covid Violations! We condemn this sick mentality of Delhi Govt & demand @ArvindKejriwal Ji to take strictest action against concerned DC & SDM Geeta Grover.” Sirsa added that the order was issued to close the gurdwara, which has helped many people during the Covid-19 second wave and lockdown by organising “langar” (free food service) and setting up beds for patients.The Chanakyapuri SDM office, however, said whatever has happened is according to the DDMA order, and refused to comment further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/admn-orders-closure-of-gurdwara-bangla-sahib-over-covid-norms-violation-101631995056724.html
19-09-2021||Other||Punjab logs 31 fresh Covid cases||ChandigarhWith 31 fresh Covid-19 infections, the tally of cases in Punjab on Saturday reached 6,01,236, according to a medical bulletin.With one Covid-related fatality reported on Saturday, the death toll reached 16,467. The number of active cases in the state was 316, the bulletin said.Muktsar reported six new cases, Jalandhar five, Pathankot four and Ferozepur three, the bulletin said. Twenty-three people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 584453, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-logs-31-fresh-covid-cases-101631994876530.html
19-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra demands for its share of ₹50,000 crore from excise, cess levied on fuel||The cash-strapped Maharashtra government has demanded its share of more than ₹50,000 crore from the additional excise duty as well as the agriculture and road cess levied by the Central government on diesel and petrol. The demand was raised during the Maharashtra government’s meeting with the Niti Aayog earlier this week. The basic price of petrol in Maharashtra is ₹40.97 per litre, on which Centre levies excise duty and cess of ₹32.90, while state government imposes ₹30.28 as value-added taxes (VAT) on every litre, taking the price to more than ₹107 a litre that includes the petrol pump’s commission of ₹3.86. Similarly, diesel’s base price is ₹41.79 per litre, on which the Central excise and cess of ₹31.80 is added along with ₹21.28 as state government’s VAT and ₹2.58 as petrol pump’s commission. Out of the excise and cess on the fuel, the basic excise is just ₹1.40 and ₹1.80 a litre on petrol and diesel, respectively, while the remaining is additional excise and agriculture-road cess levied by the Centre over the past four years. “The state governments gets share only in the basic excise, which is a little over 1% of the taxes collected by the Centre. The total excise duty and cess collected from Maharashtra by the Centre in 2020-21 was ₹46,464 crore including ₹32,432 crore from diesel and ₹14,032 crore from petrol. Against this amount, the Centre gave us ₹383 crore and ₹138 crore for diesel and petrol in devolution of taxes,” said an official from the finance department. The state government’s debt is estimated to rise to more than ₹6.15 lakh crore. The state’s dues against the compensation for the losses of Goods and Services Tax (GST) from the Centre have crossed ₹30,000 crore. The Central government has increased the additional excise duty and road-agriculture tax in the past few years by keeping the divisible component (sharing with the states) as low as around 1%. The excise and cess on fuel have been increased multi-fold in the past few years. The Central government’s collection from the excise duty and cess in 2020-21 was more than ₹3.3 lakh crore, of which Maharashtra’s contribution was 11.65% and 11.25% for diesel and petrol respectively. “The devolution of the additional excise and road-agriculture cess on the fuel to states should be in the spirit of cooperative federalism,” the state government said. Manoj Saunik, additional chief secretary, finance, said, “This has been demanded by all the states, but the Centre is not agreeing to devolve the collection. States get very meagre amount of the collection.” The state has also requested the Centre to continue the GST compensation for three to five years more to make up for the losses Maharashtra has suffered because of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. The five-year period during which the Centre has been compensating the states for their losses due to the roll out of the GST regime from July 1, 2017, is ending on June 30 next year. “The end of the compensation will result in revenue deficit of ₹50,000 crore to the state exchequer. It would be difficult to cope with the gap, unless the transition period of the five years in increased further by three to five years,” the state has said. Another official from the finance department said, “Out of ₹46, 464 crore collected from Maharashtra in the form of central duty and cess in 2020-21, only ₹521 crore were devolved back to the state which is little over 1%. Its expected to go over ₹50,000 crore in 2021-22. When the cess is collected in the name of agriculture and road development, the state has every right over the collection and we expect it to increase it to at least 3%. Instead of bringing petrol and diesel under GST, the Centre should first reduce the excise duty and the cess which will help in bringing down the prices significantly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-demands-for-its-share-of-50-000-crore-from-excise-cess-levied-on-fuel-101631994816616.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Governance biggest casualty in Cong’s ‘Game of Thrones’: AAP||Governance in Punjab has been the biggest casualty in the Congress’ “Game of Thrones”, the opposition AAP said on Saturday after chief minister Amarinder Singh resigned following months of a power tussle in the ruling party. In a video message, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the issues of Punjab have been put on the back burner amid a power struggle in the ruling party. “Congress has cheated the people of Punjab. They do not care about the welfare of Punjab, but their own personal happiness. Congress is a drowning Titanic that neither has vision nor commitment or performance,” Chadha said in Punjabi. “Governance in the state of Punjab has been the biggest casualty in Congress’s ‘Game of Thrones’,” Chadha tweeted after Congress veteran Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister declaring that he felt “humiliated”. AAP MLA and Leader of Opposition in Punjab Harpal Singh Cheema said the Congress infighting has done a lot of damage to Punjab and its people. “No matter how many faces the Congress may change, in the upcoming elections, the people of Punjab will make the condition of the Congress worse than the Akali-BJP,” he said in a statement in Chandigarh. “By changing Ali Baba, the rest of the thieves will not become innocent,” he said. The AAP leader said all Congressmen are trapped in the quagmire of a mafia rule that has been going on for four-and-a-half years. “No matter how many faces the Congress may change, it cannot change its false, corrupt and opportunistic nature,” he added. Cheema said while being power hungry, Amarinder Singh and his MLAs and ministers never thought about the prosperity of Punjab and were only busy filling their coffers. “Because the fight is not only for the chief minister’s chair, but a battle to capture the status of mafia and kingpin,” he asserted. Cheema said that after being fed up with the 10-year mafia rule of the Badals and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the people had expressed their confidence in Amarinder Singh and the Congress with great hope. “The more confidence they expressed, the more disappointed they got in four-and-a-half-years. The Congress infighting left behind all the main issues of Punjab and the people. This is the reason that today people have started hating Congress on the lines of the BJP-Akali,” said Cheema. Cheema said the Congress is a “sinking Titanic” today and no captain can save it from sinking now. He said the present reshuffle in the Congress is a last-ditch attempt to mislead the people of the state. “But the people of Punjab have become very aware at the political level. Due to this, the public will not become a victim of this high-voltage drama of the Congress,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/governance-biggest-casualty-in-cong-s-game-of-thrones-aap-101631994756575.html
19-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court paves way for Bandra society’s redevelopment||The Bombay high court (HC) has paved the way for redevelopment of a housing society at Bandra which was being stalled by a garage owner who wanted a commercial unit in lieu of the car parking space.The division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Milind Jadhav on Thursday directed the garage owner, Rajesh Mishra and his family members, to vacate the premises by September 30, failing which the court receiver will take forcible possession – if necessary, with assistance of the local police – of the garage in Bandra Trilok Cooperative Housing Society.The society’s developer, Shree Ahuja Properties, had moved HC in 2019 after seven of the 76 flat owners and five of the 20 garage owners refused to vacate their respective premises for redevelopment.Acting on a plea filed by the developer in the suit, a single-judge bench on May 3 appointed a court receiver for Mishra’s garage for the purpose of getting it demolished for redevelopment. The judge also rejected the plea filed by Mishra for restraining the developer from interfering with their possession of the garage and for restoring water supply to the unit, which the society claimed was illegally converted into a commercial space.The garage owners had moved in appeal against the judge’s order. The division bench on Thursday rejected the appeal. The bench noted that all other dissenting members had vacated their premises after the May 3 order and Mishra was the only member who had refused to vacate the garage.The division bench rejected Mishra’s claim for a commercial unit in the redeveloped building. The bench observed that a garage is clearly meant to park vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-paves-way-for-bandra-society-s-redevelopment-101631994696642.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||The Capt who put Cong back on saddle in Punjab||One of the strongest regional satraps of the Congress, Capt Amarinder Singh was the leader who put the party back in the saddle in Punjab after an intensely fought poll battle that decimated the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and crushed the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) dream of expanding its footprint beyond Delhi.The 79-year-old widely respected and popular leader steered the Congress in 2017 to a landslide victory in the 117-member assembly to occupy the chief minister’s post for the second time.The Maharaja’s win in Punjab after 10 years had also rekindled the hopes for the revival of the grand old party.Belonging to a very rare breed of politicians who have seen action in the Indo-Pak war, Amarinder tasted success in the 2017 polls after Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) supremo Parkash Singh Badal foiled his previous attempts to become chief minister in 2007 and 2012.Cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu joined the Congress a few months ahead of the 2017 polls after quitting the BJP. Speculation was rife that he would be given the post of deputy chief minister, but he was made a cabinet minister. Relations between him and the chief minister were never warm.Just two years after the Congress came into power, Sidhu was stripped off key portfolios in the cabinet reshuffle in June 2019 and he then resigned from the state cabinet.Amarinder had divested Sidhu of the local government and tourism and cultural affairs departments and allotted him the power and new and renewable energy portfolio though the latter never assumed charge of his new department.Shortly afterwards, Sidhu had approached the then Congress president Rahul Gandhi and “apprised him of the situation”.The tension between Amarinder and Sidhu came out in the open. While Amarinder blamed him for the “inept handling” of the local government department, claiming that it resulted in “poor performance” of the Congress in urban areas in the (2019) Lok Sabha polls, the former cricketer, on the other hand said “(Congress chief) Rahul Gandhi is my captain...Rahul Gandhi is the captain of the captain (Amarinder) also.” However, things became worse and finally, Sidhu was appointed state Congress president, notwithstanding strong opposition from Amarinder.Once a leader of the Akali Dal, Amarinder, the scion of Patiala, in his short army career, fought in the 1965 war.Son of late Maharaja Yadavindra Singh of Patiala, Amarinder did his initial schooling at Lawrence School, Sanawar, and Doon School in Dehradun, before joining the National Defence Academy, Kharagwasla, in 1959 and graduating from there in 1963.Commissioned in the Indian Army in 1963, he was posted in 2nd Bn. Sikh Regiment (both his father and grandfather had served the battalion), served in Field Area - Indo Tibetan border for two years and was appointed Aide-de-Camp to Lt Gen Harbaksh Singh, GOC-in-C Western Command.The political career of Amarinder, who was considered a close friend of late Rajiv Gandhi, began in January 1980 when he was elected an MP.But he resigned from the Congress and the Lok Sabha in protest against the entry of the army into the Golden Temple during Operation Bluestar in 1984.After joining the Akali Dal in August 1985, Amarinder got elected to the Punjab assembly on an Akali Dal (Longowal) ticket in the 1995 elections.During his first term as chief minister (2002-07), his government in 2004 passed the state law terminating Punjab’s water sharing pact with neighbouring states.Last year, his government brought four bills, which were later passed by the state assembly, to “counter the contentious farm legislation enacted by Parliament”.In his second term, his government also announced a waiver of crores of rupees worth of loans under the farm debt waiver scheme for labourers and the landless farming community.Amarinder fought the 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Amritsar and defeated BJP’s Arun Jaitley by a margin of more than one lakh votes.He then resigned in November as MP after the Supreme Court termed Punjab’s 2004 Act terminating the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal agreement as unconstitutional. A few days later, he was appointed president of the Punjab Congress again in the run-up to the polls. A widely travelled person, Amarinder has penned several books including his memoirs of the 1965 Indo-Pak war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/the-capt-who-put-cong-back-on-saddle-in-punjab-101631994636655.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||MC elections: Political activities heat up in Chandigarh||The political temperature in Chandigarh is starting to heat up with just about two months to go for the municipal corporation election.Political parties are strengthening their party structures, mobilising party workers on the ground, wooing rival party workers to cross over and organising public outreach programmes. The elections scheduled in December this year are going to be a three-cornered affair. The ruling Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) is looking to repeat its last election performance, when it won more than 80% seats.Banking on anti-incumbency, the Congress is hoping to finally end its losing streak: it not only lost the last MC elections but also the two previous Lok Sabha elections in the city.The new entrant in the MC elections, Aam Admi Party (AAP), is confident of making a major dent in the fortunes of both BJP and Congress. The party entered the city politics on a strong footing in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, but has frittered the advantage in the next seven years. Now, once again the party is building up momentum to challenge the two established parties.Focus on party structures“Appointment of panna parmukh, constitution of booth committees and polling station committees (shakti kendras) have been done. Party’s different morchas (cells) have been given fresh impetus and nearly 35,000 party members have been given specific responsibilities for the elections,” said Arun Sood, BJP city chief.The Congress is also reconstituting the party organisation at different levels. “We are appointing office-bearers at different levels, bringing in new faces and also reorienting the role of experienced hands,” said Subhash Chawla, president, Chandigarh Congress.AAP on September 3 dissolved its organisation structure of the Chandigarh unit. “We will within a fortnight finalise the new organisation structure. Our policy will be to have the right person for the right post,” said Chander Mukhi Sharma, chairman, election campaign committee.Direct connect with votersCongress has started “nukkad” meetings across the city. “In a day, we are having multiple nukkad meetings in every block and district. We are meeting party workers and guiding them on the key election issues, where we need to be on the offensive and areas where we might have to be defensive. In nukkad meetings, we are also discussing the BJP strategy,” said Chawla.The BJP has put more than 35,000 of its party members to work, giving them specific election responsibilities. “We are organising sammelans (conclaves) at different levels, both within the party and with residents. We have also planned out how these meetings will work out in the days to come. Thirty programmes are being organised daily,” said Sood.The AAP has initiated the ‘Jan Sampark Abhiyan’. “Public meetings and worker-level meetings are being organised on a daily basis. We are also taking up civic problems of the people and staging protests at the ground level if needed,” said Sharma.Documenting failures, achievementsThe Congress is preparing a chargesheet against BJP governance in the last five years. Chawla said it will detail the failures of the BJP on all the fronts in the city. “The municipal corporation under BJP has totally failed to meet the people’s expectations. They have only burdened the people with taxes. They couldn’t deliver on their election promises,” he said.For the BJP, work on the preparation of the vision document (manifesto) and a booklet on its achievements in the last five years has started. “We are relying on our development. By October, we will place before the people what we have done,” said Sood. AAP’s focus will be on the implementation. “People are tired of these chargesheets. We will bring in new perspective on these issues so that people know what has been done and what should be done,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mc-elections-political-activities-heat-up-in-chandigarh-101631993442739.html
19-09-2021||Other||To protest proposed Reliance stores, JCCI calls for Jammu Bandh on Wednesday||The Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (JCCI) on Saturday called for a complete Jammu Bandh on Wednesday to protest against proposed move of the government to open 100 Reliance stores in Jammu.JCCI expressed anguish over the “discrimination of the highest degree with traders of Jammu by the government”. JCCI president Arun Gupta said, “Looking into the atrocities of the government on the business class of Jammu, we have decided to give a clarion call for Jammu Bandh on September 22.”He expressed resentment over the proposal of big companies such as Reliance opening stores in Jammu, saying that if this happens, small businesses will be affected and many shops will shut down.“Despite adding opportunities for business, the directionless government has snatched what was in hand of traders which is unacceptable,” he added.“The directionless policies of the government are hitting hard the business fraternity,” he said.“Now, bar owners are the next targets of the anti-Jammu administration. Hundreds of wine traders have lost their livelihood after the introduction of e-auction of liquor vends in Jammu and Kashmir; 228 liquor traders lost their shops in the e-auction conducted recently,” he said.Gupta then referred to banquet halls, which he said are bearing the brunt of government’s baseless restriction on the number of guests.He also lashed out at the government for ending the Darbar Move.The Jammu and Kashmir High Court Bar Association, Ikkjutt Jammu and around 20 other organisations have extended support to the Bandh call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/to-protest-proposed-reliance-stores-jcci-calls-for-jammu-bandh-on-wednesday-101631993136670.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Minors elope, brought back from Nepal border||Chandigarh Police have rescued a 17-year-old girl belonging to Balongi from near the Nepal border and apprehended a boy, also aged 17, who is accused of kidnapping her. The boy, who belongs to Nepal and is a school dropout, was taking her across the border to get married, said police. This is sixth such case of elopement of minors reported in Chandigarh this year. According to the National Crime Records Bureau data, 19 girls were kidnapped to compel them for marriage in Chandigarh in 2020.The complaint was lodged by the girl’s father after she didn’t return from school on September 13. According to police, both teenagers used to study in the same school before the boy dropped out. The two had boarded a bus from Sector 17, Chandigarh, and reached Uttar Pradesh, from where they planned to enter Nepal. The girl did not carry her mobile phone while the juvenile was carrying one, but switched it off to avoid being traced. Police got information about the teenagers being spotted near the Nepal border, after which teams were dispatched to bring them back to the city.They were traced to Siddharth Nagar near the Nepal border, where they were staying in a lodge waiting for a chance to cross over. The girl was handed over to her parents while the boy has been sent to the juvenile home. He has been booked under Section 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code. The girl has refused to get her medical examination done. “Children have been locked inside their houses owing to Covid-19 and they do not have anyone to guide them at this tender age, which is leading to such cases where minors are eloping,” said Sangeeta Jund, project director, Childline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-minors-elope-brought-back-from-nepal-border-101631992956008.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity buzz: Son rise in Chandigarh Congress||With Pawan Bansal, a former Congress MP from Chandigarh, camping in Delhi after being appointed the party treasurer, his son Manish Bansal has become active in city politics. These days, he is found presiding over meetings organised by the local party unit. Manish is not new to politics for he had been managing the former MP’s elections from behind the scenes. Former UT Congress president Pradeep Chhabra, who joined the Aam Aadmi Party recently, had been alleging all along that Bansal was upset with him over his son not getting due importance. Residents in a fix over UT’s move amid third wave fearsThe Chandigarh administration’s recent decision while preparing for the Covid third wave has left residents in a fix. “It’s confusing. While fearing an onset of the third Covid wave, the administration has fixed the noon to 1pm slot three days a week for people to meet UT officials. At the same time, it has allowed more people to get together at social gatherings,” said a city resident, who has been waiting for a week now to meet an official at the UT secretariat. Mohali MC House okays 10 items in 10 minutes During the monthly House meeting of the Municipal Corporation of Mohali on September 14, 50 councillors approved 10 items on the agenda pertaining to the development of the city in just 10 minutes. The councillors did not even discuss two policies pertaining to taxi stands and increasing the number of vends for coconut vendors in Mohali. The opposition councillors did not raise any objection either. The meeting began at 3.30 pm and was over at 3.40pm. One wonders if the councillors had even read the items on the agenda before coming for the meeting. NTA, the Not Today Agency The JEE main result was mired in controversy and not just because of the alleged cases of cheating but because of how long it took for the National Testing Agency (NTA) to release the result. With registrations for JEE advanced set to begin from Monday, it was only after Tuesday midnight that the results were declared. Many students took to Twitter to voice their frustration. NTA was given a new name, the Not Today Agency as aspirants waited for the result to be declared online. Chandigarh Police get cracking on feedback Chandigarh Police have started acting on public feedback after recent meetings with Resident Welfare Associations. While senior citizens had complained that police officials on beat duty don’t visit them often, the initiative was restarted, and a senior citizen registration feature was launched on the E-saathi app for those living alone. The traffic police have also started awareness drives to make people stop at signals on slip roads after feedback that many didn’t know whether to stop or move on at the lights. UT health staff on track after surprise checks Healthcare workers in Chandigarh’s government hospitals have suddenly turned punctual after new health secretary Yashpal Garg conducted surprise checks at night and in the morning at various hospitals. “The inspections were required. Now patients can get the best of medical service at all government institutions,” a senior UT health official said. Inputs by Surender Sharma, Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Rajanbir Singh and Mandeep Narula||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-buzz-son-rise-in-chandigarh-congress-101631992836054.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana BJP protests against Punjab CM, Congress counters with slogans||High-voltage drama was witnessed in various Haryana districts on Saturday, as workers and leaders of the ruling BJP and the Congress held protests against each other.In Panipat, BJP activists, led by Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia and Panipat City MLA Pramod Vij, gathered at the Congress office near Red Light Chowk to protest against outgoing Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Later, Congress workers also reached their office and raised slogans against the BJP leaders over the farmers’ agitation. The protests led to serpentine queues of vehicles on the service lane of the busy National Highway-44. Heavy police force was deployed to deal with any untoward incident, but the protest remained peaceful. BJP leaders slammed the Congress leaders from Haryana for not speaking against Captain Amarinder Singh’s statement that Punjab farmers should shift the protests from Punjab to Delhi and Haryana. On the other hand, former minister and Congress leader Ashok Arora said it was ironical, as the leader of the ruling party was also holding protests. He said the BJP-JJP alliance government in Haryana had failed to deliver on its promises, and though farmers were protesting for the past 10 months, the leaders of the ruling party had no concern for them. Similar protests were held at the Congress party’s district headquarters in Rohtak, Ambala, Jind and Kurukshetra. In Rohtak, former BJP minister Manish Grover, along with other senior party leaders, took out a protest march near the Congress office, where local MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra and other Congress leaders were present, and raised slogans against the BJP.Grover said the Punjab CM was the main force behind instigating the protesters against three farm laws. “Punjab’s economy is dwindling due to the protests, and he asked the farmers to protest at Haryana and Delhi borders, which proves that the Congress is instigating the protesters,” the BJP leader added.Congress’ Rohtak MLA BB Batra accused the BJP of creating drama by holding such protests to hide the failures of their Union and state governments. In Ambala, BJP workers led by Yamunanagar MLA and party’s district in-charge Ghanshyam Das Arora protested at the Old Cloth Market. In a counter protest, Congress workers also staged a sit-in few metres away. Former deputy CM Chander Mohan and MLA Shally Chaudhary were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-bjp-protests-against-punjab-cm-congress-counters-with-slogans-101631992781803.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Gurugram land scam: CBI court pulls up police for delay in further probe||Making it clear that paucity of time due to other cases is not grounds for not conducting further probe in cases pertaining to former and sitting MPs and MLAs, a special CBI court has sought a detailed progress report from the police in the Gurugram land release scam case.Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI, said perusal of the status showed that the FIR in the present case was registered on January 23, 2019, against Bhupinder Singh Hooda, the then chief minister of Haryana, and others, and on January 4, 2021, a charge-sheet was filed against three public servants, along with the accused company.The investigating officer (IO) has not conducted any further investigation, even after he appeared before this court on August 8, 2021, admitting that it was due to paucity of time, as he was busy in other cases, the judge observed.But this was not valid grounds for delay in the scam case, about which the Supreme Court has also shown concern, the judge said.On the request of deputy superintendent of police Kailash Sahu, the IO in the case, the case was adjourned to October 18 for submitting the progress report with respect to the probe pending against Hooda, IAS officer TC Gupta and others. The caseThe Congress government in June 2009 had issued a notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act to acquire 1,407 acres for developing residential Sectors 58 to 63 and commercial Sectors 65 to 67 in Gurugram by HUDA.While issuing the declaration under Section 6 on June 2, 2010, the total area was reduced to about 800 acres. Finally, the award, dated May 29, 2012, was passed for 87 acres only.The SC had said about 1,300 acres were released in the favour of private builders. The CBI in its preliminary inquiry had prima facie established irregularities in the release of land from acquisition process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurugram-land-scam-cbi-court-pulls-up-police-for-delay-in-further-probe-101631992780476.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana health minister assures free treatment for spinal muscular atrophy patients||Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij on Saturday assured free treatment for at least 19 patients of the state suffering from spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a rare genetic disorder.Parents of a few such patients from Ambala, Karnal and Panipat met the minister at his weekly Janata Darbar on behalf of the Cure SMA Foundation of India, and sought affordable healthcare. “The drugs for its treatment are now available in India and I will make efforts to provide these for free to these patients, on lines of those of hepatitis B and hemophilia diseases,” said Vij.HT has earlier reported about the disorder that according to doctors at PGIMER, Chandigarh, has three types, and mostly affects babies and children, causing muscles to deteriorate. Vij also marked an inquiry to DGP PK Aggarwal in a 2018 murder case from Palwal, after the victim’s family alleged police lapse; and to ACS (health) Rajiv Arora into cheating allegations in a PNDT case against Ambala deputy civil surgeon Dr Balwinder Kaur by an informer of the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao campaign. Vij said he ensured that there was no pendency of files at his offices and complaints were forwarded to the departments concerned for resolution, and an action-taken report was submitted within 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-health-minister-assures-free-treatment-for-spinal-muscular-atrophy-patients-101631992779284.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||189 villages of Kurukshetra in focus to conserve groundwater||Aiming to reduce groundwater depletion, the Haryana government has identified 189 villages in Kurukshetra district under the Atal Bhujal Yojana.At 75, maximum villages are in Ladwa block, followed by 65 in Shahbad and 51 in Pehowa. The government is planning a special awareness drive in these villages to educate people about groundwater conservation and rainwater harvesting. Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar on Saturday held a meeting with the officials of the departments concerned in this regard. He said the chief minister’s office had issued instructions for special focus on these villages for water conservation.He directed the officials to work on the ground with the support of locals to achieve the targets for conserving groundwater. As per a report of the groundwater cell, agriculture and farmer welfare department, Haryana, the groundwater table in the state has been falling at an alarming rate year after year.It is declining, on an average, by 0.5-1 metre every year in paddy-growing districts, and Kurukshetra is on the top among the worst-affected districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/189-villages-of-kurukshetra-in-focus-to-conserve-groundwater-101631992778070.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||‘Humiliated’, says Captain as he resigns as Punjab||Punjab’s chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh became the fifth chief minister (across four states) to be pushed to resign, although experts said the Congress’ decision could end up hurting its prospects in elections early next year.With under five months to go for the state elections, Singh resigned on Saturday after the Congress summoned a meeting of its lawmakers in the state, saying that he feels “humiliated”, but adding that he won’t accept newly appointed party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu as the next CM or the party’s face in the coming polls. Analysts said the infighting could work to the advantage of the Aam Aadmi Party, widely seen as the strongest contender in the state at this point in time.The two-time chief minister submitted his resignation along with those of his council of ministers to Governor Banwarilal Purohit at the Raj Bhawan barely minutes before a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP), widely seen as having been called to remove him from the CM’s post. The meeting was announced by the Congress high command late on Friday, and it appeared to catch Singh, who is the leader of the CLP, unawares.The development came amid a power tussle that divided the ruling party in the state, with Singh and Sidhu at loggerheads. Sidhu was made the state Congress chief earlier this year despite opposition by Singh. Sidhu and several Congress lawmakers in the state have targeted Singh for not fulfilling promises made in the 2017 manifesto, being soft on the Badals of the Akali Dal , and an over-reliance on a small group of bureaucrats.“I feel humiliated...this is the third time they (Congress high command) have called the MLAs. Apparently, they do not have confidence in me and didn’t think I could handle my job. But I felt humiliated at the manner in which they handled the whole affair,” Singh told reporters after submitting his resignation.Singh said he spoke to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and told her about his decision to quit. “I have resigned and the (Congress) leadership can now make anyone it trusts the chief minister,” he said. However, there was no decision on his successor till late on Saturday.CLP passed a resolution authorising Sonia Gandhi to take a decision in the matter. The names of Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, his predecessor Sunil Jakhar and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa were doing the rounds as possible contenders for the post.Singh’s resignation came following a long-drawn tussle with Sidhu, four cabinet ministers and several MLAs. It also comes amidst fears that anti-incumbency arising from his style of functioning could hurt the party’s chances in he coming polls. The BJP effected changes in Uttarakhand and Gujarat recently citing similar concerns. While the process wasn’t entirely smooth -- especially in Gujarat, where the entire cabinet was dropped -- the party still managed to avoid making the changes the kind of public spectacle that has played out in Punjab over the past few months.Asked about his future course of action, Singh said he would decide this in consultation with his supporters. “I have been in politics for 52 years. I am going to be here. In politics, there are always options. I will use that option when the time comes… At the moment, I am still in the Congress,” he said.Before going to the Raj Bhawan, Singh was a huddle with at least a dozen ministers, MLAs and MPs, according to people aware of the development. He insisted that the MLAs attend the CLP meeting later.In another interaction with the media, the Congress leader said he won’t accept Sidhu as the Punjab chief minister, describing him as “a total disaster”. The man who could not handle one ministry, can never run entire Punjab, he said. If Sidhu is made the face of the Congress for the Punjab polls, Singh said he will oppose him “tooth and nail”. He also added that Sidhu’s close association with Pakistan PM Imran Khan could end up compromising India’s national security. Punjab shares an international border with Pakistan.Singh’s exit leaves the electoral battle in Punjab interestingly poised. The Shiromani Akali Dal has still not shrugged off the fall out of the sacrilege and police firing case, and its alliance with the BJP at the time the farm laws that have sparked a protest by farmers that is now into its eleventh month.Between June and October 2015, three incidents of sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib took place in Faridkot district, sparking protests across the state. On October 14, 2015, two protesters were killed in police firing in Behbal Kalan. The same day, police also opened fire on protesters in Kotkpaura. Amarinder had promised strict action against those responsible for sacrilege and police firing. On April 9 this year, the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the investigation carried out by the state police’s Special Investigation Team (SIT) in the Kotkapura police firing case. The state government has constituted a new SIT in accordance with the court order. The obvious beneficiary of the fallout of these cases, analysts said, could be the Aam Aadmi Party.A Congress leader, asking not to be named, said Singh should have sent his resignation to the party president instead of giving it to the Governor in keeping with his long association with the Gandhi family and the party.The CLP meeting was attended by 78 out of the 80 Congress MLAs. Besides Singh, Vidhan Sabha speaker Raja Kanwarpal Singh did not join the meeting because of his constitutional obligation. The resolution was passed in the presence of two central observers, general secretary Ajay Maken and revenue minister in Rajasthan, Harish Chaudhary. Harish Rawat, in charge of Congress affairs in Punjab, said that all the MLAs passed the one-line resolution requesting Sonia Gandhi to decide the name of the next chief minister.The resolution was moved by Brahm Mohindra and seconded by the party’s Dalit MLA from Amritsar West, Raj Kumar Verka, the Congress’s working president and Urmur MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian and four-time MLA from Samrala, Amrik Singh Dhillon.Rawat said a copy of the resolution has been sent through email to Sonia Gandhi and the decision in this regard is expected soon.The CLP also passed a resolution hailing Singh’s tenure as the chief minister. The resolution in this regard was moved by Maken and was seconded by rural development and panchayati raj minister Tript Bajwa, who was among the first ones to revolt against Singh . “The party praised Amarinder for his tenure of as the chief minister. He tried to his best to serve the state under tough conditions the state was facing when he took over. He provided solutions to the problems the state was facing,” said Rawat.Maken said he hoped that Singh will continue to guide the Punjab Congress, being the most senior leader of the party.Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal said Amarinder Singh’s resignation is an admission by the Congress that it failed to perform in the state and has nothing to show for its tenure of over four-and-a-half years.“The Congress party cannot hope to save its incompetent government and befool Punjabis with a mere change of face,” he said, and alleged that the entire state cabinet was steeped in corruption.The BJP also termed Singh’s resignation a “failure” of the Congress in the state, and accused the ruling party of protecting “mafia raj”. BJP national general secretary Tarun Ghugh said, “The entire Punjab cabinet failed. The chief minister failed. Congress has failed in Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/humiliated-says-captain-as-he-resigns-as-punjab-101631992335805.html
19-09-2021||Other||Govt, private schools shut in Leh after 56 students test positive for Covid||At least 56 students of Druk Padma Karpo School (also known as Rancho’s School of the famed 3-idiots movie), in Leh district were tested positive for Covid-19, prompting the administration to shut government and private schools for 15 days with immediate effect.The affected students have been isolated and quarantined.“Government and private schools have been shut for 15 days in Leh district of Ladakh after 56 students tested positive,” said Ladakh’s divisional commissioner Saugat Biswas.Meanwhile, 71 new positive cases were reported in Ladakh on Saturday.As per media bulletin released by the directorate of health services UT Ladakh, 70 positive sample reports of Covid were received from Leh on Friday and one positive sample report of Covid from Kargil. 152 new cases in J&KJammu and Kashmir recorded 152 fresh coronavirus infections on Saturday.Of all cases, 137 were reported from Kashmir and 15 from Jammu. Srinagar, which is witnessing an increase in cases, saw the highest count of 67 cases.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 113 with active positive cases reaching 1,479.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,21,878 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.20%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3, 27,773 and the death-toll stands at 4,416.The officials said that 56,169 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.Kashmir admn ropes in Imams for Covid controlKashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole on Saturday held a meeting with prominent religious personalities of Srinagar, including Imams and Khateebs of shrines and mosques, regarding strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour among people in view of possible third wave of Covid-19, an official spokesman said.The divisional commissioner appreciated religious scholars for their role and cooperation since the last one and a half years of the pandemic for educating and sermonising people, which helped to a large extent to save people from the deadly pandemic.“Even the developed countries, where the healthcare system is sophisticated, suffered due to the third wave of Covid. It is your religious and social obligation to educate people and help in implementation of CAB as per the guidelines issued by the government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-private-schools-shut-in-leh-after-56-students-test-positive-for-covid-101631992659506.html
19-09-2021||Other||8-yr-old mauled to death by leopard in Budgam||An eight-year-old boy was mauled to death by a leopard in Kashmir’s Budgam district late on Friday, officials said on Saturday.They said the boy was taken away by a leopard when he was on his way to his aunt’s house at Hari Pora Haran in Soibugh, Budgam. A hunt was immediately launched by the villagers who found the boy’s body in the nearby plantations.Range officer (wildlife) Sajid Farooq said the boy lost his life in the unfortunate incident. People heard the cries and saw a blood trail.“The boy was quickly retrieved by the villagers and taken to hospital where doctors declared him brought dead,” Farooq said.This is the second incident in three months in Budgam when a child has lost his/her life to an attack by a leopard.A four-year-old girl had gone missing on June 3 while she was playing in the lawn of her house at Ompura Housing Colony, Budgam and was believed to have been taken away by a leopard.Next day, her mauled body was found in a forest nursery. The incident had caused outrage in the Valley.On June 15, the Jammu and Kashmir administration had announced that the leopard responsible for killing the girl was captured following a massive operation.Following the incident, the forest department had trimmed down and pruned trees in the nursery to “avoid any further loss of life”.“The area of Friday’s incident does not have any proximity to any forest but has a large poplar plantation on revenue land,” he said.Officials said the strength of personnel from forest protection force and wildlife is reinforced and traps are being installed in Soibugh area.“We have already installed a cage and are in the process of installing another,” Farooq said, adding, “We are ascertaining its movement pattern and determining its track.”He said the leopard was probably waiting at the fringe end of Hari Pora Haran village near a place which has a lot of trash.He urged villagers not to allow kids unattended in early mornings and evenings. “It is better to keep your surroundings clean and install lights at dark spots to avoid such incidents,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/8yrold-mauled-to-death-by-leopard-in-budgam-101631992536124.html
19-09-2021||Other||Militants frustrated by peace in Valley, killing of their commanders, says IGP||In the backdrop of the murders of a police constable and a migrant labourer in Kulgam district on Friday night, police said these onslaughts showed the frustration of militants due to the peace in Kashmir and killing of top militant commanders.Within a span of four hours, militants first shot dead constable Bantu Ji Sharma at Wanpoh and then killed a labourer, identified as Shankar Kumar Chowdhary of Preetnagar Kathiyar, Bihar, at Nehama, Kulgam.While no group has claimed responsibility yet, some police officials believe these were the handiwork of The Resistant Front, a shadow outfit of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).Kashmir inspector general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said terrorists and their handlers in Pakistan were frustrated with recent elimination of top commanders of terrorist outfits, and peaceful environment maintained even after the death of separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani.“That’s why terrorists have killed cowardly one unarmed policeman (probationary sub-inspector) recently, one unarmed policeman and one innocent labourer in Kulgam district,” he added.On Saturday, a wreath-laying ceremony in memory of constable Sharma was held at the District Police Lines in Kulgam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/militants-frustrated-by-peace-in-valley-killing-of-their-commanders-says-igp-101631992418474.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Property consultants seek Apartment Act in Chandigarh||A delegation of the Tricity Property Consultants Federation met UT adviser Dharam Pal on Saturday and submitted a memorandum seeking reimplementation of the Apartment Act in Chandigarh. “We demanded that collection of stamp duty for execution of general power of attorney for blood relations be stopped,” said federation chairman Kamal Gupta. He said the Supreme Court has asked Chandigarh to form a panel to look into property-related issues of citizens, and we want that at least three members on this panel should be from our organisation. In the memorandum, the federation also urged that the Right to Service be implemented in the UT estate office, Chandigarh Housing Board and Chandigarh municipal corporation. Along with this, standard working instructions should be issued to all the three offices regarding property matters. The adviser said he would look into the issues raised by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/property-consultants-seek-apartment-act-in-chandigarh-101631992310112.html
19-09-2021||Other||2 more succumb to Covid in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh recorded 174 fresh Covid-19 infections on Saturday taking the state’s tally to 2,16,813 while the death toll mounted to 3,633 after two patients died of the contagion.Of the new cases, 56 were reported in Kangra, 37 in Hamirpur, 28 in Mandi, 26 in Bilaspur, 15 in Shimla, six in Kullu, two each in Chama and Solan, and one each in Kinnaur and Sirmaur.The active cases have gone up to 1,610 while recoveries reached 2,11,554 after 142 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 48,374 cases reported to date followed by 30,490 cases in Mandi and 27,023 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-more-succumb-to-covid-in-himachal-101631992306358.html
19-09-2021||Other||Himachal Congress demands judicial probe into ex-panchayat chief’s death||Himachal Pradesh Congress chief Kuldeep Rathore demanded judicial probe into the death of party leader and former panchayat president Paras Ram Negi.Negi, and his wife and Kais panchayat president Youm Devi were reportedly attacked by nearly 15 persons at Chharudu on the Kullu-Naggar road and they were grievously injured while they were returning home in a car on August 26.Negi had later succumbed to his injuries. A video is making rounds on the social media where his wife has accused local BJP leaders of orchestrating the attack on the couple.“Congress will not remain silent spectator to the brutal acts of BJP leaders,” said Rathore while addressing the media.“I had met Paras Ram in the hospital and the way he was beaten up is shocking. Paras Ram was killed in the attack and his wife is still battling for life,” he added.Rathore threatened to launch a stir, provided the government tried to push the matter under the carpet. The party leaders will meet the governor to apprise him about the entire episode.Congress legislator Nand Lal and Dhani Ram Shandil accompanied him in the press conference. Former speaker Gangu Ram Musafir and Biru Ram Kishore also accompanied him.MLA Nand Lal said the incident has raised a big question on safety of Dalits in Himachal. The government has completely failed to protect the Dalit society. Biru Ram Kishor said Congress will not tolerate injustice to any section in Himachal with solidarity.Expressing anger over the incident in Kullu, he said the state Congress stood with them to provide justice to the victim’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-congress-demands-judicial-probe-into-ex-panchayat-chief-s-death-101631992115926.html
19-09-2021||Mumbai||10L vaccinated with first dose after Saturday’s vaccine drive in Navi Mumbai||With the vaccination drive held at 100 centres in Navi Mumbai on Saturday, the total number of people getting their first dose has crossed 10 lakh. This was the highest number of vaccination centres open till date. On Saturday, 28,893 beneficiaries got their first jab, making a total of 10,00,031 beneficiaries getting their first dose of the 10.60 lakh eligible population.After receiving 50,000 Covishield and 4,380 Covaxin doses on Friday, NMMC planned the drive for Saturday by allotting 37,250 doses. The first dose for 18 years and above was available at 33 centres including Vashi, Nerul, Airoli General Hospitals and MCH, Turbhe, which had 2,500 doses each while Vishnudas Bhave Auditorium had 600, ESIS hospital had 1,000 and 250 doses were available at each of the 23 Urban Primary Health Centres. Groma centre and APMC vegetable market had 300 doses each while Inorbit and Seawood Grand Central malls had 250 doses each.In September, NMMC has received 1.30 lakh doses of Covishield till now and 8,610 doses of Covaxin. Among the 18-44 years age-group, around 23,820 got their first dose on Saturday followed by 4,342 people between the 44 years and 59 years while only 149 above 60 years got their first dose on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/10l-vaccinated-with-first-dose-after-saturday-s-vaccine-drive-in-navimumbai-101631992059625.html
19-09-2021||Other||Hand over info on terror to Centre: BJP to Kerala||A day after the ruling CPI(M) in Kerala cautioned against deliberate attempts by a section to lure the youth in professional colleges to terrorism, the BJP on Saturday urged the Left government to hand over its details to the Centre for further action.The CPI (M) had made the remarks in an in-house note reportedly prepared by it in connection with the inauguration of the upcoming party conventions in the state.If the state hands over necessary information on the deliberate attempt by a section to lure the youth to communalism and terrorism as said in the note, central agencies like the NIA would definitely probe the matter, Union Minister V Muraleedharan told reporters here.The senior BJP leader also accused the Marxist party of “political hypocrisy” as they cover up the real facts and adopt a contradictory public stand over that.He asked if the CPI(M) can discuss the matter like radicalisation of the youth among the cadre and within their party, what was wrong for Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt to share his view over that among his community members.As the law and order is the state’s subject, the union government could not intervene into the issue directly and only when the state hands over the details.“Otherwise it will be interpreted as the Centre’s infringement upon the powers of the state. I think, if the state government hands over the information with them, the agencies like NIA will definitely probe the matter. The Centre will fulfill its constitutional responsibility in terms of investigation,” Muraleedharan said.The union minister also mentioned about an alleged incident of ‘”narcotic terrorism” reported in Punjab recently, quoting media reports there to counter Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s statement that he was coming across the ‘’narcotic jihad” remark by the Pala Bishop for the first time.At a time when the state was witnessing a raging debate on religious extremism and concerns about the radicalisation of youth, the in-house note seems to have put the CPI(M) in a dilemma as the opposition Congress and BJP have asked the left party to reveal the factual data substantiating their claim.Muraleedharan said against the backdrop of the party note surfacing, which substantiates the statements of Kallarangatt, the people of the state would like to know whether the ruling party or the chief minister would tender an apology for their stand taken against the Bishop.He also asked the government and the Chief Minister to take necessary action to eliminate the extremist forces from the state without limiting the matter within the party meetings.Under the sub-title ‘Minority Communalism’, the CPI(M)’s in-house note said it should be viewed seriously that even debates, supporting terrorist outfits like Taliban, which was denounced by the democratic world and majority in the Muslim community, were happening in the state. Stating that extremist forces were infiltrating mainstream Muslim outfits and trying to create issues in the southern state, it also said the actions of Sangh Parivar forces had instilled a sense of insecurity among the minority groups.“Deliberate attempts are being made to lure youth into communalism and extremist ideologies. Conscious efforts are on to make educated young women in the professional colleges to think that way. Both the student union and youth organisation (of CPI-M) should pay special attention to the issue,” it said.Though the Christians in the state generally do not comply with the communal ideologies, the radical influence growing among a small section in the community in recent times should be viewed seriously, it noted.Deliberate attempts were being made to turn the Christian community against the Muslims in the state, the party note said, adding that such moves would help the majority communalism to thrive in Kerala.The opposition Congress has urged the CPI(M) to show the proof for the allegation as it was a “serious” charge raised by the party which rules the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hand-over-info-on-terror-to-centre-bjp-to-kerala-101631991996025.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Journalist’s arrest: Ambala court finds no substance in allegation, grants bail||A day after a journalist of a vernacular newspaper was arrested for allegedly creating enmity between classes through a news report; an Ambala court granted him bail on Saturday, finding no substance in the allegations.Apart from the reporter, Sunil Brar, who works for Dainik Bhaskar, a Hindi daily, the Ambala Cantonment police also booked the newspaper’s zonal news editor, Sandeep Sharma, on Thursday under Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 177 (furnishing false information), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 505 (2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) of the Indian Penal Code. Sharma hasn’t been arrested, while Brar was arrested from his office at Cantonment’s Rai Market.All except Section 505 (2) are bailable offences. They were booked after a news report was published in the newspaper about the arrest of a purported ISI-linked terrorist by the Punjab Police in Ambala.Anterdeep Singh, assistant public prosecutor, while asking for judicial remand, alleged that “by publishing wrong information in a national newspaper, he has created a false alarm in the mind of the general public, thereby promoted enmity between classes and he has also committed an offence against public peace.”He further argued that Brar might hamper with the evidence, as the machines from where the newspaper was printed, are at the office.Moving his bail application, advocate Rohit Jain said that Brar has been a journalist for over nine years and has been falsely implicated due to political pressure on police officers.While granting bail, the court of Mukesh Kumar, judicial magistrate first class, said that there is no need for further interrogation as custodial interrogation has been completed and the investigation is based on documentary evidence.On the prosecution charge of creating enmity, the court said, “..after perusal of remand paper and the copy of newspaper produced by the investigating officer, this court is of the view that there was nothing which can create enmity between classes.”HDF general secretary Chitra Sarwara welcomed the bail order and said that she believes that all authorities concerned will respect the law and individual rights in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/journalists-arrest-ambala-court-finds-no-substance-in-allegation-grants-bail-101631991935899.html
19-09-2021||Other||Look into plea on edu board for Puducherry: Madras HC tells govt||The Madras high court has directed the Puducherry government to consider a plea for establishment of a separate board for school education, more particularly for X and XII standards, in the Union Territory.“In the light of increasing population and the number of school-going children, it may be in the best interest of the students if a board or individual boards for primary and secondary education or even higher education were constituted. However, that is a decision exclusively within the domain of the executive,” the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesavalu said.The bench permitted the petitioner to send a representation afresh to the Education secretary in Puducherry. The secretary, it said, will consider the representation in appropriate perspective, particularly considering the many schools which have mushroomed in Puducherry itself and the need for providing a distinct curriculum or even process for students there delinked from what is followed in the neighbouring state of Tamil Nadu.The bench was disposing of a PIL petition from R Sreedhar on Thursday.If such representation is made by the petitioner within the next four weeks, the Secretary should furnish a reply within 12 weeks, the bench said and hoped that expeditious and appropriate steps would be taken by the Puducherry government to best serve the interest of the school-going students in its region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/look-into-plea-on-edu-board-for-puducherry-madras-hc-tells-govt-101631991879278.html
19-09-2021||Other||Past 18 months has been trying for the country: Kovind||The past 18 months have been trying for the country said President Ram Nath Kovind here on Saturday He was speaking at the valedictory ceremony of the Indian audit and accounts service officer trainees of 2018 and 2019 batches at the National Academy of Audit and Accounts in Shimla.“Economy was badly disrupted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Government has taken many measures to alleviate distress and for welfare of the needy,” he said.“These are often financed through money which may be said to have been borrowed from our children and grandchildren. We owe it to them that these scarce resources are put to best possible use and are most effectively used for welfare of the poor,” he added.“Audit engagements provide a unique opportunity of gaining a deep understanding of the system and place CAG in a good position of suggesting improvements,” he said.“Governments will take a serious note of the advice made by an institution like CAG. This will positively impact our public service delivery standards,” he added.The President said for citizens’ convenience, government processes are increasingly getting digitised. “Fast expanding technology frontier has reduced distance between state and citizens. Through direct benefit transfer, money can reach the poorest citizen in the most remote corner of the country at the push of a computer button. From an audit perspective, this is a ‘small challenge’ and ‘huge opportunity’,” he added.Using advanced analytics tools, information from large volumes of data can be weaned out without travelling afar. Systemic red flags can be raised at an earlier stage.He said such surroundings are a great place for learning pursuits. These surroundings also teach us of onerous responsibility of leaving the same pristine nature for our future generations to enjoy. Despite India’s developmental needs, we have undertaken significant responsibility to address global climate change challenge and environmental protection.He noted that CAG has taken measures to build capacities in the area of environmental audit. “We must always remember that constraints of resource finiteness can only be partly addressed by human innovation. For the rest sacrifice by our generation is the only recourse. CAG has a big role to play in making us aware of sacrifices we need to make for our future generations,” he said.Addressing the officer trainees, the President said as public servants, they will derive satisfaction in being able to serve the poorest and bring a smile on her face. “While performing our constitutional duty, we should always be mindful of this common responsibility assigned to all functionaries. An approach laden with mutual empathy would ensure that we reach our national goals, much faster,” he said.Kovind, who is on a four-day tour to Shimla, also visited Jakhu Temple along with members of his family on Saturday. He made a brief halt at the historic Ridge and interacted with the public.He asked people if they faced any inconveniences due to his visit to Shimla. On Friday, he had addressed the special session of the Vidhan Sabha.This is for the first time that the President instead of staying at the Retreat in Charabra is staying at Hotel Cecil. His stay was facilitated after three staffers tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/past-18-months-has-been-trying-for-the-country-kovind-101631991878051.html
19-09-2021||Other||YSRCP, TDP file complaints after clash at Chandrababu Naidu’s house||AmaravatiThe Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) have separately filed a complaint against each other at the state DGP office after a clash between both parties outside the residence of TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu here on Friday morning.YSRCP MLA Jogi Ramesh and other cadre were protesting against a derogatory comment made against Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy by TDP leader Chintakayala Ayyanna Patrudu at Sattenapalli town in Guntur district on Thursday. To counter their protest, the TDP cadre also reached outside Naidu’s house.During the face-off, the protest turned violent after both the parties pelted each other with stones, accusing each other of initiating the attacks.After the police took away the YSRCP workers from Naidu’s residence, the members of YSRCP and the TDP reached the DGP and filed a complaint against each other.The drama continued outside DGP Goutam Sawang’s office.The TDP accused that the YSRCP goons surrounded the former CM’s house with weapons. The party leaders also got engaged in verbal altercations with police, alleging them of being biased and not allowing them into the DGP office. Later, the representatives were allowed to meet the DGP and file a complaint.Meanwhile, the YSRCP leaders were also allowed to file a complaint after the TDP leaders and cadre left the premises.The YSRCP delegation led by MLA Jogi Ramesh accused that the TDP workers attacked them when they went to the residence of Chandrababu Naidu to show their dissent against Patrudu’s comments. They alleged that Ayyanna Patrudu had made derogatory remarks and it was Chandrababu Naidu who was behind him, demanding the arrest of Naidu and Ayyanna Patrudu.Meanwhile, both the parties released the videos of an incident near Chandrababu Naidu’s residence claiming that their rival only initiated the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ysrcp-tdp-file-complaints-after-clash-at-chandrababu-naidu-s-house-101631991875970.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: Now, 60 diarrhoea cases surface at Sukhna Colony||In yet another suspected case of cholera outbreak in Zirakpur, 60 people have been infected with diarrhoea at Sukhna Colony near Dhakoli.In the past two months, around 700 people have been infected and two have died due to cholera outbreak at Baltana and Peermuchalla village in Zirakpur. As the Zirakpur municipal council is desperately trying to check water contamination that is leading to these outbreaks, the fresh cases come as a major embarrassment because Sukhna Colony is located next to its office.“Sixty cases of diarrhoea have been reported at Sukhna Colony. Twenty patients have been admitted to hospitals in Chandigarh, Mohali, Dhakoli and Panchkula,” said Mohali civil surgeon Adarsh Pal Kaur. The health department has set up a camp in the area for the past two days and is distributing chlorine and zinc tablets along with oral rehydration salts from door to door.Water supply to Sukhna Colony and nearby areas has been stopped, said Udayveer Singh Dhillon, president, Zirakpur municipal council, adding that two tankers have been deployed to provide drinking water. Water samples have also been collected for testing. Diarrhoea is the frequent passing of loose, watery and unformed faeces. Cholera is a bacterial disease causing severe diarrhoea and dehydration, usually spread through contaminated water. The infection is often mild or without symptoms but can sometimes be severe and life-threatening. Water contamination, again Sources in the health department said that there is no proper drainage system in the area, which is leading to mixing of sewage with drinking water. “The area is very congested and people are living in unhygienic conditions. Contamination of drinking water is the reason for spread of disease,” said the civil surgeon. Rohit Sharma, husband of the area councillor, said water pipelines were damaged during digging for laying a sewage pipeline. “It led to contamination of drinking water,” he said, adding that residents were informed not to use water during the work, but they did not heed to the directions. “Many people are also using submersible pumps to get water. We are getting water samples collected, and in case contamination is found, steps will be taken,” said Dhillon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-now-60-diarrhoea-cases-surface-at-sukhna-colony-101631991817235.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||How Punjab crisis snowballed despite enough warning signs||Exactly six months ago, on March 18, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh held a press conference to mark four years of his government, claiming to have fulfilled 85% of the promises listed in his party manifesto before the 2017 assembly elections.Confident and in control, he appeared to be master of all he surveyed: a firm grip on the state legislature party with no potential challengers from within, a strong equity with a whittled-down party high command and a dispirited Opposition.But the wheel of political fortunes turned rather swiftly for the scion of the erstwhile Patiala royalty and one of the tallest Congress leaders. On Saturday, six months after he looked unassailable, Amarinder’s chief ministership ended abruptly on a bitter note. Barely five months before the state assembly elections due early next year, in which he was hoping to again lead the party, he was forced by a cascade of circumstances to resign.Though Amarinder tendered his resignation to the Governor half an hour before the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting, the angst of an unceremonious exit was writ all over his demeanour and in an interaction with a horde of jostling journalists, he accused, for the first time, the party high command of humiliating him. In fact, the trigger for his ouster was a hurriedly called CLP meeting that AICC general secretary and Punjab incharge Harish Rawat announced on late on Friday on his Twitter handle, bypassing Amarinder, the leader of CLP.Signs of a gathering storm against Amarinder became evident last week when it emerged that about 40 Congress MLAs (out of the party’s strength of 80 in the 117-member House) shot off a letter to working president Sonia Gandhi, demanding the CLP meet and strongly articulating their disenchantment with the chief minister’s “failure to fulfil an 18-point to-do list that the high command had handed to him two months ago”. The letter, in the high command’s reckoning, was a strong and irrefutable expression of no confidence in Amarinder, whose political standing ostensibly suffered an erosion. That, coupled with a continuing bad blood between Amarinder and state Congress chief Navjot Sidhu, is understood to have forced the high command’s hand to jettison the Captain and effect change of guard to put its house in order before the assembly sweepstakes.The two-time chief minister’s exit was the culmination of the tussle between him and newly appointed Punjab Congress president Sidhu that saw several cabinet ministers and MLAs turn against Amarinder. The internal wrangling continued to dog the Congress no end, despite Rawat’s efforts to bridge the Amarinder-Sidhu rift that turned more pronounced and less reconcilable.While Amarinder was shrewd enough to checkmate the occasional rumblings of dissent, his troubles mounted after the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the special investigation team (SIT) report in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case that came out on April 9.A sulking Sidhu, who had fallen out with Amarinder after his exit from the state cabinet in July 2019, quickly latched on to the politically sensitive issue and blamed the CM for the setback. Several party ministers and MLAs, anxious about its political fallout on their electoral prospects, joined the Sidhu bandwagon.The turmoil turned into a full-blown war in May, forcing the Congress central leadership to intervene. Sonia set up a three-member committee headed by Rajya Sabha MP Mallikarjun Kharge on May 29 to resolve factionalism. They met 150-odd state leaders, several of whom griped about the public perception that Captain was “hand in glove” with the Badals, and the buzz about non-fulfilment of poll promises, working style and dependence on bureaucracy. The tipping point in the Amarinder-Sidhu face-off was the cricketer-turned-politician’s equity and equation with the brother–sister duo, Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi, who apparently saw him as the next generation face of the Congress in Punjab.On July 18, the high command named Sidhu as the state unit chief along with four working presidents, overriding the objections of the chief minister, who was bitterly opposed to his foe’s elevation and had, in a letter to the Congress president, even warned that it may lead to a split in the party. Though the party leadership was hopeful that its intervention would heal the rift, the crisis in the state Congress worsened, with both Amarinder and Sidhu pulling the party in different directions. Last month, four ministers and 24 legislators demanded that a CLP meeting be convened to remove the chief minister.“The infighting was hurting the party. When it failed to make them work together, it had to make a choice. Since the high command had appointed Sidhu barely two months ago after much deliberation and ignoring the chief minister’s reservations, he was here to stay and Captain had to go,” a senior party leader said, asking not to be named. Also, Sidhu and other disgruntled leaders, including those who remained close to Amarinder for a long time, kept harping on the strong undercurrent of anti-incumbency against the chief minister, laying the blame on him. The embattled leader did not help his cause by not acting promptly enough on the to-do list and lost equity with the leadership.But, Amarinder’s bitter exit may queer the pitch for the party. He dropped enough hints that he is not going to take his humiliation lying down. “I have been in politics for 52 years and remained chef minister for nine-and-a-half years. I am going to be here. There are always options in politics,” he told reporters after tendering his resignation. “I will explore and exercise them at the time of my choosing.”79-year-old Amarinder may be down, but he is certainly not out. A sulking Amarinder will keep the party on tenterhooks. He has the support of several party MLAs and MPs and may even emerge as the prime voice of dissent in the state Congress in a reversal of roles. His political manoeuvring skills, even though they did not work this time, are acknowledged by his critics. The last word on the Congress turmoil in Punjab is yet to be heard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/how-punjab-crisis-snowballed-despite-enough-warning-signs-101631991350211.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Estate Office to auction 27 properties this month||The Chandigarh Estate Office is all set to auction 27 properties, including eight residential sites, this month.In addition to the residential plots, the office will also auction nine nursing home sites and 10 commercial plots.All probable residential sites up for auction are freehold, and located in Sectors 33, 34, 35, 37 and 40. Sizes of properties range from 167 square yards to 528 square yards, with their reserve price set between ₹1.2 crore and ₹3.7 crore. Also, after the UT administration announced the draft nursing home policy for residential sites, this will be Estate Office’s first offering of nine nursing home sites for sale.The sites include four in Sector 51, two each in Sectors 33 and 46, and one in Sector 44. The Estate Office is holding an auction after nearly two years. Planned for earlier this year, the auction was stuck as the office couldn’t get the requisite approvals from other departments involved, primarily the UT engineering department, for removal of heavy vegetation at the proposed sites.“Most of the preparations for the e-auction have been done. The non-encumbrance certificates are in. We expect to offer these properties within this month,” said a senior UT official.In the last auction held in 2019, all residential properties were sold, but there were no takers for the commercial and industrial plots. The department had generated a revenue of close to ₹44 crore from the auction of 11 residential properties whose total reserve price was around ₹27 crore. All of these properties were freehold and were located in southern sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-estate-office-to-auction-27-properties-this-month-101631991641086.html
19-09-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body fines 3 bars for violating Covid norms||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has cracked down on restaurants and bars that remain open beyond the 10pm deadline. It has levied a fine of ₹50,000 each on three such bars for violation of the Covid norms.The action was taken by the special vigilance squad of NMMC. The fine has been levied on bars in Vashi, Koparkhairane and Belapur, where customers were served even after 10pm.The vigilance squad, which has been active during Ganeshotsav, has taken action for Covid violations against 404 citizens and establishments and collected a fine of ₹2,72,600.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “NMMC is taking a number of measures to contain the pandemic and we have received good response from the residents. However, there are still some who continue to violate the norms and hence we have adopted a zero-tolerance policy towards them. Our vigilance squad will continue to be alert and take action even after Ganeshotsav ends.”Since August 10, 2020, the special squads at ward and headquarters level have levied fines on 74,286 residents and establishments and collected fines of ₹3.91Cr.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-fines-3-bars-for-violating-covid-norms-101631991639246.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Day after CBI arrests woman cop for graft, SHO transferred||A day after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested a woman sub-inspector posted at the Sector-34 police station for graft, the Chandigarh Police on Saturday transferred the station house officer concerned to the police lines. The CBI had arrested sub-inspector (SI) Sarabjit Kaur after a raid at the police station on Friday. She was caught accepting ₹10,000 bribe. This was second instance this year, wherein a cop posted at the Sector-34 police station was arrested by the CBI for graft. On February 15, assistant sub-inspector Harbhajan Singh was held for taking ₹10,000 bribe to not register an FIR against a Lalru resident in a loan default case. Now, station house officer (SHO), Sector 34, Rajiv Kumar has been sent to the police lines and the charge given to the additional SHO. Sources in the police department said the transfer was the result of Kumar’s “lack of supervision” over his subordinates.SI sent to judicial custodyMeanwhile, SI Sarabjit Kaur was produced before the special CBI court, which sent her to judicial custody. According to the FIR, she demanded bribe from a Kajheri resident for removing his name from an FIR concerning a minor’s molestation. The victim’s father is also an accused in the case.The Kajheri resident, who runs a dry cleaning shop, alleged false implication and approached the CBI, after which a trap was laid to catch the cop red-handed. The CBI also conducted searches at official and residential premises of the accused in Chandigarh and Patiala, which led to recovery of some incriminating documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-day-after-cbi-arrests-woman-cop-for-graft-sho-transferred-101631991635845.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula jeweller foils robbery bid, sustains injuries||A 45-year-old jeweller sustained injuries on his head and wrist as he put up a fight with three robbers who tried to loot his shop at gunpoint in broad daylight in Sector 8, Panchkula, on Saturday. A resident of Sector 15, Panchkula, Sandeep Verma, owns Maa Luxmi Jewellers in the Sector-8 market. “Just like on any other day, I opened my shop at 10:30 am. Around 12 pm, three youths entered the shop and told me to sit quietly. One of them was holding a countrymade revolver and another was holding a knife,” Verma told police.As Verma made an escape bid and ran towards the exit, one of them attacked him on his head with a knife. However, he managed to come out and raise the alarm, following which the trio fled.With blood oozing from his head and wrist, he was rushed to the civil hospital in Sector 6, by another shopkeeper. “Verma put up a tough fight with the goons and pushed them out of his shop. With his courage, he could stop the loot,” said inspector Aman, in-charge, crime branch.Deputy commissioner of police Mohit Handa visited the hospital, where Verma is undergoing treatment. On the basis of his complaint, a case has been registered under Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 398 (attempt to commit robbery or dacoity when armed with deadly weapon) of the Indian Penal Code besides under the Arms Act.Auto driver rounded upPolice are yet to figure out how the trio reached the market. However, they hired an auto to escape. “We have identified the auto and rounded up the auto driver. Investigation is on,” said inspector Aman.Four teams have been constituted, including two of the crime branch and one each of the detective staff and Sector-7 police station, where the case was registered.Police have obtained CCTV images of the suspects, who were masked. Their sketches have also been prepared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-jeweller-foils-robbery-bid-sustains-injuries-101631991276465.html
19-09-2021||Other||Devotees visit shrines as Char Dham yatra begins amid Covid restrictions||Dehradun The Char Dham pilgrimage, which was allowed by the Uttarakhand high court with conditions, began on Saturday with devotees, including 419 from other states, visiting the four shrines strictly adhering to Covid-19 norms.According to the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board that manages the Char Dham shrines - Kedarnath in Rudraprayag district, Badrinath in Chamoli district, Yamunotri and Gangotri shrines in Uttarkashi district - a total of 335 devotees from other states visited Badrinath while 84 from other states visited Kedarnath shrine along with local devotees.Data shared by the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board on Saturday revealed that only local devotees visited Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines with none from other states till Saturday 4pm.The board also informed that till the above-mentioned period on Saturday, a total of 19491 e-passes were issued to devotees wiling to visit the Char Dham shrines. Of the total e-passes, maximum 10,010 were issued for Kedarnath shrine followed by 4,830 for Badrinath, 2,375 for Gangotri and 2,276 for Yamunotri.Traders hopeful of earning livelihoodWith the start of the Char Dham yatra, traders dependent on the annual pilgrimage expressed hope on earning “some livelihood with the year affected by Covid-19.”One of the traders in Gangotri, Dwarikaprasad Kandwal, who sells puja items en-route the shrine, said, “Now with the yatra has started, we have some hope that we will manage to earn some livelihood in the year which was hugely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.”“The step will surely impact the people living in the three districts hosting the Chat Dham shrines as they are very much dependent on the yatra to earn income. We wholeheartedly welcome this step which was being demanded by us for months,” said Semwal.Bhawanilal Barthwal, a hotelier near Gangotri shrine, too welcomed the decision of starting the yatra and said, “Though only about a couple of months are left before the portals of the shrine will be closed, but we are hopeful of doing business in this brief period only to atleast earn something than nothing.”Religious affairs and culture minister Satpal Maharaj on the starting of Char Dham yatra said that the move will “bring back livelihood of thousands on track.”“The economy of the three aforementioned districts is largely dependent on the Yatra. Now it is started, we are hopeful that the livelihood of thousands of people will be back on track,” said Maharaj. “Strict implementation of the SOP will be ensured amid the pandemic during the Yatra.”On Friday evening, the state government had issued the SOP for the yatra, under which the main conditions for the yatra are negative RTPCR/TrueNat/CBNAAT/RAT Covid report (72 hours before) or certificate for both the Covid vaccine doses (15 days should have passed after both doses), registration on the state government portal smartcitydehradun.uk.gov.in (not required for people within the state) and seeking e-pass for Char Dham yatra from the website of the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board.The pilgrims from Kerala, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, even if they have received both the doses, are required to carry negative RTPCR/TrueNat/CBNAAT/RAT COVID report (72 hours before) with them for seeking e-pass for the pilgrimage to the four revered shrines.The daily limit of pilgrims has been set 1,000 for Badrinath, 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for Yamunotri shrines. The Char Dham shrines and their surrounding areas will be sanitised thrice a day.At Char Dham shrines, CCTVs will also be used for checking whether pilgrims are following social distancing and wearing facemasks, apart from continuous checking by law enforcement agencies.There will be Covid testing facilities, availability of medicines, medical oxygen on Char Dham routes. For natural disasters along the routes, heli-ambulance will be available for Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/devotees-visit-shrines-as-char-dham-yatra-begins-amid-covid-restrictions-101631991275076.html
19-09-2021||Mumbai||Forest officials seize black coral, animal parts from Kalyan resident||In a joint operation by Maharashtra Forest Department’s Kalyan Range Forest Office (RFO) team and the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB), Western Region, 250 black coral and 50 Hatha Jodi (penises of monitor lizard) were seized from a commercial shop at a residential building in Kalyan on Saturday.The forest department officials arrested three in this case under the relevant sections of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.Following the information received by the WCCB team, a trap was laid jointly by Kalyan RFO team and seized 250 black coral (Antipatharians) and Hatha Jodi, which are protected under Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.The three arrested were Geeta Anand Jakhotiya, 47, the resident of the flat, and staff, Navnath Trimbak Ghuge, 30 and Akshay Manohar Deshmukh, 22.Jakhotiya runs a firm named Shubh Sanket Vastu – a residential, commercial industrial Vastu consultant. She dealt with aroma oil supply, aroma candles, numerology, crystal therapy, tarot cards services.“We are investigating the case and have arrested the three accused in this matter and produced them in the court and got two days of forest custody,” said RFO, Kalyan, RN Channe.“It is learned that Black Coral and Hatha Jodi are being sold for black magic, good luck, wealth, prosperity, ayurvedic medicine, Vastu and as pooja items. This is illegal and a violation of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972,” said Sunish Subramanian Kunju, honorary wildlife warden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/forest-officials-seize-black-coral-animal-parts-from-kalyan-resident-101631990796356.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Eight more cases surface in Chandigarh tricity||Eight more cases of Covid-19 surfaced in the tricity on Saturday, with four people testing positive in Chandigarh, followed by three in Panchkula and one in Mohali. The count stood at seven on Friday. Meanwhile, no fatality was recorded for fourth consecutive day. Five people have succumbed to the virus in Chandigarh this month, while Mohali has reported just one death and Panchkula has recorded none.The active caseload in the tricity stands at 92, with 42 patients in Mohali, 35 in Chandigarh and 15 in Panchkula. Recovery rate is above 98% across the three areas, while daily positivity rate was recorded below 0.3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-eight-more-cases-surface-in-chandigarh-tricity-101631990496657.html
19-09-2021||Other||In Cong upheaval, AAP stands to gain the most||Chandigarh Barely five months before the state assembly polls, the Congress got rid of its chief minister to bring a fresh face and to end the ongoing tussle in the state unit.Its troubles, however, are far from over with Capt Amarinder Singh becoming combative. His scathing attacks on Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and the party leadership will provide more ammunition to the opposition, lurking to take advantage of the growing fissures in the ruling party. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) stands to gain more from the Congress infighting than the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bahujan Samaj Party (SAD-BSP) combine. The BJP, which has been at the receiving end of the protesting farmers’ ire, is still struggling to get its act together. The AAP, which won 20 seats in the 2017 state polls to emerge as the principal opposition party, is already going all out to make the most of the instability in the Congress. It is slowly gaining traction in large pockets of the state with its campaign theme that they (people) have seen what the Congress and the SAD have to offer and should give them a chance. The party does not have a heavy baggage from the past, unlike the Akalis who are not only facing a blowback from farmers, but are also on the back-foot over the emotive sacrilege and police firing issues. The AAP, on the other hand, has been consistent in attacking both the Congress and the Akalis on these issues. Ashutosh Kumar, professor of political science, Panjab University, says the AAP will stand to gain from the upheaval in the Congress in a multi-cornered contest, as things stand now, because the Akalis are still to recover from the dent their image has suffered in public perception. “They (AAP) have their own sets of problems, starting with the fact they have not been able to offer a chief ministerial face to people. Another issue is the party leadership’s attempts to run the state unit from Delhi which had hurt them in 2017 as well,” he says. AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had, on June 21, announced in Amritsar that the CM candidate will be from the Sikh community. While the party has been searching for a prominent Sikh personality for its CM face, two-time Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann, the most popular state leader of the party, has run out of patience. The party’s top brass has offered to make him the deputy CM in case it gets the numbers needed to form the government in 2022, but has reservations about making him the face of the party, said sources. Of late, Mann has been maintaining a low-profile which does not augur well for the party with the state polls drawing closer with each passing day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-cong-upheaval-aap-stands-to-gain-the-most-101631990495621.html
19-09-2021||Delhi||State govts not acting against farm fires: CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the air quality in the national capital will start deteriorating from mid-October since the neighbouring state governments were not doing enough to support the farmers and prevent stubble burning.Kejriwal tweeted on Saturday that so far the Delhi air is clean, citing the day’s AQI value and particulate matter data.“Del air quality will deteriorate from mid-Oct (stubble burning). State govts hv not taken action to support their farmers. On its own, Del air is clean. On 18 Sep- AQI- 69 (0 to 50 - Good, 51 to 100 - Satisfactory), PM10- 67, PM2.5 - 27 (0 to 30 Good, 31 to 60 Satisfactory),” Kejriwal tweeted.The Delhi government has been pressing for adoption of Pusa bio-decomposer, a microbial solution that can reportedly turn stubble into manure, urging the Centre to ask neighbouring states to distribute it for free among farmers.The government is also preparing an action plan to combat pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/state-govts-not-acting-against-farm-fires-cm-kejriwal-101631990356848.html
19-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Now, book machinery for in-situ stubble management on i-Khet app||The farmers will now be able to check the availability of and book agro-machinery and equipment on the soon-to-be-launched i-Khet app from the comfort of their homes.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said that the i-Khet mobile app would be available on Google Play Store within a few days. He said the app would facilitate farmers to have easy access to the agro machinery/equipment for in-situ crop residue management.He further said the farmers can search for the equipment they need on the app. The app will also fetch information about nearest farmers’ groups, individuals, co-operative societies, or panchayats owning the same equipment along with their contact numbers within a few seconds. He said that by contacting the owners, the machinery can be booked on the app also.He informed that this year, a total of 489 equipment for stubble management have been issued in Ludhiana through the portal comprising 19 individual farmers, 30 panchayats, 105 co-operative societies, and 335 farmers’ groups.The DC added that the district has issued 4,884 agro-machines, including happy seeder, super seeder, mulcher, RMB plough, super SMS, paddy straw chopper/shredder, zero till drill, and others in the last three years which can be checked through the i-Khet app.Exhorting farmers to adopt in-situ crop residue management to manage the stubble, Sharma said stubble burning is hazardous for the farmers and the land. He said the practice ruins the health of the soil besides harming the environment.Chief agriculture officer Narinder Singh Dhaliwal said the department has already initiated an awareness drive in villages to sensitize the farmers about the harmful effects of stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-now-book-machinery-for-in-situ-stubble-management-on-i-khet-app-101631990315837.html
19-09-2021||Other||PAU virtual kisan mela concludes with tips on natural resource conservation||The two-day virtual ‘Kisan Mela’ concluded at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) amid panel discussions on natural resource management, livestock production and subsidiary occupations, processing, value addition, and farmer-producer organisations (FPOs) on Saturday.The theme of the mela ‘Efficient paddy straw management keeps mother earth exultant’ aimed at promoting in-situ management of paddy straw.During the discussion on natural resource management, OP Choudhary, head of the department of soil science and moderator of the session, expressed concern over groundwater depletion and crop residue management. He urged the farmers to conserve natural resources and added that PAU has evolved various technologies, such as judicious use of fertilizers, adoption of less water-requiring crops, fertigation, mulching, etc. for natural resource conservation.NS Bains, director of research, said constructive efforts were made to enrich the knowledge of the farmers during the mela.Farmers should adopt ‘PBW 1 Chapati’ and ‘Unnat PBW 550’ wheat varieties as these can compete with Madhya Pradesh wheat, he advised.“Do not paint a negative perception of Punjab agriculture,” he urged the farmers while appealing to them to say no to stubble burning. GS Kocher, head, department of microbiology; MS Bhullar, head, department of agronomy, and Sanjeev Chauhan, head, department of forestry and natural resources, spoke about biofertilizers recommended for 18 crops (mainly wheat, paddy, maize, legumes, potato, onion, turmeric, etc.); operation of PAU Happy Seeder and weed management; and agro-forestry, respectively.In the panel discussion on livestock production and subsidiary occupations, senior entomologist Jaspal Singh and assistant mycologist Shivani Sharma deliberated upon beekeeping and mushroom production as profitable enterprises, respectively.Experts from GADVASU and PAU advised the farmers to acquire training in subsidiary occupations like dairy, pig, goat, poultry, and fish farming, beekeeping, and mushroom cultivation before adopting them as an enterprise.JS Mahal, director of extension education, expressed his gratitude to the farmers, farm women, and youth of Punjab for making the virtual mela a success.Progressive farmers, representatives of industry, and entrepreneurs shared their experiences during the virtual mela.Mela made accessible to farmers in villagesThe department of extension education, PAU, helped farmers in its adopted villages to participate in the virtual mela by arranging events at PAU farmer information centres, agricultural cooperative societies, and schools.The BSc agriculture final year students facilitated infrastructural and technical facilities at common points to facilitate the farmers.Farmers of Kanech, Bhairomuna, Narangwal, Nurpur Bet, and Jodhan villages interacted with Kuldeep Singh, head of the department of extension education, on the virtual platform.Experts helped farmers download the PAU Kisan App, subscribe to its Facebook page and YouTube channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pau-virtual-kisan-mela-concludes-with-tips-on-natural-resource-conservation-101631990015685.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Weather: More rain in store for Chandigarh||Days before its expected withdrawal, monsoon movement is likely to pick up in the region from Monday, though light showers are predicted on Sunday as well.This monsoon, Chandigarh has recorded 546-mm rain, in comparison to a normal of 804.8 mm, leading to a 32% deficit so far.“Monsoon movement is expected to pick up from Monday onwards. However, there is a chance of light rain up to 20mm from Sunday itself. Temperature will dip due to cloudy weather during the day,” said an official of the India Meteorological Department.Maximum temperature rose from Friday’s 31.4°C to 34.3°C on Saturday while minimum temperature went up from 23.8°C to 24.7°C. Over the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 31°C and 34°C and minimum around 26°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weather-more-rain-in-store-for-chandigarh-101631989839822.html
19-09-2021||Lucknow||Indie music is giving me greater satisfaction: Irshad Ryan||Musician-singer Irshad Ryan says Bollywood is his ultimate stop, but he wants to be known as an independent artiste. “It’s every musician’s dream to work in the Indian film industry. I too came to Mumbai with singing dreams but took the music and guitar route to make a mark. But now, I am content doing live gigs, creating music, singing and performing in front of audience in India and abroad. Indie music is giving me greater satisfaction and I feel blessed that I am able to do it on international level,” says the singer, 27. Born and brought up at Deogarh in Jharkhand he started doing music very early and was performing in other cities as well. “After class 12, I shifted to Noida to pursue VFX diploma and there I started learning in a music school. Here, I understood the nuances of music after four years when shifted to Mumbai.” Luckily, he got his big break very early. “Soon, I made on-screen debuted as a musician in Arijit Singh’s chartbuster song Wafa ne bewafai ki hai which featured on Himesh Reshmmiya. My second film was Love Per Square Feet starring Vicky Kaushal and then I assisted Sajid-Wajid duo in film Daddy. I also featured in comedy show Drama Company.” Ryan soon understood the ground reality. “I made guitar my strength as it’s a very competitive world out there. Soon, I started doing lot of live gigs which took me to Dubai, Saudi Arabia, Thailand and Sri Lanka. Now, I am doing music as well as singing besides my own music.” His focus is now more on singing. “I have already done a song for a Punjabi music director, and I have recorded a song with composer Vivek Verma which we will shoot in UP only. I have done lot of cover songs besides collaborated with Navraj Hans, Raja Hasan, Kumaar Rakesh, Rituraj Mohanty and Aman Trikha,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/indie-music-is-giving-me-greater-satisfaction-irshad-ryan-101631989416259.html
19-09-2021||Other||Anupriya Patel: Will keep Apna Dal (S) alliance with BJP intact at all costs||Saying that she will keep her party’s alliance with the BJP strong for Mission-2022, Apna Dal (S) national president Anupriya Patel on Saturday once again reiterated that her party will keep the alliance intact at all costs. On her arrival in Prayagraj, Anupriya, who is also Union minister of state for commerce and industry, said although there had been no formal talks with the BJP over number of seats that would be given to Apna Dal (S) yet, number of seats was not a matter of concern as both the parties had one goal to form an effective and strong government in Uttar Pradesh. “For this, Apna Dal (S) is activating a total of 16 ancillary units of the organisation and the workers working under them will also be trained in the coming weeks,” she said while speaking to media persons here. She further claimed that the alliance would be kept intact with complete integrity and honesty. “Both the parties will make collective efforts by rising above personal gains and we will get more seats as compared to 2017 elections in the upcoming UP assembly elections,” she said.On the issue of family dispute, Apna Dal (S) chief said, “I visit Kanpur every month to meet my mother. It is my personal effort and that of the party that she dons the role of the mentor and we all await her decision.”Giving the victory mantra to her party workers, Anupriya asked them to make the party strong at booth level as only then the target of “Mission 2022” would be achieved. Teams of 15 workers should be formed at each booth, she said. Applauding efforts of PM Narendra Modi in the field of social justice, the minister said the work of the government needed to be taken to the common man. She also said that Apna Dal (S) would play a decisive role in 2022 UP assembly election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/anupriya-patel-will-keep-apna-dal-s-alliance-with-bjp-intact-at-all-costs-101631988526271.html
19-09-2021||Delhi||East Delhi civic body unveils policy to allow open-air dining at eateries||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has approved a policy allowing restaurants to serve food and beverages in open spaces such as terraces or balconies, according to an order by the civic body.The order that was issued by the civic body’s public health department on September 17 stated, “....the use of open space/terrace abutting licensed eating houses for service purpose is allowed and will be regulated as per the provisions of the Delhi Municipal Act, 1957, requisite technical terms and conditions are applicable....”Senior officials confirmed that the EDMC mayor has given the policy an anticipatory approval, after which the department issued the order. Usually, the proposals are first vetted and approved by the standing committee and then by the House of the elected councillors before being implemented.According to the policy, applicants will have to submit a no objection certificate (NOC) from the land owner for using the open space/terrace for service purpose only. Also, it makes it mandatory for restaurant owners to get an NOC from the Delhi Fire Service (DFS).The policy says that no cooking or food preparation will be allowed in the open area, and that it must not be covered.“If liquor is being served in the open spaces, it has to be done in a way that it is not visible to passersby, which means that it should have a wall with a provision for regulated entry/exit. The open space should also have a direct access or opening to the main road,” it said.Besides, permission will be given for dining in open areas only on the submission of building structural safety certificate by registered structural engineer, the policy says.Public health department officials said restaurant owners will be charged an open service area fee along with the licence fee for operating such spaces. “The fee for operating open spaces will be charged at the rate of ₹200 per square feet for restaurant that are rated less than four stars. For restaurants operating in star hotels (four stars and above) the rate will be ₹400 per square feet. The validity of the licence will be up to three years and will be renewed accordingly with licence of eating house,” said a senior official, who asked not to be named.EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said the policy has been given anticipatory approval. Besides providing a legal sanction to open air dining, which has been a long-standing demand from restaurant owners, it will also help boost revenue. “There are many five-star hotels in our area as well as a number of standalone restaurants, and we hope to earn substantial revenue. This will give the eating outlets a new boost during the pandemic as well. Also, those who have been trying to have open air dining for long will now have it easy. It works both ways and benefits both the corporation as well as restaurant owners, and also those who want dine in the open,” said Aggarwal.The South Delhi Municipal Corporation implemented the same policy last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/east-delhi-civic-body-unveils-policy-to-allow-open-air-dining-at-eateries-101631982754793.html
19-09-2021||Delhi||Grey Line gets one more station, Metro touches Delhi’s rural heart||The Dhansa Bus Stand – Najafgarh section on Delhi Metro’s Grey Line was opened at 5pm on Saturday with Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurating the stretch through video conference.The newly opened Dhansa Bus Stand station is an underground facility, and is an extension of the Dwarka-Najafgarh corridor, which is known as the Grey Line. Now, the line will have four stations -- Dwarka, Nangli, Najafgarh and Dhansa Bus Stop.The stretch between Najafgarh and Dhansa Bus stand is only 1.2 kilometres long, but it is significant as it will provide the Metro link to at least 50 villages in that area.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said the Dhansa Bus Stand station is the first ever underground Metro station of the Delhi Metro network to have an entire underground floor dedicated for parking of vehicles. “The parking facility will be integrated with the main station area where vehicle users will be able to park their cars and two wheelers and then proceed to the concourse of the station directly using lifts and escalators,” it said.Speaking at the inauguration Puri said the total Metro network in India will be increased to about 2,000 kms by 2022. “Nearly 740 km of metro lines are at present operational in various cities in India and the network span is steadily scheduled to rise to about 900 km by 2022. The remaining kms are under construction,” he said.Puri said with its ridership reaching 6.5 million per day during the pre-Covid times, Delhi Metro has been a trailblazer. “The overall ridership in Metros across the country in pre-pandemic time was 8.5 million, of which the Delhi Metro alone conducted 6.5 million rides,” he said.Kejriwal said until Friday, the route of the Delhi Metro in outer Delhi used to end at the Delhi Gate region in Najafgarh. “There are about 50 villages in the area from where a huge number of people come to central parts of the city for work and shopping. All these people had to cross the busy and congested Phirni Road Chowk to get to the Metro that resulted in a huge traffic jam at the Chowk. Now that the metro services have been extended to the Dhansa Bus Stand, people won’t need to cross the Chowk and wade through traffic. The new link may be just 1.5 kms long but it is a very significant stretch for the residents. A large number of people come from Jhajjar, Haryana to work in Delhi. They too will benefit from this service,” he said.The areas around Dhansa Bus Stand in the Najafgarh region have deep cultural roots and contributes significantly in terms of ecological value. Jheel between Najafgarh and Dhansa is a marshy ecosystem and is an ecological haven for a large number of local wildlife. It also witnesses seasonal movement of migratory birds.To make the Metro station reflect the essence of the area, DMRC used photographs on printed glass panels at Dhansa Bus Stand station to showcase the rich biodiversity of this area. The artwork at the station is themed as “Migratory Birds”, the DMRC said. “The surrounding villages are renowned for many ancient folklores. The villages host fairs to celebrate their historical significance.Therefore, some hand painted artworks are inspired by their rich spirit and the celebration of values and are themed as “local socio-cultural scenario,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/grey-line-gets-one-more-station-metro-touches-delhi-s-rural-heart-101631968413193.html
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | It’s never too late to add to qualifications||Education has always been a passion of mine. In fact, I pursued it throughout my career spanning three-and-a-half decades. I never missed any opportunity to study further. It wasn’t easy coupled with my responsibilities on the domestic and official fronts. Nevertheless, I continued to add to my educational qualifications enthusiastically, despite my fragile health due to chronic haemophilia. Braving all odds, I went on a spree of higher learning and pursued a postgraduate degree in economics, Bachelor of Legislative Law, and subsequently completed my doctorate in journalism and mass communication. In May 2017, I decided to join a master of laws course at Kurukshetra University through the directorate of distance education and decided to submit the admission form personally so as to avert any chances of rejection and secure a seat in the course.On our way back to Chandigarh from Delhi after attending an interview for a tourist visa with the US embassy, my wife, an associate professor, accompanied me to the university campus. We handed over the admission form to a clerk in his mid-50s who after meticulously checking the documents, quipped Haryanvi, “Tau, tane ghare koi kaam nahin jo is umar mei bhi padai kar reha” (Sir, don’t you have any work at home that you are even studying at this age).I told him that I wanted to pursue the course to reconnect with the subject as practising law was my post-retirement plan. However, the clerk was not convinced and curtly remarked: “Muje lage tujhe ghar koi na rakhe” (It appears to me that no one lets you to stay at home). I was taken aback by his observation as he probably mistook my age due to my bushy grey beard and fragile physique. It was an embarrassing experience, particularly as my wife who has always encouraged me to study further was accompanying me. Finally, the official confirmed my admission, assigned a roll number and asked me to collect lessons from the store in-charge.On our way back to Chandigarh, I kept pondering over the unsavoury incident and felt quite perturbed by the unpleasant attitude of the concerned official. However, later, I decided to take his rare wit in a positive manner as age can never be a barrier for improving one’s academic prospects. This episode eventually reaffirmed my belief as educating oneself has no age limit because learning is a lifelong process. opinder.lamba@gmail.com(The writer is additional director (press) to the Punjab chief minister)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/its-never-too-late-to-improve-academic-prospects-101631961031970.html
